Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper vic turns; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
* Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 1, 1879.	Number 26.
. Chansons Physiologiques.
No. III.
THE LADY ANATOMIST.
[The proposition to admit ladies to the medical profession is a novelty in France, although we have become familiar with the idea in the United States. Nothing, however, can quite reconcile the popular mind to the presence of ladies in the dissecting room, engaged in studies of which sheer necessity alone can warrant the prosecution even by men. This chanson merely embodies a view which the general reader would naturally take of the case. In the original it bears the title of “ L'Offrande du Caury]
i.
So fair is her face and so classic her brow
No pen can her beauty portray;
- But in vain do the Graces her figure endow, She is cold as a vestal, though bound by no vow, And she casts adulation away.
ii.
From her lips scientific the words that are heard
Seem to issue direct from her brains;
Like Minerva, whose owl she has always preferred, Regarding it as a superior bird
To the doves Cytherea maintains.
in.
Yet low at her feet see the youngster that sighs, And offers her jewels and gold;
While in piteous strains with entreaties he plies To gain,—were it only a glance from her eyes, Yet he obdurate finds her, and cold.
IV.
“But let me interpret thy silence -aright;—
I knew I was wrong from the start ;—
»	Thine esteem for this gold and these jewels is light ;—
Mere wealth can afford thy pure soul no delight;—
'	Then I offer thee, dearest, my heart!”
v.
A gratified flash from her eyes he observes, And he can but rejoice at the sight.
“ ’Tis just what I wanted—blood-vessels and nerves, And muscles contracting in regular curves!—
I’m obliged to you, really, sir, quite!
VI.
“ 1’11 examine your auricles, ventricles too, (While the muscles relax and contract,)
And the valves that the swift-flowing blood passes through, And I’ll see what the chorda tendinece do,
And how the papillae must act. .
vn.
1	• -	“ And since you’re so free with your heart, I suppose
That your lungs you will also donate,
With the air-cells and bronchial tubes they enclose;
I’ll keep them in spirits”—But here he arose With his love metamorphosed to hate.
VIII.
“I’ll be blowed if you will!” ♦—it was all he could say, Though his feelings tumultuous raged.
So he bowed a farewell; but he called the same day On another young lady just over the way, Who didn’t anatomy study, and they
In less than a week were engaged.
* The French expression here is a horrible blasphemy, which we have thought better not to translate literally, preferring a phrase which, though ungrammatical, is yet probably innocuous.	___________ _ __________
Linguistics.
BY A. B. CONGAR.
Linguistics is in every sense of the word a modern science. It is only within the last few years that it has arisen to the position of eminence which it now occupies. Linguistics treat of the origin and relationship of language, of the formation and changes of language, and of the laws and modes which govern its formation and changes; of the reasons why we speak, and why we speak as we do, and of the relation existing between language and thought. It aims to show, by tracing back and analyzing language, the habits, characters, and intellectual capabilities of prehistoric races, of whom scanty records remain.
This is a study as interesting, as fascinating as a romance, even to those conversant only with their mother-tongue. It is not, as some imagine, a science founded upon shrewd queries, but one whose reasoning and methods of deduction are as valid and enlightened as those of any other modern science. Geology claims to prove that the six days of the Creation mentioned in Genesis were but symbols of as many long ages. If geology can do this upon the testimony of the structure of the earth, its rocks, fossils and ancient landmarks, so also can linguistics determine the prehistoric condition of man upon the testimony of language, its present and ancient forms and landmarks.
Geology has a grand field of work spread out before it; but linguistics has one more grand, more important Geology is to discover the prehistoric conditions of the earth, its formation and development; linguistics, the hidden past of the grandest of God’s creations—man. This is a science with which all men of any pretensions to learning should be conversant. From its study are to be derived both pleasure and knowledge—an addition to conversational powers, a sense of responsibility in regard to the use of words in familiar discourse, an outline of the veiled portion of the history of man, and an acquaintance with which, if the prophecies of many distinguished linguistics can be believed',
406
'	id*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
will’ before long take its place in the foremost rank of the sciences of the age.
This study shows how insignificant the state of civilizi-* tion to which man could attain without the aid of language. It discloses the close relation existing between language and all high intellectual development. Thought can exist without language, but only of a vulgar grade. Without language, man could never have become the wonderfully endowed and enlightened being which the nineteenth century beholds him. Once dispossessed of this power of communication, the human race would fall from the lofty eminence to which thought and language have exalted it, back into the abyss of ignorance, soon becoming so degraded as to think of nothing save those things necessary to the prolongation of its useless existence. When an intelligent man reflects upon these truths he cannot but be grateful to the all-wise Creator who endowed him with the power of speech. Neither should the enlightened nations of the nineteenth century forget the debt they owe to the myriad generations of the past, that have—each in its turn—aided in the perfection of those avenues of thought, now so beautiful and perfect that they might be mistaken for the languages of angels, instead of men. How few of those who speak with ease and fluency the graceful languages of modern times ever reflect upon the fact that it required ages to bring language to its present advantageous form, or that generation upon generation were occupied in engrafting into it the knowledge which is now considered so simple and easy! One word, in every-day use, may convey in its meaning the knowledge which it required ages to develop.
The question of the origin of language has of late attracted much atteution in linguistic circles. One thing alone is certain—that God endowed man with the power of speech. Further than this, there is room for much debate. Did God place in the mouth of our first parents a ready-made language, or did He merely endow man with the power of speech, and leave him to form, develop and perfect a language ? Of course this is a question that can never be answered positively, but Reason seems to favor the latter supposition. God has always left man to his own free will, and never forces anything upon him. God endowed man with the power or capability of accomplish-many great works, but has allowed him to make use of those powers in his own time. Language itself testifies that it was originally very imperfect, and that it steadily improves as the nation speaking it advances in civilization and knowledge. Such is the decision of the greatest linguistics of the age, and such will probably continue to be the accepted theory.
The first in importance, both historically and politically, of the great families into which linguistics divide the human race, is the Indo-European. With nations belonging to this family are peopled the greater portion of Europe, America and Australia, the countries of Persia, India in Asia, besides many scattered colonies founded by the nations of this family.
To this family belong the thinking, acting and advancing nations of the world. To the great men and nations of this family the world owes all the knowledge developed, all the sciences perfected, all the discoveries made and difficulties overcome since the time of Christ. Take from the history of the world since the Christian era the history of this family, and there is left—a blank. From ancient history abstract all trace of the Greek, Latin, Iranian and
Indian branches of this family, and from modern history blot out all that has been achieved by the Latin, Teutonic, Celtic and Slavonic branches, and there would remain nothing worthy of the name of history. This family has been the great civilizer and ruler of the world, and bids fair to remain so.
When this family first appeared upon the world’s stage, in the great drama of the human race, man was a rude barbarian, uncouth, uncultured, idolatrous; after twenty centuries of Indo-European rule, he is the civilized, educated and enlightened man of the nineteenth century. This family of nations has swept from Europe the cloud of idolatry, wrested from their lofty pedestals the pagan idols, dispelled the night of ignorance, and cleared away the rubbish which before obscured the rays of the sun of reason.
To the Indo-European family the world owes more than to all the other races of the earth combined. It would almost seem that God had chosen this family as the instructor of mankind, for nations of this family have always been the believers and advancers of Christianity.
The Indo-European family is divided into seven principal branches—the Indian, the Iranian, the Greek, the Latin, the Germanic, the Slavonic, and the Celtic. Each of these branches includes several nations, speaking different languages. The Latin includes the classic Latin and the modern Italian, French and Spanish. The Greek comprised the classic Greek as well as the modern Greek and Romaic. The Teutonic includes the Gothic of days past and the modern German dialects, as also the English. The Indian family consists of the old Sanskrit and the modern tongues of India. The Celtic embraces all the Gaelic tongues, living and dead. The Iranian family is composed of the Persian languages and dialects. The Slavonic is made up principally of the old or church Slavonic, the Russian, and the Polish.
The first in polish and beauty in this group is the language of the nation which so long ruled the intellectual world—the language of Athens, the ancient centre of refinement and learning; the language of ancient Greece, the great nursery of poetry, and the birthplace of what seemed to the nations of that age of tyrants as imaginary as poetry—liberty.	.
“ The land where Truth, pure, precious and sublime, Woos the deep silence of sequestered bowers, And warriors, matchless since the first of time, Rear their bright banners o’er unconquered towers!
“ The tuneful nine (so sacred legends tell)
First waked their heavenly lyre these scenes among;
Still in your greenwood bowers they love to dwell;
Still in your vales to swell the choral song! ”
In the language of the Greeks, Homer wrote the most beautiful of epics. In this language a Demosthenes thundered forth those eloquent exhortations to “ March against Philip, to conquer or die.” In the melodious accents of this language Alexander addressed the little army which conquered the world. Once the greatest and noblest of the nations of the earth, now their name figures but little on the record of the world's events. But when their glory faded and died, they left a glorious legacy to posterity. They left the most perfect and beautiful of all languages, adorned with the writings of some of the greatest men the world ever produced. They have left as standing monuments of their greatness the Acropolis at Athens, the Acrocorintbus at Corinth, the temple of Jupiter Panhellenius in JEgina, apd many other grand edifices-^pr rather their ruins,—all
IS
j
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
407
of them inimitable triumphs of architecture which are still feebly copied but whose beauty and excellence are never approached. To their wise men the world owes the feeble beginnings of philosophy, the advancement of mathematics, the perfection of poetry, the cultivation of history, the love of liberty. To them liberty owes the glorious example given in the battles of Thermopylae, Marathon, and Salamis.
The language of the Romans differs from that of the Greeks in nearly the same manner in which their natural characters differed. The Greeks were the rulers of the intellectual world; they were the most refined, polished, educated and liberty-loving people of their time. The Romans were the rulers of the physical world; they were the warlike, aggressive, conquering nation. “To be a Roman was greater than a king,” and the name was a password and a protection to those possessing a right to invoke it,—a right for which large sums were sometimes paid by persons not Romans by birth. All the known world was beneath their sway; their word was law; their armies invincible; their generalsand statesmen the greatest the ancient world ever beheld. In intellectual acquirements, in polish and refinement, they were the inferiors of the Greeks. They have left to posterity a literature too perfect to. admit of their being accused of a disregard of'intellectual and literary acquirements, but their own writers acknowledge their inferiority to the Greeks in this respect. The languages of these nations have ever been the study of men of learning, and it is to be hoped that they will continue to be. *	•
Old Time has long since swept the noble generations of Greece and Rome from the earth, but their influence is still at work; as it is with nations, so it is with the individual man. Death may banish him from the earth, generations to come may pass away, the memory of his name and family be blotted out, but his influence still lives on. Shall this influence be for good or bad ? It is a question which every man can decide for himself. As a mountain appears more huge and imposing when seen towering up through the fog upon a hazy morning, so these wonderful old nations appear more grand and impressive when viewed through the obscure medium of history. Their glory and greatness have passed away, but the memory of their great achievements in both the physical and intellectual world is still fresh in the minds of men, and will no doubt ever remain so unless some great and unforeseen revolution should sweep away all traces of the past. That such a revolution may come, is not beyond the range of possibility. Many have been the revolutions which shook society to its base, and inundated the world with blood; but never since the Creation has so powerful and insinuating an enemy struck at the heart of society as is Communism. To-day this dread destroyer appears like a gigantic cloud, darkening every door, threatening all the nations of Christendom, and endangering the very foundations of all social order.
First among the Indian languages, and oldest and most venerable among those of the entire Indo-European family, is the ancient Sanskrit. When the Latin and Greek were spoken and flourishing languages, the generations which spoke the Sanskrit had long since passed away. Twenty-five centuries at least have come and gone since this language was a living tongue. As far back as its history can be traced, it was a dead language, used only by the learned men in their writings, and for the purposes of religion. The antiquity of the Greek and Latin appears
insignificant when compared with that of this language of the twilight ages. It is not, however, as some suppose, the fountain-head from which all the Indo-European tongues sprang, but merely their elder sister.
The Sanskrit is divided into two portions—the classical Sanskrit, and the language of the Vedas or Hindu Bible. The language of the Vedas is of greater antiquity than the classical Sanskrit. The latter is the richer of the two in literature, as it possesses many curious works on philosophy, some very good epics and dramas, as well as other works of value. The Sanskrit is of great value both to the linguist and the historian; otherwise it is of little worth. It is a vast and ancient monument, which carries the mind back to the hidden ages of antiquity, just raising the curtain of that veiled past enough to awaken the curiosity, and then dropping it, leaving the world as much mystified as ever. It is well known that the modern Indian races are corrupt and degraded. Of those who spoke the Sanskrit, little is known but their language; and the writings with which it is adorned, as well as the exisiting remains of their architectural artistic skill, bear testimony that they were as highly civilized as the other nations of that period. Leaving this aged memorial of the past to outlive as many generations more as it has already seen fade from the earth, the Persian and Slavonic branches next attract the attention.
The Persian languages can lay no great claim to literary worth. They possess a. few curious works upon religion, but the Persian nation deserves rather to be remembered for its triumphs in the physical than in the intellectual world.
The Slavonic portion of the Indo-European family has a literature, almost entirely modern, of some worth. The Russian language is fast becoming a cultivated and literary language; and the nation speaking it, unless it receives a great check, threatens to rule Europe. The statesmen of Europe are beginning to realize the truth of Napoleon’s prophecy, that Russia at Constantinople is mistress of the world. The Polish language fell with Polish independence, and, with the latter, may never rise again.
The Celtic languages are still spoken in some parts of England, Scotland and Ireland, but are practically, however, dead languages. The Irish Gaelic has always been, in literary worth, the leading language of this branch. During the fifth, sixth, and seventh centuries, when nearly the whole of Europe was enveloped in darkness and ignorance, Ireland alone stands out as the retreat of learning. When perusing the history of those ages, the monotony of general ignorance is relieved only by occasional glimpses of learning from Ireland. Indeed, the history of that period may be likened to a stormy night, when the awful and oppressive darkness of the scene is at times relieved by the splendor with which it is clothed when, for an instant, the moon appears from behind the clouds only to be again obscured by the darkness by which it is encompassed. As the beauty and splendor of the moon is enhanced by the darkness of the surrounding clouds, so does the ancient glory of Ireland appear more grand when contrasted with the surrounding degradation and ignorance of that age. The language of Ireland is acknowledged by all to have possessed great beauty, but it is to be feared that its glory depends upon the past and not the future. Strenuous efforts are being made by the leading men of Ireland to revive it, but there is little hope of their success while England reigns monarch over the hands, though not the hearts, of Erin’s sons.
408	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The French, Spanish and Italian languages are the offspring of the classic Latin, and are intimately connected •with it. They all possess great literary merit—the French, however, taking the lead at present.
The next family which by the beauty of its languages and its literary value demands attention is the Germanic. The principal languages belonging to this group are the high and low German and the English. The German language has but lately become an eminently literary language, but has in a short time accomplished much. One quality peculiar to itself is, that it rigidly excludes all foreign words and terms, depending entirely upon its own resources for all necessary introductions and additions to its vocabulary.
For three centuries the English language has been the greatest literary language of the world, and for about the same length of time have an English-speaking people been the sovereign people of the world. For years have England’s armies been the bravest and boldest, her navies the mistress of the sea, her statesmen the shrewdest and most successful, and her authors the rivals even of the famous writers of Athens and Rome. Many of her orators will bear comparison with Cicero and Demosthenes, and her Milton and Shakespeare stand alone, rivalled by none. It is fashionable to consider England as having fallen from her ancient glory, but to the unfashionable observer there appears to be little foundation for this prating. To day, as a hundred years ago, the sun never sets upon the English people. English ships sweep, as in the days of yore, sea. But now England has come out successful from a trial of policy with the greatest nations of Europe, and Beaconsfield is acknowledged the greatest statesman of the age. It is repeated every day that England is on the decline, but when she does fall it is to make way for the triumph of her offspring over the water. Nations, like men, live and flourish but a day, but it should be the ambition of every American to make his language universal. England bequeaths to America the finest literature the world ever produced, the stirring memory of the triumphs of men speaking that language, and the sturdy ambition to obtain the victory. Every American should look to this, and not only consider every action as tending toward the physical and moral triumph of his nation, but remember also that every noble thought adds to its intellectual ability, and that every word he utters tends to polish and refine or to corrupt and degrade his mother-tongue. Nations like men cannot live always, but they can, like men, make their memory glorious. England is called tyrannical,—and so she has been at times,—but her influence has been rather for good than for evil. Let our country ride on and win, let every American strive onward, stopping for no obstacle, each man aiding to make his country, like Rome of old, the ruler of the world.
Atlantis.
From a well-written article we condense the following facts regarding the famed island of Atlantis:
From time immemorial it has been asserted that there once existed between Europe and America either a continent or a vast.archipelago of islands, which occupied the portion of the earth’s surface now covered by the central waters of the North Atlantic.
To this shadowy realm has been given the name of Atlantis.
The renown of Atlantis has not been confined to a single page of history, or to the annals of a single people, but it has existed during thousands of years in the annals of every nation that may be reckoned as belonging to civilization. And the more discoveries we have made in geography and ethnography and cognate sciences, the more clearly has the giant shadow ofthis mysterious realm taken upon itself form and substance, until it presents itself today in the semblance of a living fact of history.
It is as a great historic fact, therefore, that we shall deal with Atlantis.
For nearly three thousand years, the character of our accounts of Atlantis has not varied for a single moment. As first narrated by the priests of Egypt to Solon in the the sixth century before Christ, and reported by Plato in his Timoeus and Critias, these accounts were detailed and circumstantial. They were to the effect that there had formerly existed upon an island in the Atlantic, to the westward of Gibraltar, a numerous and warlike race of men, who had carried the might of their arms even to Greece, threatening to enslave Western Europe and the countries lying upon the Mediterranean, and even menacing Egypt, but who had been repressed and driven back to their island, which had subsequently been whelmed beneath the sea by earthquakes and floods, leaving the sea so choked with its ruins as to be unnavigable. This, in brief, is the sum and substance of the history of Atlantis, as presented by Plato.
Now, what is its value?
As briefly as we have epitomised the account, it will be seen that it covers a great deal of ground.
This mysterious island empire occupied a central region of the Atlantic. Its inhabitants were numerous and powerful, and hence must have enjoyed a long period of prosperity. They were strangers in Europe, and as such were repulsed. Their country was destroyed by earthquakes and floods, and they disappeared with it.
Here is a clear presentation, therefore, of what appears to be the history of an ancient country and people.
Now, what are the probabilities in regard to this mysterious country and people ?
We have no hesitation in saying that they really existed at a time and place corresponding substantially to the account of Plato.
The empire of Atlantis probably consisted of one large island in a central position, with numerous smaller islands lying around them.
Such is indeed the assertion of Plato. The trend of the eastern shores of this large island are doubtless represented with sufficient exactitude to-day by the Azores and adjacent islands.
We infer from various circumstances that Atlantis was mountainous in its northern and eastern portions, and low and level in the southern and western. We find numerous reasons, too, for thinking that the southern portions of this empire were submerged abruptly and deeply, while the northern sank more slowly and to a far less extent. These points are so obscure and uncertain, however, that we will not trouble the reader with the details of fact and argument upon which they are based.
The probability is that Atlantis was one of the finest countries upon the face of the ancient world, one enjoying the best of climates and most fertile of soils. As much is attested by its situation. (See map.)
That such a continent as Atlantis existed may be regarded as proven by the following fact;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	409
I*-
By the existence of the desert of Sahara. As Atlantis went down Sahara caine up, by a see-saw movement which had for its base or lever the Azores, Canaries and Cape Verd Islands. It is the opinion of all explorers that Sahara, not many thousands of years ago, was beneath the waves of the sea. And how did it rise out of the water, if there was not near at hand a corresponding depression? These see-saw movements of the sea and land are now among the most assured facts of science.
By the existence of the Sargasso Sea. This is a great body of comparatively stagnant water covered with putre-JT fying sea-weed, which has for its limits the Gulf Stream on the north, the equatorial current on the south; the Lesser Antilles on the west, and the Azores and Canaries on the east. The existence of this sea in this spot is an anomaly—a mystery, which has not yet been explained, but which is best explained by ascribing its origin to the submersion of Atlantis.
The Sargasso Sea was formerly, in regard to appearance, depth and extent, very different from what it is now.
Eschylus and Pindar (sixth century before Christ), Herodotus, (fifth century B. C.,) Plato, (fourth century B. C.,) Denis of Halicarnassus and Strabo, (first century B. C.) and Pliny (first century of the Christian era), all bear unanimous testimony to the character of the Sargasso Sea, to the following purport:
That the ancients adventuring themselves in these latitudes, had all been affrighted at the sight of this semiliquid, semi-vegetable water; that immense beds of marine plants and mud interrupted or at least impeded navigation, r* at no great distance to the westward of the Straits of Gibraltar; that myriads of gigantic sea-weeds, scattered amid reefs and shoals, entangled the ships, and prevented their advance.
Aristotle (fourth century B. C.,) speaks of ships of Cadiz which, driven out of their course by irresistible tempests, arrived at a spot covered with grasses and shrubs during the flux of the tides, and left bare at the ebb, presenting all the aspects of sunken shores, among which floundered countless fishes. Avienus, (fourth century A. D.,) who was familiar with the navigations of the Phoenicians, mentions the obstacles of various natures which oppose the navigator in the Sea of Sargasso.
It should be added that very few ships approach the Sargasso Sea; if the contrary were the fact, we should have constant reports of the convulsions which are still taking place in that quarter.
By the following [facts: That ships sailing over the site a,	of Atlantis, within the present century, have experienced
hundreds of volcanic shocks and earthquakes, showing that this whole region is still a centre of disturbance. These shocks are simply the after-throes of the great convulsion in which Atlantis perished.
On the 1st of May, 1824, indications of a volcanic eruption were seen in about 7 degrees N., and 21 degrees 50 min. W. These were a hissing and bubbling up of the waves, resembling the ebullition of boiling water, and whitened with foam. Reported by Lieut. Evans.
Capt. Ballard, of the ship Rambler, from Calcutta, on Oct. 30th, 1850, in lat. 16 deg. 30 min. N„ long. 54 deg. 30 min. W., and Capt. Potter, of the bark Mill wood, last from Rio, half an hour later on the same day, when in lat. 23 deg. 30 min. N., long. 58 deg. W., each felt a volcanic shock. These vessels were about 520 miles apart.
The U. S. Sloop Vandalia, Dec. 15lh, 1849, near midnight,
in lat. 17 deg. 34 min. N., long. 55 deg. 49 min., experienced the shock of an earthquake which lasted 5 seconds, and was accompanied by a low rumbling noise, and strong vibration throughout the ship.
We have at our hand accounts of hundreds of similar cases. It is only in the vicinity of the sunken continent that constant submarine disturbances are known.
“Volcanic shocks,” says Findlay, in his Directory of the North Atlantic, “ have been felt as far North as 23 deg. 30 min. N., and long. 58 deg. W., and from the almost continuous line of discolored and peculiar water that extends from the Equator to this position, we are led to infer that there is a line of volcanic action trending parallel to the range of the Antilles.”
By the fact that this region is still sinking 1 This continued subsidence is proven by the circumstance that scores of rocks and shoals which stood high out of the water three hundred years ago, and are so marked upon all the old charts, have now utterly vanished beneath the waters I It would require a column of our space to simply place upon record the rocks, etc., which have been erased from the charts of this region since the commencement of the present century.
By the Gulf Stream and other ocean currents. It is as plain as day that the great whirlpool of currents—so to speak—by which the site of Atlantis is now surrounded, could not have originated in any other matter.
By the discolored water. This discolored water extends over thousands of miles of this region. It bubbles up like a pot in innumerable places from the depths of the sea. The commander of the Netherlands brig Koerier informed Capt. Stort that in the month of May, 1854, when between lats. 16 deg. and 17 deg. N., and in 54 deg. W. longitude, he sailed for a whole day in dark-colored water. This was particularly remarked, inasmuch as similarly colored sea is met with in about 10 deg. and more easterly. Lieut. Lee, in U. S. brig Dolphin, also met with discolored water in lat. 12 deg. 22 min. N., long. 54 deg. to 55 deg. W., but found no bottom at the east end of this with 1,000 fathoms, and a depth of 2,570 fathoms at its west end. We might fill pages with similar accounts, but we have said enough to show how perfectly the sea hereabouts agrees to-day with the account Plato gives of its disturbed condition.
By the immense depth of the Atlantic at this point. It is as if the bed of the sea had fallen through! A line has been let down here more than six miles without finding bottom. “No bottom” is the report with which scores upon scores of casts of the lead, with thousands of fathoms of line, have been recorded! The remarkable depression, resembling the bottom of a bowl, which exists in the Sargasso Sea, in nearly its whole extent, is more than a suggestion that here has bad place, at some period of the past, a tremendous convulsion of nature.
Plato reports, in his Critias and Timaeus, that Solon, being in Egypt, was informed by the Egyptian priests of the existence and destruction of such a country. As Humboldt has well observed, this report of Plato cannot be treated as a myth, for the reason that Plato himself treats of the subject as a simple matter of fact, and quite to the contrary of his treatment of all those matters about which there is any uncertainty whatever. The words of Plato are precise and definite; the island existed; it was occupied by such and such people and kings; it was outside of the “Pillars of Hercules,” or to the westward of the
410
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Straits of Gibraltar. The mere fact that Plato, five hundred years before our era, refers to the difficulty of navigating the site of Atlantis, on account of mud and weeds, is in itself a proof of the authenticity of his informations. Such difficulties exist to this day, particularly the weeds, and they gave Columbus and his crew just the fright and wonder they would have expected to experience if they had been familiar with the words of Plato.
Perhaps Homer, one of the most ancient of authors, was the first to have a vague knowledge of Atlantis. At any rate, in the fourth book of the Odyssey, he introduces the marine god Proteus giving Menelus the felicitous prognostication that he shall not die, “ but that the gods shall send him to the Elysian Fields, at the ends of the earth, where Radamanthus is law-giver, and where men pass a sweet and tranquil life, without molestation of snows and rigid colds or rains, and where they possess perennially a fresh air born of the zephyrs that the ocean exhales!” This is a possible reference to Atlantis, and Homer lived, according to the best authorities, nearly a thousand years before Christ. That Atlantis was principally a low country, without high elevations, and consequently such a country as is here described, is sufficiently proven by the fact that the trade winds and anti-trades of the North Atlantic have suffered nd change by its disappearance beneath the waters.
“Eighty-two years before the Christian era,” says the great geographer Gosselin, quoting Plutarch, “ Sertorius, fleeing from the arms of Sylla, passed the straits of Cadiz with the fleet he commanded, and landed in Spain just below the mouth of the river Bcetis. There, certain navigators newly arrived from the Atlantic islands, informed him of the route to them, and it appears that Sertorius, weary with the ambitious role he had been playing, formed the resolve of retiring thither to seek in peaceful retirement the happiness which had escaped him in the midst of camps and grandeurs. These Atlantic islands, adds Plutarch, are two in number, separated by a little strait, and their distance is three hundred leagues from the coast of Africa." Tne distance thus stated does not apply to any existing islands, and here, therefore, is another direct reference io Atlantis.
Sertorius died before entering upon the execution of his project, but his inquiries led to various new discoveries in the Atlantic, and twenty years later these discoveries were published by Statius Sebosus, whose figures and distances all apply to Atlantis, and not the existing African Islands. It is true that Gosselin, in his History of the Geography of the Ancients, endeavors to reject the figures and distances of Sebosus, in order to make them apply to the existing islands, but his efforts in this direction are without the least value. According to Sebosus, these Atlantic islands were situated four hundred and sixty-four leagues to the westward of Cadiz, which is considerably more than twice the distance of the Canaries, and consequently Sebosus was figuring upon some fragment of Atlantis which, even at that comparatively recent period, had not entirely vanished.
jElian, in the second century, speaks of a vast country to the westward, whose warriors had formerly overrun the countries around him. According to this author, we may infer that, at the approach of the great catastrophe which was destined to swallow up Atlamis, and which probably did not occur ex abrupto, or without long preparations and numerous visible forewarnings, the inhabitants may have been able, at least a great portion of them, to quit their menaced territory, and take refuge in the adjacent continents, some of them in America, others in Africa and Europe.
The account of Atlantis we have abridged from Plato is twenty-three hundred years old. A precisely similar account has been found in Central America. In this extraordinary revelation the empire of Atlantis is mentioned as the empire of Xibalda, but the general agreement of the two accounts is wonderful—similar mention of kings, extension of domination, a great catastrophe and final disappearance. This concordance between the recital of Plato and that of the Indians of Yucatan, transmitted verbally to our time, is one of the most startling facts of history.
Among the ancient writers who have spoken of Atlantis . in the same sense as Plato, we will cite Posidonius (second century before our era), and Philo, philosopher of Alexan
dria (first century, A. D.,) who had firm faith in the recitals of their predecessors concerning Atlantis. Tertullian (second century, A. D.,) has equal faith in this matter. Arno-bius (third century, A. D.,) speaks of an eruption of the warriors of Atlantis upon Grecian territory at a remote period, and Marcellius (fourth century, A. D.,) speaks of Atlantis as a country larger than Europe.
Are all these men dreamers? They all treat Atlantis as a fact of history.
Among the people who have existed upon the earth, or who are still extant, which have descended directly from the inhabitants of Atlantis, we have found ample reason to include the following: the Aztecs, the Mound-Builders, the Yucatecans, the Guanches of the Canaries, the Basques of the Western Pyrenees, the Georgians of the Caucasus, and the Berbers of Northern Africa.
We append a few of the facts and probabilities concerning some of these people:
In regard to the Aztecs: Herrera relates that many of the natives knew that the countries of Central America had been peopled by a nation arriving from the sea. Lizana and Torquemada, quoting native documents they had at hand, relate that these invaders and conquerors had come from Cuba and the “great Oriental islands.” Montezuma declared to his oppressors that his ancestors were not natives of the country, but had come from the East. In fact, Aztian, the primitive country of the Aztecs, of which they had preserved only a vague remembrance, is composed of two words, atl, water, and an, near. Atlas, Atlantis, are evidently derived from the first root. Diego Landa, one of the chiefs of the conquest in Central America, not only relates that he learned from the old men that their country had formerly been occupied by a race entering it from the East, but he actually relates tlie destruction of Atlantis, as recorded in the native traditions.
That the Mound-Builders were fugitives from Atlantis is highly probable. Having seen their native country gradually overwhelmed by the sea, they would naturally build mounds in their place of refuge, and, in conformity with this theory, the mounds are actually situated upon the lowlands, near the rivers and the Gulf of Mexico.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Sidney Buxton, in one of his amusing papers on animals in the Animal World for February, says that dogs and horses are, as far as he knows, the only animals sensitive to ridicule, while cats and birds are wholly unaware that they are being laughed at. He tells of a pony of his own which gets very cross when disparaging remarks are made upon him, and “becoms furious, and stamps about his stall, putting back his ears, and attempting to bite,” if he is openly laughed at, while praise greatly pleases him. The truth is, that it it is only those creatures -which can feel sympathy with men which can also appreciate ridicule. The horse sympathizes evidently with many of his rider’s feelings and amusements, while the dog can enter into no small proportion of his feelings. But birds and cats, though often exceedingly affectionate, and full of attachment to individuals, hardly ever attempt to enter into human feelings,—as Cowper’s dog “ Beau,” for instance, intered into the poet’s desire to possess himself of the water-lily. The hatred of ridicule always accompanies a capacity for sympathy. Certainly dogs, and probably horses, know the difference between being laughed at in derision as we laugh at a fool, and being laughed at in admiration, as we laugh at a good comic actor, and enjoy the latter as much as they resent the former. It is questionable, however, whether some parrots do not un-aerstand and enjoy the practice of making fun of their human acquaintances,—do not appreciate the art of duping, and take pleasure in it.—Spectator.
—M. Senlecq, of Ardres has recently submitted to the examination of MM. Du Moncel and Halles a plan of an apparatus intended to reproduce telegraphically at a distance the images obtained in the camera obscura. This apparatus will be based on the property possessed by selenium of offering a variable and very sensitive electrical resistance, according to the different gradations of light.


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	411
The apparatus will consist of an ordinary camera obscura, containing at the focus an unpolished glass, and any system of autographic telegraphic transmission; the tracingpoint of the transmitter intended to traverse the surface of the unpolished glass, will be formed of a small piece of selenium held by two springs acting as pincers, insulated and connected, one with a pile, the other with the line. The point of selenium will form the circuit. In gliding over the surface, more or less lightened up, of the unpolished glass, this point will communicate, in different degress and with great sensitiveness, the vibrations of the light. The receiver will also be a tracing-point of black lead or pencil for drawing very finely, connected with a very thin plate of soft iron, held almost as in the Bell tele-phone, and vibrating before an electro-magnet, governed :	by the irregular current emitted in the line. This pencil,
l	supporting a sheet of paper arranged so as to receive the
I	impression of the image produced in the camera obscura,
I	will translate the vibrations of the metallic plate by a more
’	or less pronounced pressure on that sheet of paper.
|	Should the selenium tracing-point run over a light surface
।	the current will increase in intensity, the electro-magnet
i	of the receiver will attract to it with greater force the vi-
brating plate, and the pencil will exert less pressure on j	the paper. The line thus formed will be scarcely, if at all,
i	visible; the contrary will be the case if the surface be ob-
I	scure, for, the resistance of the current increasing, the at-
i	traction of the magnet will diminish, and the pencil, press
'	ing more on the paper, will leave upon it a darker line.
M. Senlecq thinks he will succeed in simplifying this apparatus by suppressing the electro-magnet, and collecting directly on the paper, by means of a particular composition, the different gradations of tints proportional to the intensity of the electric current.
Art, Music and Literature.
7	----
—The report, has again gained currency that Frau Ma-terna, the great Wagner prima-dona, is coming to this country next year.
—Herr Wachtel has been relieved, at his own request, from his obligations at the Royal Opera House in Berlin, and has removed to Vienna.
—C. G. Leland is to write on “ Abraham Lincoln and the Abolition of Slavery ” in the “ New Plutarch ” series lately projected in London.
—Mr. J. H. Mapleson has signified his intention to offer prizes of $60 and $40 to the best singers at a concert to be given by Cincinnati singers next December.
—Arthur Sullivan has, in place of a trip to America, gone to Rome, where he is at present at work on his new comic opera, called “The Army,” a companion to the “ Pinafote.”
—It is announced in London that Col. Mapleson hopes ’	to have Christine Nilsson and Etelka Gester appear together
'	in America next season, and that he will retain the chief
।	members of his present company.
*	—Mr. Anthony Trollope is to write on “Thackeray,”
and Mr. Leonard H. Courtney, M. P., on “Adam Smith,” in Messrs. Macmillan & Co.’s series of “ English Meh of Letters,” edited by Mr. John Morley.
—Robert Franz has written to his publishers to say that there is not a single word of truth in rumors (which have reached this country too) that he had discovered a chestfull of Bach MSS.,—viz.: 120 violin sonatas.
—A translation of Prosper Merimee’s romance, upon which the opera of “ Carmen ” is founded, will shortly be issued from the pen of Mrs. Arditi, the wife of the popular conductor. The romance has been translated for America.
—In the monastery of St. Martin at Palermo a psalter MS., of the XIV century, is still preserved. Tradition has it that it was once the property of the great Pope Urban V, who donated it to the monks of Saint Martin at Gaeta. In 1476 these monks were made to form part of the new Community at Monte Cassino.
*	—“Goethe and Schiller: Their lives and works, includ-
ing a Commentary on Goethe’s Faust,” is the title of Prof.
Boyesen’s critique long since announced, and just issued from the press. It is a full summing up of the results of modern German criticism, besides containing the fruits of original and acute observations by the author.
—In one of his recent letters to a German musical journal, Von Bulow says: “I must mention in terms of praise an American lady, Mrs. Osgood, for the taste with which she sang her songs (Moz irt and Mendelssohn); she afforded fresh corroboration of my good opinion as to the artistic capsrbilities of the fair sex on the other side of the ocean.”
—Miss Kellogg has signed articles of agreement by which she places herself in the hands of Maurice Strakosch for a three-years’ engagement in .European cities. It is understood that Miss Kellogg does not desire or intend to follow her professional duties as closely as she. has of recent years, but will sing a certain portion of each season, and in roles which will suit her best.
—We have little doubt that the best portrait ever painted of Stanley, the explorer—the secular missionary of enterprising journalism—is that from the hand of Mr. G. P. Healy, to whom the public owes already so many records of famous men. Considering Mr. Healy’s Stanley as one of the most successful and vivid of all his portraits, we are pleased to know that its reproduction—its popularization, so to say—by the means of engraving has been intrusted to so ready and versatile and accurate an artist as M. T. De Mare.—Academy.
—Gen. Sir Arthur Cunynghame has prepared an account of his travels through and experience in South Africa. It-will be remembered that Sir Arthur commanded the Diamond Fields Expedition, and directed the active operations against the Galkas and Galekas until he was relieved by Lord Chelmsford. He remained at the Cape Colony during the years 1874-’78. The book will be published in the course of the spring by Messrs. Macmillan & Co., and will have special interest in view of the Zulu uprising.
—“The Reign of the Stoics,” a book of 248 pages, is in press for immediate issue by C. P. Somerby, 139 Eighth street, New York. Its first chapter speaks of the place of these philosophers in history. The next five chapters give specimens of their noblest sayings about religious truth and moral duty. These the author has-endeavored to render accurately, though freely, adding nothing, but omitting much. Of their commonplaces and errors he has made no list. The author has given in the last chapter some of their most characteristic discoveries in one of the most important but difficult fields of human thought. The author is Frederic May Holland.
- —The Papyrus Club of Boston gave a dinner to the ladies not long since, and the public part of it was excellently reported in a letter to the World. The most remarkable woman present was Frances Hodgson Buruett, who happened to be visiting in Boston. She sat at. the President’s left hand. The correspondent describes her thus: “ She is a rather diminutive person, with a striking cast of features—regular, yet hardly beantiful,—but with a quick mobility of expression, a lively sensibility, and the most penetrating, lovely eyes imaginable. They seem swimming in their own light. As she speaks, everything testifies to her nervous force: you are sure she is the person to write a novel of delicate feeling, yet of sustained power.” Dr. Holmes, G. M. Towle, J. T. Trowbridge, Dr. Joyce, E. C. Stedman, and J. Boyle O’ Reilly, were among the speakers.
—A correspondent of Notes and Queries writes: “We use the word ‘Yankee’ often, but how many of us have ever thought whence it was derived ? I should be glad to hear the opinion of your correspondents as to the following: The word ‘yanks’ is always used in the east of Lincolnshire to describe the coarse, untanned leather gaiters worn by the country folk. There was a large exodus from this part of the country to America. Might not, therefore, the word * yankee ’ have been used to distinguish those who wore those gaiters or ‘ yanks’, the incoming strangers, from the orignal inhabitants, who wore moccasins?” Another correspondent attributes the common use of the phrase, “ It’s me” to George HI, whose royal disregard of grammar furnished a precedent for the court and society in general.
412
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Janu
jVotre Uame, Marell 1, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand. •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHQLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Entertainment.
The patriotism of the students of Notre Dame is too well known to require praise. From time immemorial, Washington’s Birthday has been a holiday. This year, however, there was an additional incentive to enthusiasm, as their annual Entertainment was complimentary to Very Rev. President Corby. It was a success. Such is the unanimous testimony of all who were present. The Exhibition of February 21st was one in every respect worthy the record of the Thespian Association. At half-past six, Washington Hall was filled with a large and appreciative audience, and from the first rising of the curtain till it fell for the last time, the attention never flagged.
The grand opening march from “ Faust,” by the Cornet Band, was rendered in a manner which reflected as much credit on the youthful artists as did the selection and arrangement of the piece on the gifted and energetic Director. The address to Very Rev. President Corby by Mr. L. J. Evers was in excellent taste, though, were we disposed to be very critical, we might say that the manner in which it was read scarcely did j ustice to the composition. Mr. Hert-zog’s oration on “ Washington ” was an extremely creditable production. The ideas were good, the language choice, and, wonderful to relate, for an effort on such a day and such a subject it was comparatively free from spread-eagleism. With a little more attention to the art of gesticulation, Mr. Hertzog promises to become a graceful and effective speaker.
Many at first thought it a bold venture on the part of the Thespians to attempt such a play as “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” on the college stage; but since the Exhibition, very few are found willing to charge them with rashness. Of course the plot had to be somewhat remodelled for the occasion, but still all the distinctive features of Mrs. Stowe’s thrilling
tale were retained. The part of “Uncle Tom” was personated by Mr. J. B. Berteling with that deep feeling with which he always enters into the spirit of the character he assumes. Mr. A. J. Hertzog was very much at home in the role of the careless and easy-going, but warm-hearted and generous Southern gentleman. Mr. J. J. Quinn took the part of the crafty lawyer, whose name was Marks, with all the ability which his previous efforts gave us the right to expect; while Mr. J. P. Quinn, in the character of the Quaker, whose regeneration is not yet sufficiently perfect to allow him entirely to disregird the weapons of the flesh, repeatedly convulsed the house with laughter. We were especially captivated with the vigor and originality of some of Mr. Quinn’s expletives, which, however, we do not remember to have met either in Mrs. Stowe’s work or in the ordinary stage version. Mr. P. J. Hagan’s personation of “ Haley ” (the slave-driver) was a spirited effort. If characters like “ St. Clare ” give us a glimpse of the sunny side of Southern life under the slavery regime, men like “ Haley ” introduce us to its gloom; and after having seen the part taken with so much ability by Mr. Hagan, we can easily understand why in the old days before the war every representation of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” had as much political significance as an abolition mass-meeting. Messrs. Russell, Burger, Cougar, Kinney, Arnold and De-voto sustained their roles in a manner extremely gratifying to their many friends, and Master McGrath may, if he thinks fit, crow with satisfaction over his success as “ Topsy.” Last, but not least, the part of “ Edgar ” was certainly taken in a very affecting manner by little J. Courtney. But were we to mention all those who deserve praise, we would simply have to write down the names of all who took part in the Entertainment.
The old familiar plantation songs were executed in a very creditable manner. In fact they served but as an additional proof of the fact of which we were already convinced, viz., that at Notre Dame there is at present excellent material for a vocal class, and made us regret that of late so little attention has been paid to the study of vocal music. The Orchestra, considering the very limited time it had had for rehearsals, did wonders. It shows that when the Director has once taken the resolution to “ make this thing a success,” he knows ho such word as failure, and it gives us hopes that rich musical treats are in store for us at the exhibitions to take place during the spring and summer. Finally, let it be said as the crowning praise of the Thespians and their worthy President, that the Entertainment of the 21st was prepared and carried out without necessitating the sacrifice of a single hour that should have been spent in the class-room or study-hall. We have always looked upon exhibitions as sources of great benefit to those taking part in them, but when, as has been the' case with the entertainments given at Notre Dame during the present year, they interfere in no way with the more serious duties of the students, we fail to see on what grounds anyone would venture to oppose them.
—M. Eveillan, formerly Archbishop of Angers, was noted for his humane and charitable disposition towards the poor. On one occasion when a friend expressed surprise that none of his rooms were carpeted, he replied, “When I enter my house in the winter, I do not hear any complaints of cold from the furniture of my rooms; but the poor who stand shivering at my doors tell me but too plainly that they have need of clothing.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	413
to*—
“Avoid Exrtemes.”
Whether we admit or not that the Roman poet real-• ilzed the full extent of wisdom comprised in the expression above cited, one thing is certain, it is a wise saying, and capable of application in all the affairs of life. Indeed, it is by the application of this rule, if we may so term it, that we attain the highest degree of natural perfection in the conduct of life’s affairs, and most thoroughly and securely accomplish our destiny as rational and social beings, destined for a higher and happier life hereafter.
Taking this most elevated view of man, we observe that his destiny is twofold—eternal and temporal; his eternal destiny depending for its attainment chiefly on the fulfilment of his special duties towards God, and his temporal destiny depending, for its attainment, on the discharge of his special duties torwards his fellow-men, or society. Man’s obligation to learn and fulfil his duties towards God we denominate his religious obligation, and he fulfils this obligation by the aid of his intelligence and of the spiritual faculties of his soul. His obligation to learn and discharge his duties towards his fellow-men, we call his social obligation, and this he fulfils by the aid of his intelligence and of the social faculties. However, the exercise of both of these sets of faculties should be regulated by reason and conscience, in order that they may lead to a proper fulfilment of man’s double obligation.
Here let us remark, that man’s eternal destiny is the primary object of his being, and hence the discharge of his duty towards God should be the chief purpose of his life, while his temporal or social destiny, though important on account of its relation to the eternal, is still but as a means to an end rather than a distinct end itself. It is a real destiny, fixed by the Creator, but yet not final. From this we would conclude that, while a neglect of our duty towards God entails a loss of our chief end—eternal life— the consequences of a similar neglect of our social duties, provided such neglect did not induce a violation of our duty towards God, would be temporal, and therefore of less importance.
But though our social destiny is comparatively much less important, so long as we live amongst men we cannot free ourselves from the obligation of discharging the duties which it imposes. The great difficulty which we have to encounter is to reconcile, in practice, these two classes of duties. We know they both exist, and foF a wise and beneficent purpose; we know also that we have received from our Creator faculties which qualify us to discharge them properly, and, moreover, that the moral and intellectual exercise involved in the performance of these duties, is necessary to a harmonious development of our being, as men; and while we are in the body, we should be men.
But were we to devote ourselves exclusively to the contemplation of eternal things, to the neglect of our social relations, we should be too much of the angel and not enough of the human—true, our fault, so far as a fault is implied, would, in such a case, be on the right side, and would promote our eternal interests, provided always that our neglect, in a social point of view, did not involve a violation of our duly towards God, still we would not be men in the true sense of the word.
On the other hand, should we devote ourselves exclusively to the study and discharge of our social obligations, neglecting our religious duties and the destiny to which they lead, our mistake would indeed be a grave one, in
volving the loss of our final end. We would, in effect, be substituting the means for the end, the temporal for the eternal. In a word, we would be too much of the human, and not enough of the angel, and thus fail in the chief business of life.
We should, then, be men while we live amongst men, and avoid both those extremes, discharging our immediate duty towards God faithfully, as the chief means of attaining our final end; at the same time recognizing our social relations and fulfilling them, because they are a part of our destiny, yet remembering that they are secondary, and only a means to an end, in consequence of which fact the fulfillment of these relations should be directed to the end which they were intended to subserve, viz., the attainment of our eternal destiny. Thus will we apply properly, in this particular, the saying of the poet, “Est modus in rebus."
Personal.
—	Robert J. Staley, of ’74, and T. A. Dailey, of’74, visited Notre Dame on the 22d.	■
—	J. C. Dougherty (Commercial), of *70, is clerking in the military offices in New York city.
—	Edward Halpin (Commercial), of ’74, is teaching school at Oak Grove, near Toledo, Ohio.
—	Mr. R. E. O’Connor, of Chicago, Ill., spent a few days at Notre Dame this week, visiting his son.
—	Mr. Dennis Coghlin and daughter, of Toledo, Ohio, spent several days at Notre Dame about the 22d.
—	Rev. Fathers Vagnier and Hudson attended the funeral services of Right Rev. Bishop Foley, at Chicago.
—	Mrs. Tourtillotte, of Toledo, Ohio, was at Notre Dame in the beginning of the week, visiting her son who is a Minim here.
—	Mrs. Bassett and son, of Toledo, Ohio, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week, visiting her brother, Prof. J. F. Edwards.
—	Prof. A. S. Loventhall, an old student, is conducting a very successful school in Lebanon, Ky., entitled “Loven-thall’s Academy.”
—	Prof. Lyons failed to make the cars on Wednesday—^ morning, and as a consequence he spent the day at Notre Dame, a most wonderful thing.
—	If we mistake not, Father Graham, an old contributor to the Scholastic, and well known at Notre Dame, is a frequent contributor to the Daily Post of Montreal.	,
—	Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland, Ohio, was vis-J^^ iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s at the beginning of the week. He was returning from the funeral services of the late Bishop Foley, of Chicago.
—Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., the esteemed rector of the Church at Watertown, Wis., spent a few days at Notre------ Dame this week. Father Golovin is looking well, and has entirely recovered from the severe attack of sickness which he had lately.
—The Young Men’s Catholic Association of Youngstown, Ohio, gave an entertainment a short time ago, under the direction of H. C. Cassidy, of ’76. J. F. Rudge (Commercial), of ’75, Jno. Kielty, and Geo. Rudge, old students, took part in it. The pastor of the church is Rev. E. Mears, of’62.
—Among the visitors this week were Mr. and Miss Coghlin, Mrs. Tourtillotte, and Mrs. Bassett, of Toledo; Mr. Becker, of Canton, Iowa; Michael O’Brien, of Alpena, Mich.; Mr. Denneher, Ludington, Mich.; Mrs. Snee, Chi-ago; Messrs. H. Hass and A. McMichael, and Misses M. Hass and C. McMichael, of Mishawaka, Ind.
—Henry Blum, for a long time proprietor of the Students’ Office, in South Bend, did not follow the advice he so frequently gave to the students—“Go Vest.youug mans; go Vest.” He emigrated eastward, and may now be found on Summit Street, Toledo, selling cigars, etc., as he did in
414
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
South Bend. He asks all old students to give him a call. If he don’t “sets him up ” he will expect the caller to do so.
—Very Rev. President Corby received a dispatch, on Monday last, announcing the sad news of the death of the wife of R. M. Hinde (of ’66), which took place at the family residence in Lewiston, Ill., on Sunday, the 23d ult. Mrs. Hinde {nee Ross, a daughter of United States Senator Ross), was a graduate of St. Mary’s Academy, and her old schoolmates and friends will be pained to hear of her early death. Very Rev. President Corby regretted that a severe cold prevented him from complying with the wish of his old pupil and friend to officiate at the funeral service, which took place on Tuesday, the 25th, at 2 p. m. We tender the family our sympathy in.their bereavement, and ask a prayer for the repose of the soul of the esteemed departed. Requiescat in pace. .
Local Items.
—The sleighing is now again good.
—Last Saturday was a bad day for the turkeys. .
—Bulletins will be made out next Wednesday.
—There was a heavy snow-storm on Wednesday last.
—Competitions next week in the Preparatory Department.
—The snow continuing on the ground makes items quite scarce.
—We noticed many familiar faces at the Exhibition the other night.
—Hand-ball is the favorite game with the boys during these cold days.
—The Columbians will soon commence the rehearsals for their Exhibition.
—Many of the boys, no doubt, wish that the snow on the lake would soon disappear.
—The Thespians were greeted with a large audience on the evening of their Exhibition.
4	—The Band played some very fine pieces in front of the
College on Washington’s Birthday.
—The music by the Band and Orchestra on the evening of the Entertainment was very fine.
—Mr. Samuel Spalding, of Lebanon, Ky., has been selected as orator on St. Patrick’s Day.
—The Thespians return thanks to all who assisted them on the eveniug of their Entertainment.
V —The Minims Sodality of the Holy Angels went to Holy Communion on Tuesday last m a body.
1	—The Thespians’ motto is “ Act well your part,” and
we believe that the members of this Society do so.
। —On the evening of Mardi-gras the St. Cecilians and the Philopatrians enjoyed themselves in Washington Hall.
—Last Saturday, being Washington’s Birthday, of course the boys had rec., and, no doubt, they enjoyed themselves.
—The weather on Ash-Wednesday was very blustering. It is too bad to have such kind of weather on a recreation day.
—The Junior and Senior Archconfraternities attended in v a body the Benedictions given during the Forty Hours’ Devotion.
. —Solemn High Mass, preceded by the distribution of J ashes, was celebrated on Ash-Wednesday, the Very Rev. A.
Granger officiating.
—Vespers to-morrow are from the Common of a Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal. In the morning the Missa de Angdis will be sung.
—Business called us to Toledo last week. We return thanks to Mr. Richard Calkins (Commercial), of ’77, for fa^ vors extended us during our stay in that city.
—Although there are many fleet of foot among the Seniors, yet they were not able to capture the rabbit that appeared on the Campus a few days ago. Where were the dogs?
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion commenced on Sunday last,' and ended Tuesday evening with Solemn Benediction of
the Blessed Sacrament The visits to the church were quite frequent.
/—On Mardi-gras the St. Cecilians had a fine banquet, at 'which a large number of invited guests attended. Turkey and et-ceteras were in abundance. Things all passed off agreeably and pleasantly.
—We are sorry that we were absent during Rev. Father Golovin’s visit. As we did not have the pleasure of a long chat with him, we take this opportunity of wishing him every pleasure in this world.
—If you intend going to Europe, we would recommend you to go by the Inman Line, an advertisement of which may be found in this paper. Mr. Wile, of Laporte, Ind., is the agent for Northern Indiana.
f —We would suggest that in celebrating the Moore Centennial the Philodemics invite the old members of the '' Society to be present, or to send a paper to be read on the occasion. What do you say, members?
—Last Thursday Mr. G. Sugg delivered before the Modern History Class an eloquent discourse on “ The Feudal System of Europe,” dwelling at length ou its rise, decline, and the influence which it exerted upon society.
—Very Rev. President Corby has been suffering from a severe cold during the pist week. No station is exempt, and College Presidents, like other people, must bear their portion of the ills and ails to which flesh is heir.
—Rev. P. J. Golovin, of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., gave the ten-minute instruction at the meeting ’ 'of the Archconfraternity last Sunday evening. It is needless to say that the instruction was the best given this scholastic year.
—Very Rev. Father General received §10 last Saturday for the new Chapel of the Sacred Heart from two of his Minims. The donors, Masters A. M. Coghlin and W. A. '^Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, have the sincere thanks of Very Rev. Father General.
—Those who have copies of the current year’s Axe Maria will confer a favor by returning them to the office of publication as soon as possible. So many calls are made for back numbers that it has been found impossible to supply half the demands.
I —How about the Commercial Alumni Association? Who /will take in hand the matter of forming the Association ? JWe think the teachers, in the Department ought to start the thing. We have no doubt but that the Association would succeed. Who will move in the matter?
—A very pleasant impromptu soiree took place in the College parlor last Monday evening, at which those who were theu visiting Notre Dame assisted. The music was furnished by Messrs. Schnull, Cochrane and Claggett, and Masters Coghlin, Suee and Donnelly declaimed.
z—The next Exhibition will be given by the members of ,the Columbian Society, on the eve of St. Patrick’s Day.
.'We have not yet learned what the programme will be. There is no doubt but what they will give us a fine one,— one worthy the patron Saint of Ireland and the United States.
—Somebody (our friend John, we think,) has been playing a practical joke by hiding away some castings or patterns which were left in front of the office last week. You have made your point, John, and we would advise you to replace those patterns. The joke has gone far enough. Do unto others, etc.
—The 11th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held on Wednesday, Feb. 26 .h. Master P. Donahoe read a sketch of the “ Life of St. Francis Assisi ”; questions were answered by Masters L. Brehmer and C. Johnson. The ten-minute instruction was given by Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.
—Quite a number of people from Detroit, Indianapolis, • Chicago, and other cities, came to Notre Dame to witness the Entertainment given by the Thespians on the 21st. The number of people from Chicago would have been larger were it not that on that d iy took place the funeral of the. late Right Rev. Bishop Foley.
/ —The Rev. Director of Studies made his regular monthly visit to the Minim Department last week. Among the students whom he examined, Master A M. Coghlin received
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
415
the first prize in Mental Arithmetic, Master A. Hartrath in Orthography; and in Arithmetic, Masters N. Nelson, J. S. Courtney and W. Rea received each a prize.
—The visit of Rev. P. J. Golovin was the occasion of much gratification to his many friends at Notre Dame. Besides making the closing remarks at the Entertainment on tiie 21st, he addressed the students of the various departments on other occasions. His addresses were received with cheers, all the boys uniting in demonstrating their great regard for him. May he soon visit us again!
—On Saturday evening, Feb. 22d, the Thespians had a lunch in Washington Hall. After a few hours spent in dancing, etc., the luuch was spread, and though it had a /very unpretending name, it was in reality as fine as a banquet. When the tables were cleared, Mr. Ambrose Hert-zog made an eloquent speech, and was followed by the Director of the Society, Prof. Edwards, with whose speech the affair closed.
—The Entertainment given in Washington Hall, at Notre Dame, complimentary to Very Rev. President Corby, of the University, was largely attended, a large number from this city being present. The Entertainment consisted of instrumental and vocal music, literary essays and declamations and a short dramatic performance. All of the productions were of the highest character, and the event was the most enjoyable one of the kind in the history of the University.—South, Bend Tribune.
—Very Rev. Father General has already received seventy dollars for the new Chapel of the Sacred Heart from the students of the Minim Department. It is an acknowledged ^fact that the Minims entertain an especial affection for Very Rev. Father General, the august patron of their department, and they feel that the readiness with which they respond to his appeal to the students for aid towards the erection of the Chapel of the Sacred Heart will be a lest of the sincerity of their esteem and love for him.
—We are indebted to Prof. J. A. Lyons for copies of the Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879. The work is even superior to the issue ior 1878, which we had supposed was little less than the attainment of perfection. Besides a world of useful information about the days, weeks, months, seasons, and pretty much everything pertaining to the heavens and the earth, it contains a large number of selected and original articles of interest and worth. Its price is 25 cents; address, Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.— Bouth Bend Evening Begister.
—A musical, literary, and dramatic Entertainment, complimentary to Very Rev. President Corby, was given by the Thespian Association at Notre Dame University, on Friday evening last, the eve of Washington’s Birthday. The programme opened with an overture by the Cornet '-''Band, which was followed by admirably delivered orations by Messrs. L. J. Evers and A. Hertzog. The Entertainment concluded with an original version of that old-time drama, “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” The play was splendidly mounted, and the characters were finely sustained, as was attested by the frequent applause they received.—South Bend Herald.
—The 25th meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was held February 26th. The officers for this session are: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby; Assistant Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Promoters, Prof. J. F. Edwards and Bro. Leander; Dramatic Readers, Prof. T. E. Howard and Prof. A. J. Siace; Vice-Presidents, C. Van Mourick and C. Rietz; Recording Secretary, J. W. Guthrie; Corresponding Secreta-* ries, J. K. Scanlan, J. Crowley; Treasurer, J. L. Morgan; 1st Censor, E. Sugg; 2d Censor, H. Canoil; Sergeant-at-arms, J. Schoby; Marshal, L. Dimick; Librarian, W. D. Cannon; Property Managers, J. A. Seeger, R. C. Pleins; Prompter, Moses Foote; Honorary members,Bros. Edward, Alexander, Celestine, Lawrence, Hugh, Philip, Stanislaus, and Francis Assisi; Director of the Orpheonic Branch, Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C. -
—The 6th regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday, Feb. 23d. After the usual exercises the following members answered questions: R. Russell, “ Bollandists”; R. Keenan, “Catacombs”; W. Arnold, “ Ember Days.” The customary instruction was given by Rev. P. J. Colovin, of Watertown, Wis. The Rev. gentle
man expressed his surprise at seeing the Society in such a prosperous condition, compared to what it was in former years. He spoke of the great advantages to be derived by those belonging to a religious association, especially one devoted to a the honor and glory of the Blessed Virgin. He also said that the customary exercises practiced at the meetings were well calculated to awaken and keep alive those pious sentiments in the minds of the young. Aft^r the close of Rev. Father Colovin’s neat and appropriate speech, Thomas Conlan was elected to membership.
—Rev. G. Zurwellen, pastor of St. Michael’s Church, Plymouth, Ind., has presented to the College Museum the crucifix that belonged to the last Indian of Marshall Co., Ind., and whom the Rev. Father prepared for death. The following little incident is connected with the crucifix. When the Indian felt his last moments approaching, and his hand was growing too weak to hold the crucifix any longer, he made a sign which the bystanders understood to mean that they should take the crucifix; but when they attempted to do so, he shook his head feebly, and turned his dying eyes towards the priest. The latter approached and reached,out his hand, and the dying man at once resigned the crucifix to him. “Do you want me to take it?” said the priest. By signs he answered yes. “Do you wish to give it to me?” Again an affirmative sign. Soon afterwards the Indian calmly breathed his last. Another instance of the attachment felt by the poor Indians for the “Blackgowns.”
—The banquet usually given by the members of the St. Cecilia and Philopatrian Societies took place on Tuesday last, at half-past three p. m., in the Junior refectory, and was on the whole a grand success. There was an abundance of all the good things of the season, to which we are sure all that were present did ample justice. Amongst the invited guests were Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Kelly, Toohey, Vagnier, Zahm, Stoffel, and other members of the faculty. After all had partaken of the many viands placed before them, Very Rev. President Corby arose and thanked, in behalf of all present, the members of the two above named Societies for the rare treat which they afforded them that evening. He then called upon Rev. Father Zahm for a few remarks, who made a short speech in his own happy style. Atler this all retired, the boys betaking themselves to the study-hall to attend their classes as usual. The President of these two Societies deserves great praise for the grand feast which he got up in so short a time. Prof. Lyons never does anything by halves.
—The 26th meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held February 24th. The following are the officers for the ensuing session: Director, Very Rev. W. Coiby; Assistant Directors, Revs. T. E. Walsh and C. Kelly; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Lecturer on Political Economy, Prof. T. E. Howard; 1st Vice-President, Frank W. Bloom; 2d Vice-President, Frank T. McGrath; Recording Secretary, K L. Scanlan; Corresponding Secretary, J. Brady; Treasurer, A. Rietz; Historian, G. Donnelly; Orpheonic Representative, G.Schuull; 1st Monitor, M. Burns; 2d Monitor, W. McCarthy; 1st Censor, F. Weisert; 2d Censor, F. Clarke; 3d Censor, R. Williams; Librarian, J. A. Gibbons ; Sergeani-at-arms, A. Caren; Marshal, G. Orr; Property Managers, A. J. Zahm, F. Grever, J. F. Mug; Prompters, J. Kutz, W. Jones; Clerk of the Moot Court, J. Fogarty. The tollowing were elected honorary members: Rev.L. J. L’Etourneau, C. S. C., Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., Messrs. J. Rogers, C. S. C., A. Morrissey, C. S. C., T. McNamara, C. S. C., and Rev. R. Shortis, C. S. C. Prof. J. F. Edwards and Bro. Leander will act as promoters. Prof. A. J. Stace as moderator, and the Rev. Editor of the Scholastic will be critic. The Association is finely organized, and the members have great hopes of surpassing all other Associations, as usual.
—Cats are largely bred in Holland, especially for their skins. The fur of the Duich cat is very long and soft, compared to that of the English cat, the fur of which is hard and wiry. There is some secrecy as to how the cats in Holland are fed; Mr. Buckland states that it is possible that they are fed bn fish. The best Dutch cats are black. A good skin of jet-black color is worth half a guinea.
416
■A*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arantz, R. M. Anderson, M. W. Bannon, James P. Brice, J. M. Byrne, M. T. Burns, J. G. Baker, F. Bell, Thos. Barrett, J. Bell, T. F. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, D. S. Coddington, J. M. Carroll, E. Calkins, C. B. Cones, B. J. Claggett, Geo. Cochrane, P. J. Dougherty, E. Dempsey, D. Donohue, F. Devoto, J. Downey, L. J. Evers, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, T. J. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, P. Horn, T. Halle, J. Krost, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, Wm. Kreig, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, Wm. McGee, 8. S. Perley, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Palmer, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, 8. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, J. Simms, A. Scheiber, P. Shea, C. Stuckey, F. Smith, E. Schifferle, S. P. Terry, R. D. Stewart, 8. T. Summers, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall. W. Wilson, J. J. Kotz, W. Carpenter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. G. Arthur, M. J. Burns, F. W. Bloom, J. G. Brady, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, H. E. Canoil, E. P. Cleary, J. V. Cable, T. F. Devitt, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, R. L. Erench, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, ,M. L. Foote, G. C. Foster, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, L. Garceau, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, J. B. Inderrieden, "J. Kurz, F. T. McGrath, J. L. Morgan, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. F. Mug, H. C. McDonald, W. A. McDevitt, J. L. Nelson, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, G. A. Orr, F. B. Phillips, E. Piekenbrock, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, G. A. Schnull, E. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, A. K. Schoby, R. J. Semmes, C. P. Van Mourick, F. E. Weisert, R. T. Williams, E. S. Walter, A. S. Rock, N. F. Reinhardt, A. F. Zahm.
The name of L. D. Kies was omitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. Gordon, C. Garrick, H. C. Snee, J. S. Courtney, J. A Crowe, G. J. Rhodius, A. Hierb, J. M. Courtney, G. Tourtillotte, N. P. Nelson, A. Chirhart, J. S. McGrath, A. Hartrath, W. Rea, F. Brady, H. W. Bachmann, H. A. Kitz, J. S. Inderrieden, E. A. Howard, T. McGrath, I. C. Williams, C. M. Long, A. Rhein-boldt, F. B. Farrelly, J. fl. Garrity, P. Campau, A. J. Campau, J. Chaves, W. V. O’Malley, L. J. Young, F. I. Garrity, A. Van Mourick, C. J. Welty, E. 8. Chirhart, C. J. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. Casey, J. G. Brady, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, G. Orr, A. Rock, J. Osher, B. Casey, F. Scheid, L. Dimick, F. Phillips, J. Nelson, F. Grever, W. McCarthy, J. Mug, J. Lumley, K. Scanlan, A. Keenan, J. Brice, E. Dempsey, J. Arentz, T. Hale, S. P. Terry, T. Conlan, J. Smith, E. Calkins, P. B. Larkin, C. Stuckey, J. N. Byrne, R. P. Mayer, J. Buchanan, F. Keller, W. Ryan, J. McErlain, M. Reilly, J. Simms, W. Krieg, P. Vogel, F. Williams, W. Wilson, J. Herrman, T. Summers, M. Hogan, J. Brice.
Iiist of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—J. Spalding, J. Herman ; Grammar—J. Simms, M. Hogan, W. McCarthy; Geography—W. G. Jones, J. Osher, P. B. Larkin ; Arithmetic—J. Herrman, F. Grever; Penmanship-----; Book-Keeeping.
—Madame de Villecerf, who was brought to death in the flower of her age by the unskilfulness of her surgeon, comforted him thus—“I do not look upon you,” she said, in dying, “ as a person whose error has cost me my life, but as a benefactor, who hastens my entry into a happy immortality. As the world may judge differently, I have put you in a situation by my will, to quit your profession.”

Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.	•
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly.
1st Sr. Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn,	w
Anna Maloney, Eleanor Keenan, Rebecca Neteler, Zod Papin, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey.
2d Sr. Glass—Misses Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Annie Ryan, Mary Brown, Emma Shaw, Mary Plat-tenburg, Adella Gordon.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Usselman, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Alicia Donelan, Ellena Thomas, Annie Jones, Adella Geiser, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Agnes Joyce, Louisa Neu, Ella Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Mullen, Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas, Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Ollie Williams, Della McKerlie, Anna Hermann, Caroline Gall, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Julia Barnes, Adelaide Bisby, Mary English.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lilly Lancaster, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Campbell, Annie Orr, Mary Hake, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux.
Junior Prep.—Misses Elise Lavoie, Maud Casey, Matilda	i
Kildaire, Sabina Semmes, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Elise Dallas.
1st Jr.—Misses Julia Cleary, Ada Clarke, Elizabeth Consa-dine, Jessie Pampel, Amelia Morris.
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Isabella Scott, Martha Zimmerman.
3d Jr.—Miss Alice Esmer.	,
french.	%
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Sil-	'
verthorn,.Annie McGrath.
2d Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Elise Lavoie, Marie Dallas, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin. Ellen Mulligan.
3d Class—Misses Angela Ewing, 100; Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Mary Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Cavenor, Annie Cortright, Annie Maloney, Louisa Neu, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts, Laura French, Linda Fox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Annie Ryan, Ollie Williams, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Della McKerlie, Annie Jones, Katie Wells, Mary English, Mary Hake, Annie Orr, Ada Clarke, Sophie Papin.
german.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselmann, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Annie Hermann, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Katie Claffey, Katie Hackett.
4th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Mary Fitzgerald, Alice	*
Donelan, Agnes Joyce, Katie Ward.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Ciara Silver-thorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.	;
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.	'
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.	i
2d Div.—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Mary Sulli-
van, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu.	-	J
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide
Kirchner, Mary. Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell.	.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline	’
Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Angela Ewing, lorantha	’
Semmes, Zoe Papin, Ellen Hackett.	’
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel
Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrence, Della McKerlie, Marie	•
Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French, J. Mitchell.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake,	'
Eleanor Thomas, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Lulu Wells, Rebecca Neteler,	4
Maud Casey, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan, Bridget Kelly.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
417
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, E. Lloyd, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey.
7th Class—Misses Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Miss Alice E^mer, Sabina Semmes.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, lorantha Semmes.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Clara Silverthorn, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Zod Papin, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Mary Birch.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Annie Jones, Mary Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT. drawing.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d Class—Misses Mary Campbell, Marie Dallas, Teresa Kil-lelea, Ellena Thomas.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Sullivan, Laura’French, Anna Cortright, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Campbell, Angela Ewing, Sophie Papin, Julia Butts, Sarah Purdy, lorantha Semmes, Minna Loeber, Ellen Mullligan, Maud Casey.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck, Sardh Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg, Hope Russell.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss Emma Lange.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Sarah Purdy, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel, Mary Campbell, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Caroline Gall, Alicia Donelan, Catharine Hackett, Anna Herrman, Ella Cavanagh, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Adelaide Bisby, Annie Jones, Mary Hake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Catharine Claffey, Sophie Papin, Catharine Campbell, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary McFadden, Margaret Cleghorn, Mary Chirhart, Ada Clarke, Mary Paquette, Mary Lyons, Marie McN. Garrity, Blanche de Garrity, Maud Casey, Sabina Semmes, Isabella Hackett, Jessie Pampell, Rose Kildaire, Lilly Lancaster, Isabella Scott, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Lavoie, Elise Papin, Alice Esmer, Julia Cleary, Martha Zimmerman, Minnie Fisk.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy, Alice Donelan, Della McKerlie, Adelaide Bisby, Elizabeth Schwass, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Div.—Misses Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Marie Plattenburg, Minna Loeber, Ollie Williams, Mary Casey, Agnes Joyce, Annie Cavenor, Grace Glasser.
For politeness, neatness, order' amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silver-thorn, Eleanor Keenan, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford. Annie Cavenor. lorantha Semmes, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Adelaide Bisby, Ollie Williams, Annie Herrman, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Mary Hake, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Teresa Zahm, Ellen Kinzie, Mary Campbell, Sarah Purdy, Ellen Cavanagh, par excellence. Misses Hope Russell, Louisa Kelly, Anna Woodin, Annie Maloney, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Zoe Papin, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Adelaide Geiser, Louisa Neu, Anna Jones, Julia Barnes, Martha Pampel.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Cath
arine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Lilly Lancaster, Maud Casey, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Matilda Kildaire, Sabina Semmes, Julia Cleary, Amelia Morris, Elizabeth Consadine, Isabella Hackett, Alice Esmer, Isabella Scott, par excellence. Misses Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Mary McFadden, Ellen Hackett, Julia Wells, Marie McN. Garrity, Sophie Papin, Ada Clarke, Minnie Fisk, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Jane McGrath.
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
PUBLISHED DURING TERM TIME
AT
TsTOTT&E ZCLAZMZZE, INTZDI-AZST A..
Subscription, $1.50 per Annum. *
—Exhibits more journalistic industry, taste and skill, than any college publication we are favored with.—Manhattan Monthly.
—We wish some of our professional journalists were half as clever as the Editors of The Notre Dame Scholastic, the beautiful litie paper published at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.— Boston Pilot.
—Our brave little college contemporary The Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its Twelfth Volume. We wish it twelve times twelve of usefulness and prosperity; some one else can take up the wish at that time.—Catholic Universe.
—The rare ability of its editorial articles, the tact and good sense shown in its make up, and the admirable, even elegant character of its contributions and selections, have challenged our admiration, and we watcii for its visits with much interest.—St. Joseph VaUey Register.
—Although The Scholastic is professedly a college journal, yet its columns abound with varied topics of a useful and enjoyable character which, we are sure, will be just as acceptable to plaope jostling ’mid the crowd in the great world, as to those surrounded by classic walls—Catholic Union (Buffaloi).
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are-embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Clssical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5: Instrumental Music,1. 0; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Hotre Dame P. O., Indiana.
418	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
YVeeklv Newspapers.
rpBCE CATHOEIC COITIJNIBTAJN. published X -weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of ’70.
THE A. V JtU MARTTI, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
milE BOND IIOUjSID, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOTSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*.	Plain and Fancy Book-bind-
er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CAEEING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZltJ neatly printed; for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
-	'	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic ZiO At.-maxac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BTCOWTSr	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & M1TCHEEE fN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CEIFFORD. [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of *74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Hl.
JOTTIV	McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office
65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & -DOBGKE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office. 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
Mo BRIDIE	MIT /Ta ARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of ihe U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WIT,T,TA VIJ. CIL/X RRE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Room., 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69 —Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOTITY D. MeCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DANIEL B. HIBBARD. Jr,, (of ’70), Attorney "at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan.	sep 14-ly
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
;	GOING EAST.
I 3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, J arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 am, Mail.over Main Line,arrives at Toledo,5 25 pm;
Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 05a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4 50 and 4L p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.	'
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4= SO p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genu Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going- South.	
1.40 a.m.	3.20 p.m.	Arbive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m	8.05 p.m.
12.55 “	2.30 “	- - - - LaPorte, - - -	10.25 “	8 55 “
12.23 “	2.08 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 “
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “
11.27 p.m.	l.i>7 “	- - - Plymou'h, - -	11.47 “	10.33 “
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12 40 p.m	11.32 “
9 55 “	11.26 a. m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	12 12 a.m.
9.25 “	10.47-“	- - - - Peru, - - - -	2 00 “	12 40 “
9J-3	10.26 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.22 “	1.01 “
8.33 “	9.56 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3 00 “	135 “
7.52 “	9.13 “	----- Tipton,- - - -	3.38 “	216 “
7.10 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3 02 “
6.10 “	7.25 “	- - Indianapolis, - - -	5.25 “	4.00 “
		- - - -Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - - -	Saint Louis, - - -	10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	• - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p.m. “	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 255a.m.
i j
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
E^Berths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according- to distance.
F.	P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
HICACO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES,
Union Depo', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express... ..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J, C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
i
•a4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	419
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11,1877.
	♦MaU	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	+Atlantic "Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 31 p.w 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ « 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 pm 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
					
	•Mail	♦Day Express.		^Pacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 pm 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m.
“ N. Dame— 8 52 •	6 38 '•
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 740 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G.	P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen'l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend,. Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is tbe shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in tbe Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior .Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Keuosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chipago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TAJBIZE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.i, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaU.
Pittsburgh,	Eeave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 P.M. 12.53’A.M. 310 “ 450 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p ji. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,	 Lima,		7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 350 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 1225 a.m. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,.	 Chicago,	Arrive					
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 pji.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.25 P.M.	11.30 “	
Lima,.'...		8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 u	527 “	233 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	
Mansfield,		1235 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,..		226 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p xr
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Puluhan Paiacb Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P & T. A
INMAN LINE.
ROYAE 3HA.I1L STEAMERS.
NEW YOBE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. BALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.
420
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,'
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. E. Cor. LaSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henert Styles, Manager.	Chicago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet. Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentansport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fiftycents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points, Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. Yougetanentiremeal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a maj ority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana" at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by;this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCHICAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, FtWayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
AtPEORIA, withP.,P. & J.; P.,L. & D.; L B. A W.; DI. Midland: and T., P. A W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R.R.
At west Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
AtDESMOINES, withD. M. & Ft. DodgeR. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C.,B. & Q. It. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R.Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St J. A C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka A Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K.P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
1
PALACE CABS are ran through to PEOBIA, DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH;
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Boute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada,
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A. KIMB AT.L.	E. ST. JOHN.
Gen’l Superintendent	Qen’l TkL and Pass’gr AgL,
'	-ChiftgOtJUL