
@lje tic ^ear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. JSTotre Dame TTniversity, Oct. 19, 1867.	No. 7.
St. Mary’s Academy.
St. Mary’s Academy, Oct. 13,1867.
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department—Misses S. Rooney, Mary Carraher, Umma. Carr, Mary Morrill, Anastasia Darsey, Mary Miller, E. Miller, I. Retiring, E. Lindsey, Vada Bragg, Rose Joslin and Augusta Sturgis.
Junior Department—Misses Emma Ruger, M. Toberty, Anna Boyles, Anna Clark, M. Sissons, Mary Moon, Mary Clark and M O’Mara.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Glass—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, K. Doran, Mary Toomey, Florence Alspaugh and Lula Murray.
First Senior Glass—Misses L. and L. Tong, Norah Maher, Anna Wheeler, Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, Kl Livingstone, Anna Machin, Mary Van Patten, J. Arrington, Agnes Ewing, L. Lyons, M. Ball and Eunice Crouch.
Second Senior Glass—Misses Anna Cunnea, Alice Radin, Kate Graham, Susan Evans, A. Mulhall, M. and L. Charteau, Anna Adams, R. Mukautz, C. Davenport, Ida Runaids, Virginia Brown, Hattie Lill, Frances Gittings, Anna Briggs, E. Service and Emma Packett.
Third Senior Glass—Misses N. Ogle, R. Rettig, H. Seeley, Mary McColley, Mary Barclay, Amelia Sissons, M. Keenan, Georgiana and Sarah Blakeslee, Emma Roustead, Maria Druliner, S. Shipley, N. Simms, N. Thompson, Josephine Greishop, K. Carpenter, K. Jarvis, Clara Foote, Vada Bragg, E. Connan, Leia McKenney and M. Shirland.
First Intermediate—Misses T. Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, Ellen Cooney, Stiena Thompson, Maiy Simms, Clara Castetter, S. Bicknell, R. Gittings, Julia Walker, Mary Rooney, Amelia Boyles.and Julia Gittings.
Second Intermediate—Misses Helen Sprochnle, L. Morgan, M. Walker and L. Niel.
First Junior—Ada Metzger and Anna Garrety.
FEAST OF ST. EDWARD.
The fact that this festival fell upon Sunday prevented the Mass of the saint from being celebrated on the 13th, but on Monday morning, one especially prepared by the young ladies in honor of the day, was sung in the Chapel of St. Michael, Very Rev. Father Provincial officiating, and the Catholic pupils receiving Holy Communion out of respect to the feast and to offer up the most accepted prayers for the revered client of Saint Edward, for whose sake the day is cherished.
In the evening an entertainment was given by the pupils, consisting of Music, Addresses, Tableaux, and an original play entitled, “ Diversity of Taste!
The play was designed to illustrate the truth that a young girl with but oue idea is a most unfortunate member of society, .and its lively wit, with the logic of the principal speaker, while seemingly to prove that sophistry can distort and invert the truth, so that it will appear as falsehood, in reality, demonstrated the folly-of instructions which permit science and art to master the mind, rather than making the mind master science and art.
Though the satire was aimed at the pretender, from the aspiring “ Sally Ann ” who had been at boarding school for an entire quarter, to the more finished Celestina roaming among the stars; yet the best point was that directed at the novel reader, and displaying the ridiculous effect upon the mind and manner when one yields to the inclinations of fancy, stimulated by the very com-mon, but deplorable passion of love lor romance.
THE TABLEAUX.
The first fourwere of a grave nature; the three last comic. “ St. Edward healing the sick,” was represented by Misses K. Doran and E. Carr, and was a perfect counterpart of the picture. “Ruth and Noemi ” was charmingly portrayed by Misses H. Brooks, E. Service and C. Bertrand, as was likewise “Painting, Sculpture and Music,” by Frances Grimes, Artist, K. Jarvis, Sculptor, and
*
*

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
3
Anna Briggs, Harpist. “The wise and foolish Virgins,” was the finest Tableau of the list, and was formed by Misses L. Chouteau, L. Lyons, L. and L. Tong, and A. Adams, as wise Virgins, with lamps trimmed and burning, L. Davis, M. Lassen, B. Acker, T. Stapleton and T. Lafferty as the five foolish Virgins, loitering and asking oil of the wise.
COMIC TABLEAUX.
“ Bluebeard’s mysterious chamber ”, was greeted with a burst of laughter, as the heads of five decapitated wives appeared in a row, with the blood dripping on the white wall underneath, where they seemed to be suspended.' Miss M. Chouteau stood as Fatima, the Misses Ogle, Bragg, Shipley, Blakeslee, and Conan as the decapitated, who unable to resist the contagion of merriment manifested unmistakable signs of resuscitation. “ The Puzzled Artist ” was like the creatures of our dreams. Three pictures were represented as if on canvas, the two first in frames, M. Walker as St. Rose of Lima, and J. Walker as St. Louis Gonzaga, (more beautiful than any painted picture could be,) with M. Toberty in the easel, as a picture unfinished, and at the mercy of the brush in the hands of Miss Laura Schultz. The contortions of the forming piece were exceedingly mirth provoking, and equaled by the “ Old woman who lived in a shoe.” Miss K. Swinehart' stood as the mother of the motley group which inhabited the huge slipper, and which originated in 'the brain of the world renowned Mother
„ Goose.
' » ,	THE ADDRESSES
were distinctly pronounced and seemed to give real pleasure to Very Rev. Father, and the audience.
THE MUSIC
consisted of a well selected variety, upon harp and piano, with several charming vocal pieces. Of the vocal the “Italian Faust Waltz Song,” “ Swallow’s farewell,” and the “ Good Night Chorus,”-were much admired. Of the instru-\ mental, if a selection can be made, it would be in favor of “ Freedom’s Tear,” and “ Fantasia Rigoletta.	,
The expression of extreme satisfaction and delight by the revered recipient of the honors, at the marked success of the young ladies, was the voice of the entire assembly, composed as it was of good judges, namely, the Rev. Fathers and Professors of Notre Dame, and a large number of . invited guests.	'
PROGRAMME.
Entrance March—(Piano)—Misses Langsdorf and Davenport.
Harp—Miss M. Shirland.
Address—Graduating Class—Miss J. Schutt.
*• First Senior—Miss A. Machin.
“	Second Senior—Miss E. Ewing.
“	From the Junior and Minim Departments—Miss H. Lill.
Duett—“See the Pale Moon”—Misses Adams and Runals.
“	Accompaniment—Miss C. Plimpton.
Diversity of Tastes—Prologue—Miss E. Ewing.	'
Miss Celestina, devoted to Astronomy—Miss C. Plimpton.
Calculi, Electro, Logicia, Crotchet, 1
Cantatrice, J
Mathematics—Miss M. Tripp. Chemistry—Miss L. Murray. Logic—Miss M. Forrester.
Music—Misses J. Schutt, C. Davenport
Demosthenes devoted to Elocution—Miss J. Runals.
Floretta, Sentimentalla,
“ Botany—Miss G. Arrington. “ Novels—Miss A Mulhall.
“ ’ Sally Ann, sister to Nancy, devoted to Tatting and Gentility—Miss M. Miller.	'
Instrumental Trio—Overture—(Fra Diavolo)—Misses J. Schutt, A Gates and C. Davenport.
Tableau—(St. Edward Healing the Sick.)	'	-
French Addresses—Misses Tong and Ewing.
Tableau—(Noemi and her Daughters.)
Song—(Italian)—Miss J. Runals.
Tableau—(The Five Wise and Five Foolish Virgins.)
Music—(Freedom’s Tear)—Miss C. Foote. Tableau—(Music, Painting and Sculpture.) Address—Third Senior Class.

Tableau—(Vocal Trio—Evening Hymn)—Misses Plimpton, Langs-dorf and Davenport.
Address—Intermediate Class.
Highly Interesting—(Tableau from “Bluebeard.”)
Music—Bacchanel L’Orgie —(by Wehlie)—Miss C. Davenport.
Junior Prologue—Miss M. Shirland.	-
Puzzled Artist—(Tableau Vivant.)
Duett—“ Swallow’s FareweU”—Misses Mulhall and Runals. ’
Tableau—(Some More)—From Mother Goose.
Fantasia Rigoletta—(by Liszt)—Miss Edith Lilly.	’
Chorus—“ Good Night”—Vocal Class.
Closing Remarks—By the Rev. Gentlemen.
Music for Retiring—“Ojos Criollos”—(Gottschalk)—Misses Foote and Plimpton.
The Programmes.—We publish entire the programmes of the exhibitions at Notre Dame and. St. Mary’s. Those of our readers who were present will notice that a few inversions and omissions occurred in the actual performance, as, we believe, is generally the case. The omissions, however, were amply supplied by surprises not down in the programme, as, for instance, the solemn and poetical introduction of new-comers in the Junior and Minim Department at St. Mary’s, which although not noticed in the account given of the festival, was, in our opinion, one of the most pleasing parts of the exhibition. The presentation address from the Senior Department of Notre Dame, will appear entire in a future number of The Scholastic Year. We regret that the limits of our columns do not permit us to give it this week.

4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Notre Dame.
St. Edward’s Day.
Of all our festivals, St. Edward’s day is, in many respects, the most delightful. Coming, as it does, sufficiently near the beginning of the collegiate year, to possess the charm of novelty, and sufficiently late to allow the sentimentalities of home-sickness to be overcome, or at least, banished far enough, away to make enjoyment possible, it forms the first bond of union to strengthen the college ..friendship of those who are to pass at least one year together. Topics of general interest are mooted, and the bashfulness of strangers wears away in discussing them. Mind communicates freely with mind, and all is harmony. The weather is always, so far as our experience goes, exquisitely sunshiny and pleasant. The woods are usually tinted with the gorgeous dyes of autumn, and the sky is of that pellucid blue which is peculiar to the fall of the year. A ' rich and rare harvest of luscious fruit is the crown of the feast, and we banquet less with the . palate than with the eyes.
St. Edward’s Day of 1867, was certainly, not ■: behind those of other years, in the pleasure of its. moments as they passed, or in the pleasant mem-■ oriesit has added to our store. We find we , must adopt some method of classification in our • ■ report, and so we shall begin with
. ;	THE EVE.
; I Saturday, Oct. 12th, was, a day of recreation '; for the ushering in of the feast. All. being on ' • the tiptoe of expectation for the evening’s enter; -^tainment, little else was thought about. The .; ceremonies of the morning in the College chapel, !: have been mentioned already in our last, A ;; match game of base ball was, played during- the i! day, the. Juanita coming off, as was. to be expec: i, ted,, victorious. The particulars will be found— ! or ought to be—among pur correspondence, if
■! the Base Ball Reporter has done his duty.
.:	After an early supper, a general gathering
’ took place, in,the Exhibition Hall, at half-past . six. Our friends of South Bend don’t seem yet . to have fully brought down their minds to. the fact that we have become very early birds at. No! tre Dame, and that they must order themselves ;; accordingly if they want to see our- exhibitions— : • asthey generally do, we notice.. On this occa: i j sion, their part of the hall was almost empty at ’: the beginning of the exercises, although it. grad
ually filled up, as the evening progressed, and most were in time to see the drama.
Rev. Father provincial was escorted to the entertainment prepared in his honor by the Notre Dame Field Band, in military array. We notice that this organization is much reduced in numbers, but we suppose it will recruit its forces as the year rolls on. The new scarlet color they have adopted in their uniform, does not harmonize so well with the blue, as the crimson does. We would advocate a return, if possible, to the former color.
On the rising of the curtain, after a splendid entrance march from the Cornet Band, and a rousing salutatory from the St. Cecilians, a deputation from the three departments made their appearance on the pla'tform, bearing their appropriate offering to the Very Rev. Father—a set of altar-plate, consisting of chalice, ciborium, pa-tine, and cruets. An elegant address was read by Mr. Watts, for the presentation. It was in the form of an irregular ode, and of great poetical merit, The readers of addresses’ on this evening might afford the subject of a curious and interesting problem or rather scientific inquiry, as to why the tones of the readers were in inverse proportion to their altitude? Among them all, the one that deserves most particular mention, is Mr. Mark Foote, whom we must mark head for dis-• tinct articulation and correct delivery. The little minim, Ernest Lyon’s, address was perhaps the j best appreciated by his audience in general.
The songs and instrumental performances were good, and we can’t understand why one that was promised on the programme was left out. The solos would have sounded better, if the singers had not held their sheets of music right in front of their mouths.
But the drama was the great point in.the evening’s, entertainment. The arrangement of the scenery, and the make-up of the characters, we have, never seen surpassed in, Washington Hall. We do not, of course, mean’ praise the scenery itself, as it. has done duty on too many occasions, not to. have already received its meed of commendation. Here is a cosmopolitan street, which was originally in Palos at the time Columbus sailed on his. first voyage. It has subsequently been to Peru, South .America; Altorf, Switzerland; Ballybotherem, or where, ever else Rory O’More was supposed to live; Goshen, Indiana, and various other localities too. numerous to mention. But: on the recent festival it looked just as fresh- as ever, and if the doors of our
I
I
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	5
Gothic audience-chamber, and Roman palace had not been a little warped we might say the same of them. A practised hand and eye had evidently been at work. The proscenium, however, resembled the constellation Ursa Mianr, being a little bare. The statw sque figures of Science, Art, Agriculture, and Commerce were not sufficiently relieved to make more than a shadowy appearance, and Washington looked almost as lonely as Poe’s Raven. But this deficiency is of course only temporary, and consequent on the fact that the hall was not painted soon enough to leave time to attend to it. The general effect of the interior was much improved by the painting recently done, and when the deficiency alluded to has been supplied, Vvrashington Hall will be entitled to a high rank among halls devoted to similar objects in the West.	•
The action of the drama was very good—astonishingly good, in fact, considering the short time allowed for getting it up. The parts of Vellum, Tinsel, Lord Truman and Sir George were admirable. The inconvenience of changing the part of a young lady into that of an old lord marred the plot somewhat, but such contingencies are unavoidable here, unless we can find plays written exclusively for male characters. But there was a curious atmospheric phenomenon observable—we suppose in consequence of some-change made during the rehabilitation of the hall. It consisted of what we will call a premonitory echo, and was so .loud as to be heard all over the hall. The words of the actors followed it sometimes so ■ immediately as to cause a blending of both the sounds, and at other times—especially towards the end of the play—with more deliberation. We hope some remedy for this, which, (however curious to the scientific, and worthy of a place beside the specter of the Brocken in physical geography) was a real—and we might say the only real—blemish in the performance, will be found before our next exhibition. The Thespian Society contains, the present year, as much talent as it ever did, if. not more, and the initiatory play augurs well for its success during the season. . A good exhibition, in former times, was hardly ever achieved until the 22d of February.
Father Provincial’s closing, remarks must be of interest to all who, having seen Notre Dame in its present prosperity, and having heard of the short time that has sufficed to bring, it up. to what it now is, try to cast a retrospective glance to,what it must have been in the times which, he so graphically described. The memory of. his
4 early labors was aroused by the numerous allusions to that period, in the addresses presented to him on this occasion, although the imagination of the'writers could give but a feeble idea of the reality. He spoke at much greater length than usual, being visibly affected by the devotion man-Rested‘towards him on all sides. He said that as the prosperity of the University increased, the - name of the founder would gradually merge into that of the institution. We trust, however, that posterity will always gratefully keep a distinct remembrance of one whose labors have been so nobly crowned during his very lifetime, and that as Notus Dame becomes historic, the name of Sorix will fill its due place in history also.
The evening being far advanced the company retired to the plaintive strains Jof “Woodman, spare that tree,” which, had they been sounded a little earlier in the season, might have prevented a never-henceforth-(except-very-discreetly)-to-be-alluded-to catastrophe which we noticed in the first number of our paper.
THE DAY	.
arose bright and glorious as St. Edward’s day ought to do. Professor O’Neill’s morning serenade chorused the congratulations of the Faculty, who were just at that moment paying their respects to Very Rev. Father Provincial. Thus it appeared that they wished him health, happiness, and many pleasant returns of his anniversary with a tweedle ’em, toodle dum, diddle ’em dee. The Band afterwards defiled into the yard, where they executed sundry military evolutions in their new pants and caps, to stirring martial music. Their tout ensemble was very fine. We understand they afterwards adjourned to the refectory, where they partook of a dejeuner d la fourchette—the forks used on the occasion being, of course, all tuning-forks. Not having been present, however, we cannot vouch for the truth of the report.
The Mass, celebrated at the usual hour, not being of St. Edward, does not properly, belong to this present article. It was, however, accompanied with unusual solemnities, as for a First Class Festival. Very. Rev. Father Provincial officiated, assisted by Rev. Father Granger as Deacon and Rev. Father Superior as. Subdeacon. The Very Rev. Celebrant preached on the Divine Maternity of the Blessed Virgin, proving it to be the fundamental doctrine of the new dispensation.
Thus finished the solemities of our festival at Notre Dame, unless an excellent dinner is to be considered as one. The report from St. Mary’s will be found, in another column.

ate*
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
PROGRAMME.
Tables of Honor.
Grand Entrance March—Notre Danie University Cornet Band.
Haydn’s fourth Sympjiony in B flat, (adagio and allegro)—Orchestra.
Salutatory—“Rose of ABandale”—field Band.
Address from the Senior Department—Janies W. Watts.
Song—Composed expressly for the occasion, by Prof. M. E. Girac, LL.D., and dedicated to Very Rev. E. Sorin, Provincial, Ac.— St. Cecilia and Philharmonic Societies.
Address in Latin—AV. T. Johnson.
Address in French—J. Lafferty.
Music—(Waltz for the occasion, by Prof. O’Neill)—Notre Dame University Cornet Band.	•
Address in German—D. T. Wile.
Address from the St. Edward’s Society—John Fitzharris.
Song and Chorus—“ The Shaking of the Hand”—Philharmonic Society.
Music—(Woodman, Spare that Tree)—Notre Dame University Cornet Band. •
Address from the Junior Department—Mark Foote.
Music—(Carry me back)—Field Band.
. Address from the Minim Department—Ernest Lyons.
Song and Chorus—Philharmonic Society: E. E. Hull, S. B. Hib-ben, W. B. Smith, Wm. Dunlap, A. O’Reilly, Frank Guthrie, M. S. Ryan, J. Lafferty, E. Walker, Frank Ingersoll, Jas. McBride, S. Corby, N. Wood, J. Dickinson, H. P. Morancy.
Music—(Adagio)—Orchestra.
Comedy in Five Acts.
(PREPARED EXPRESSLY FOR .THE OCCASION.)
THE GONJUBOB; OB THE THBEE HEIBS.
Dramatis Persona.
Lord Truman—R. 3L Short.	_
Sir George Truman—(the Conjuror—his nephew and adopted son)—W. T. Dunlap.
Mr. Fantome—(also nephew to Lord Truman)—M. J. McBride.
Mr. Tinsel—J. Fitzharris.
Vellum—(Steward to Lord Truman)—J. D. Murphy.
Mr. Abigail—(a Major-domo)—F. Guthrie.
Butler—N. Wood.
Gardener—J. C. Keveny.
Coachman—E. E. Hull.
At the end of each Act, except the last, the Band will discourse some excellent music. At the end of the Fifth Act a Minuetto will be played by the Orchestra.
Finale—(Haydn)—Orchestra.
March for Retiring—Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. '
R. Firman, J. B. Hill, Wm. Hayden, H. Lecompte, A. Maierhofer, Denis Maley, W. McWhirt, William Stace, Silas Teats, E. Blaine Walker and M. Will.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
D. Bell, Thomas Dillon, C. Enes, J. Hurley, O’ Humbert, J. Lenk, J. McGinnis, L. McGinnis, J. Nobe, J. Staley, L. Schmeider and’P. White.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Harvey Bouton, John Chandonai, Eddie Hay-del, Ferdinand Mier, Henry Templeton and Edwin Wile.	’
------,
■ Mrs. P, Visits the Ave Maria Office.
“Mrs. Partington,’shall we go and see the Ave Maria Office ?”
“ Oh yes; I would like to see it very much. Last week, Isaac brought me one, and among other things, I read of the ‘Walking Tower around Ireland.’ Oh my! how the people must have stared to see it.”
“Yes, indeed,” listlessly observed her guide, whose mind was evidently on a tour in some other direction.
“When Isaac got his new geography the other. day, he read to me about the ‘ Leaning Tower of Pies.’ La me! what strange notions! The people cannot be veracious there, or it would not stand very long. If it was out in our Western country, what an onslaught the Common Cheese and Chip-away Ingins would make on it!” “Dew tell,” continued the old lady; “ what fine books the geographies are. And then they are so cheap. They said they were embellished with one hundred and fifty plates. Your bill for crockery must come very high in a year.
Additional List of Students of Notre Dame.
OCTOBER 12.
Ferdinand Mier,	Ligonier, Indiana.
Isaac Partington,	Greenfield, Connecticut.
OCTOBER 14.
James Claffey,
Bertrand, Michigan. OCTOBER 15.,
Albert S. Hedrick, Charles W. Bennett, John C. Lacey, Charles Clark,
Connersville, Indiana.
Lincoln, Illinois.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
OCTOBER 17.	_
Joseph J. Metzger, Niles, Michigan.
The new Academy of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, near Fort Wayne, is situated in a beautiful elevated spot fronting the pretty little church of St. Vincent de Paul, with which it is connected by a straight avenue already planted with a double row of shade trees. In the rear of the building there is a tract of wood land, containing 120 acres, through which the young ladies may enjoy delightful promenades. The building itself is certainly splendid, and every way adapted to procure the comfort and pleasure of its youthful inmates.	■
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
Arrival of Isaao.
Isaac Partington has arrived at last, and has brought with him his brother Jordan. The latter has been on an extensive tour, and that accounts for his non-appearance before the public anterior to the present. The two brothers made the journey from South Bend to the College in a one-horse buggy. On the way a discussion arose between them concerning the manner in which the ancient Numidians rode their steeds. Arguments flew hot and fast. Jordan, in order to exemplify an assertion which he had made, mounted on the back of the poor beast which was hauling them to the College.
But alas for the uncertainty of human affairs! the mare, becoming frightened, ran away, and Jordan rolled off, because he, too, was frightened even more than the mare.
He reached his journey’s end safely, however, and is now engaged in reading the Weio York Ledger.
In the examination for class, Jordan was requested to translate the following passage from Psalm cxiii: Quid est tibi, mare, quod fugisti: et tu, Jordanis, quia conversus es retrorsum ?
Still thinking, no doubt, of his late mishap, he gave the following new version of that sentence: “ What is on you, O "mare! that you did -run away: and you also, O Jordan! that you were turned off backwards. -------------------------------
October 17th, 1867.
Mr. Editor: Last Saturday the members of. the Second Junior Arithmetic formed into two divisions to contend for the honors of the class. The 1st Division adopted the title of the Euclids, under the command of Captain F. Ingersoll; the Second, that of Newtonians, under Captain T. Lappin. To-day had been fixed as the day of competition, for which they had been earnestly preparing. The battle commenced at 7:30 A. M., and lasted for one hour; the subject of competition was Fractions—decimal and common. The honors were warmly contested, and during the battle it would be hard to tell who would come out the victorious party. They were all wounded ; some seriously, others slightly; but on the whole, they fought well, especially the Euclids, who sometimes mercilessly belabored some of their opponents, receiving in turn but few strokes. During the battle some were taken from the field Tiors de combat, being unable, from want of previous exercise, to stand the fight.
They remained in the back-ground, however, gazing intently upon the opposing parties; the next time they hope to be fit for service. Among those who fought well and bravely may be mentioned : Capt. F. Ingersoll, Louis Garcin, and C.‘ W. Mott of the Euclids; Capt. T. Lappin, J. Crowley, and W. Small of the Newtonians. Both parties are resolved to do their best for the coming battle, to which we invite all who take pleasure in mathematical tournaments. The Newtonians would have fought better had they had all their forces; some of the most efficient members being absent, they had to contend with a foe twice their number in ability. It is rumored that the Newtonians are inventing a formidable gun with which they intend to make fractions, both decimal and common, out of their victorious opponents. If so, the Euclids should be ou their guard ; and strengthen their double-plated armor.	•	Secundus.
We publish the following, as we think that people shouldn’t be knocked down indiscriminately :
Notre Dame, Indiana, Oct. 17,1867.
Mr. Editor : Please publish the following in The Scholastic Year in regard to Base Ball playing in the yard :
To my thinking it is a very dangerous game to indulge in while there are so many in the^yard. The players station themselves in the center of the yard, and there settle for a good old fashioned game. How much enjpyment it affords them when they see the hard and rough ball come in contact with some poor fellow’s head! They have ball grounds, and why do they not use them ? lam sure two good games a week should satisfy them. But, no; they must play in the yard, and if we do not want to get hit, just step out of the way. I am sure if we have to step out of their way every time we are told to, we will just keep stepping out all the time. There have been only two boys knocked down this week. “That’s nothing!” they say; “why don’t they keep out of our way?”	.
Hoping their games, hereafter, may be played on their regular grounds, I remain, as ever,
• One of the Scared Ones.
We question whether it is possible for humanity to “ remain ever” in a constant state of trepidation. However, our .correspondent of course knows best.
A PERIODICAL
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published, every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contains matter under the following heads:	'	’
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. _
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors.
5th. Bulletins of General Health.	.
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports, Boating, etc.
8th. Matters of General Interest.	.
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.
All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
REV. N. H. GILLESPIE.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA.
TUTS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee...............................................§	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek’ included;) Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, aud attendance in sickness, per Session of five months......................................... 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and	Hebrew, each................ 10	00
Instrumental Music............................................... 12	50
Use of Piano..................................................... 10	00
Use of Violin..................................................... 2	50 .	-
Drawing.......................................................... 10	00
Painting........................................................  20	00 ’
Use of Philosophical and	Chemical Apparatus....................... 5	00
Graduation Fee................................................... 10	00
Students who spend their Summer Vacation	at the College are charged, extra...... 35	00
PAYMENTS TO BE MABE INVARIABLY IN AB VANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. The Second Session opens on the 1st of February. For further particulars address
•	.	BliEV. W. COSHaSV, S. 4.\,
WiirtJ’5 JUiulno.
'	v	VJU 'S	GO	-J 7	-
ISotre Dame, St. Joseph Comity, Indiana,
TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND.
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educational house. In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers are secured.
TSSSiS, $20 0
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the “Twelfth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866-7, or address
BEOT11K22. ANGELA, Superioress.
Notre Bame Post Office, Indiana.
