

IJcar.
, PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME.- DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. Notre Dame University, Sept. 28, 1867. - No. 4=.
DEATH OF A-GEADUATE OF NOTEE DAME.
All the many friends of Augustine E. Tammany, and especially his old college friends, were profoundly grieved to hear that he.had met with a premature death. -■ He was a young man of robust constitution, and of more than, ordinary grade of talent. His genial manners; his usually strict observance of college regulations, and his high order of intellect, endeared him to the Stiv dents, Officers and Professors of the Institution.
' The following extract- from a .letter received by one of the students, was. the first announcement we had of his death; since then we learn that his death was caused by an accident on the Northern Central Railroad:	-	-
Ebensburg, Pa., Sept. 18th. •
“Mrs. F. Shoemaker received a dispatch last night, bringing the sad news of the death of her brother, Aug. Tammany. He died very suddenly, in Elmira, N.' Y. He went there on a visit. I suppose the news will surprise you, for it is too true to be doubted. I have not heard the particulars yet. Mrs. Shoemaker left for Elmira this morning. It is supposed that he died of cholera, as it is raging in that place.”	•-
On Tuesday, the-24th inst., the Philodemic So--ciety, of which Mr. Tammany was an efficient member, passed the following resolution:	.
Resolved, That we, the members of the Philodemic Society, unanimously express our regret for Sir. A. E. Tammany, formerly a member of our Society, who was killed recently near Elmira, New York, on the Northern Central Railroad. We heartily sympathize with the members of his family in their bereavement. Still we hope that they, with ourselves, will be to some degree consoled by the belief that lie is now enjoying in Heaven the reward of a well spent life* Yet we cannot but ask all who may read this, to join us in solemn prayer for the soul of the departed one. 'May he rest in peace. .
Papers please- copy.	■
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, Prest. ’ ’
M. J. Horgan, Cor. Sec’y.	'	.
■re
On Wednesday, the 25th inst., the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was' offered by Rev. Father ’ Granger, Prefect of Religion, for the repose of his soul. Al! the -students of the college were present. Rev. Father Hallinan addressed the students. He alluded to the unprecedented popularity of Mr. Tammany with the students of the past year, his genial qualities of heart and mind, and the gloom and bereavement his death must cause in the home of his loving sisters. He also alluded to the brilliant career that seemed naturally open to the young gentleman’s talents, his determination to succeed in the legal profession, and how his many friends looked anxiously to his future success; and yet how-prematurely all these bright hopes were blighted.
After these remarks he reminded the students of the salutary lesson Mr. Tammany’s death teaches’ all—that death conies like a thief in the night, when we least expect it, and not unfre-quently when we are least prepared 1
On the same day a meeting of the students of 1866-7 was held in one of the college halls, Rev. Father Hallinan presiding. The’ following resolutions were unanimously adopted:	. ‘
Whereas,- By a sad and fatal accident, our late friend and dearly beloved fellow-student, A. E. Tammany, of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, has been stricken down by the fell destroyer— death;	-	-	-	--	.	'-
Resolved, We can hardly find words to express our deep sorrow and regret at this mournful event,- which 'has deprived us of so valued a friend. " ’	- /■	.
Resolved, We extend our heartfelt -sympathy and condolence to the afflicted and bereaved friends of the deceased, knowing that their loss is irreparable, but hoping they may be comforted by the fond assurance that he has departed this life for a far better and happier one..
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be . forwarded to the family of the deceased, and that they be published in the following journals,\viz: Chicago Times, The • Scholastic Year, Notre
.-J ®
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
3
f
Dime, Indiana, Ebensburg Democrat, Ebensburg, Pennsylvania, ------, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania.

. James Cunnea, ' Jno. Fjtzharris. W. T. Johnson, J. C. Keveny, James McBride, Robert SnoRr, James Watts, '
• Nathan Wood, \
- Committee. '.
a
TRIBUTE TO AUGUSTINE E. TAMMANY/
BY FRANK GUTHRIE.
I
1 I «
£ & I r
l
With talents bright, and fame in sight, Life’s Barque was set in motion ;
And for awhile, on him did smile, Fame’s ray o’er Youth’s fair ocean.
But short the day, this brilliant ray, Shone o’er the future glowing;	1
This beaming light, has closed in night, And tears of grief are flowing.
I
3
i
Why from our band, hath Death’s rude hand, Our pride, our noblest taken ?
‘ Cold shadows fall, o’er classic hall, Where memory’s echoes waken!
But Angels true, dear friend with you, . . Commencement days are keeping;
Yield to their care, our treasure rare, .
And cease all selfish weeping. ,
Yet hour by hour the genial power,
• Of brave and high endeavor,
Which graced thy life, shall cheer our strife, Live in our hearts forever.	'
List of Pupils Arrived at Saint Mary’s since the

19th instant,	*
St. Joseph, Indiana. Marshall, Michigan. Grand Rapids, Mich. Chicago, Illinois.
Joliet, “
Beloit, Wisconsin.
’	.. Kenosha, “	•
, Denison, Iowa.
Elizabeth; Pennsylvania. « « .
I
=1
Mary Hoyt, . CarrieBradley, Rose Joslin, Hattie Lill, _ Anastasia Dorsey, Lula Murray, . Mary Rooney, ' Anna Belle Acker, Julia Walker, Maggie Walker,
The “ Compositor,” or “ Scribe”—both of whom so often prove themselves any thing but infal-- lible—last week rendered the name of Miss Azze-line Selby, of Memphis, Tennessee, as Miss Skelly. Miss Cormody’s name was also misspelled.
• TABLE OF HONOR IN SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Lizzie Tong, Laura Tong, Jennie Arrington, Florence Alspaugh, Alice Radin, Emma Longsdorf, Katie Graham,* Nellie Ogle,. Georgi-anna Blakeslee, Sarah Blakeslee, Katie Carpenter, Ella Linsday and Steina Thomson. ' ' TABLE OF HONOR IN JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. •
Misses Maggie Guberty, Hattie Nicl, Emma Ruger, Laura Shults, Mary Moon, Mamie Sissons, Mary Clark,' Eva North and Agnes Longley. .
SUNDAY EVENING.	'
After the usual distribution of the points to . the young ladies of the Senior Department, by Very Rev. Father Provincial,.the following essays, etc., were read: •“ Keep your Promises,” by Miss Hattie Brooks ; “ Experience the School of Wis- _ dom,” by Miss Mary Gripp; “Destiny,” by another member of the Graduating Class; and the j “Melody of Hope.”	-
We claim that had they been read in a more' confident and deliberate manner, they would have reflected greater credit upon the young la- . dies that wrote them, in the opinion of the visitors present. We trust, however, that our kind friend, Mrs. Walker, and yourself, Mr. Editor, will make due allowance for “ Exhibition-panic,” which is sure to seize some peculiarly timid-persons upon such occasions, no matter how carefully they may guard against.it.
The Misses Gerty Leedy, Jennie Arrington and. Mary Van Patten are first this week in Composition of the first Senior Class.
In the second Senior Class, Fannie Grimes deserves mention for improvement, Ella Ewing, for “ contrition and reparation,” as last week she handed in no exercise, and this week furnished .two very good ones. Mary Carreher, M. Ryan, Alice Gates and Alice Radin, each did well also.
In the third Senior Katie Jarvis, on “ Practice makes Perfect,” deserves -mention, as does also Clara Foote.	*	-
Mollie McCarthy and Nellie Thompson excel in good spelling, penmanship and neatness. Of the Intermediate Lizzie Niel bears the palm.
promotions.	■
Miss Lula Murray, from the first Senior to the Graduating .Class.

ns
rj


•W
The classes in Rhetoric and English Composition have begun to blockade the doors of our sanctum with a press of matter. .We fear we shall have to adopt the good old rule of “first come, first served.” We are extremely sorry, how-. ever, that the St. Marian contributions are not among the “ first come.”


THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Additional List of Students of Ifotre Lame.
Alfred Ri bey r, I. J. Johnston, Mark Hill,
George W. Holeman, E.B. Walker, -
Sebastopol, Indiana.
Elizabeth, Pa.
September 23.
Silas R. Teats,
Central City, Col. Ter.
Eugene H. Teats, Lawrence Mulligan, James F. Ryan, Peter A. Hiebler,
George W. Butsch, W. McKernan,
Thomas L. Selby, Christian Enes, J. M. Dinnen Jr.,
Notre Dame, Indiana. Cincinnati, Ohio.
Juneau, Wisconsin.
24.
Indianapolis, Indiana. Cl	Cl ,
Peoria, Illinois. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Chicago, Illinois. -
September
September 25.
Special Observations.
September 20.
New Harmony, Indiana.
. Indianapolis, “
Chess Springs, Pa. ' September 21.
Tables of Honor, senior department.
Thomas Cunnea, George Dixon, Frank .Guthrie, J. D. McCormack, James O’Reilly, Anthony O’Reilly, E. S. Pillars, William Rhodes and Wm. Waldo. .	’	.	.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. *
John Alber-, T. Arrington, C. Chapman, James .Dooley, Frank Ingersoll, Frederick Kaiser, E. Morancy, John Raggio, J. C. Skelly, J. Winter-botham and Edward Walker.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
James Farrell, Eddie Haydel, Davie Hukill, James Murphy, Charles Toll and Edwin. Wile.
■ •	Base Ball. ■ '	•	.
' We are always glad to hear from our friends, the members of the. Base Ball clubs, and wish them success,—Mutuals, Juanita, Fashion, Mocking Bird,—and all.
' Want of space, however, compels us to announce that we cannot .print the entire “ scoring” -until the big matches, which, we presume, are to come off on St. Edward’s day, the 13th of October.	-
It must he distinctly understood that tlse Editor declines being responsible for the opinions of his correspondents.	i
AH'communications for Tub Schol tsiic Year, 'intended for . publication, must arrive here the Thursday before the Saturday of publication.	.	-
All communications must he signed by the real name ef the correspondent, who may, however, choose another name as a signature to his article.	,
As the “ Administration” of The Scholastic Year is entirely disconnected from that of the Ave Maria. all letters referring to The Scholastic Year should be addressed to
'	, Rev. N.H. GILLESPIE, En. S.Y.,
• ■ Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Ehilodemio Literary Society.
This -Society is row thoroughly, reorganized, and at the first regular meeting, September 17th, the following officers were unanimously elected :
President —Rev. A. Lemonnier.
■Vice-President—W. T. Johnson.	'
Secretary—James Cunnea.
Corresponding Secretary—M. J. Horgan.
Treasurer—G. R. Dixon.
Librarian—H. C. Allen.	. -	■
Assistant Librarian—E. S. Pillars.
First Censor—William Walker.
Second Censor—William McClane.
At present there are about two hundred, and sixty volumes in the Society -Library. The members have, moreover, the privilege of taking books from the college library whenever they can get no work in the Society giving sufficient information concerning.the subjects upon- which they have to treat. Any.student wishing to become a member of the Society must send in. an essay of his own composition, which essay will be read before the Society, and, if found worthy, shall entitle him to the right of being a candidate for said Society. REV. A. LEMONNIER, Pres’t
M. J. Horgan, Cor. Sec’y	- ■
* - ------" ■ ■<©>--- -
v. Saint Edward’s Literaiy Society,
The Saint Edward’s Literaiy and Debating Association reorganized on Tuesday evening, Sept. 24th. Rev M. B. Brown S. S. C. was unanimously requested to retain the presidency. The other officers chosen, were as follows:	-	-
VicezPresident—John Fitzharris. -
‘ Secretary—James McBride.	. ■
• Treasurer—John Keveny.	-	- -
Librarian—Frank Guthrie. '
SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
5
£
I
Censor—John D. McCormack.	.
■ The Association now consists of fifteen mem' bers, all energetic and alive to the interest.of the Society.	•	’
The library of the Association is yet small, but we hope that ere the present term closes, we may boast of a very respectable assortment of books. It is needless to say that we trust to, and have great hopes, in the generosity of our many friends ‘ about the University, to support us in our presumption. The Association will be oratorically represented on the eve of our Patronal Festival— Saint Edward’s.	-	.
.	• M. B. BROWN, S. S. G., Pres’t.
' J. McBride, Sec’y.	■

The Philharmonic Society.
The members of this popular society met on the twenty third inst, for the purpose of organizing. The result of the election of officers is as follows:
Director—Professor M. T. Corby.
President—E. E. Hull.
Vice-President—W. B. Smith. .
Recording Secretary—W. T. Dunlap. Corresponding Secretary—Sylvester Ryan. Treasurer—Frank Guthrie.	•
This society has for its object the development of vocal talent in its members, and to give a greater variety to all the public entertainments, by the production of modern and classic music, varied at times, with a little of the comic.
■ A soiree, in the large reception room of the college, may occasionally be looked for.
W. T. Dunlap, Sec’y ' --------*
The Saint Oeoilia Society.
Mr. Editor : Please insert the following in The Scholastic Year :	'
' The Saint Cecilia Society had their first regular meeting September 20th, for the purpose of electing officers. The following were elected:
President and Censor—John Skelly. Vice-President—Marcus Foote-.
Treasurer—Frank Dwyer.	-
Secretary—Frank Teats.	'	-
Corresponding Secretary—Otis Walker.
■ • Librarian—Frank D wyer.	•	.
. Assistant Libr^ian—W. Clarke.
A play is in preparation for the stage.
Very respectfully, Otis Walker, Cor. Sec’y. -
.	. The Uniform.
Mr. Editor : The remarks of “A Looker-On,” in your last, just “took me.” I remember the old Continental uniform which the College boys used to wear, some years ago,—and how noble they looked in their buff and blue. I fear that dress was found to be too singular for after use, but surely other costumes might be invented that would combine utility with neatness. I would venture to recommend a military (Zouave) uniform for the Mimihs, a naval one for the Juniors, and a combination of military and civil for the Seniors. The classical students might be distinguished by the orthodpK college cap and gown. This would make a vast improvement in the ranks, as our friend, the “ Looker-On,” remark^ and now is- the time to inaugurate it.
’	Spectacles.
- St. Jo. Co., Sept. 21, ’67. ’ - <-»------------------------ .
Mr. Editor : On listening to the reading bf' your paper to-day, I was much pleased to hear that at least one of your contributors had sound . ideas m uniformity. I am decidedly of the opinion, sir, that' it would not only add to the appearance of the students, but also to that of the college itself;.and as I am sure that you certainly have its appearance at heart, I hope, that these few lines may be accepted as one argument in favor of the uniformity of dress.
Yours, &c., E. V. D.
<
i
5
5
Marcus is back, and sends us the following, as he objects to the lesson we said should be learned from, the accident that befell him, and he modestly suggests another lesson, which he thinks more practicable: '	’	•
-	Notre Dame, Sept. 20,1867.
Editor Scholastic Year—Dear Sir: Looking through the columns of The Scholastic Year, I was very much surprised to see a rather • poor account of the accident I met with- on the 21st of August last. • Being personally concerned, I should like very much to give you an account of the accident, which happened on Friday. .
On Tuesday evening as father was about to start for Chicago, I asked permission, to go to “ Prairie Slough” to fish, which he readily granted, I all the time meaning the bridge over the slough. On Friday morning I started, in company with my two uncles, for the place to fish. As I was getting on the ferry-boat, father stepped off .And asked me where I was going; I told him
J jj
$
if
i
s'
1
I
swe?

G
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.

1
I
and passed on. In the afternoon, sitting on the bridge fishing, I saw a train coming and I settled . myself to stay on the bridge, blit in a minute I jumped up and told my uncle who sat beside me that I was going to get off He said, “ well you had better hurry.” So I started and ran along the side of the track. Hearing the cars on the bridge right behind me I became bewildered, - so that instead of stepping aside and letting the train pass me, I ran directly across the track falling between the timbers'as 1 went; then I thought of scrambling off—that is the last thing I can remember until after the-train had passed.
• But I succeeded in getting off the track, except my left foot which the pilot on; the cow-catcher struck on the ankle bone, spraining my ankle and paralyzing my foot so much that the blood did not come back for two or th ree days. I -was unable to walk for over two weeks. After I ar-‘ rived home father said he thought I was going to the mouth of this slough, and I had never heard that the mouth was a good place. So I hope my . fellow students will understand the particulars of this accident, and I should also like to have them understand that I went with permission from both my parents.
This should be a lesson to all boys, viz: Never to wait for a train to’ get near them, and then
run a race with.it.
Yours, irespectfully, Mark M. Foote.
.	For The Scholastic Year.
Mr. Editor : Last Saturday the reading classes, both of the Junior and Senior departments, began their weekly exercises in Washington hall.
Although many of the young readers appeared . for the 'first time in public, and seemed a little surprised at the novelty of their new field of operations, yet,‘the satisfactory manner in which they performed, and passed through the various evolutions as directed by their teachers, evinces their excellent will, and augurs great future success. These reading exercises are .intended as a .prelude to the lessons on Elocution, which will be given by a special teacher.
The first and second Senior classes acquitted themselves very creditably, and I should not omit to mention among the best readers, who. were called upon to read, Messrs William Dunlap and George Warn.	|	.	.
The first Junior reading class excels by far, all other classes. Their excellent training, the perfect ease with which they assume their, task,
their pure articulation, give them the pre-eminence over their fellow-students of other classes.
Mr. James J. Page delivered a selection from- . Marmion, and by the manner in which he rendered his subject, elicited the warm applause of his companions.
Next, Mr. Charles Dodge delivered, with appro- -priate feeling, the.address of Spartacus to his followers.. When his voice will have acquired’a greater volume, the pleasure of hearing him, will be greatly increased.
Mr. F. Walker read, ■ as a model to his class, -the Song-of the Union,-which all repeated with' precision. '	•	'	-
The second and third Junior classes bid fair to rival at some future exhibition their more advanced companions of'the first class.
Next Saturday, being the last Saturday of the month, the Senior and Junior classes will meet for a grand competition. Volunteers are invited to join^the reading exercises, and read or recite alone some selections, which they are at liberty to choose themselves. - • ’

Head.quarters of the Brigade, 1 Spelling Bridge,	>
Sept. 23, 1867—10 A. M.	\
Mr. Editor : The second regiment met with a • complete disaster at the hands of the enemy, who though weakened by the encounter with the first regiment, rallied his forces and overpowered the second regiment, whose numbers were scattered on all sides after a short resistance. Still I have the pleasure to inform you that the second regiment of the Senior Brigade came to the rescue, and that although they compelled him to retreat with great losses, and even took by storm the forts Hood and McWhirt, yet he was -completely defeated in front of-Fort Mader, and is now in full
Your Correspondent.
retreat. •
-	_	Sept. 23—3 P. M.
. Mr. Editor : We had a hard fight, forty of us against innurherable hosts. They pressed upon us with such rapidity, now in front and-then on our rear, without speaking of the fiank movements, that we lost. considerably during the first half hour. Three-fourths, of‘our -number were soon lying prostrate. It was a sore sight to see • many of .our best men thus hors de combat. Mr. E. Walker was knocked off by a Baccalaureate— dead, sir, when the enemy beaten, back was fast retreating. When the roll was called, D. Eagan, J. Crowley, C. Hildebrand, C. Sage and B. Heffer-
iff

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
nan were the only ones to answer. I hear that the ^neihy, during his retreat, -met our second -•regiment, and .that they are now closely engaged.
To-morrow -I will give you the details of their fight.	.	. Your Correspondent.
. • -	'—
1
• Mutual Base Ball Club. .
Mr. Editor: On Sunday September .22d, a meeting was held for the purpose of electing officers for the term of ’67, all elections heretofore having been temporary. The .folio.wing was the result:	'	.
Director—Bro. Urban.	- -	'
President—Janies McBride.
Vice-President—James Cunnea. ’
Secretary—H. Rodman.	.	.
Treasurer—James Dickinson.	• .
Directors—J. McCormick and L.-Reswich. .
J. D. Murphy and J. Cullen, captains of the first and second nines, having selected their nines, proceeded to the new grounds beyond the novitiate, where they had an exciting game of seven innings, in" which the first nine was victorious, by a score of seventeen to fourteen, their victory was owing principally to the excellent- pitching ■of A. B. White, the pitching of-being comparatively poor. Some fine batting was displayed, McBride and McCormick sending balls away beyond the fielders, whilst M----, following the. example of “some athletic member of the Mutual Base Ball Club,” endeavored to send an “aerolite to. South Bend, happily his kind attempt “fell short.” -------------------Scriptor.
- -------------------------
The. Juanita Base Ball Club. ■
The reorganization of this club took place at a meeting held by the acting members, September -twenty-second. The ' following officers were elected unanimously:	'•
Director—Bro. Benoit.
.President—M. S. Ryan.	•	.
Vice-President—W. B. Smith. •	.
Secretary—John C. Keveny.	’
Treasurer—Roger Brown.	.
o
' Censor—C. K..Hibben. •	,
Directors—E. S. Ball, R. V. Tillman, and Stace Hibben.	•	.
Field Captain of 1st nine—R V. Tillman.
. Field Captain of 2d nine—J. C. Keveny.
It is quite unnecessary to enter up m any ex- ■_ tended remarks, in regard to the merits and at” tainments'of the Juanitas; suffice-it to say that they were the champions of Notre Dame. last year, and having received valuable acquisitions
to their nines, in the persons of several members from the Marshall Club of Marshalltown^ Iowa, and also' from the Empire of Detroit, there is no reason to doubt of their retaining the championship of the Senior Department this year.
.	-	M. S. RYAN, Pres’t. .
John C. Keveny, Sec’y. .	. '
Notre Dame, September 26,1S67.
Rev. Father Gillespie : Please give the following a place in The Scholastic Year.
A very interesting game of Base Ball was play- -ed on Wednesday, September 25th, between the first nine uf the Fashion and Mocking -Bird Base Ball Clubs, resulting in a victory, for the former, by a score of 52 to 27.	•
Two home runs were made by members of the Fashion, Masters Mitchel and Chapman, one clean score, by Master Dooley of the Fashion.. The following are the names of those who made good bats: Charles Dodge, Henry Beakey, John Staley, and Andrew Celia, of the Mocking Bird; ’ Dooley and Holland of the Fashion each made two splendid bats.; Mitchel, Gamble, Hathaway and Chapman also each one good strike; - The bat made by .Master Andrew Mitchell of the Fashion, was decided to be the best that was made during the game. • Master Wilson, of the Star of the West, and Walker, of the Mocking Bird, acted as scorers, •while Master John Flanagan of che Star of the West kindly officiated as umpire.
The two second nines of the same club also played a match game, the result was a victory for the second nine of the Mocking Bird, by a score of 52 to 28.	-	-
The Fashion threw up the game at the eighth ’ innings, and so the ninth was not played. ~
Very respectfully, Otis Walker, Acting Sec’y M. B. B. B. C. ' ■ ---------------—.
Listen to the Mocking-Birds in Bro. Florcn-tins’ study-room. They are young, but they have good blood in them, and blood will tell. Accordingly, they have already mastered the canary’s trill, and are listening attentively to the big bell, with the view, no doubt, of producing something' like it from the depths of their stomachic regions. The Junior study-room is now in a high state of effl irescence, as to pictures, birds and geraniums. Any one looking in for the first time would say that it could not be better; however, we may rein rk that if the fuschias had not been denuded of their leaves by st me insidious blight in the .latter part of vacation, there would be more bloom. The altar of the Blessed Virgin is a perfect gem,—rivalling even Mr. Edwards’ iffoits in the beautification of the College Chapel.

S' r
I
*
l>
5
5
t


A FSKIODICAZ. . '	~
DEVOTED'TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE.DAME AND ST. MARY’S,^
IS published every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contain^ matter under the following heads:	,	-
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. ' ~	.
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies. _
3d. Promotions.	'	'	. .	..
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors;
5th. Bulletins of General Health. -	• -	•	.	.	.
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports, Boating, etc. . .	..
Sth. Matters of General Interest. ’	'	'	-	,
9tli. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.	'
^7= All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed, to .	'
■	. '	.	.	’ BEV. if; H, GILLESPIE.
9
THIS Institution, incorporated in-1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, ailords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
SERIES:	.	•	■

Matriculation Fee...'.......................................................r . .$ 5 00'
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in .sickness, per Session of five months.......................................... ;..........
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, each..........................
Instrumental Music.................. :..............-....... <...........
Use of Piano...........................>........     ;......................
Use of Violin.....;.........................................................
Drawing.....................'............................ . ??.
Painting.........................................    ;......................
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.................................
Graduation Fee.........................................     ;...............
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at. the College are charged, extra.
PAYMENTS TO 'BE MADE INVARIABLY-IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., -Furnished at Current-Prices.
150
10
12
10 o
10
20
00 00 .
50
00
50 00 -
00
5-00
10 00
35 00
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. ■ The Second Session opens Qn the 1st of February.
For further particulars address	_	.	.
. ’	_ - REY. W. CORBY, S. S.-C.,- President.
I

ZSIotre Dame, St. Joseph County, Indiana, :	,
/	. TWO MILES FROM.SOUTH BEND,...	. .
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educational house. „ In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers aie*secured.	_ ’	’ '	..	..
.	TSH33KS, $2.00 FER AR39>V&.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the. “Twelfth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866-7, or address ' '.	"
.	151	25 HR. ANGELA, Superioress' "	•
_	Notre Dame Post Office, Indiana. \