rri	o
1 he Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE JnTEF\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS, .	>
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 19, 1873.	Number 32.
A Pioneer Priest.
A paper was read some time since before the Pioneer Society of Michigan, bearing on the life and services of the late Rev. Gabriel Richaid, Vicar-General of Michigan. Extending as it did over a period when the Church and country were in their infancy, struggling to obtain their present importance, the contents of the paper proved of the deepest interest both to Catholics and to all citizens. It was by Mr. Girardin, and we give a few interesting selections from the able document. In opening, he said: “ The early pioneer, whether a civilian or clergymen, in a new country, should always be an object of interest, especially to the incoming generation, and in this respect I can safely say that in this part of the country the early pioneers were priests belonging to the different religious Orders of the Roman Catholic Church; they were, first, the Franciscans, next the indomitable Jesuits and the Sulpitians. The shores of New France, extending from the Gulf of the St. Lawrence to that of Mexico, were trodden first by the early missionaries of the Catholic Church. Among those, who had left memorable names were Fathers Marquette, Allouez and Dabion, among the Jesuits; and as for the Franciscans, the man who has made the most impression on the historians and others was Father Hennepin. They had visited these shores and had carried the light of the Gospel a century before the birth of Gabriel Richard, who himself belongs to an order of secular priests of St. Sulpice. He had heard of the advent of the above missionaries in the wilds of the New World, and burning with the desire to visit America, the French Revolution breaking out afforted him an opportunity to expatriate himself to Amer-rica. After giving the details of his birth in France, in 1764, his education for the priesthood, and coming to this country, Father Richard is allowed to relate an account of a visit to the Island of Mackinaw, where one hundred years before the Jesuits had established a mission.
Father Richard, by his fearless advocacy of American principles and denunciation of the tyranny of England, had made himself obnoxious to the British, who in the war of 1812 violently seized and carried him a prisoner to Sandwich, near this city. During his captivity, by his eloquence and influence over the Indians he dissuaded many from torturing American prisoners who had unfortunately fallen into the hands of the British under the disgraceful surrender of General Hill.
Father Richard was always zealous in the cause of education, and his first effort was jointly with Jean Dilhet, who both, in 1804, opened a school whose field of operation was the education of young men for the ministry, but this school was broken up by the fire of 1805. And in 1805,
mainly through his exertions, a young ladies’ academy was started, placing at the head of it the following young ladies: Miss Elisabeth Lyons, Miss Angelique Campau, Miss Monique Labadie, and Miss Eliazbeth Williams, they having been prepared by him for their arduous task. His next effort was the introduction into the territory of the first printing press, which was brought almost all the way by hand from Baltimore, and on the 31st of August, 1809, issued the first newspaper west of the Alleghany Mountains, called “Essay du Michigan” or “Impartial Observer” and the same year published the first prayer-book, of which I have a copy Mr. Girardin traced the career of the zealous priest through all the years of his ministry, his struggles to further the interests of the faith, his election to Congress, and his wonderful energy, down to the time of his death in 1872.
Gratitude to Parents.	-
Nothing can be more desirable or praiseworthy than gratitude to parents. It would appear as quite impossible for us to be ungrateful to them when we reflect on the extreme love and devotedness to their children which is shown in their every word and action. What will not a parent do for a child ? Even life itself he will freely sacrifice.
There is a story afloat which I have read. It is of a base, ungrateful man who compelled his aged father to sleep in a bam. He could not bear the annoyance of his fretting and . groaning—and, besides, old people are not so particular mid tidy in their ways as younger people are, so the enterprising young man could not endure his slovenly old father. When cold weather came on, the old man asked for a blanket The young man sent his little boy to get one, and when the child returned with it he found it a little too heavy he thought. Taking his knife from his pocket the father of the little boy cut the blanket in two equal parts. “There, son,” said he, “ take that to your grandfather. A whole blanket is too much for the old man.” As the little boy took the proffered half blanket in his hand, looking in hia father’s face with a sad expression, he-said: “ Give me th* other half, papa.”	.
“ What for, son ? ” was the interrogative reply.	,
“To keep you warm, father, when you are old and have to sleep in the bam as poor grandpa does now,” answered the child.	- -
The young man gratefully accepted the rebuke of his in, nocent child, and treated his aged father with the most scrupulous kindness from that time forth. .	,	-*
An ungrateful child is a despicable sight in the eyes of God, and frequently even in this life a merciful Providence inflicts the punishment due to so great a crime as that of
f
250
THE SCHOLASTIC.
v V \	‘	.
insulting apparent. An enraged son once dragged his grayhaired Jather half way down a flight of stairs. “Stop!” /cried *the conscience-stricken bld father. “ Stop ! So far and not one step more did I drag my own poor old father when I was angry at him. I am punished. Do not, my dear son, contract a debt like that which by your hands I have just now paid, and for which kindness I thank you.”
As a nation, our own unfortunately is not distinguished for the respect paid by children and the young to those ad--vanced in years, but those sincerely desirous to improve will not fail to shun the appearance of ingratitude, by carefully guarding eveiy thought, word and action from anything like insolence towards those whom we are bound to love and venerate.	M. M.
The Preach Republican Calendar.
The Republican calendar of the.French was substituted for the ordinary calendar dating from the Christian era, by a decree of the National Convention in 1793, after the close of the Revolution; and the*22nd of September, fixed upon as the day of the foundation of the Republic, was also the.date of the new calendar. In this calendar, the year, which began at midnight of the day of the autumnal equinox, was divided into twelve months, of thirty days, with five additional days for festivals, and every fourth year six. The months were divided by decades, and the days into ten hours of one hundred minutes each. The names of the months, in their order, were—.
Autumn—Vendemiaire, or Vintage month, from September 22 to October 21; Brumaire, Fog month, October 22 to November 20; Frimaire, Sleet month, November 21 to December 20. Winter—Nivose, Snow month, December 21 to January 19; Pluviose, Rain month, January 20 to February 18; Ventose, Wind month, February 19 to March 20. Spring—Germinal, Sprouts month; March 21 to April 19; Floreal, Flower month, April 20 to May 19; Prairial, Pasture month, May 20 to June 18. Summer— Messidor, Harvest month, June 19 to July 18; Tbermidor, Hot month, July 19 to August 17; Fructidor, Fruit month, August 18 to September 16.
-All the public acts of the French nation were dated according to this system for a period of more than twelve years. It commenced from the 22nd of September, 1792, which is marked as the first year of the French Republic. It continued until the 10th Nivose, An. XIV (31st December, 1805), when Napoleon restored the Gregorian Calendar; Few things marked more strongly the mingled folh’ and impiety of the whole affair than this new computation of time.
t	THE VICTIMS OF THE REVOLUTION.
{ The republican. Prudhomme, whose prepossessions led him to anything rather than an exaggeration of the horrors of the popular party, has given the following appalling account of the victim of the Revolution:
GUILLOTINED BY SENTENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY TRIBUNAL:	‘	*
Noblemen 1,278; noblewomen, 750; wives of laborers and artisans, 1,467; rdigieusc<. 356; priests, 1.135; common parsons not nobles, 13,623; total, 18,609. Women died of premature childbirth, 3,490; women died in childbirth from grief, 348; ki edin La Vendee, 15,000; children killed in L i Vendee, 22,000; men slain in La Vendee, 900,000;
victims under Carrier at Nantes, 32,000; of whom were—• children sjjpt, 500; children drowned, 1,500; women shot, 264; women drowned, 500; priests shot, 309; priests drowned, 460; nobles drowned, 1,400; artisans drowned, 5,300; victims at Lyons, 31,000—making a grand total of 1,022,357. .	.
In this enumeration are not comprehended the massacres at Versailles, at the Abbey, the Carmes, or other prisons, on the 2nd of September, the victims of the Glaciere of Avignon, those shot at Toulon, Marseilles, or persons slain in the little town of Bedoin, of which the whole population perished.
The Zee is out of the Lake.
The ice is out of the lake-! Rejoice !
The waters are flowing free ;
The April winds are as gay and as warm, As but April winds can be.
The Cotton-Wood where we moored our skiff Last fall when the leaves were dry, From swelling buds sends an odor sweet Like a prayer to the sheltering sky: O, the clouds bend down with a flush of red In their mingled white and blue, That the struggling flowers under the ground May gather and wear the hue.
Yes ! the ice is out of the lake! Rejoice ! Our skiff hath a'sturdy sail:	.
Hark! hark 1 with a shout,—’ tis a gruff strong shout— It spreads its arms to the gale.
Now the waves leap up with a welcome gay, And a wreath of foam for our prow,	-
And our souls are as fresh as the air we breathe, No care upon heart or brow,—	•
No care, but the care to be good and true And brave through the storms of life;
So onward we glide with a loud huzza : We are growing strong for the strife.
Yes: the ice is out of the lakeRejoice 1 And the warm young sprite of Spring, With her blossoms and birds, her leaves and flowers, Now poises on roseate wing.
And no ice shall be in our hearts: ah, no I Though the future be dark and dread;
The world shall remember us earnest and just When it counts us among the dead.
Honor Your Business.—Be proud of your calling and stick to it. It is a good sign when a man is proud of his work or his calling. Yet nothing is more common than to hear men finding fault constantly with their particular business, deeming themselves unfortunate because fastened co it by the necessity of gaining a livelihood. In this way men fret and laboriously destroy all their comforts, in their work; or they change their business, and go on miserably shifting from one thing to another till the grave or the poorhouse gives them a fast grasp. But while occasionally a man fails in life because he is not in the place fitted for his peculiar talent, it happens ten times oftener that failure results from neglect and even contempt of an honest business. No mechanical business is altogether agreeable. Commerce, in its endless varieties is, affected, like all other pursuits, with trials, unwelcome duties, and spirit-trying necessities. It is the very wantonness of folly for a man to search out the frets and burdens of his calling, and give his
THE SCHOLASTIC.
251
mind every day to a consideration of them. They are inevitable. Brooding over them only gives them strength. On the other hand, a man has power given to him to shed beauty and pleasure on the homeliest toil, if he is wise. Let a man adopt his business and identify it with pleasant associations, for Heaven has given us imagination, not alone to make us poets, but to enable all men to beautify homely things. Heart-varnish will cover up innumerable evils and defects. Look at the good things. Accept your lot as a man does a piece of rugged ground, aud begin to get out the rocks and roots, to deepen and mellow the soil, to enrich and plant it. There is something in the most forbidden avocation around which a man may twine pleasant fancies, out of which he may develop honest pride.

Ths Natural Sridge in Danger.
The Southern Collegian of the 7th inst. gives an account of a singular phenomenon which it states was then going on at the Natural Bridge. A gentleman while passing over the bridge was startled by the appearance of volumes of deep blue smoke and jets of flame rolling out from beneath the massive arch. He could plainly detect the smell of sulphur, and found, upon examination, that the ground was warm and steaming for.some distance-around. Great excitement prevailed in the neighborhood, as it was generally thought that a volcanic eruption was about to take place. A statement of the case was laid before Professor Campbell, of the Geological Departmeut of Washington and Lee University, who accounts for the curious phenomenon in this wise:
. “The bridge is composed of mountain limestone, with large fissure filled with grahamite, which, as is well known, is a kind of bituminous coal or asphaltum deposited in seams in formations of this peculiar kind. The grahamite was not, of course, set on fire by any one; such an act would necessarily be impossible, as offending against the laws of Omnipotent construction. At some distance from the high-water mark, but not near so high as the name of the great Virginian who is sometimes termed the “ Father of his Country,” I detected sulphurous deposits and traces of metallic oxides. The action of sulphur on the metallic oxides, even in small quantities and in the presence of water, will generate a heat to a degree abundantly sufficient to ignite a mass of as combustible a nature as the grahamite. The water, I take it, was supplied by the thawing of the snow and the unprecedented rise of Cedar Creek in the early part of last week. Such I am inclined to consider the cause of this great chemical action, and do not lean toward attributing it to the subtle action of electricity. I have a section of the geographical formation of the bridge, which was carefully prepared a number of years since, as above hinted, access to which may be had at any time by all wishing to examine into the causes themselves.
“ Very respectfully,	J. L. Campbell.” •.
The Collegian speaks of the occurrence as a great national calamity, as the Great Natural Bridge, one of the world’s curiosities, would probably be totally destroyed.
Rather Probable—A foreign paper, reporting a duel which had just taken place, stated that “ the seconds, on arriving on the ground, placed the adversaries at an equal (!) distance from each other.”
The Officious Man.—The officious man stands around rubbing his hands anxious for a job. .	. .
He seems tew ake for sumthing tew do, and if he git snubbed in one place it don’t seem tew diskourage him, but," like the fly, he lights on another. -	;
The officious man iz az free from malice az a young pup, who, if he kant do anything else, iz reddy tew lay down in front of yu and be stept on.	.	.
Theze kind ov men spend their whole lives trieing tew make friends ov all, and never succeed with. any.
There iz a kind ov officious man who iz only prompted by hiz vanity; hiz anxiety tew be useful tew others, don’t arise from enny goodness ov heart, but simply from a desire of sticking his noze into things.
These kind ov individuals are supremely disgusting.
The officiouS man iz generally ov no use whatever to himself, and a nusance tew everybody else.
I don’t kno ov but phew more unfortunate flisposishnna than the officious man’s, for even in its very.best phase it seldom suckceeds in getting paid for its labors with common politeness.—Josh Billings.	-
Great Britain is probably at once the richest and the poorest country on the face of the earth. While possessed of immense wealth in the aggregate, property is so unevenly’ distributed that seven-eighths of the population are obliged to struggle for daily existence. The Spectator, commenting on late parliamentary returns, states that the proportion' of the population in what it calls comfortable circumstances, occupying houses of a rental of more than $600 a year, is only one and a half in every hundred. About 160,000 families pay from $250 to $500; 200,000 pay from $150 to $250; and 300,000 pay more than $100 rent. Allowing five to each family, it follows that less than one-eighth of the population of Great Britain is able to pay a rental of over $100 a year. If these figures are. correct—and there appears to be no reason to doubt them—the greater part of the poorer classes must be in a deplorable situation. One is led to wonder, not that emigration is so large, but that it does not assume larger proportions.	1
Probably many people have speculated upon the precise meaning of the word “carat.” It is, an imaginary weight that expresses the'fineness of gold, or the proportion of pure gold in a mass of metal; thus, an ounce of gold • of twenty-two carats fine, is gold of which twenty-two parts out of twenty-four are pure, the other two parts being silver, copper, or other metal. The weight of four grains, used by jewellers in weighing precious stones and pearls, is sometimes called diamond-weight; the carat consists of four nominal grains, a little lighter1 than four grains .troy,.or seventy-four and one-sixteenth grains being equal to seventy-two grains troy. The term of weighing carat derives its name from a bean, the fruit of an Abyssinian tree, called huara. This bean, from the time of.its being gathered, varies very little in its weight, and seems to have been, from a very remote period, used as a weight for gold in. Africa. In India, also, the,bean is, used as a weight for gems and pearls.	’ - '	'	'	■
Postal cards have been received with great favor in France; 2,931,600 at two cents, and 4,481,100 at three cents; were sold in ten days, and the circulation of letters has iiot •diminished.	- i
252
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic,.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year........................$2 00
One session (5 months)..........I 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Books deceived. '
Constance and Marion, or The Cousins. By M. A. B. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Co., No. 174 W. Baltimore st.
A Manual of American Literature. Designed for the use of Schools of an Advanced Grade. By N. K. Royse. Philadelphia: Cowperthwait & Co.
Scsur Eugenie : The Life and Letters of a Sister of Charity. Baltimore: John Kelly & Co. •
God our Father. By a Father of the Society of Jesus, Author of the “ Happiness of Heaven.”
- Published by John Murphy & Co., Baltimore, and by the Catholic Publication Society, New York. ’
Life of Demetrius Augustine Gallitzin, Prince and Priest. By Sarah M. Brownson. With an Introduction by O.'A. Brownson, LL. D. New York: Fr. Pustet & Co., Barclay st., and 204 Vine street, Cincinnati.
Fly-Catches.
A Lecture is now due.
’ Moonlight nights are with us.
The lake is not so high as it was.
Hedge trimming is taking a rest Good umpires are scarce this year.
The fields are “ wearing the green.”	.
The boat-house is not yet completed.
, Easter Boxes were quite numerous.
, Frosty mornings are still quite frequent.
. Easter Sunday was a very pleasant day.
The word match is very expressive generally.
The St. Cecilians are expected to appear soon.
The Band played in Church on Easter Sunday.
The Senior dubs have their home-bases of stone,—good! A Lazy nine is about to organize—will use codfish balls. The Amalgamated Society No. 2 is reported prosperous. Some make whistling a “fine art ” and think it amusing to others.
Trees are being planted along the avenue leading to the Scholasticate.
Mr. J. D. Evans paid his Alma Mater a flying visit last week, but we had not an opportunity of seeing him. We hope he will have more leisure next time. He has the best wishes of his old college companions.
A great many strangers visited the University grounds and College halls on Easter Sunday. The Band played in front of the College.
Easter Monday was an extra recreation day. The past week has witnessed several fine games of ball. The championship games were to commence on Wednesday last.
The Minims are enjoying the open air extensively. They have a good nine, and since they moved their backstop it will be hard for any of the big clubs to take their championship from them. Though champions, they do not forget lunch-time.
Hon. W. E. Leffjngwell, of Lyons, Iowa—whose son F. P. Leffingwell, left Notre Dame but a few months since —has been appointed to defend Stokes in the impending trial for the murder of Fisk. To the credit of Hon. Mr. Leffingwell, it is said that he never lost a case.
The Nimrods are having their sport these times, for the ducks have been quite plenty of late. We also notice a rabbit occasionally on the strings of game. Chipmunk hunting has not yet commenced. We have seen but one fisherman since the ice left the lake, and he was too lucky to get even a bite.
Laboratory.—Several lectures on scientific subjects have been given in the Laboratory since our last notice. These lectures are always full of interest to the student of science, and we will be more careful in future to give the readers of The Scholastic a better account by giving a snyopsis of these lectures.
Extra Recreation Days are now as a rule enjoyed. The weather has improved so much of late that we begin to imagine that we have fine weather; yet the stormy days are far from being unfrequent. Base-ball, hand-ball, wal ks, boating, and the swings, all find their admirers. Most of the students take plenty of exercise now that the rigorous Winter is fairly gone.	•
The Fence which has been expected so long is at last finished; it runs from the west end of the Exhibition Hall to the Music Hall, thus taking a slice from the Juniors as well as the Seniors, but it gives a wider road, which will be appreciated. The fence in itself is an ornament. The fence which surrounded the garden is being moved to the new position which it is to occupy, and the garden is looking quite beautiful.
Personal.—Mr. Jas. A. O’Reilly, A. M., LL. B., whom many of the older students remember, spent some days with us last week. We were glad to meet him looking so well, and his good-natured face served to call afresh to our mind the good old times when he was a student. In fact it is always cheering to meet one of the students of former days. Mr. O’Reilly has been admitted to the bar, at which we rejoice, and wish him all the success imaginable. We hope he may not forget to visit us frequently.
The Loon.—The Hunters outdone.—Quite early in the forenoon of Monday last there appeared on the lake a loon, and in a few moments the hunters, in full attire, might have been seen hastening their steps towards the lake. A few moments later the boats were out and the firing commenced, nor did it cease until the hour for supper came. All day they chased him, and yet every time that they thought they had him they did not have him; and when the Nimrods, weak and weary, left him, after consuming the whole day in pursuit, after wasting all their amrnuni-
THE SCHOLASTIC.
253
tion, Mr. Loon swam the lake as sprightly as in the morning. It is reported that the hunters managed to kill one fish; some also say they wounded another, but there were doubts about it.
Arrivals.
Carl Whitcomb, Frank Frazer, Lee Jennings Frazer, John Shannon,.
Muskegon, Michigan.
Portsmouth, Ohio.
Portsmouth, Ohio.
Chicago, Illinois.
St. Stanislaus Ehilopatrian Society.
This Society holds its meetings regularly every week. Masters Dexter, McIntyre, C. Reid, E. Holt, A. Schmidt, J. Dore, J. Jepson, and F. Weisenburger deservehonorable mention for declamation. This Society is doing very well, and the genoral conduct of the members is A No. 1.
T. S. McGee, Sec.
The Columbians.
The 3rd regular meeting of this Club was held on the evening of April-8th. Mr. Baca was admitted to membership, and the following names proposed: Messrs. Flanni-gan, M. Allen and Greening. The Promoter, Prof. A. J. Stace, delivered an address on “ Commercial Pursuits and Commercial Men” to the members. He was listened to with marked attention.
The following members then read Essays and delivered Declamations: Messrs. Comer, A. Allen, Gavitt, Mullen, McAlister, O’Brien, Valdez, Cassidy, Horne, Murphy, O’Sullivan, G. Crummey, Lilly and Schmidt. After the President’s appointing the members for duty at the next regular meeting, the House adjourned.
,	M. B. Torbett, Cor. Sec. pro tem.
Juanita Base-Ball Club.
Mr. Editor :—Although you have heard nothing from us this year in regard to our Club, still we are flourishing, and intend to compete'for championship. We are the last, but I hope not the least. The Club was reorganized on February 23rd, with the following members at its head:
Bro. Emmanuel, Director. .
J. B. Comer, President.
J. D. Ireland, Vice President.	'
J. B. Crummey, Secretary.
J- E. Kelly, Treasurer.	'
G. Tobin, Censor.
G. L. Ruger, Capt. 1st Nine.
J. L. Ireland, Capt. 2nd Nine.
J. Burnham and J. Brennan, Field Directors.
,	.	J. B. Crummey, Sec'y.
A sick libertine said, “ Doctor, I suffer the pains of the damned.” “You may think so, responded the physician; “ but wait a bit, and you’ll know better,”	,
< The Emperor of Austria, has written to Verdi, asking him to direct in person the forthcoming representation of “-Aida,” at Venice.
The St. Cecilians.
The 33rd and 34th regular meetings were held on March 30ih and April 5th. Compositions were read and declamations delivered by the following members: F. McOsker,F. Egan, J. Stubbs, W. Meyers, A. Reid, E. A..Dougherty, B. Baca, F. Sweger, W. Breen, S. Marks, J. Marks, W. Green, W. Kinzie, 0. Tong, J. McHugh, D. O’Connell, J. ©.’Connell, R. Lewis, and J. McGrath; after which J. Stubbs represented the Historical Branch by giving in a very pleasing manner, from memory, an abridgment of the “History of Ireland.” Prof A. J. Stace then read a portion of the play “If I were a King,” after which the members adjourned.
W. Breen, Cor. Sec'y.
“IF I WE2E A ZING.”
A Drama in Four Acts.
Composed	for ^ie Cecilia Society, by a Hem-
her of the College Faculty, f&rth&ypwposezjf-lH^
Cdtegiuie-Depavhmcnt.
dramatis persons :
Genaro, the Shepherd King.
—• Valerio, his ’Little Brother. -+■
“• Banquo, Overseer of the Shepherds.	y	-
^Philipfo, Silvio, Baptisto, Cecato, Marco, Shepherds.	■
—Kuisco, Cousin of the King, and Conspirator.’	-
Don Gonsalvo, Spanish Ambassador. A
Ferdinand, King of Naples^j#-
Melchiors, a Courtier.
““Alberto, Son of the King. Bozza, Major-Domo of the King’s Palace.	-
Alonzo, General of the King’s Armies.
Orazzo, Marino, Dorio, Courtiers, X
Verdi, Beppo, Lino, Pages, v
Guido, Lupo, Chamberlains.
Hugoni, Crezio,.Marzo, Soldiers.
The-Koyal Usher, y.
y Giovanni,-a Hermit;	___
STEPHANO>PEDRO^URZoJlUSIOy§ERANO, FULMENa/CaTUI.'; lo, Dravallo, Brigands.
’	ACT FIRST.	.
Scene I.	' '-r •	-
Sunset on the Bay of Ischia.—Vesuvius in the background.
(Philippo, Cecato, Marco, Baptisto and Silvio redi-	'
ning on the grass.)	.
Silvio. (Playing a soft strain on the guitar.)	.	.
Cloud, cloud 1 why so fair,	- .
Floating on the mellow air? . Cloud, cloud! why dost fade, While the stars thy realms invadu	£	.
AU things die I and the sky	-— ---------
With her beauty makes me sigh.
■Lady, star of hope and light, .	.	■
Shine upon our path to-night.
PmLTeFO.—The hazy slumber of this twilight scene	-
Creeps through me like an opiate. Cecato, ' If Silvio’s lute would hold its charming strains, And could this sunset horizon but last,	- . .
And I drink in the beauty, here reclining, ;; should desire no other heaven.	-
Cecato. (Laughing). Ha! ha!
That’s like the lazy fellow that you are,	-
254	THESCHOLASTIC.
You animal! Im sure the quiet sheep are really more consistent.
Philippo.	In what way?
Cecato. They rise to crop the grass. They lap the salt With graceful pleasure from the shepherd’s hand.^^^ j They give their wool unmurmuring to the steel t And fill our souls with love for innocence. — s
Philippo. {Starting forward with mock anger.) ' What then! am I a murderer or a thief That I do not as well ? {Picks up a paper.) But what is this?
Where did this paper come from ? Do you know ?
Marco. (Taking the paper.)
Why, no! But ’tis a funny-looking thing!
Philippo, those black marks for all the world Look like cockroaches’ legs. Cecato, say, You can read writing, can’t you? Read this thing.
Cecato (Taking the paper with a consequential air.) Read writing! why, of course; who says I can’t?
{All duster around to see the paper.) ' Here, let me take it! Don’t stand in my light, You ignoramuses! Don’t know penmarks From broken cockroach-legs! For shame on you!
(Cecato eyes the paper suspiciously.) On my word I don’t like that man’s writing! {Scratches his head.) It looks like—like a clap of thunder. As I live 1’11 bet the thing is poisoiL	|
Philippo. Read^guickf vtiQ \ Cecato. Don’t be in such a hurry. Won’t you wait
And let a bodj' have a chance to breathe?
{Clearing his throat, begins to read): “June twenty-onth”— ( Turning to look at the boys) That, boys, was yesterday.
x That was the time the thing was written. Ha!
• {After a pause) Some one has got himself into a muss By letting this thing drop.—Now let me read: “ The Prince is to be drowned within the bay This very evening ”—(to the boys) That, boys, was last night.
Now let us see what more: “ Come without fail To the white oak at eleven o’clock to-night. The Spanish Minister will meet us there, And one king Ferdinand will pass that way. The snares are set; but should the game escape To-morrow we’ll dispose of him. Look sharp; To the two brothers. Midnight is the hour.
“Ruisco.”
Boys, that thing fairly growls. (Holds ths paper off.) Silvio. Indeed it does.
But pray, Cecato, who in the wide world
Could that Ruisco write this stuff to?
Cecato. Humph!
That part’s left out “ The white oak in the forest.” Fine place for an Ambassador to meet	\
A man at midnight. Boys, true as you live.
Thia scrap belongs to some most devilish plot.
Philippo. (Indignantly.)
How did he know the Prince was to be drowned
Had he no hand in drowning him himself?
Silvio. One fact Pd like to know is, who he means By the two brothers.
Philippo. Humph! there’s one thing sure— ’Tis a rascally piece of business all round.
I’d like to catch the rogue who let this drop.
Ruisco! “Drown the Prince!”
Cecato. Black-hearted wretch!	A \
Where’er you you’ll get no good of
I’ll keep it safe enough.“~^Pla<:es lie- paper vn his bosom and apostrophizes on it.) There now, you imp;
You’re locked up in your prison. Tell no tales 1 Philippo. By-the-by, what’s keeping our Genaro?
Baptisto. I wonder! He’s been gone these two long days.
Genaro! prompt as sunrise. It is strange I
He is so true Ao duty that I fear
Misfortunes have beset him.
Cecato. Theysoon will,—
That’s one thing certain. Banquo raves like mad
About his absence. Poor Genaro! Zounds!
I’d like to choke old Banquo!
Marco.	So'would I;
He treats those boys so beastlike. As for us,
Tis not so very bad,—though, goodness knows,
Tis not so very easy.
Philippo.	. Every time
The fellow stirs he growls like a mad dog.
(Shaking his hand angrdy) He’s given me six floggings in a week.
Baptisto. And thrice has sent me supperless to bed Because I broke the shears.
Marco.
Oh! that was kind
Beside his common treatment. It is strange He did not make you stand upon your head For half a day, or hang you by your thumbs For forty hours; but, boys, what we have borne Is nothing to the way he treats Genaro And his poor little brother. But last week Valerio found a bird, a harmless thing, When who should come but Banquo. We all ran, Each to his place, like chickens from a hawk. He pounced, though, on Genaro,—“ What! you clown! Are you placed here to fool your time away ? ” Thus stormed away old Banquo. “We will see.” He snatched Valerio’s bird—and though, poor boy, He screamed and tried to shield her, the old wretch Crushed her to death, then turned and furiously Rushed on Genaro, grasped him by the hair And kicked and bruised him till we thought him dead. Valerio cried, and when at last the brute Bound up Genaro’s hands, Valerio struck.
This made the tiger rave. Round he whirled Upon the little fellow, and the blows came down Like a tornado. Since that day He’s kept Valerio on bread and water.
Philippo. I think he means the boy should^starve to death.
Baptisto. And soTioJ[^But I don’t understand Why he so hates these boys7~The”fl'nesTEdys------ That ever lived!
' Cecato. Because that they are fine 1
He hates them, for the love they win from us.
Baptisto. There is some other reason. There is a spite Behind the curtain that we dm^know.


The editor of the Moorhead (D. C.) Star says: “ We offer especial inducements to our subscribers who club together and send in any little matter of eatables, as it were.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
255
Roll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given date.]
FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1873.
Senior Department.
A. Allen, F. Buter, W. Briant, C. Berdel, J. Burnham, M. Bas-tarache, V. Baca, W.Bartlett, J. Browne, Valerio Baca, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, A. Costello, J. Comer, W. Campbell, J.Crummey, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, B. Dorsey, F. Devoto, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, J. Drake, T. Dundon, C. Dulaney, P. Downey, J. Egan, M. Foley, T. Flannagan, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, J. Flynn, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, E. Graves, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, E, Halpin, J. Harrington, F. Hamilton, A. Home, G. Hall, H. Hug, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, J. Kelly, P. Lilly, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, J. Murphy, E. Monohan, T. Murphy, J.Mc-Alister, A: Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E. Mu’len, E. McLaughlin, D. E. Maloney, T. Noel, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, J. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, F. Phelan, C. Proctor, J. Schmidt, G. Stack, R. Staley, F. Scrafford, J. Scherer, P. Sullivan, M.Torbett, J. Trimble, S.Valdez, L.Watson, T. White, C. Walter, H.Walker, J. Wolfe, H. Zeitler.	■
Junior Department.
F. Austin, G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, ' F. Bauer, C. Black, P. Brosseau, M. Blake, C. Clarke, J. Campbell, J. Caren, A. Crunkilton, E. Dougherty, J. Devine, J.'Dore, W. Dexter, F. Dowe, F. Egan, H. Enncking, J. Ewing, F. Ewing, W. Fletcher, C. Furer, C. Fish, G. Gross, W. Green, J. Graham, E.Holt, V-Hansen, H.Hoffman, L. Hibben, A. Kleine, R. Kelly, A. Kreiter, A. Kramer, W. Meyer, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, W. McMahon, J. Marks, S. Marks, W. Morgan, E Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, N. Mooney, L. Munn, D. McAndrews, J. Murphy, D. O’Connell, J. O’Connell, E. Ohmer, W. Pollard, A. Reid, C.Reid, C. Ruger, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, F. Sweger, W. Scultheis, J. Shanahan, 0. Tong, N.Van-namee, J. Wanbaugh, F. Wittelsberger, J. Golsen.
■ J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Mirim Department.
J. Cooney, H. Deehan, H. and C. Faxon, C. Carlin, T.Hooley. R. Haley, J. O’Meara, A. Wetfierbee, A. Koch, E. Raymond, C. Walsh, E. O’Connor. ' .
'	Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those atudents who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned even fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. Firsi . week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and
Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week. Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]	'
FRIDAY, APRIL 11,1873.
~	Collegiate Department.
"' -Senior Class.—E. B. Gambee, D. J. Hogan, P. J. O’Connel', T. J. Dundon, M. S. Foote, J. D. McCormick.
Juniob Class.—T. P, White.
Sophomore Class.—W. J. Clarke, D. E. Maloney, R. Staley. C. Dcdge, W. Dodge, E. J. McLaughlin.
Freshman Class,—E. G. Graves, C. Walter, T. J. Murphy, J. E. Hogan, H. W. Walker, C. Berdel, E. 8. Monahan, T. Noel, M. Bastarache, P. O’Meara, C. H. Proctor, F. Devoto, T.Hansard, J. E. Kelly, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Dorsey, J. Caren.
The Spanish Republicans are guilty of a glaring blunder.
The President, Sefior Figueras, ought to hare been> appointed Minister of Finance. •	_ _____ _
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, April 15,1873.
• . arrivals.
Fannie Dee,	Chicago,	Illinois.
Julia Dee, _	Chicago,	Illinois.
Annie Garvis,	Chicago,	Illinois.
Tablet of Honob, (Sb. Dep’t.) April 15, 1873.	_ .
Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, M. Lassen, A. Mast, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, M. Lange, A. Todd, L. Niel, M. and J. Kearney, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, M. Comer, L. Black, N. Langdon, E. Haggerty, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, M. Prince, I. Wilder, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, B. Grace, L. Daly, K.Finley, M. Letourneau, A.Church, J. Locke, E.Boycer 8. Shipley, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, M. Riley, J; Noonan, A. St. Clair, A. Hambleton, H. Foote, L. Beckman, A. O’Connor, N. Heedy, J. Walsh, A. Reid, M. A. Roberts, E. and B. Wade, L. Pfeiffer, C. Germain, E. Burney, M. Quill, K. Casey, E. Ives, B. Gaffney, R. Rosesco, M. E. and A. Roberts, E. Quin-' lan, M. McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Penniman, 3. Chenoweth, B. Johnson, M. White, 8. Smith, A. Stockton, M. Dillon, N. McAuliffe, D. Simons, L. Forrester, K.Wickham, R. Klar, J.Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber, F. Snouffer, T. Heckman, L. Lilly, N. McMahon, M. Lyons, H. Miller, M. Kane, B.Turnbull, C. Lee, I*. Ritchie.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class.—Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, M. Lassen, A. Mast, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, A. Todd,
First Senior Class.—L. Neil, M. Kearney, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M.Brown, R. Spier, M. Comer, L. Black, M. Langdon, E. Haggerty, J. Walker.
Second Senior Class.—A. Lloyd, I. Wilder, J. Kearney, M. • Wicker, B. Reynolds, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, B. Grace, L. Daly, K. Finley, M. Letourneau, A.Church, J. Locke, E. Boyce, S.Shipley.
Third Senior Class.—J. Fanning, A. Keeline, J. Noonan, A. St.Clair. H. McMahon,.L. Beckman, N. Heedy, A. Reid.
First Preparatory Class.—E. and B. Wade, L. Pfeiffer, C. Germain, E. Burney, M. Quill, K. Casey, L. Ritchie, E. Ives, B. Gaffney, R. Rosesco, M. E. Roberts, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Penniman.
Second Preparatory Class.—S. Chenoweth, B. Johnson, M. White, A. Stockton, J. Connors, N. McAuliffe. K. Wickham, R. Klarr, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber, F. Snouffer, T. Heckman. L. Lilly.
Third Preparatory Class.—N. McMahon, H. Miller, M.Kane, B. Turnbull, C. Lee.
Tablet of Honor, (Jr. Dep’t.) April 15, 1873.
E. Richardson, A. and C. Smith, K. Joyce, L.Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. and L. Walsh, G. Kelly, M. Hepp, M. Martin, 8. Lynch, N. Vigil, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, M. Ewing, E. Orton, Mfilildreth, M. Walsh, J. and M. Thompson; A. Noel, E.Lang, K. Lloyd, E Lappin, M.Booth, R.Hooley, C. Walker,'A.Koch, A.Paulsen, E Jackson, K Hector, A.Ewing, D. Allen, M.Lowry, M.Ware, M. Kaeseburg, K. Boltin,A. M. and A.Green, C. Smith.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Second Senior Class.—E. Rtchardson-and A. Smith.
Third Senior Class.—K. Joyee;
First Preparatory Class.—L.Tinsley, M. Faxon and A. Walsh.
Second Preparatory Class.—L McKinnon, B.Quan, T. Shulte, M. Hepp, M. Martin, A. Lynch, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds and M. Ewing.	-
Third Preparatory Class.—E. Orton and S. Lilly.
First Junior Class.—N. O’Meara, M. Hildreth, M. Walsh, J. * and M. Thompson, T. Cronin, A. Noel, A. Burney, E. Lang, K. Lloyd, E. Lappin, M. DeLong, M. Booth, R. Hooley, C. Walker, A. Koch and C. Smith.
Second Junior Class.—A. Paulsen, E. Jackson, K. Hector, A.' Ewing, G. Hooley, IX Allen, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, S. Lynch, M. Ware, M. Kaeseburg and K. Bolton.	_	.
Tnird Junior Class.—A. M. and A. Green. '
SEEDS, FLAMS, TREES, PREPAID Bl M HL.
TITY new-priced descriptive Catalogue of Choice Flower and IvJL Garden Seeds, 25 sorts of either for $1 ; new and choice varieties of Fruit and Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Roses, Grapes, Lilies, Small Fruits, House and Border Plants and Bulbs; one-year Grafted Fruit Trees for mailing; Fruit Stocks of all kinds ; Hedge Plants, etc.; the most complete assortment in the country, will be sent gratis to any plain address, with P. O. Box. True Cape Cod Cranberry for upland or lowland, $6 per 1,000 ; SI per 100; prepaid by mail. Trade List todealers. Seeds on Commission. Agents wanted.	'
Bv M W ATSON, Old Colony Nurseries and Seed Warehouse, Plymouth, Massachusetts. Established 1842t	n27t6
256
THE SCHOLASTIC.

A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana,encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.	■
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
. E_
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
-	TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5, in advance.	'
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.	•
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25,'in advance.
To clnbs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50, in advance.
- The postage of the Ave Maria is but five costs a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
QpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows
'	GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
“	"	12.25 p. m.
“	“	9.15 p. m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	• “	8.20 p. m.
“	“	4.35 p.m. -
. GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m. «	“	2 55 a. m.
“	“	5.00 a. m.
“	“	[6 05 p. m.
“	“	6.37 a.	m.
“	' “	8.20 a.	m.
EAST.
Arrive atBufialo 4.05 a.m “	“	4.05 a. m
“	“	1.35 p. m
“	“	5.30 p. m
'	Runs	to Elkhart.
WENT. 8 Arrive at
Chicago 8.20 p.	m
“	6.50 a.	m
“	8.20 a.	m
“	9.40 p.	m
“	10.30 a.	m
“	12.30 p.	m
. '4
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRiy-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH.
$1.00 PER ANNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of -	the family, young and old.
• Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
'	-	Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	6.50	a m. 1 Arrive South Bend,	-	7 30 a.m
■	■ “	9.35	a.m.	“	“	10.15	a.m
.	4.59	p.m.	I “	“	5.30	p.m
’ GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.40 a.m. I Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
.	“	“	11-45 a.m. “	12 25 p m
..	“	“	‘	6.30 p.m. |	• “	7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.:1O a.m. 1 Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “ ' “	5.30 p.m. J “	“	6.30 p.m
,	--	S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
? UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA,
.	Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged iu 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to Eve hnu-* dred Students.	.
• Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	.
TERMS:	-
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Meuding of Linens, per Session of five-months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, ---------	12 50
Use of Piauo,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Violin, ----	-	-	-	-	■_	_	.	2 00
Drawing, -	--	--	--	--	--	-1500
Use-of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,	-	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	- ■ .	-	- • -	-	-	-	-	35 00
■ Payments to be made invariably in advance.	’
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th tlst of February.	-
For further particulars, address	-
.	1 Her. ▲. X.SHONNZ3R, C.S.C.
’ *	•	President.
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot aud other public places.	-
XSF* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland,	.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.]
J. W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. ;
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend. . ’
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
- NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.!
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	'
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line'
iSJf'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad (Ip ison Street Bridge, as follows:	-
fl
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	.
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisi- . ana, Mo.	' '
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,	■
St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line, •
St. Lotiisand SpringiieldLightning Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson. vill. HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
arrive.
♦8:00 p.m,
♦4:30 p.m,
•4:30 p.m, ♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
57:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
LEAVE.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:i5 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. ! Daily. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	— ■
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J._ C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	' CHICAGO]
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New .
Fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m 1 Arrives at New York 11 30i. 1' 2d train “	“	5.15 p.m ..	..	. 6.411. t‘
3rd train. “	“	9.00 p.m] “	' ■ “	11.30?. i1
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and,;-Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.'
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass. aud. Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. '
F. R. MYEHS. Gen'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.	•
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. - ' ♦ Second day.	. •	'	1	. .