Notre Dame Scholastic.
Oisoe quasi semper vlcturus; Vive quasi eras moritxirxis.
i
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 5, 1S77.
Number 35.
The Portage 'of the Saint Joseph.*
---- <? b: \	•' ' >
Coming and returning, day by day, ’	‘
I look across the fields, a mile away,
Beyond the mist where glides the hidden stream, And o’er the slopes that love the morning beam.
And still those rolling heights have some new charm To catch the eye and kpep the fancy warm, As ever imagination seeks to find
The path where once the dusky train did wind:
For where the sleek, complacent farmer takes
His mammoth team afield, there to the Lakes Barbarian commerce journeyed, ages long, Trailing, in Indian wise, to Indian song.
And one walked there was not on commerce bent, Nor on the chase nor stealthy war intent, But with a message from his royal Chief, A tale of love, of sorrow, hope, belief.
From dear Kaskaskia to St. Mary’s Sault, Wistful he takes the trail, the faithful two Bearing from southern streams his mystic boat > To streams on which the Thousand Islands float.
Ah, he shall see the Thousand Isles no more:
’Tis the spirit lifts the tottering body o’er
This portage last save one ; but the spirit wills, And the ardent Saint his final task fulfills.
A flush lights up his pale thin face to see Behind him ooze the dreary Kankakee, While bright before, this fresh, sweet morn of May, The fair St. Joseph winds for miles away.
Pleased with the omen and the beauteous scene, Where never Christian foot before had been, Marquette’s eye kindles in the glad surprise, As ’twere indeed the vale of Paradise !
Here in a grove would he halt his simple train,
To raise a rustic altar on the plain. The lovely valley stretching wide below, And the dewy landscape bright in the morning glow ;
While from the grass, and every branch and limb, The feathery songsters chant their matin hymn,
* In May, 1675, Father Marquette, on the way from his mission at Kaskaskia to join his brethren at the head of Lake Michigan, passed over Portage Prairie from the Kankakee River, in company with his two devoted Canadian boatmen, reaching the St. Joseph, a little below the present site of St. Mary’s Academy and about a mile and a half from that of Notre Dame University. The discoverer of the Mississippi (named by him Conception River) was in feeble health when he left the Kaskaskias, and did not live to complete his journey, dying near the river now called by his name, in Michigan, May 18,1675.
The robin’s full heart throbs with music, and
The thrush from his airy height fills all the land.'
And on that altar, decked with early flowers,
Their little boat upturned upon its oars, That rest on limbs and rudely fashioned posts, Well pleased descends the glorious Lord of Hosts :
Well pleased to hear His son who soon will come From his exiled life to dwell in his Father’s home, Well pleased this virgin land to consecrate Henceforth unto religion’s fair estate,
Well pleased to dwell in dear Saint Joseph’s vale, At once with her whom all the ages hail I
—Ah, smiles she now this fervent soul to bless, His Lady Queen, in all pure loveliness ?—
And knows the Saint’s so heaven-informed eye
The long processions on the eastern sky, Blest maids, in future Mays, when day shall cease, With lighted tapers to Our Lady of Peace?
And, in flowers of June and the August feast, Sun-glancing banners, acolyte and priest, And youths, a splendid train, the bishop grave
With canopy, and Him who died to save ?
Or sees the fair white fanes, the schools, the towers, Whence the mighty bell its mellow music pours, Whence the sweet far chime, the organ tone, the song Of Vespers, slopes and valleys will prolong?—
But strengthened by the heavenly Visitant, Rapt from His presence, he turns all radiant, To greet his faithful charge, when, lo 1 a band Of forest children, reverent, near him stand.
Drawn by the unaccustomed sight, and the bell That tinkled clear far down the prairie’s swell, They have stolen, unheard, close to the holy place, A pulseless group around that shrine of grace.
The Preacher sees, and breathes thanksgiving ere
He speaks: My children, the Spirit hath brought you here: And then he tells of that surpassing love
That brought the Lord of Glory from above;
While brown as the leaves November drops in snow
The stolid elders list in the inner row,
The warriors next, fast fixed, attend the truth, The meek shy wives and maids, and the wondering youth.
And the sluggish souls are warmed with his heavenly cheer, As he bids them hope with the hope of the budding year, And walk in the lightsome path on the better way, Led by the Hand that leads no child astray.
So speaks, and turns to kneel in silent prayer,
While the rigid ranks, awe-touched, drop with him there And, when he rises, press around his feet, Sage and chief eager the Saint to greet.
546
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Soon on the Apostle’s heart their words prevail To seek the lowly village off the trail, Their woodland hospitality partake, And feed the faith such providence could wake.
Dark-eyed olive maids, of modest grace,
Whose coal-black locks half hide the furtive face, Receive the sacred flowers and pass before, Chanting low their welcome, o’er and o’er.
Within the boat is borne the feeble Priest, On brave and stalwart shoulders proudly eased, While boys elate take up both oar and post, That nought of all so blessed may be lost.
Strange pomp 1 E'en so his loving subjects bear
Some gracious prince aloft in his stately chair;
For martial music, birds and children sing, And for city and palace, lo, the prairie in spring!
The river reached, to the right they turn, and up The swift and silvery stream, till the maidens stop By the artless wigwam village, when Marquette Descends, and the red-man’s feast is quickly set.
Not courtiers know the unsought, native grace Of guest and hosts, as each assumes his place; Nor ever noble knight more w irmly pressed His generous cheer than these their simple best.
A woodcock, caught in the hunter’s artful snare, Mud-baked is the Blaekrobe’s feast, a dainty rare, While sturgeon fat and hominy invite With keener zest the general appetite.
The limpid stream, in many a curious gourd, Is Adam’s wine upon that grassy board;
For ’tis not yet the time when the soul-red stain
Shall sink in the white man’s brow as the brand of Cain.
So simple fare; butthe vault is heaven’s own, Fretted with soft green leaves, scarce fully grown ;
The carpet, velvet sward to the water’s flow, Where the glad St. Joseph gurgles soft and low.
The wild plum’s sweet perfume comes o’er the feast, And the apple bloom is delight to the eye of the Priest;
He minds him the orchards and vines of his own dear France, Of his youth, and the sweet May-time,—’tis an exquisite trance.
His soul with the beautiful dwells, with the tender and pure,— But higher is Home, where delight will forever endure, And more is he won by the blooms for his Lord he would twine, By the branches he longs to engraft on the heavenly Vine.
Rising with thanks for strength and time yet given. The saintly man takes up the work of Heaven, Moving inspired quickly from tent to tent, Upon sweet charit^all-healing^bent.
The sick, relieved of pain, are taught new hope, And on poor souls that long in darkness grope Kind light breaks in, as on the watcher breaks The pearly dawn when all sweet nature wakes.
Not such joy filled the Missionary’s soul When first he saw Conception River roll Before his gladdened eye, as now when flow The saving waters down the sinner’s brow.
Three souls so won to Heaven,—a sylvan sage Of ninety years, whose lengthened pilgrimage
■ But waited this; a pale thin girl, a mild
Consumptive sufferer; and a dying child,—
These three, and the good seed sown to garner more, The shadowy angel warns him from the shore;
For he is spent, while the soft moon rising white And round and grand, with splendor fills the night.
They part, friends of a few blest hours they part, Part, alas forever, with heavy heart;
And as his boat is on the wave, the Saint’s
Eye moistens with the piteous village plaints.
The weird brown creatures huddling on the land, In groups, half moon and shade, low wailing stand, Till rising in his place the Priest upbears
His arms for Heaven’s blessings on their tears.
Then the fleet canoes with chief and brave partake
The mystic moonlight voyage to the Lake :
And swift on the glittering waters down they glide, And safe on Saint Joseph’s breast the Christians ride.
Ah, say, through the cedars on that high bank, is’t the moon That shines on the waters, fair as aurora in June ?
Is’t the convent angel that hails him as guardian now, E’en now, when the death-drops stand on his pallid brow ?
Is’t his Lady bright, the maiden Queen of Heaven, To whom from his youth his chivalrous heart is given ?
Ah, she smiles on him now in her bliss, the victory is won, He will dwell with her there, and the voyage will quickly be done 1
By wooded bluffs, far plains to left and right,
Lone fires, slow curling smoke in the dreamy night, By sacred seats the coming days will know,—
So passed Marquette two hundred years ago.
4
Byron.
Byron’s literary career is one of the most remarkable in the range of literature, and his sudden rise to the acme of literary fame enhances the interest incident to a hurried view of his literary character. In 1807 he sent his “ Hours of Idleness" before the public, and though the work gave indications of genius it contained some errors; shortly after its appearance it was fiercely assailed by a critic in the Edinburgh Review. Byron retaliated in that stinging satire, “ English Bards and Scottish Reviewers.” To the scorching words of the Review he certainly owed much of his fame, and shortly the affair began to rise to the summit of success. In 1812 two cantos of “ Childe Harold ” were published and took the public by storm; “ the effect,” says Moore, “ was as instantaneous as it has proved deep and lasting. It was electric—his fame had not to wait for any of the ordinary gradations but seemed to spring up like the palace of a fairy tale in a single night.” Byron himself remarked, “I awoke one morning and found myself famous.” In this poem there is discoverable the first outbreak of that fiery mind which glows in his works. Who can read its many inimitable descriptions without admiring the sublimity with which he invests so many scenes? Who cannot feel the pathos which he has poured round the then state of Greece ?
“Fair Greece ! Sad relic of departed worth!
Immortal though no more, though fallen, great.” Who does not admire the splendor with which he has clothed that hallowed spot,
“ The grave of France, the deadly Waterloo 1 ” How sublime hisjdescription of the Alps!
“Above me are the Alps, The palaces of nature, whose vast walls Have pinnacled in clouds their snowy scalps, And throned Eternity in icy walls
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
547
Of cold sublimity, where forms and falls The avalanche—the thunderbolt of snow!	,
All that expands the spirit yet appals
Gather round these summits as to show
How earth may pierce to Heaven, yet leave vain man below.”
With such consummate beauty has he encrusted the scenes he describes that many of the descriptions in “ Childe Harold” are like resplendent gems in the casket of literature, unrivalled and unsurpassed in their sublime beauty. In intense feeling, richness and harmony of expression “Childe Harold” stands alone in our language, and the grandeur of its images and thoughts makes it one of the most impressive works in our literature. In his minor poems the same brilliant qualities have robed the shorter effusions of his fervid genius in a rich veil of poetry where everything breathes the essence of genius and sensibility. In “The Corsair,” “Lara,” “The Siege of Corinth” and “Parasina” we behold his extraordinary genius in communicating to his pictures the individuality and coloring of his own feelings and character. “ The Siege of Corinth ” is also remarkable for the variety and force of its descriptions, “Parasina” for its deep pathos, though the story is painful and repulsive, “The Prisoner of Chilion’’for its hopeless tone and uncomplaining suffering, “ Mazeppa ” for its power which makes us forget its incongruities. The “Dream” is a different species of poetry from the above mentioned, and in the words of an eminent critic “ there is hardly anything so lofty and so tender in our literature.’
Bvron’s dramatic works are far inferior to his poems, though “ Manfred” is full of intense sentiment. His longest work, “ Don Juan,” is one of the most singular works we have, redolent with beauty and richness of ideas and still abounding in seething sarcasm; in some parts portraying the purest affections of the heart, in others describing the sensuality of the voluptuary. In this strangely combined work Byron has shown a power, a picturesqueness and a pathos which in other works may be equalled but cannot be surpassed. To our regret we notice in this work that his genius had degenerated, the result of a life of deep profligacy whose revolting details defy expression. We must also deplore the low and selfish tone of morality of this otherwise brilliant production. As a poet Byron is remarkable for his conciseness, a quality in which he is superior to Wordsworth, whose prolixity has a tenderness to diminish the effect of his descriptions. Byron is also conspicuous for his rich abundance of thoughts, ideas and images, each transcending the previous one in its beauty, but he will ever be especially noted for the transcending richness and vivacity of his descriptions. We esteem the great productions which Byron poured forth with startling rapidity from his rich treasury, not only as multiplying the sources of delight to thousands, but also as enabling us to detect the finer feelings of the human heart. Critics generally object to the sameness of character in Byron’s works, but with such force, intensity of feeling and beauty does he set them before us that we forget their defects in the sheen beauty with which they are encircled. “ One noble imagination,” says Jeffrey,—“ or one profound and affecting sentiment—or one new gleam cast on the inmost recesses of the soul is more than a sufficient compensation for a thousand critical errors.”
When, however, we think of the loose immorality which marks his poems, the utter absence of that purity which should adorn the Christian poet, we cannot regret that the grand works of Byron should lose, year by year, their in
fluence on the lovers of poesy. It is a remarkable fact that in the real American literature there is not one line which can bring a blush to the cheek of the most fastidious. If as yet we have not produced a genius bold, impulsive and poetic such as was Byron, we have not yet produced one who has brought down the muse to grovel among the things of the earth.	L. M. P.
Gounod.
[From the French.]
The author of “ Cinq-Mars ” is the lion of the day. We must kill the fatted calf in order to celebrate the return of this prodigal, of which there had been some doubt. Nobody will forget the reports which were circulated about the illustrious composer, to the effect that “ Gounod is going to renounce the stage. He is making, for a finish, a‘Poly-eucte,’ as Racine did an ‘Athalie,’ but all his thoughts are turned toward the Church.” Shortly after, it was announced that, he was living in London, giving concerts in which he led the orchestra, and sang himself in his own music. It is from London, in any event, whence came to us “ Gallia,” that poignant lamentation upon the misfortunes of the country; and the chorus of “Jeanne d’Arc,” interlaced in the tragedy of Jules Barbier. The adventures of “Poly-eucte” had at this period a good deal of notoriety. An English songstress to whom Gounod had, in a moment of folly, given the score, refused to return it to him. They succeeded only after extreme difficulty in subduing the tigress, after which Gounod returned to Paris. It was then that he was thought to be passing through the crisis of mysticism; and it may be remarked here that this reputation as to mysticism has followed our grand musician throughout his whole career.
The author of “Cinq-Mars” is beyond all question one of the loftiest artists of our age. It is sufficient to see him to know that he is a man of great merit. He shows it even in the way he carries his head.
Let us follow the composer on the street, for all such observations are valuable in finishing a portrait of character. His gait is unsteady and painful. He moves with a bowed head, seeing no person or thing, and seems as if engaged in profound thought. Suddenly he lifts up his head and straightens himself with a sudden movement, and after sustaining himself thus for a moment he relapses into his old attitude. Gounod is one of those men who carry on their occupation everywhere. When he has commenced a work, its conception never leaves his soul. It follows him, or he follows it, wherever he goes. What he thinks while upon the road or in the street he at once puts on paper when he enters his study. If he is able to complete four acts in twenty days, it is because in his brain has long been ripening the savory fruit which he offers to the public. He must not be taken for an improvisator; he is too much of an artist to risk his reputation and his glory upon any such slipshod effort. His melody is spontaneous, bursting out like the waters from a spring; but no one can be more painstaking than he is as to the setting which is given to this jewel, melody. His vast memory retains whatever is born of his imagination.
Observe him when he is writing out a new inspiration. He does not hesitate for a moment. He recommences his morceau, however advanced it may be. Like all natural men, he pleases himself with great difficulty; and like all wise men, he fears always being betrayed by his interpre
548
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tations. He attempts in vain to mask his fears at the presentations of his operas; the mobility of his face, and his extreme nervous susceptibility betray his inquietude.
It is perhaps this fear that induces him to so obstinately insist upon conducting the first representations of bis operas. The articles and letters he has published on this subject add eloquence to the strength of conviction. “ The composer,” he says in substance, “ knows better than anybody else what should be done. He knows the movements he has traced out, aud the rhythm he has intended. The leader of an orchestra, without any bad intent, may forget, may be deceived, aud thus compromise the success of the score. Why should not the author himself take the baton ? If the work is to fail, he will at least have done everything possible to save it.” This conclusion is perfectly reasonable and admissible, but only with the condition that the maestro has in reality the qualities of an orchestral leader.
Although very erudite and a member of the Academy of Fine Arts, Charles Gounod has nothing of the pedant or the academician in his character. He gives himself readily up to light conversation, flinging lavishly about the verities of art and aesthetic paradoxes, which he defends in excellent terms and with rare force and ability. His countenance brightens marvellously during these discussions. His lips expand under the flow of words, his eyes dilate and are full of sparkling brilliancy. At other times he is overflowing with laughter, and is full of humor and repartee in which there is no afterthought or bitterness. It is at these times that he talks of putting Moliere into comic opera. He abounds in wit and humor. Occasionally melancholy will pierce through the mask of gayety which he wears; but is there not always some malencholy at the foundation of gayety ?
Let us now glance for a moment over his works. He was born in 1818, studied at the Conservatory with Halevy, Lesneur, and Paer; and carried off the the Roman prize in in 1839 for his cantata of “ Fernand. ” At that time, he was seized upon by a religious zeal, and he went from Medicis to the seminary, whose only result was that he studied the old masters in the ecclesiastical setting which surrounded them.
His baggage when he set out to return to Paris was already heavy. He bad been for a time in Germany, where he executed an archaic mass; and he had also in his portfolio another solemn mass, some motets, choruses, sym phonics, and a quantity of notes yet to be finished. He was made master of the Chapel of Foreign Missions. Four years later his name appeared for the first time upon the bills of the opera, for “ Sapho.”
This work did not meet the reception which he desired. The livret at first was mediocre, without interest, and of a poor color. Since authors had got to thinking that they should exclude the dance from their drama, the fashion interfered greatly with his work, which was located in Greece, where the dance mingles with everything, religion as well as pleasure. The musician took but a single step from the sanctuary to the stage, and carried with him a mass of grave formulas calculated to disconcert the public. Without doubt there are here and to be found some exquisite things; the song of the goat-herd, with an Oriental accompaniment of the hautboy and the tambourine, was a melodious pearl. Beautiful also was Sapho, as with lyre in hand she flung her ecstatic notes through space before precipitating herself into the sea. But these beauties were insufficient to redeem an ensemble which was more conscien
tious and recherche than original, and from which had not been disengaged the personality of the author.
The choruses of “Ulysse ” were composed the same year, and executed the year following at the Theatre Fran?ais with the tragedy of Pousard. It is no injustice to affirm that the verses were inferior to the music designed to illustrate them. The critics did justice to the wise effort of Gounod, who attempted to give an impression of antique music, thanks to certain modulations and to certain infinitely curious rhythms. Let us note before going further that music does not hesitate to ally itself with productions with which it is in sympathy. Without speaking of what it has done for “The Doctor lu Spite of Himself,” I will cite the choruses and solos written for the “ Deux Reines ” of Legouve, and the score composed for the “Joan of Arc’’ of Jules Barbier. But we will pass all these as well as “Nouve Sanglante,” a detestable melodramatic poem, which has wearied all the composers, including also Gounod.
I have hastened in order to reach “Faust.” Passing from work to work we see the master gradually forming himself; and in “Faust” the formation is complete. A gentle and humane melancholy is the principal indication of his temperament—a melancholy which comes from desire, and not from deception. Gounod is at the same time a melodist and a harmonist; he is at once refined and natural. What is more natural than the scene of the Kermesse and the ballad of the “King of Thule” ? He is susceptible of great emotion, as seen in the death of Valentine. He has bursts of enthusiasm—listen to the trio of the prison, “ Auge pur, auge vad,ieux." His visions are at once placid and exhuberant. He has accents which awaken the idea of a warm, beautiful enemy, with the purple rays of the sun dying on the horizon and the art filled with dreamy music. All of the heroines whom he has produced since “Faust” have admirable lives and a suave truthfulness. Each of them, whether she be known as Marguerite, Juliette, or Mireille is imprinted ineffaceably upon our memory. Women have found in Gounod their most divine musician, as they have in Ingres the painter the most purely accomplished in depicting their beauty. In the order of filiation, Gounod is a feminine genius who is descended from Mozart.
—Pius IX sleeps in one of the smallest of the 11,000 rooms at his command. A narrow, humble bed, without curtains or drapery—something similar to those used in seminaries for school-boys—a sofa, two or three common chairs and a writing-table, are all the articles of furniture; few and simple enough for a Capuchin. There is not even a rug by the bedside to cover the floor of red tiles, not in the best repair. Winter and summer alike, the Pope gets up soon after five oclock.
—Madame de Maintenon, who became the wife of Louis XIV, of France, and for the last thirty years of his life exercised a controlling influence over his opinions and policy, had a narrow escape from premature burial in childhood. Her parents migrated from France to the Island of Martinique when she was ten years old. On the voyage she was taken ill, and the sickness ended in apparent death. The funeral rites were over; the last look taken of the body, about to be dropped into the sea; a cannon was loaded to be fired over the corpse, when the mother, who was ordinarily unloving, insisted on seeing her child once more. To her surprise, she found the heart still beating, and, in a delirium of joy, declared that the child was not dead, but would recover. The hope, born of rapture, proved a true prophecy, and the little girl, so nearly given to burial in the ocean, was spared to become one of the most distinguished women in French history.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
549
I*
The Catholic Young Men’s Union.
We have received a circular from the President of the Catholic Young Men’s National Union, stating that the Third Annual Convention of the Union will be held in the city of New York, on Wednesday, May 30,1877, at 10 a. m. The Convention will meet at De La Salle Institute, No. 48 and 50, Second Sreet.
The circular goes on to say that the growth of the Church in our country has been truly wonderful, but its continued advancement must depend in a great measure upon the loyalty of her young men. We are surrounded by influences hostile to the Faith, and that we may not be misrepresented or misunderstood, intelligent, organized effort is necessary. Let us therefore band together under the influence of our holy religion, increase the membership of existing societies, and form new ones throughout the • length and breadth of the land. Surely to Catholic young men there can be no appeal so strong as that which has the progress of the Church at heart.
The New York Union of Young Men’s Catholic Societies earnestly invites your co-operation in this grand work of Catholic progress, and hopes your society will be represented in the May Convention. It warmly commends the National Union to you, and strongly urges your Association to join at-once. Sympathy alone is of no practical value; acts, not words are the test. Societies will be promptly enrolled on application to the National Secretary, JuanA.Pizzini, Esq., 11 West Grace Street, Richmond, Va. The requisites for membership are simple. First, a certificate from the Bishop or Pastor (if the society be a parochial one) of the following form:
To the Secretary of the Catholic Young Men's National Union: This is to certify that I have examined the Constitution of................of.......................and
I am satisfied that it is thoroughly Catholic, and eligible for admission to the Catholic Young Men’s National Union.
Signed.....................................
Second, payment of five dollars—annual fee for membership.
Each society is entitled to three votes, to be cast by three delegates and three alternates, or any smaller number that may be sent. If practicable, notify the National Secretary of the election of delegates by May 15th, or as soon thereafter as possible.
The general movement has quickened and stimulated local efforts. In proof of this, New York city may be cited. Eight societies existed prior to the First Convention of the National Union. Since then, in two years, eleven more have been organized. This marked increase is due in great measure to the spirit infused by the two preceding Conventions.
Members of National Union Societies, travelling for business or pleasure, will be received as guests by such societies wherever located, and our Catholic young men will thus have social advantages not otherwise attainable.
The New York Union extends a cordial welcome to any delegates you may send in May next; aud every endeavor will be made to render the visit pleasant and agreeable. Kindly acknowledge receipt of circular, and state the action taken by your society. Please address M. J. Drummond, Chairman of Reception Committee, P. 0. Box 5351, New York city.
We. heartily commend the objects set forth in this • circular and recommend the forty or fifty young men’s
societies now receiving the Scholastic to act at once and join the Union. In urging them to this we cannot do better than to reprint what we have already said in this paper.
In our young men lies the hope of the future. As each generation of mankind passes from the great stage of the world, a new race filled with buoyant hopes, and aspirations which tend higher, must be formed to replace them. That the youth of the land may be able to enter upon the duties which society and the proper discharge of their vocations may demand of them, it becomes a matter of vital importance that they be well prepared. That such may be accomplished, the formation of good societies for the improvement of the mind and for a proper appreciation of their future conduct in life must be assigned a high place as an aid. Throughout the length and breadth of the land there are numerous societies which have for their object the cultivation of the intellect, and those who take advantage of the facilities which they offer for the attainment of this object will exercise a stronger influence and attain a greater superiority in the grand future which awaits them than such as neglect the opportunities thus readily presented.
It is with a desire to see such associations more widely extended, and the advantages which they afford better appreciated, that a number of the Catholic Literary Societies in the East have united themselves by a bond of union similar to that which has already existed among like societies in Ireland. Although the Union at present does not count in its ranks a very large number of associations, yet let us hope that it will, like the similar association across the waters, exercise a most beneficial influence on the affairs of the country, and make its effects apparent in the moral conduct and social position of all connected with it; for if the Union be continued in the spirit which animated its founders we cannot doubt but that it will wield an influence for good throughout the land. We hope that it will affiliate to itself Catholic literary associations generally, and cause them to act harmoniously together for the great object for which they were founded, moral and intellectual improvement. Individual societies are very good so far as they go, but they are circumscribed by their objects within too narrow a sphere. As moral, social and intellectual improvement ever go hand in hand, we feel that by societies forming in a grand union they can effect a far greater good than when each is laboring singly and alone.
Scientific Notes.
—The treasures of Mycenae discovered by Dr. Schliemann are soon to be placed in the Polytechnicon at Athens, under the auspices of the Archaeological Society of that city, where they will be easily accessible.
—The State Geologist of Wisconsin has just reported that the cop per-bearing rocks of Lake Superior extend almost uninterruptedly across the State. In the Nemakagon River masses of native copper have been found, and the prospect that the country will become a rich copper region is very encouraging.
—A test-paper is now sold in Paris, by which the artificial coloring of wines can be readily detected. Dipped in unadulterated wines the paper becomes light blue and dries of a lead color; if aniline color is in the wine, the paper becomes red; if cochineal, violet; if elderberry juice, green; if logwood or the like, dark brown; and so on with a variety of tinctures and results. A hundred-thousandth part of magenta can be detected. The inventors of the test-paper are said to have also devised means for extracting the fraudulent coloring and leaving the wine pure.
* 1
550	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—A short time since a very fine anaconda, upward of twentj' feet in length, was purchased for the Zoological Society in London. During its few weeks’ residence in the gardens it has refused food, it having evidently fed shortly before its capture. On Monday, April 2, it produced two dead young, about eighteen inches in length. Unlike its near ally, the python, which lays the eggs and then surrounds them with the coils of its body, which rises to a high temperature during the process of incubation, the anaconda produces its young alive, the eggs being apparently broken during the act of deposition. These two young are evidently only the precursors of many more, and it is to be hoped that the remainder will be produced alive. The long interval between the meals of these animals is strikingly shown. At the present time, in the same cage with the anaconda, is a reticulated python, which had not fed for seven months, having during the period changed its skin.
—Dr. H. Bolau, director of the Zoological gardens at Hamburg, has recently had the fortunate opportunity of dissecting three gorillas preserved in spirit,, with the viscera intact His results are just published in the “ Abhand-lungen aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissensclurften,'' and they add much to our zoological information. The brain is figured by photography from three aspects, Dr. Ad. Pausch describing the convolutions. In all the specimens the liver exhibited the lateral fissures or incisions which are not found in man, the orang, the chimpanzee, or the gibbon, but in all the lower monkeys. This agrees with the descriptions given by Profs. Huxley and Flower of the specimen in the museum of the College of Surgeons; and serves to separate off the gorilla from the rest of the anthropoid apes. The caudate lobe is minute, and the spigelian lobe-let of fair size. As in man only among the primates, val-rnlcB conniventes, the transverse folds of the mucous membrane of the small inline, so large in the Sumatran rhinoceros, are present, although they are not large.
—A great deal of useful information is afforded by a pamphlet of Dr. Armand Gautier’s, just published, and entitled “La Sophistication des Vins.” The writer points out that the two principal methods of adulteration are by coloring and watering. In fact, the former is rendered necessary by the latter. The red wines of France, for instance, are colored solely with a view to disguise the quantities of water with which they are mixed. Formerly, it is said, these nefarious practices were confined to a few traders of the lowest class, but during the last fifteen years they seem to have become the rule, the most eminent merchants and the proprietors of famous vineyards themselves not being exempt, at least from the charge of connivance. There are even regular shops where drugs for coloring wine, with printed instructions as to their use, are sold in broad daylight. The mischief done by the mere addition of water to wine is, Dr. Gautier thinks, considerable, tor it thereby loses much both of its nutritive and tonic properties. Water is good, and wine is good; but the offspring of their alliance is not equally commendable.
—Active preparations, says The Farmer (London), are going on for the immediate commencement of the long-projected work of draining the Zuyder Zee. A dam 40 kilometres (24 miles, 1,504 yards) long, and 50 metres broad at its base, is to be carried across the gulf, built up to a height of % metre above the ordinary level of high tide. Upon this a pumping machine of 10,000 horse power will be erected, capable of pumping up from the enclosed sea and discharging on the outside of the dam 6,500,000 cubic metres of water daily. Taking the average depth of the water at 4% metres, it is estimated that the work of pumping will be completed in about sixteen years from its commencement. The total cost of reclamation is set down at 335,000,000 francs, but, huge as this sum is, the undertaking is confidently looked upon as likely to prove a most remunerative speculation. The success of the scheme will add to the kingdom a new province 195,300 hectares (or nearly 500,000 acres) in extent. Judging from previous experiences in connection with the Haarlem Sea, it is reckoned that at least 176,000 hectares of the land thus won will be applicable to agricultural puposes, which at an average value of 4,000 francs only per hectare, will richly repay the enterprise and treasure lavished on this gigantic undertaking.
—Few events in the history of chemistry have produced i a more profound sensation than did the production of aliz- / arin, in 1869, from artificial sources. Some readers will / doubtless recollect that there was at one time a supersti- [ tious belief that the chemist would never be able to pass the barrier which separated the live from the dead world in respect to the product of each. It was laid down as a law in chemical text-books in the early part of this century that science could not construct organic products out of inorganic materials. That barrier had been already broken down in several places when Grabe and Lieberman , described their method of making alizarin—the coloring principle of madder—by treating anthracene, a substance obtained from gas tar, with acids and alkalies which transform it. But artificial alizarin was more than a chemical curiosity; it was a matter of commerce; it changed the* course of trade and industry. Great districts in France, . Asia Minor, and Holland had been for centuries given up to the production of madder. The vegetable product was t now found unable to compete in price with the product of *. the chemist’s art. But after ruining the madder-growers | the makers of artificial alizarin have themselves succumbed j to misfortune. One chemical company in Germany en- j gaged in this business reports the exhaustion of almost all < ns capital, about $700,000; two others have lost everything;	‘
a private firm engaged m the manufacture has failed after a ‘ heavy reduction oi assets. Dr. Frederick Versmann, reviewing these results, ascribes the misfortune to the high price of coal tar and the inferior quality of the anthracene	:
furnished by the tar distillers. Abroad, as well as here,	■
the gas companies have been making exorbitant profits; in this case they have killed some of the geese that laid golden eggs.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Wallace’s “ Russia ” is already in its third edition in this country.	.
—	M. Offenbach has been offered the management of the Opera Comique, of Vienna, and it is possible he may accept.
—The “culture” of Boston, which stays away when Essipoff plays, gives rousing houses to Soldene’s bouffe company.
—	An oil painting of Gov. Hampton has just been sent to Germany to be lithographed. More than 5,000 copies have already been ordered by his admirers.
—	A new and extensive work ou the dialects and idioms of southern France, forming a complete dictionary, in three volumes, by M. Azais, is just appearing in France.
—	No study is more zealously pursued at present than ethnology. M. Arbois de Jubainville has added to this science a valuable work, “Les Premiers Inhabitants de 1’Europe.”
—	Mark Twain is in Baltimore, attending the rehearsals of the new play “ Ah Sin,” jointly written by himself and Bret Harte, which is to be produced for the first time in Washington.
—A monument, in memory of the late Carl Anschuetz, for many years the musical conductor of the Liederkranz, has been erected in Greenwood Cemetery. The expense ' was borne by the New York musicians.
—The oldest dramatic writer in France is Henri Dupin, , formerly the collaborator of Scribe, aged 86. He is still I active and lively, and has just written a new operetta for	■
the fautaisies theatre at Brussels. Octave Feuillet is 64;	y
Alexander Dumas, 53; Jules Verne, 50; Sardou, 45, and 1 Halevy, 42 years of age.	'
—Rubens’ house at Antwerp is to be opened to the pub- j lie during the approaching fetes in his memory. The ; painter’s studio is still intact, and the house is adorned	I
with numerous pictures by Van Dyck, Teniers, Rem-	|
brandt, and Rubens, which have never been moved since ; they were first hung by the artist.	j
—Mr. Max Strakosch has engaged Miss Clara Louise i Kellogg for one hundred nights of Italian opera at $10,000 j for each act in which she sings. Supporting her will be i 1 Miss Cary, Sig. Verdi, and Mr. Conly, the first to receive *	. |
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
551
$1,350 a night, the second $1,635, and the last named $960 a night. These figures are Strakosch’s.
—Jansen, McClurg & Co. announce a new novel, under the title of “ Brief Houors; a Romance of The Great Dividable,” which is expected to make the wretched policyholders in life insurance companies yet more uncomfortable. The authorship is anonymous, and the public are at liberty to guess who and what is meant by the “ Great Dividable.’’
—During 1876, there were 443 journals published in Spain. Of these, 95 were political, 65 religious, 78 literarv, 105 scientific, artistic, and industrial, and 100 were miscellaneous. The Correspondencia de Espafla has the largest circulation, having circulated during last year nearly 21,000,000 copies. About 24,000 advertisements were inserted in the same paper during 1876.
—As an illustration of the amenities of authors, the recent London law case is noted in which Dr. E. Schmitz, author of several popular histories of Greece and Rome, was sued by Prof. Gennadios, of the University of Athens, for an appendix contributed to Schmitz’ Greece, by the Professor, giving a history of that country to 1862. The jury found for the plaintiff. (Damages, £1.0.)
—Hon. William Parsons, the Irish orator, sailed from New York, in the steamer Russia, on Wednesday, the Uth ult. Mr. Parsons’ numerous friends will be pleased to know that he is about to visit the Troad, the plains of Troy, in Asia Minor, where Prof. Schliemann has been making his famous discoveries and excavations, with the view of obtaining materials for a lecture on the subject for next season.
—Among the Italian sculptors who still linger in America after the triumphs of the centennial year, is Antonio D’Amari. He exhibited in Philadelphia a statue of Christopher Columbus pointing out to one of his comrades the first glimpse of land after that perilous voyage which made him the hero of a new world. Mr. D’Amori is making some most extraordinary portrait busts, notably one of George Wilkes, which almost stirs with life, so real is it.
—Among the men to be proud of is J. Q. A. Ward. He lives in America, exhibits his work nowhere, but has more orders than he knows how to fill. A colossal statue of Washington for New Bedford, and an equestrian statue of the late Gen. Thomas, both in bronze, for our national capital, are nearing toward completion, and they are an honor to the hand that wrought them, and equally an honor to the authority that selected Mr. Ward to create these enduring monuments to our country’s heroes.
—The Emperor of Germany has just come into the possession of a collection of remarkable autograph MSS. formed by an amateur of music, by whom they had been bequeathed to the Emperor. The collection is said to include “two quintets of Spohr, a piano piece by Thalberg, a symphony by Schubert, an air with orchestral accompaniment by Weber, and four volumes of all the sketches or outlines for the 8th symphony of Beethoven.” The report states that the Emperor intends to deposit all these original scores in a public museum at Berlin.
—It is purposed to commemorate the late John Oxenford, by a memorial window in St. George’s Cathedral, Southwark, London; and members of the stage and the press are asked to contribute the cost of this memorial. The design is, obviously, gracious, affectionate, and worthy. Mr. Oxenford was, for many years, the dramatic critic of the London Times. He filled an exasperating position with dignity, ability, and kindness. His memory deserves a window, at the very least—through which, we do not doubt, posterity will look at him as an image of patience, “Affliction sore, long time he bore”—and he bore it well.
—Mr. Conadeau, the author of the work in alto rilievo representing Jerusalem and the village of Bethlehem, which was exposed last winter at the Borghese Palace, has just completed a similar work of greater importance and peculiarly adapted to excite the interest of Romans and of strangers visiting the Eternal City. This last work, also in rilieoo, and in the scale of 0.001 (the one-thousandth representing the city of Rome) is exposed at the Altemps Palace. It covers a surface of 32 metres (about 40 yards square), and in this space, relatively limited, Mr. Conadeau has with astonishing exactitude reproduced the Eternal
City in its most particular details. In a few moments the beholder may become thoroughly acquainted with the topography of the city, the places where the most remarkable monuments are situated, and have a key to the labyrinth of streets in which even native residents may go astray.
—Professor Horstmann, of Sag.m, Silesia, has promised to edit the whole of the “Early English Legends or Lives of the Saints” for the Early English Text Society. His first publication will consist of the extra lives, those chiefly in stanzas, and not contained in the standard collection, from which Mr. Furuivall edited fourteen for the Philological Society in 1862. This extra set will be printed this year, and issued early in 1878. The standard collection will be edited from the best MS., that from which Mr. Furnivall printed (Harleian 2277), and will be collated with all the other MSS. Of these thick quartos, Dr. Horstmann has, with splendid perseverance, already copied with his own hand no less than eight MSS., and he means to copy all the rest. The Rev. Dr. Richard Morris had originally intended to edit this collection for the Society, but has thought it only right to hand the task over to Dr. Horstmann, after his long labor at the MSS. Dr. Morris will, however, still write the grammatical and dialectical introduction to the book.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received the May number of Church's ifusical Visitor. ■	.
—We have received the May number of the Folio, published by White, Smith & Go., of Boston. The contents are made up of the usual musical gossip, together with a number of excellent articles and some very good music.
—We have received from Messrs. Wilson, Hinkle & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, Numbers One and Three of their Eclectic Series of Geographies and on examination find in them many important particulars in which they excel other books of the kind. The maps are not only clearly and beautifully engraved but they furthermore give in addition to the political boundaries of the country the physical features. The illustrations are well got up, the map questions conveniently arranged, and map-drawing taught in a practical manner. There are only three books in the series, and these are so graded that they may be easily used in schools. The mechanical execution of the books challenges admiration, while the thorough excellence of the text may be relied on. This Indiana Edition of the books which we have received makes them of the greatest value and interest to the pupils of the Indiana schools.
—Under the heading of American Inventive Progress the Scientific American of May 7th has a long and interesting article, from which we have the following extract: To show with what rapidity inventors made improvements on inventions embodying original principles, says the writer, it may be noted that in the early days of the sewing machine 110 patents were granted for improvments thereon in a single year; and out of the 2,910 patents issued in the year 1857,152 were for improved cotton gins and presses, 164 for improvements on the steam engine, and 198 for novel devices relating to railroads and improvements in the rolling slock. In the year 1848, three years after the publication of this paper was commenced, but 660 patents were granted; but under the stimulus of publishing those inventions as they were patented ten years later, in 1858, the number had increased sixfold, reaching 3,710, while up to January 1,1850, as already stated, the aggregate of patents issued amounted to 17,467; since that time and up to the present the total is 181,015. And curiosity here leads us (adds the editor) to review our own work, extending back, say twenty years, or to 1857, a period during which 170,745 patents have been issued. We find, by actual count, that 62,062 applications have been made through the Scientific American Patent Agency for Patents in the United States and abroad. This averages almost ten applications per , day, Sundays excluded, over the entire period, and bears the relation of more than one quarter to the total number of patents issued in this country up to the time of writing.
552
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, Ma-v 5, 1S77.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.	.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, abcve all, '
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, TostpaidL.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
The Daily Mass.
- One of the most commendable practices of devotion which is perpetuated by the piety of the students is the custom of attending the daily Mass in the College Chapel. It is the duty of all those who understand what is meant by the Sacrifice of the Mass to. consecrate the first moments of the day to this devotion. There is no human act so deserving of merits or so fruitful in blessings as the devout attendance to this great Mystery; and it matters not what may be the pressure of study, and scarcity of time in which to learn a diffiicult- lesson, he who first discharges to his God his tribute of Christian love and gratitude chooses the better part and will be rewarded for it. No consideration will divert him who knows the efficacy of the Holy Sacrifice, from the pleasing duty of attendance at it; for he knows well that the time spent with God is not a loss, but a real gain; for while he gives his little time to the Master of all knowledge, he will in return receive from Him a goodly share of wisdom. If we might view spiritual things from a business point of view, the honor we give to God in the first half hour of the morning is good policy. The interest which we receive on our investment must needs be high. What matters it that the lessons are long and difficult, that the “duties” to be done for class are hard, and that the time at our disposal is short—is not God all-powerful, and can He not render all things easy to comprehend, quicken the understanding, aid the memory and make things clear to us which would otherwise demand hours upon hours of reflection and research.
St. Thomas’ sgreat school was at the foot of the crucifix There he gained from God his great fund of knowledge. Let the students make the chapel their great study-room, where they will receive the teachings of God; not that they are to neglect study—but, consecrating the first moments of the ,day to God, and devoting the remainder of their time to hard study, God will assist them and enable
them to learn more than they would otherwise be able to do.	.
Those who through fear of a little exertion or of a loss of time do not attend the daily Mass lose the best of means for securing not only their spiritual but their temporal good. The want of faith is the cause of the lukewarmness which God condemns, and is the real obstacle to a better policy. He who attends the daily Mass will necessarily be filled with the spirit of faith, and will receive the gift of appreciating the advantages which are offered to students in their college days—advantages for which in afterlife they will look in vain. More especially would we urge everyone who can, to attend Mass daily during the beautiful month of May. By attending this, the greatest devotion, nay the great Sacrifice of the Church, will we more thoroughly sanctify ourselves during the month.
Beading Aloud.
Do those who have opportunities of reading in public, our young Cecilians for instance, appreciate their opportunity of improving themselves in a great accomplishment? Some, perhaps the great majority of them, by their great painstaking seem to understand the benefits to be derived from it, but there are some few who by their negligence appear to be entirely ignorant of the fact that reading aloud is a practice which, to those intending to enter some one of the liberal professions, is of the greatest importance.
No student ought to neglect any opportunity of reading out loud. This reading is an exercise which, combining as it does a muscular effort with a mental one, has a twofold advantage. It does not need a teacher; perhaps it may in a better manner be cultivated alone than under the instructions of a master. We say that it may perhaps be better cultivated aloue than under a teacher, because the person practicing the exercise acquires a naturalness of tone from instinct, rather than from art; for if dependent on the instruction of another, all he acquires comes to him from the rules and directions laid down by the master, while if left to himself it must be his crtvn instincts and nothing else which must guide him. The most that is required of the person who practices this exercise is that he should make a strong effort to understand fully the mind of the author, that he may thoroughly master the sense of the subject read.	•
In order that a man may read aloud well, it is necessary that he not only understand the subject, but moreover that he should hear his owu voice and that he should feel within him that he enunciates distinctly and clearly each and every syllable. Then he should strive to so modulate his voice that it matters not what be the number of his auditors or what their distance from him he may be heard by all of them. In this he must be taught by himself alone and be made perfect by experience. He should moreover feel that he is heard by all, if he would read well. He should be able to say whether or no he is heard by the auditors in the farthest part of the room: if he is not able to tell certainly whether he is heard or not, it is the result of his want of proper judgment and observation.
Of the benefits to be derived from reading aloud we need mention a few only. In the first place the lungs are developed from this exercise just as they are by singing. They are helped by loud reading, if properly done; because its effect is to induce every once in a while the drawing of a long breath, far oftener and far deeper than by read
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
553
ing without enunciation. By these deep inhalations we cannot fail to develop the capacity of the lungs, and this development will be directly in proportion to their practice.
It is with imperfect and insufficient breathing that consumption, that terrible disease, uniformly begins. One of the characteristics of this disease is that the breath becomes shorter and shorter, through the long, long weary months, down to the very close of life. That which will counteract this' short breathing, that which will tend to make us breathe oftener and deeper, cures to that extent. Let any one—we care not whom—make the experiment by reading a page of a book in a loud voice, and he will discover that in less than four or five minutes the tendency to take a long breath will discover itself. Now as a weak voice is developed and strengthened by deep breathing—for so we are told by all medical writers—it follows that the same thing will result from reading aloud. The voice by it is made sonorous and the tones of the voice are rendered clear and distinct. That hoarseness so annoying to auditors and which is invariably exhibited by the unaccustomed reader before he has gone over a page, is prevented. By the time he has read a page the unaccustomed reader is forced to stop and hem and haw, to the confusion of himself and the disgust of his hearers. He who has exercised himself in reading aloud is freed from this annoyance so disagreeable alike to himself and his audience. His voice does not tire, but continues with its strength almost unabated until he has finished his reading.
Then again, when properly done, loud reading leads to great vocal power. It leads to this on the same principle that by exercise all muscles are strengthened. The voicemaking organs are not exceptions to this rule, and consequently we find those who habitually exercise them obtain great vocal power. Hence it happens that in many cases the vocal power is diminished by total silence, just as the arm of the Hindoo devotee is at length paralyzed forever by its continued non-use. The general plan is to read aloud in a conversational tone, three times a day, for a few minutes at a time, to increase the time every day until half an hour is thus spent three times every day. Continue then to read in this length of time until the desired object is accomplished. The great benefit done to him who practices reading aloud is a sufficient return for any inconvenience which he may have to undergo while thus drilling himself. The time thus spent is not lost, for when we have attained the desired object of our work we will find that the time was put to a good and useful purpose.
Personal.
—H. N. Saylor, of ’72, is in Kansas.
—	Leon. McCollum, of ’76, is in business in Tiffin, Ohio.
—	J. Brennan,' of ’75, is in the lime business at Alton, I1L,
—	A. Schermerhorn, of ’74, is doing well in Delphi, Ind.
—	J.’ Wolf, of ’74, is in the drygoods business at Streater, Ill.
—Mr. Lang,of Chicago, Ill., was at Notre Dame on the 1st.
—Rev. R. Maujay, of Besan?on, Ind., paid us a visit last week.
—Miguel Otero, of ’76, is at La Junta, Colorado, keeping books.
_j. T. Rudge, of ’75, is travelling in England for his health. '
—T. J. Murphy, of ’75, is teaching the young idea how to shoot.
—M. T. Corby, of ’64, is, we are told, residing in Watertown, Wis.
—John Wanbaugh, of ’73, is a real estate agent at San Pierre, Ind.
—John Kennedy, of 75, is engaged in business in Youngstown, Ohio.
—Christian Burger, of ’74, is in the jewelry business at Reading Pa.
—J. Lyons, of ’74, is in business with his father at St. Paul, Minn.
—Bob Delahey, of ’70, is clerking in the Capitol at Topeka, Kansas.	-
—Frank Matthews (Commercial), of ’75, is studying law in Chicago, Ill.
—Gerald E. Sullivan, of ’76, is pursuing his legal studies in Tiffin, Ohio.
—Herman Korty, of ’75, is in the grocery business at Lafayette, Ind.
. —J. F. Burnham, of’74, is in Milwaukee, and at present 'but of business.
—F. G. Bearss, of ’76, is clerk in the Fifth Avenue Hotel, Topeka, Kansas.
—Wm. Schultheis, of ’75, is keeping books for his father in Detroit, Mich.
—R. Kelly, of ’74, is in the wholesale grocery business in Minneapolis, Minn.	*
—T. Hansard, of ’75, is pursuing his law studies at Youngstown, Ohio.
—Geo. Rudge, of ’75, is keeping books for the Youngstown Water Works.
—Rev. Michael Hogan, of St. John’s Church, Chicago, visited us on the 2nd.
—D. M. Hynds, of ’74, is doing an extensive drygoods business at Morris, Ill.
—Scott Ashton, of ’71, is Assistant County Prosecutor at ,-r Leavenworth, Kansas.	- ..
—J. Gray, of ’74, is engaged in the coal firm of Hill & ‘ Heker, St. Paul, Minn.
—Mont. McGiuley, of ’70, is one of the publishers of the Lafayette Sunday Leader.
—Michael Foley, of ’75, is in the Cleveland Seminary, studying for the ministry.
—S. Kennedy, of ’75, has begun the study of medicine in the Cleveland Medical College.
—Charles G. Ottaway (Commercial), of ’75, is with Ottaway, Colbert & Co., Chicago, Ill.
—We were pleased to see our old friend, Hon. W. C. McMichael, of Mishawaka, on last Tuesday.
—Max Katzauer (Commercial), of ’75, is with Eddy, Harvey & Carter, Chicago, Ill. He is as fat and jolly as ever.
—Very Rev. Father General returned from his trip East on Saturday last. He intends, we learn, going South in a few days.
—Frank Keller (Commercial), of ’76, spent several days at Notre Dame on his way home to Tiffin, Ohio, from Kewaunee, Ill.
—Prof. J. Ackerman, who at one time taught painting here, and who frescoed, the Junior refectory, now resides in Lafayette, Ind.	- _ - - -
—John D. O’Hara (Commercial), of ’75, is studying for the stage in San Francisco, Cal. He will shortly make a tour through Europe.
—Among the visitors of the past week were Messrs. M. J. Condon, Nashville, Tenn., Isaac Evans, Akron, Ohio, and John Wonderly, of Illinois.
—Anthony Mooney (Commercial), of ’74, so we infer from a letter, has gone and got married. He is living at Unity Station, on the Wisconsin Central Railroad.
—Among the names of candidates for office in Fort Wayne we notice those of John H. Trentman, of ’65, for
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
clerk; Morris Cody, the father of John H. Cody, of ’62, for aiderman from the Second Ward; and James Breen, the father of William P. Breen, of ’77, for aiderman from the Second Ward. We, of course, hope that all of them may be elected by a handsome majority, as they deserve.
Local Items.
—Last Tuesday was Bro. Alban’s birthday.
—It tried to snow a little last Sunday afternoon.
—The May devotions began last Monday evening.
—It was almost too chilly for baseball on the 1st of May.
—It was quite chilly at the commencemeut of the week.
—The Atlantics beat the Juanitas by a score of 31 to 18.
—The Minims were treated to an extra lunch on the 30th ult.
—Baseball shoes and broad-brimmed hats seem-to be the rage.
—The hats are nobby. The ribbons are put on regard lessly.
—The Philopatrians are in need of a few more good soldiers.
—The Philopatrians were engaged in rehearsals this last week.
—The fishing brigade was out again in full force this last week.
—The castinet player in the Juniors can handle the bones well.
—The young telegraphers are now able to sling light ning in fine style.
—Vespers next Thursday are of the Ascension, page 91 of the Vesperal.
—The Band was out serenading on Tuesday last, the first day of May.
—There is a fine display of natural flowers in the sanctuary of the new church.
—The Entertainment next Tuesday evening will begin at seven oclock p. m., sharp.
—Some way or other our friends on the Campus do not . send in many local items.
—Our fishermen did not have much luck this last week. It was almost too cold to fish.
—We have heard that Mr. W. P. Breen will be the valedictorian next Commencement.
—How about the badges next Commencement? Will all the societies retain their colors?
—Vespers to-morrow are of St. John before the Latin Gate, pages 145 and 45 of the Vesperal.
—The Junior Choral Union makes great progress. They practice every day under a good instructor.
—The regular monthly Bulletins were made out on Wednesday and sent off a day or two afterwards.
—It is said that there is more original spelling in some autograph books than there is original poetry.
—The regular meeting of the Faculty will be held next Tuesday because of Thursday being a feast-day.	'
—It seems that the Eurekas “ have found ” their match in the Mutuals, as they came out Mutuals 20, Eurekas 10
—Those Seniors wanting the English hymns should call on Br. Alban; the Juniors can get them from Br. Leander.
—The members of the Cornet Band return thanks to the authorities at St. Mary’s for the kindness shown them on the 2d inst.
—Next Thursday is the Feast of the Ascension. Mass will be at the usual time. The sermon will be preached by Rev. Father J. A. Zahm.
—The presence of a distinguished visitor in the Junior refectory on last Tuesday morning at the breakfast table created no small impression.
—A. pump is to be placed near the Minim yard. This will be a great convenience to people living in neighboring houses and supply a want long felt.
—The masons and carpenters have begun work on our office, and we expect in a week or two to have as pretty a sanctum as can be found anywhere.
—Rev. Father J. C. Carrier, of Cincinnati, Ohio, will please accept the thanks of the Professor of Botany for his generous donation of flower-seeds.
—The jubilee hymn in honor of the golden jubilee of our holy Father the Pope will be sung at the Entertainment to be given here by the St. Cecilians in June next.
—The resolutions of the Commercial students presented to Prof. Tong were beautifully engrossed by Mr. John Lambin. The work was highly creditable to that young gentleman.
—The two Chinese arbor vitas in the garden in front of the College are handsome conifers. We are only sorry that there are not more of them interspersed through the garden and parks.
—Turner's South Bend Annual for 1877 is now out. We see from it that there are eleven papers published in St. Joseph County. It characterizes the Scholastic as “ a handsome sheet.”
—The box in the corridor near the Commercial studyhall was, let every one understand, placed there to receive communications for the Scholastic. We would be pleased to see it patronized.
—A joint meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean and the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Societies was held on Friday, the 27th of April, at which Rev. President Golovin spoke to them at some length.
—There has been nothing done so far towards rebuilding the pier on the upper lake. If the pier is not rebuilt the posts of the old pier should be removed. Let either one or the other thing be done.
—We noticed quite a number taking special classes in the study-hall on recreation days. Some way or other the members of these classes change quite frequently. However, there are some who are noted for the regularity of their attendance.
—We have not yet been notified by the secretaries of the societies what persons are to represent them on Society Day. It is about time the orators were appointed. There should be no delay; otherwise when the day comes there will be any number to plead want of time.
—The 32d regular meeting of the Sc. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place April 29th. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved of. Tne weekly reports were handed in. Mr. C. Hagan delivered a declamation, and Mr. D. Ryan read an essay.
—Rev. President Golovin preached the first of the regular course of May sermons on Monday evening. It was at once eloquent and practical, and we can do no better than to urge upon all our readers at Notre Dame to follow the good advice given them by the learned preacher.
—On the 2d inst. an exciting and interesting game of baseball was played between the Quicksteps and Young Americas. At the close of the ninth inning the score stood 16 to 25 in favor of the Quicksteps. Air. M. Kauffman umpired the game to the satisfaction of all engaged in it.
—There was a meeting of the resident Alumni held on the afternoon of the 29th, at which committees of arrange-m'-nts, reception, etc., were appointed. The resident secretary was instructed to learn from the poet and orator whether they would be present in June, and if not to notify the alternates.
—We were mistaken in our last issue when we said that the Thespians would play “Julius Caesar” at the end of the year; they will give us “Damon and Pythias" and “ The Sudden Arrival.” We are glad to hear that “ Damon and Pythias ” will be played, for we know that we will have it well rendered.
—On each of the three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension there will be a procession in the morning. At these processions only the Community at Notre Dame assist. These three days are called the Rogation days, and on them the Church begs the blessings of Heaven on the crops. During the procession the Litanies of the Saints are sung.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	555
—Young gentlemen desirous of appearing in print should not be backward in handing in articles to us. They should not feel too bad if we should consign an essay or two to the waste-basket. They should remember that they have gained something by writing the essay, and should write again, making every effort to do better than in their first trial.
—The first case before Squire Lyons was tried the other day. Although the Scholastic reporter was around hunting up items his Honor kept the thing so secret that we knew nothing about it until the trial was over. We intend for the future engaging the township constable as reporter in order to prevent the Squire from hiding hereafter his light under a bushel.
—We are pleased to announce that the Herald of South Bend intends issuing a Sunday edition of the paper. The Sunday Herald will be non-poiitical, and will give the current literary news of the day. We wish Messrs. Murray & Dailey every success, and hope that the people of South Bend will give the enterprise their cordial support. The subscription price is two dollars per annum, payable fifty cents quarterly.
—For the benefit of those who think that it does not cost much to carry on the College, we might state that for the ordinary requirements per month at Notre Dame there are required 12,000 lbs. of beef, 1,000 lbs of fish, 2,000 lbs. of butter, 72 bbls, of flour, 900 lbs. of coffee, 240 lbs. of tea, 5,000 lbs. of sugar, 1,500 gals, of milk, 200 cords of wood 160 gals, of coal-oil, besides ham, fowls, oysters, potatoes, vegetables, etc., etc., etc.
—We learn that the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad Company intend erecting a new depot, one worthy of the city of South Bend’s importance. This is as it should be. There is a great deal of travel to and from South Bend, more perhaps than to and from any other city on the road between Toledo and Chicago. Next September we hope that the students returning to Notre Dame may see .the new depot.
—The policeman must get rid of the Spitz dog.—N. Y. Times. Howl he do it? Get aboard a bark and drown her in the bay. “ Canine dollars buy a license for my pet?” asks the silly miss. “No! if you can’t pay more go and terrier hair. The Spitz is never seen mongrel nice people. —The Pilot. If he can get a bark with the mastiff, and the bulwarks all right, he might setter on the buoys, if he don’t care for the bow-wows.
—At the beginning of the week we were afraid that we would again experience the dreariness of winter, for the sky was cloudy and every once in a while the snow would begin spitting, and the cold air blew spitefully through the branches of the freshly-budding trees. On Tuesday, however, the sun again came out in his glory, and though the air was somewhat raw yet it gave every assurance that winter would not again rule over us.
—The Junior military company were out drilling on the 1st of May. The young boys are able to go through the manual of arms quite readily. They gave us the military salute as they passed us on Tuesday. Will the young gentlemen receive this notice as an editorial one in return ? The field-band at the head of the company know how to play. The heartiness with which the base-drummer used his stick filled us with admiration.
—We understand that the St. Cecilians intend buying a melodeon this summer for their meeting-room. It is the intention of the Director of the Society to have the meetings open and close with singing. The Director of the Archconfraternity also intends introducing the singing of hymns at the meeting of his Association the coming year. This is a move in the right direction, for-the singing will add to the interest taken in the meetings.
—The coming vacation we intend publishing in book form the English hymns sung by the Juriors this year. In addition to those now sung we will add some thirty or forty other hymns. Those in charge of parish-schools wishing to procure copies of the little volume should send their orders in advance as the edition will be printed for use at Notre Dame only, unless ordered before we go to press in July. They will be furnished to school-teachers at the rate of six dollars per hundred. Let us have the orders, then, in advance.	<
—Notre Dame is in nearly the same latitude as Rome, though we have a far cooler temperature here. We are 595 miles further north than the city of Jerusalem, as will be seen by comparing the respective degrees of latitude of . the two cities. Notre Dame is in latitude 41 deg. 41 min. j north, longitude 86 deg. 30 min. west; Jerusalem, 31 deg. I 47 min. north, 35 deg., 13 min. east—giving a difference of latitude of 9 deg. 55 min., or 595 miles; of longitude, 7303 miles. The difference of time between Notre Dame and Jerusalem is8 hours, 6 minutes,52 seconds; the true or geographical course, 8. 84 deg. 12 min. east; compass course, S. 89 deg. 49 min. east, or nearly due east; variation of the compass, 5 deg. 37 min. easterly; distance, 5888 miles. As the motion of the earth on its axis is from west to east, the above difference makes time later at Notre Dame than at Jerusalem, consequently when it is noon at Jerusalem it is 3 h. 53 min. 8 sec., or about 7 minutes of 4 o’clock in the morning at Notre Dame.
—We are more and more pleased with the Irish Globe as it advances in age. It has evidently taken the right track towards securing popular favor with those in whose interests it is published. Like the Boston Pilot, which is beyond a doubt the newsiest and best edited of our Irish American journals, the Globe advocates the interests of the Irish people in America in the manner best calculated to advance those interests, namely upon a sound religious basis, for without this no true progress can be made, socially or otherwise. The sentiment “Revere thy Mother the Church, and love thy Fatherland,” which it would seem is its motto, is, we are glad to see, thoroughly carried out in practice, and under such auspices and with such able editorial management as it now evinces the Irish Globe cannot fail to be productive of much good. The Globe is a handsomely printed sheet,—good paper, clear type, excellent arrangement of matter,—and with sound principles for its guidance it can scarcely fail in obtaining a fair amount of success. It is published weekly by Mr. Clancey, at 37 Barclay St., New York city.
—We recommend to our readers the following poem which is entitled,
THE WASHING OF THE BLOODY SHIRT.
---- V<L *
BY T. MEWER. ■ ' / X CC.
I.
The Shirt that once through Terror’s Hall Such consternation spread,
Now whitens on a clothes’ line small As if it ne’er had bled.
So sleeps the broil of former days, So gory dreams are o’er;
And hearts that once felt cold to Hayes, Now feel that chill no more.
ii.	'
No more for Morton or for Blaine The bleeding garment waves;
Our Nichols washes out the stain And Louisiana saves.
Thus Freedom once again awakes, ■ And every yawn she gives
Some carpet- bagging fetter breaks To show that still she lives.
[Note : It may mystify the unenlightened to find that rMr. Mewer, who lived several centuries ago, should have been so well acquainted with the names of the politicians, as well as with the political byewords, that figured in the recent contest. They should reflect that the Latin word rates means equally a poet and a prophet,—a proof that the poets of ancient times were all prophets, and vice versa. The effusions of Mewer, which are continually turning up, display this faculty of foresight in a wonderful degree, and it is also surprising how many of his poems relate to. the present state of American affairs,—such are: “Though the last glimpse of Tilden with sorrow I see,” “Farewell, farewell to thee! Abraham’s daughter,” and others. The merits of this noble poet are daily receiving more attention, and his spurious imitator, Thomas Moore, so long the sole possessor of his manuscripts, is becoming justly the object of literary execration. The difference between them is observable in the lines so well known about the roses and the shattered vase, whose sickly effeminacy is made more
I
556
THE JtOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
offensive by the discovery of the original, a model of rivile grandeur of thought:
Long, long be my heart with such memories filled, Like a bull-dog that polecats have frequently killed;
You may scrub, you may polish that dog if you will
But the scent of the polecats will hang round him still.
Mr. Mewer was also most ingenious in the matter of finding rhymes. The word “month” is frequently regarded as one for which no rhyme can be found in the English language, but Mr. Mewer, as we find by one of his lately discovered poems, solved the problem long ago, thus:
I was feeling rather foolish, for of April ’twas the oneth,
And the buds were bursting open in that mild aperient month. Our poet, in his declining years, completely lost the use of his chin, and was unable to pursue his career to its final development, but enough remains of him to make us sad at the thought of how much the world has lost, and what a jewel in him it once possessed without appreciating.
—The following is the sixth annual exercises of the Saint Stanislaus Philopatriaa Society of the University of Notre Dame, complimentary to Very Rev. A. Granger, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United States, to be given Tuesday evening, May 8th, 1877:
PART FIRST.
Overture................................University	Band
Song and Chorus.........................Choral	Union
Address to Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.,..R. Keenan
Music......................................Orchestra
Address—Salutatory
The Celebrated Charge (in chorus)
....G. Donnelly G. Donnelly
J. H. Ingwerson J. English R. Keenan C. Peltier E. J. Pennington J. Reynolds L. Frazee T. Barry K. Scanlan W. Nicholas W. Taulby J. Stewart I. Rose
f J. McTague
*	J. Stewart
Olio (in which various things will be done)... -{	T. Barry
| T. Gibbons ( C. Peltier
Prologue..................................K.	Scanlan
Music...............................N.	D. U. C. Band
PART SECOND.
THE PUBLIC BENEFACTOR.
Erastus Steele (a merchant).................T. Barry
Harry (his son) ............................Lee Frazee
Solemn Longface (au impostor).............W. Nicholas
Cyrus Caucus (a countryman).................C. Peltier
Bobby Simpson (a lubberly boy)..............F. Phelan
Barry Hoolan (a laborer)....................R. Keenan
German Declamation......................Paul	Schnurrer
BRIGAND AND HIS SON. A Melodrama.
Corporal Nicolo Gambo.......................J. Stewart
Matteo Falcone.................................J. Bell
Gianettb Sampiero 1 Brigands j..............^nJer Brozza.....................................J	6	(.W. Taylor
Fortunato Falcone (son of Matteo)...........W.	Nicholas
Bonaventure (Page to Fortunato)................F. Lang
■	Soldiers, Brigands, etc.
Music.......................................Orchestra
THE RIGHTFUL HEIR, or THE BLIND BOY. A Melodrama in Three Acts.
Edmund (The Blind Boy, or Rightful Heir)....J. Duffield Prince Rudolph (Presumptive Heir to the Throne) ........................................... W.	Taulby
Oberto (an Honest Agriculturist)............, A. Keenan
El vino (son of Oberto).................G. J. Donnelly
Kalig (a reduced gentleman and upright man)
.................................J. Ingwerson
Starrow (a villainous confident of the Prince).. J. Reynolds Stanislaus (King of Sarmatia) .......;...A Anderson
Molino (a good-natured villager, rather eccentric) ............................................R.	Keenan
Bonifacio (Royal Usher)
Lino..............)
Fitzeustace Roberto... Giacomo... Edgar...... Adil....... Adolpho... Ambrasio..,
Simon........]
Dario .......•
Utobal.......I
Leoni....... }-
Courtiers
..........C. Peltier ........F. Pleins ........J. Nelson ..........J. A. Burger ..........W. Taylor ..........I.	Rose ..................E. Poor ..................F. Phelan M. Vander Hayden
Bataglia.....
Leonardo.....
Josepho......_
Longobardo......
Frederico.......
Godfrey (Courier)
Hidaspo.........
Reginald.......
Epilogue........
Closing Remarks.
'........................T. Barry .........................T. Wagner . E. Pennington Prince’s attendants . .Julius Rogers .........................J. Bell .........................H. Sievers .........................A. Stewart
1 Stewards |	“‘“""“'J
...........................L. Sievers
1	f.....F.Rheinboldt
f Guard8 i.................T. Gibbons
....J. Duffield ............Rev.	P. J. Golovin, C. S. C.
Music—“ There’s Music in the Air ”......Band
During the play there will be appropriate Music for the various incidents in the play.
Holl of Honor.
[In the following list are tbe names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Burke, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, T. Garceau, A. Hertzog, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W. Keily, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, W. McGorrisk, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, C. O’Donald, L. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, G. Saxinger, P. Tumble, F. Vandervannet, M. Williams, C. Whittenburger, H. Whitmer.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
E. Anderson, A. Bergck, T. R. Barry, W. Brady, J. A. Burger, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, M. Condon, G. H. Donnelly, J. English, R. French, C. Faxon, L. Garceau, P. J. Gibbons, A. Hatt, J. L. Healey, W. Hake, V. E. Hanson, J. Ingwerson, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, M. Kauffman, J. R. Keiley, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, E. Moran, R. P. Mayer, J. McTague, A. A. Miller, T. Nelson, W. H. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. Pleins, E. F. Poor, J. H. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, S. D. Ryan, H. Rogers, P. Schnurrer, K. L. Scanlan, G. Sampson, J. W. Sill, T. Wagner, L. Wolf
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Geo. Lowrey, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, J. Scanlan, R. Pleins, W. McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, Eddie Carqueville, A. Coghlin, H. Riopelle, C. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, F. Gaffney, John Inder-rieden, Jos. Inderrieden, W. Carqueville, F. Carqueville, Arthur Sehnert, W. Coghlin, H. Kitz, C. Long, C. Hertzog, E. Hertzog.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING MAY 3.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Seniors—J. Proudhomme, L. Proudhomme, O. Rettig, W. Farra, W. McGorrisk, E. Davenport, T. Quinn, H. Whitner, E. Smith, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, M. Caldwell.
Juniors.—O. Lindberg, J. Duffield, W. Nicholas, A. Keenan, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, E. Pennington, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, A. Abrahams, W. Taulby, B. D. fleeb, A. Widdicombe, E. Poor, J. Larkin, A. Burger, F. Ewing, F. Rheinboldt, J. Healy, F.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
557
Cavanaugh, W. Ryan, T. Nelson, J. English, J. Carrer, L. Gar-ceau, I. Rose, R. Scholby, A. Sievers, J. Mungoven, C. Faxon, L. Sievers, W. Champlin, R. Price, J. Sill, J. Stewart, T. Barry, J. Rogers.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey. P. Nelson, P. Heron, R. Pleins, W. McDevitt, J. Scanlan, G. Rhodins, G. Lambin, E. Carqneville, J. Seeger, W. Coolbangh, C. Reif, G. Hadden, A. Coghlin, Willie Cash, W. Coghlin, F. Gaffney, F. Carqneville, H. Riopelle, C. Kauffman, W. Carqueville, A. Rheinboldt, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, C. Long, C. Hertzog, E. Hertzog.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are thosb who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR’ THE MONTH ENDING MAY 3.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
Grammar—T. Nelson, L. Garceau, T. Wagner, C. O’Donnell, C. Hynds, R. Price, A. Stewart; Arithmetic—F. Carroll, J. Krost, H. Cannoli, L. Sievers, C. Colwell, O. Rettig; Reading and Orthography—C. Whittenburger, A. Abrahams. L. Garceau, W. Champlin ; Geography—J. Price, J. Kuebel; Algebra—M. Caldwell, T. Quinn, J. Larkin, W. McGorrisk, J. Healy.

—“ Petit Maria ” was elected May Queen by unanimous vote. No “ returning board ” needed.
—The exciting competition in the Grammar Classes was long and lively. The result was not reported.
—“Rosa Mystica” was read last Sunday. Very Rev. Father General honored the young ladies by his presence at the reading.
—The little cottage that formerly stood beside the Exhibition Hall has been removed to the Novitiate grounds, where it will be kept as a relic of bygone days.
—The recreation after supper now commences at halfpast six, and the May devotions at half-past seven. The Children of Mary enjoy their special privileges of daily Mass and morning procession to Loreto.
—The Minim reporter failed to send in an account of that scientific treat they enjoyed last week at Phelan Hall. The Professor of Chemistry, etc., etc., etc., was exceedingly kind, and has so interested the Minims in those sciences that they would immediately enter the senior classes if they could only pronounce those terribly hard names.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon. M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, M. O’Connor, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Reising, H. Russell, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, L. Rodin-berger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, B. Wilson, L. Weber, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, M. Dunn, M. Casey, L. Tighe, A. Koch, J. Burgert, M. Smalley, 8. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, C. Ortmeyer, S. Rheinboldt, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neil, L. Kelly, M. Spier, A. Henneberry, H. Hawkins, A. Cullen, M. Carroll, G. Kelly, E. Forrey, A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, B. Siler, E. McGrath, M. Pomeroy, N. O’Meara, K. Gibbons, M. Usselman, I. Cooke, N. Johnson, L. Brownbridge, L. Weier, E. Wright, C. Thayler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Corrill. A. Kirchner, D. Gordon, A. Morgan and L. Walsh, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, M. Mulligan, A. McGrath. L Chilton, J. Kingsbury, M. McFadden, M. Redfield, M. Davis, I. Mann, F. Sunderland and and J. M. Robertson.
Minims—E. Mulligan, M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz. M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee, L. Ellis, A. Williams, J. Butts, A. (jetty and E. Wootten, 100 par excellence.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
M. CATHOLIC JOTTS,2>rjLZ.
looted to th ^onor of th
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS H, AUD MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henbi Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorset,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS:	*
One Year.........................................$	2 50
Five Years......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each).20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
ITSTZDIA-JSTA..
Founded 3.842.	Chartered 1844*
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee
|5 00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music............................... Use of Piano..................................... Use of Violin.................................... Telegraphy.......................................
T 1 General Class Principles................. Vocal Lessons, j Vocal Cultnre...............f.............. Elocution—Special Course..................... Use of Library (per session)...................
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic................... Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus......
(Classical Course.................
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course.............. (Commercial Course...............................
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra...........................
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
10 00 2 50
10 00 10 00 15 00
5 00 1 00
15 00
5 00 10 00 10 00
5 00
40 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO Bd MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
558
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attomevs at Law.
ST»EJETt & MITCHELL fN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Boom No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of’621 Attorney'at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJCVIIVG- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], At-
torneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Bandolph sts., Chicago, Hl.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of 721, Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MeBRIDE <fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the IT. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Bapids, Mich.
\ */ 1 T.T.T A MI J. CL ABK1TC (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Booms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMIES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN T>. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 pm; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; Cleveland 9 45.
X X 59 a m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10 p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9	1 O pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am: Cleveland, 7 (5 a m; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
4	40 p m. Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m,Chicago 6 30 a m.
5	38 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 pm. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20 p m.
8	OO a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a.m.
8	30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div, Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Indiana in the interests of the Irish race, will he furnished at
One Year -	-	-	- $1 SO
Six months -	-	-	-	90
Three Months	-	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
Address,
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, UVD.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for £1 St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
W eekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian.pub ished weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
TUTU A. V JkU AT A TITA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. EdFed by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price. $2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE NOTRE XXA.ME SCHOLASTIC, Published weekly during term time at Notre Dame, Ind. Terms, $1.50 per Annum.	.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’741 $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass 0. 0. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, 0. 0. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GBANGEB, C. S. 0.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrATtS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CTBOTL.E HOUSE, On the»European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
mHE BOIKO HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, MichI igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wa-
bash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
M. Livingston & Co.,
JAT&E THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
559
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	.
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of all cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
•W. H. Stbnnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. -
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, D ., and Louisiana, Mo.....4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen^Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE. -
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-ehed, coal-hbuse, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER TN
Watches, Clocks,
■AJSTX)
□’EWELZRY'.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.i, Fai-t Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,....	. .Leave	11.30 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	2.00 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester,			12.40 a.m.	10.15 “	3.14 “	7.45 “
Alliance,	 Orrville,			305 “	1250 p.m.	555 “	11.00 “
		447 “	2.32 “	7.42 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,			6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,		Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	1030 “	3.50 “
Crestline, ....	..Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	10.35 p.m.	_ — * — * A A A A
Forest,			925 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima,			10.45 “	9.35 “	1 05 A.M.	
Ft.Wayne,			1.20 P.M.	12.10 A.M.	3.25 “	
Plymouth,			345 “	3 20 “	5.49 “	
Chicago,		.Arrive	7.20 “	7.20 “	9.20 “	
GOING EAST.					
		No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mai).
Chicago,		.Leave	10.40 P.M.	8.20 a.m.	5.35 P.M.	
Plymouth,			2.40 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.45 “	
Lima,			8 55 “	4.05 “	1.39 A.M.	
Forest,			10.10 “	5.20 “	250 “	
Crestline,		.Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 *		
Crestline		.Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.50 “
Orrville,........		2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		_ _ - - -	6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M.
Pittsburgh,		.Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F.B. MYEBS, G. R&T. A
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, CHICAGO, TLTjIlSrOTS.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-April 15, 1877.
	•Mall.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a.m	8 30 a.m	3 50 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	10 40 “	6 25 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles	9 00 “	11 55 “	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	10 50 “	1 15 p.m	10 10	10 25 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson.	2 15 p.m	3 45 “		12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	6 15 “		3 35 “	8 10 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 10 a m		6 05 p.m	10 15 p.m
“ Jackson		10 21 “	12 00 m.		9 30 “	1 05 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 38 p.m	4 CO a.m	12 16 a.m	3 20 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	2 35 •*	5 20 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	4 15 “	6 45 “
Ar. Chicago		7 05 “	7 25 “	10 25 “ |	6 55 “	9 00 “
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
HTOTRE DAME AW ST. MARI ’S ’BOS LIKE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Snperiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
IViles and South Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—810'a.m. 715 p m. “ No. Dame—817 -•	7 23 *• Ar. Niles—	8 55	8 00 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	615 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ No. Dame—6 52 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 00 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, -
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer lean for ' ‘ Collection s of Minerals.” ’ ’
My Minera’ogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tablee most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged <lphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spee’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it. en’irely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Monnd Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana Aid other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the'composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
JT. ZEZEZEnrHjZR/, Agent
FOB
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-1
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.	-
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., ojposite Shennan House, Chicago, Illinois.
Price, for Pints, $7.50 per dozen. $84 per gross.
Number of Specimens
25	50	100
in box inbox in box
100
200 300
TOWLE & ROFER, .
WHOLESALE DEALERS IN
CIGARS 8 TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, •	•	• ILLINOIS.
Crystals and fragments.....
Students’ size, larger.....
$50 $1 $1 50 I $ 1 1 50 3 6	5
Amateur's size, 2*4 in. x Ii4.................... 10
High School or Acad, size,2*4x3 *4 in ‘shelf specimens	25
College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens . .	509
$ 2
10
25
50
100
$ 3
25
59
100
300
SEND FOB PBICE LIST.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, PeUowofthe American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.