Votro Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 19, 1878.	Number 7.
Consolation in Sorrow.
[The Christian sentiment of the following beautiful lines from the pen of Sirs. Elizabeth M. Ffrench is worthy the youngest daughter of Ireland’s great Emancipator, Daniel O’Connell,—he who, heartbroken at the sight of his country’s sufferings, dying in a foreign land, bequeathed his “soul to God, his body to Ireland, and his heart to Rome,” the centre of Catholic unity.]—Ave Maria.
“Now what is to he done with this life-long sorrow? Let us look our great sorrow calmly In the face and say to it: ‘You have made up your mind not to part w.th me till I go down to the grave: he then a second Guardian Angel tome; be a shadow of God hindering the heat and glare of the world from drying up the fountains of prayer within my heart.’ Er. Fabeb.
“A life-long sorrow,” such indeed thou art, Yet do I fold thee to my inmost heart; For still within thy pain methinks there dwells
, A cloud of incense and a chime of bells, And the mute sacrifice of hopes o’erthrown A holocaust doth burn before th’ Eternal throne: Oh! send down hallowed fire and make it all thine own. Send down, 0 Lord! Thy grace by holy prayer To keep my soul, though mourning, from despair. Let all my grief, my silent grief be made A place of shelter and a home of shade, Where, safe from noontide glare of worldly lure, ' My soul may dwell with Thee, and be secure. Oh! glorious privilege of sorrow’s pain— To wean the heart from sinful pleasures’ reign, And from too much solicitude to draw Its best and dearest wish to keep Thy law
' As it is kept amongst th’ Elect of God, Who love Thee more than they do fear Thy rod. Whate’er the cause of sorrow yet may prove,—
. Whether Thine auger, or, blest hope, Thy love! Grant me to feel in it a holy peace, And ne’er to wish my sufferings to cease When once Thy Holy Will to me is known ; But make in life and death my heart Thy throne!
Defender of the Faith.
If an Englishman will take a pound sterling of the present year, he will find around the effigy of Queen Victoria the words “Defensor Fidei,” a title which the sovereigns of Great Britain have been proud to bear for more than three centuries.
From whom did they receive it ? Why was it given to them? What did it originally mean, and what does it mean now ?
Henry VIII received this title from the Pope as a personal privilege, and one that he had ardently desired and solicited for a long time. It was conferred by a Bull of
Leo X, and confirmed by Clement VII. No one is ignorant on what occasion. Luther had left the Church. He was sowing his heresy in Germany, declaring that the Pope was Antichrist, and declaiming with furious rage against Rome in his impious work, “The Captivity of Babylon.” Henry VIII, indignant at the effort to mislead the people, replied in a book called “ Assertio Septem Sacramentorum adversus Martinum Lutherum.” I regret that the space to which I am limited prevents me making copious citations from it, for my readers would then see that it would be impossible for anyone to proclaim a more devoted attachment to the Holy See than did Henry VIII at that time. These pages are more than three centuries old; but to-day, when war against the Papacy is more bitter than ever, we know of none among the contemporary works which defend the Church more filially and more warmly.
If at the time when Henry VHI, full of joy, received the Bull of Leo X, amid the hearty congratulations of his people, a man had stood before him and said to him: “ You will be -the author of a schism which will make blood flow in torrents, and will desolate England, Scotland, and Ireland for more than three centuries; you, the victorious Henry VIII, who would be the delight of your people if you were the master of your passions instead of being their slave, you will become the Nero of England,”—had such words been spoken their author would have been looked upon as insane. The proud and passionate Tudor would have exhausted his ingenuity in inventing means to torture a traitor like this. But, at the end of 1534, he who would venture to print this book which had purchased for Henry VIII the title which the sovereigns of England are so proud to use even to-day, would have been declared guilty of high treason.
Thus God has wished that the very coins of his country shall become for the Englishman who reflects and studies a precious and lasting historical monument of the ancient Faith of the country, the Catholic, Apostolic, and Roman Faith, the Faith of France, of Spain, Italy, Austria, and all Christianity.
■ The title “Defensor Fidei ” signified at that time the defender of the Roman Faith. What does it mean now ? Is not the title “Defensor Fidei” very much like that of King of France, which the sovereigns of England renounced in the beginning of this century, without really losing anything? To tell the truth, they are “ defenders of the Faith ” in much the same manner as Victor Emmanuel was king of-Cyprus and Jerusalem. But possibly some of my readers may be astonished that I insist so strongly upon the book written by Henry VIH, for it might seem that the shameful life of the author reflects discredit upon the work. Let us not be mistaken. In the first place, when Henry ‘ VIH wrote against Luther he was very far from being the
102	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
monster of iniquity which he became afterwards. Again, it is important to understand that Henry VIII was not the sole author of this monument of his former faith, reared by his hand fourteen years before his apostacy. The universal judgment of critics has always attributed the more solid part of the work at least to John Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, who assumed ostensibly all the responsibility of it in the public defence made of it, and who afterwards shed bis blood on Tower-hill in defence of its truth.
Thus we see on the one hand Henry VIII, who after putting forth his work with so much ostentation, belied it without shame, and strove to mutilate it; and on the other, John Fisher, who plants it upon the immovable rock where he had taken his place, and with glorious magnanimity sacrifices his life to defend it. This is the choice offered. He who returns to the ancient Faith of Henry VIII separates himself from the tyrant and the murderer, and joins himself to the compauy of his victim. He ranks himself beside the glorious martyr who, during the second half of King Henry’s reign, was, of all the episcopate of England, the only guardian left of English honor, and the last champion of the liberty of conscience.
An unwelcome truth, but a hard fact. In 1521, at the time of the publication of the king’s book against Luther, the whole English episcopate most undoubtedly believed in the primacy of the Pope, with Fisher, with Henry VIII, with all the Catholic Church, and in no sense believed in the spiritual supremacy of the king. Then there was unity and unanimity, and the present and past of England were in harmony. But in 1534 the king changes his doctrine, and with him the whole episcopate and Parliament. One English Bishop only was found to display the firmness .of a Basil, a Hilary, an Athanasius, an Ambrose, a Chrysostom, a Lanfranc, an Anselm, an Edward, a Thomas of Canterbury. The number of the cowards does but make the immortal beauty of the contrast shine out with the greatest splendor. How many rough stones are not thrown together, pell-mell in their shapelessness and obscurity, to form the foundation of the pedestal of one chosen stone, carved with the sublime inspiration of genius by the chisel of a Michael Angelo, to become the statue of a great man! If John Fisher, like the heroic Thomas More, had not the support of his own nation he had that of all Christendom. Yes, the monument of John Fisher is worthy to become the rallying point of every generous-hearted Christian Englishman who ardently looks for the realization of the promise and dearest wish of our common Redeemer and Saviour Jesus Christ—There shall be one flock and one Shepherd. With what indescribable emotion the heart of an Englishman must beat when, after a long interior combat with so many prejudices in which he has been nurtured, he at last breaks the chains of his slavery, and when, feeling himself free with that liberty which only a Catholic can feel, he cries out, “ I’ll do it: I abjure the schism of Henry VIII, the creed of Cranmer and Parker; I will go back to the faith of John Fisher! ” Such, doubt-' less, were the sentiments of the learned Robert Wilberforce when he returned to the bosom of the Holy Catholic Church. His words, so serious, so marked by the ardent love of truth, so touching in their tone of respect and fraternal charity for his adversaries, fall upon our ears in accents of majestic solemnity as they echo back to us from the depths of the tomb. This is what his hand has written whose memory is enshrined in the noblest hearts:
“ When national distinctions cease to exist, and mankind,
small and great, are assembled before God, it will be seen whether it was wiser, like Henry VIII and his minion Cromwell, to break up the Church Catholic for the sake of ruling it, or, like More and Fisher, to die for its unity.”
_______________ '	C. S.
Reflections on Some Things in Particular.
“Who loves a garden loves a greenhouse too.”
In like manner, the admirer of the beautiful works of God in nature loves to study and contemplate them with an eye and mind filled with joy and pleasure. The minutest moss or lichen which grows at his feet is not un-frequently the object of his serious consideration. Nature’s diversified character is to him a cause of reflection, and not unfrequently the principal means of raising his soul above itself, taking ■wings, as it were, and ascending to the abodes of the celestial spirits who lend their aid in beautifying and perfecting those realms of peace, happiness and contentment, of joy and consolation. Sages write and poets sing; and from this singing and writing we can gather some maxims worthy of thought. But, it may be asked, of what do the poets sing? and of what do the sages write ? The poet may sing of worlds unknown, of places where human infirmities have never entered, and of islands on whose shores the mighty king, Death, has never dared to put his foot. He may also sing of countries where the storms of persecution never rage, where the name of war and its dreadful concomitants are unknown, and where all is peace and quiet; where love reigns supreme, mingling its sweetness with the harmony that is there to be found, and constituting all in perfect unity. He may, again, give vent to his inward emotions in describing or chronicling the stupendous deeds of heroes, in reciting, after his own full-soulcd manner, some great adventure or other, or in giving us a poem of a didactic nature, full of instruction, and calculated to inculcate lessons of religion and morality. Or, assuming the role of the theologian, he may tell us that
“Thou art of all created things, 0 Lord! the essence and the cause,— The source and centre of all bliss.
What are those veils of woven light, Where sun and moon and stars unite,— The purple morn and spangled night,— But hangings which Thy goodness draws Between yon heavenly world and this ?”
And, still continuing, say:
“ God said, be light, and light upsprung;
Be worlds, and worlds on nothing hung; More swift than thought the mandate runs, And forms ten thousand kindling suns.”
The sage may write of men in regard to their political and social life, their character, and the deeds they may have performed; of the manners, customs, laws, etc., of nations; of civil and religious liberty, and of the duties which man owes to himself and to his Creator. He may also dwell upon the place which man holds here below, of the noble qualities with which he has been endowed by God, and of the return which as a reasonable being he is supposed to give to his Creator, his Lord and Master, in obeying Him, in serving Him, and in doing whatever is commanded by Him who has given him life, existence, and whatever he possesses.
The poet may have done well his part; the sage may also have done his well. But well is that well does. Right
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
103
is right, whatever wrong be. The world is the world, and the people that form a part of it shall be what they are so long as God pleases to leave them so. We found everything essentially as it is; we can change nothing. We may find fault, complain, etc., about this and about that: but to what effect ? Everything goes on the same as if we had never opened our lips. The world, then, should be rather a source of pleasure to us than complaint. Its mountains, valleys, hills and dales are charming to the beholder, and enrapture the heart of its transient inhabitants. We have additional proof of the truth of this when we see what he who never looked with mortal eye upon any of nature’s beauties says:
“Ye vales, which to the raptured eye Disclosed the flowery pride of May; Ye circling hills, whose summits high Blushed with the morning’s earliest ray.” -
The plants, flowers, and trees shall be causes of occasional joy and pleasure to those who take an interest in them, who love to spend a part of their time among them watching their growth, inhaling their fragrance and enjoying their smiling companionship; and in regard to flowers and their sweetness, the same blessed poet says:
“ Let long-lived pansies here their scents bestow, The violet languish, and the roses grow;
In yellow glory let the crocus shine, Narcissus here his love-sick head recline ; Here hyacinths in purple sweetness rise, And tulips tinged with beauty’s fairest dyes.”
But what have we said so far, or have we said anything to the point? Have we striven to delineate Nature in her va-riagated and manifold characters; or have we not rather lessened her distinction in not doing justice to her transcendency ? Did we view her in her richest attire, decked in all her beautiful adornments, and beaming all over with heavenly sweetness? Many have tried to paint Nature, to exhibit her in her true ‘colors; but with what success ? Some may be said to have acted well their parts in this respect; in a word, to have done justice to their noble theme. But this is not within the reach of all. All have not the power of doing justice to those noble and sublime subjects, which may sometimes be undertaken, not of course to be exhibited to the world as a finished masterpiece of composition, but rather to accomplish something, to praise, if nothing more, the Creator and Lord of all things by saying something in reference to the beauty, grandeur, harmony and unity of His admirable works, so that those who may not have the time or ability to consider the works of nature for themselves may have an opportunity of reading something concerning them, no matter how badly put together, that will assist in concentrating the faculties of the soul on a certain object, and there find food for thought and reflection; so that as Christians and children of God, this reflection may at some time be turned on themselves, on their own nothingness, and, finally, bringing them on to the consideration of their own insignificance, and the greatness, goodness and wisdom of Him who made all things; of the omnipotence of Him who sustains and governs whatever is, and whatever exists. Thus there is in everything, no matter how small it may at first seem to us, no matter how useless, sufficient merit, sufficient identity to elicit our honest attention and lay claim to our thought; for when we consider that “ whatever is, is right,” we shall come to the universal and absolute conclusion that all beings considered in themselves, and as far asjthey’are beings,"are good and
perfect, as they come from the hand of the Creator. And indeed this ought to be so, when we take into consideration the character of Him who gave them existence and who sustains and directs them. Over our heads we may behold numberless stars bespangling the firmament of the heavens; beneath our feet, and growing sometimes to a considerable length over our heads, we behold such a variety of plants, flowers, trees, stones, etc., that we are, not unfrequently, at a loss to know what object lays the greater claim to our admiration.
Some who have spent the greater part of their years amid the rich perfumes of well kept and regulated flowergardens, orchards, etc., are so taken up with flowers and all that concerns them that they can scarcely speak or say anything—good, bad or indifferent—about anything else. If you take them away from their country home and from the beautiful scenery amid which they spent so many happy days, and place them in some such position as will entirely deprive them of everything to which they were before accustomed, they are out of their element altogether. They sigh for the time they used to prune the apple and pear trees, to irrigate the flower-garden, to dig the ground between the flowers, to hoe the weeds that choked their growth and endangered their very existence, to notice at eventide certain tiny flowers closing their tender cups, and, again, when the powerful king of day makes his appearance in the West, to notice with more than pleasure the opening of their tiny arms to receive him. The stately trees that go to make the solitary wood are to such men a source of admiration. They love to ponder and contemplate their number, their different appearances,—their height, strength, and other peculiar qualities. They can tell you the beauty of some, the usefulness of others,—those that are able to resist the violent blasts from the north and west, and those whose constitutions are unable to undergo so serious a trial. Such a man as this was Pliny, who, many hundred years ago, when in the full vigor of his age and intellect, ardently admired the solitary beauty of the woods and forests and the different qualities of their trees. He, with the eye of a naturalist, viewed the stately oak, the proud elm, the slender willow, the cedar, etc. He loved to enumerate their variety and classification, and in this latter respect the trees of the forest closely resemble man. In the first place, there are different races of men; some are black, others are brown, copper-colored, and tawny, while others again are white; but it is not so much in the color as in the different intelligence, laws, manners, and customs that men differ. Some nations are known and distinguished for their valor, their constancy and indomitable will, and in this respect somewhat resemble the proud and stately trees of the forest, while others; easily led, and of a complacent and social nature, resemble the willow that bends and gives to every wind and breeze. And so we might go on indefinitely comparing and contrasting God’s creatures, and find herein much food for contemplation and reflection; but we must return to man and say a few words as regards his different occupations.
Everyone loves that employment to which he is by nature adapted. The plowman loves his occupation: he loves to talk of farming implements, of horses and cattle, of sowing the seed, and of the management of a farm in general. The fisherman, in like manner, is never done talking of the grandeur and beauties of the deep, of the storms and tempests by which his frail bark have been tossed on the ocean’s bosom, of the differ
1
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ent kinds of fish, the best way of catching them, etc. The sportsman with gun in hand roams the woods and the distant prairies in pursuit of game; he fears.no hardships, no fatigues; one thing alone is his object, and that he pursues with so determined a will that every other thought or consideration is nothing to him. He loves to hunt the buffalo on the plains, to pursue the deer through the trackless woods, and to shoot down the prairie-chickens and other birds in their flight. Nature is to him all delight; the earth is his pleasure-garden, and the blue sky the canopy under which he performs his feats.
As every man in this world has a different vocation it follows that employments, occupations, and professions must be diversified. We are sometimes not a little surprised when we consider the workings and the occupations of the human race. Each one of us has a certain sphere in which he must move—not necessarily, it is true. It is in relation to one another, then, that we differ so much, for the end of all is the same. The stars and planets move exactly in the same proportionate rate and in the same order as they were ordained by Him who rules and governs them. They keep the same respective distance one from another, never deviating from their prescribed course. They are regular; they are in order; each one by itself, and all together; so that to the thinking mind the glory of God is thus reflected in a most admirable degree. “ Order,” as Pope says, “ is Heaven’s first law,” and to this end all things have been created.
Although all things, all creatures have a common end,— that is, to manifest the glory of God,—still, individually speaking, they all have a different work to perform, and man as regards this is different from all other animals. He, endowed with an immortal soul, free will and liberty, can violate, and seriously too, the laws by which he should be guided, and it is this that brings about so much trouble in this world. All do not work in harmony, nor have they a common end in view. Some do whatever they perform for their own satisfaction, for their own aggrandizement, and never for a moment think that all should be done for the greater glory of God and the sanctification of their own souls; consequently, that harmony of thought, that order which would reflect so much credit on the "world, is in a great measure wanting because all do not work regularly and orderly for a common end. Hence disorder is found insociety; men are continually pulling against one another, and making their different ways through life more rugged and harder to travel. But where is the use of dwelling so long upon this point, for men will never act as they should in this world below ? They are never contented, for the means of contentment is not theirs. They want something, but that something can never be had in this world. The end of all is to enjoy the presence of God in His glorious kingdom, and unless we obtain this end we can never be happy. The ways of God, indeed, are mysterious, but to the world He has shown the road to happiness. Some, it is true—and, we fear, a great many—miss the road; for, being naturally weak and easily led astray, they wander from their path, which, once lost sight of, they scarcely think of until it is too late. But let us be careful, and consider always before we perform an action whether that action be good or bad. Let us be true to ourselves, and never do anything that may deprive us of our right to heaven. God has given us the means to go there if we only avail ourselves of them. He has been so good to us in giving us our being, in protecting us and preparing a place for us beyond
the skies. If all other creatures praise Him, why should we not praise Him and do His will? If the heavens declare His glory, why not we ? If the firmament and stars declare the might and power of the arm of the Lord, why should not we be equally inclined to acknowledge His power in the creation of us, His noblest work ? If the language of the stars and heavenly bodies is confined to no region in sounding the praises of God, should we not at least fill this our sphere with words of praise ? And, lastly, if the voice of nature is understood both by God and man, why should not man’s voice be understood by God, who has bestowed so noble a faculty upon us ? In the sight of God we should, too, be humble, for as a dying philosopher said, “ what we know is but little, and what we know not is immense.’’ Now, if there be any truth in this assertion, it is evident that we should be humble, and not attribute to ourselves qualities which we may not possess. We can, it is true, do everything with God’s assistance; but, then, we should always attribute such actions to the assistance of God, for of ourselves we can do nothing, although man, viewing himself in himself, makes, according to his own estimation, something of importance. And it is on this point that most men make their mistake. We, it is true, viewed as creatures of God, endowed with noble faculties and doing what is required and demanded of us, are of relative importance ; but of ourselves we are nothing. We must therefore, in order to be consistent with ourselves, return thanks to God for His provident care of us, and, if we cannot repair to His temple to praise Him, we should, after the manner of Catholic mountaineers,
“ . . . Cease from toil and humbly kneel to pray, And bail with vesper hymns the tranquil hour;
For then, indeed, the vaulted heavens appear A fitting shrine to hear their Maker's praise,
Such as no human architect can rear,
Where gems and gold, and precious marbles blaze. • What earthly temple such a roof can boast ?
What flickering lamp with the rich starlight vies ?
When the round moon rests like the Sacred Host
Upon the azure altar of the skies.”
“ Hail, brightest Star! that o’er life’s troubled sea Shines pitying down from heaven’s elysian blue !
Mother and maid, we fondly look to thee, Fair gate of bliss, where Heaven beams brightly through!
Star of the morning! guide our youthful days;
Shine on our erring steps in life’s long race;
Star of the evening I with thy tranquil rays, Gladden the aged eyes that seek thy face.” •
Such should be our constant prayer. We should beg the protection of Heaven, and ask God to bless us, and His Blessed Mother to pray for-us, that, living well, we may die the death of the just. •	C. C.
Natural History.
The description, comparison, and classification of natural objects constitute what is known as Natural History. Hence to study natural history we have to study the “ organic ” and the “ inorganic ” worlds. The former is generally spoken of under two heads, namely botany and zoology. The latter is divided into mineralogy and lithology.
The first point which' we have to consider is botany, or the natural history of plants, than which nothing can be more interesting and instructive. We perceive in them
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	105
life without apparent motion. Hence we have to inquire why plants are not made to move in the same manner as animals. We at first do not see clearly why this is, but we come to the conclusion that as the Creator is all wise He did not make them stationary without some object in view.
In the first place, plants receive all their nourishment from the earth and air; consequently, growing out of the earth, and being surrounded with air, it is not necessary for them to move. Movement is the result of muscular contraction, hence it would be only a waste of force if plants had the power of motion. However, there is an exception or two to this almost general rule. The plant known as Venus’s Flytrap opens and shuts whenever any insect or even a stick happens to touch its fibres. This peculiar plant also has the power of distinguishing between dead and living substances. If an insect be caught by this plant it will- press its sides tighter and tighter together, until it becomes completely dry, the nourishment being absorbed by the plant. If, on the contrary, you place a pencil in place of the insect it will close, but in a few minutes will open as if to throw off the pencil.
The study of botany and zoOlogy are closely connected with each other, because the lower forms of either cannot be distinguished. By some they are regarded as plants, by others as animals. Also, the zoological subjects are entirely nourished by the botanical. It is for these reasons that they are generally linked together in our schools and colleges. That is, they are generally commenced about the same time.
In zoology we have about the most interesting^and the most noble products of life to study. We commence with the monera, and ascend to man. Throughout this long course of study, which a man can scarcely complete in a lifetime, we observe a great diversity of forms, and as yet the long sought for link has not been found. Besides the ill-formed head of the ape, the brain does not show a single resemblance to that of man, either in shape or development. It is therefore of great importance to us to study and understand this subject thoroughly, that we may not be led astray by the upholders of the Darwinian theory.
By the knowledge of zoology we are enabled to classify objects according to structure, and not as the ancients, who classified animals according to their form, thereby placing the whale among fishes. It is unnecessary for us to say that a whale is a mammal, because every zoologist is well aware of the fact.
Mineralogy, the next branch of natural history, is the science of mineral aggregates and rocks. If we examine a piece of gold, and determine its chemical characters, its mode of development and its uses, we have its mineralogy. It is therefore very useful to us to know how to determine the value of a particular piece of stone, because we sometimes find valuable amethysts, geodes, etc., which without the knoweledge of mineralogy would be passed by and considered as useless. Lithology is the study of natural beds of minerals, their origin, structure and relation to other rocks; an extensive branch in itself. Hence we see that the study of natural history is one which no single individual can completely master during a long lifetime. One cannot, however, become proficient in one branch without a limited knowledge of the others.
There is great danger accompanying the study of the subjects which compose the “organic” and “inorganic” worlds. Those who do not believe in a creation, endeavor to bring forth proofs from natural history which would
refute the innate idea which man naturally has regarding the Creator. To do this they deduce theories which sometimes become popular for a time, but in most cases they die out with the person who started them. They try to prove that man is only a developed monkey, that the monkey developed from some lower animal, and so on, until at the beginning they place protoplasm, which they say is the beginning of animal life. Hence, on account of the many specious, though really shallow, theories advanced by scientific monomaniacs a certain restraint is necessary when we study those great and sublime subjects which natural history presents to us.
It is often said that natural history is an injury more than a benefit to those who study it. This theory, however, is as absurd as it would be to say that ignorance is -preferable to learning, and among the students of natural history we Catholics have a host of men who rank as the greatest luminaries of the nineteenth century, among them Cardinal Wiseman, St. George Mivart, and many others. Even if the student does not obtain a rank equal with those whom I have just mentioned, he can at least satisfy himself in regard to proper and improper theories.
G.C.
Industry.
Industry is one of the greatest and noblest acquirements that man can attain. To know how to employ time in the manner that the most benefit is derived therefrom is a study which should interest everyone.
The man who is industrious renders far more good to his country, and honor to himself, than do a multitude of those who are to be seen along the path of life seeking to gain a livelihood without labor.
The industrious man is never at a loss to know how to employ his time to the greatest advantage, and with profit to himself and others; for he endeavors to benefit his fellow-men in as far as lies in his power. Thus he gradually becomes known and esteemed in a wide circle of acquaintances during his life, his name and memory are honored by the children of those whom he had benefited or befriended> and descend to posterity a far more precious heirloom than his wealth.
If the men of former times, as well as of the present day, were not industrious, with what greater difficulties should we not have to contend! Were it not for the labor and industry of Watt, who by his persistent efforts at length discovered the means of employing steam as a motive power and bringinglt into practical use, he might have remained unknown, and his name would haveremained buried forever in obscurity. Shakespeare, Sir Walter Scott, and a host of other distinguished writers, had they not been so industrious with their mind and pen, and had they not left such a vast amount of intelligent writings, their admirers would not be as numerous as they are now. Among students it is comparatively easy to distinguish between the industrious and the indolent. Their work and standing speak for them. In life, no matter what station one is to occupy, whether he be a professional man, merchant or tiller of the soil, success will not be achieved if the power of industry is wanting.
It was the industry and energy of the people that raised our nation from the unimportant place which it held in its infancy to that which it now occupies, one of the foremost powers of the earth. It was by industry that our cities, col

106
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
leges and other public institutions were built, and by persevering industry they have prospered and become what they are. It was by industry that dreary wastes and trackless forests were transformed into fertile fields and luxuriant pastures. It was by industry that rivers have been made navigable and mountains passable.
By industry the greatest difficulties not impossible have been surmounted, and all obstacles overcome. The busy bee is often taken as an example of industry, and, indeed, very properly so; for it employs every moment of its time to the best advantage in the storing up of food for future use. If some that are students would only observe its movements they would receive a lesson that might prove of lasting benefit to them.
Nothing can be of more essential importance to the student at college than industry. No matter what his talents may be, if he is not industrious in employing them he will accomplish but little. The student, in order to become a true man, should endeavor to gain above all the habit of industry, and when a person becomes so attached to his work that nothing save actual necessity will withdraw him from it, then indeed we may say that he is industrious.
F. C.
Scientific Notes.
—It is stated in the Chemical Journal that glycerine retards both lactic and alcoholic fermentations. One-fifth of glycerine added to milk at a temperature of 15 deg. to 20 deg. C. prevents it from turning sour for eight or ten days.
—The Rt. Rev. Dr. Lynch, of South Carolina, called at the Smithsonian Institution lately, and presented a fossil tooth which was brought up from a depth of nineteen hundred feet below the surface of the earth, through an artesian well, in the city of Charleston. The tooth has somewhat the appearance of that of a human being, but has not yet been critically examined by the naturalists of the institution.
—The Congress of Orientalists has lately been in session at Florence, and a number of able letters concerning it have appeared in the London Times, being presumably from the pen of the new editor, who is himself a distinguished Oriental scholar. Among the delegates were representatives of Oriental learning from all parts of the world. Various entertainments were offered to the Congress. Signor Rossi entertained thirty of the most distinguished members at dinner, and all were invited to visit the ex-King Amadeus at his palace in the vicinity of Florence.
—The exorbitant price demanded by the patentees of the Bell telephone for their instruments causes no little discontent in England, where that form of the telephone has the field to itself, so far as the law is concerned. It does seem rather extortionate to levy from twenty-five to thirty pounds sterling on the purchase of an instrument that could be sold with a profit for half as many shillings. The result is, that the patent is boldly infringed: the separate parts of the telephone are for sale everywhere at a low price, and so people are enabled to make telephones for themselves.
—Dr. Schliemann has telegraphed from Ithaca to Athens: “We have made a great discovery. On the plateau which extends toward the western shore of the southeast part of the island, we have found, in digging, ninety houses of cyclopean construction, belonging to the Homeric city of Ithaca. Impossible to express here the methodical result of our excavations. The winter rains have washed into the sea all the ancient treasures. Nevertheless, the discovery of these ruins constitutes a valuable treasure for the island. All the lovers of antique souvenirs will hasten to visit the city of Homer.
—Analysis and examination of the dead Rocky Mountain locusts by the United States Entomological Commission show that these insects furnish a new oil which will be christened catoptine, and a very large percentage of pure
formic acid. Though this acid exists in the ant and some other insects, it is with difficulty obtained in large quantities ; whereas by the action of sulphuric acid upon the locust juices, it passes off with great readiness, and in remarkable quantity and gravity. The various uses of this acid as a therapeutic, etc., are capable of great and valuable extension, where it can be obtained so readily, and in such quantity.—Druggists’ Circular.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Max Bruch is now Director of the famous “ Sternsche Gesangverein ” in Berlin.
—The next volume of the “English Men of Letters’’ series will be a life of Oliver Goldsmith, by William Black-
—Wagner is at present engaged in rewriting one of his earliest works,—a symphony, composed in 1832, and performed at Prague and Leipsic in 1833.
—The example of Punch in publishing its volume of Beaconsfield cartoons has been followed by Judy, who announces a similar collection illustrating the career of Mr. Gladstone.
—The fourth century of the birth of Giorgione, one of the founders of the Venetian School of Painting, has been recently celebrated at Castelfranco, and a statue of him was unveiled on Sept. 26th.
—The famous Russian opera, “Life for the Czar,” by Glinka, is to be given in Germany, under very favorable circumstances. Richard'Pohl has made the German version, and Dr. von Bulow will produce it in Hanover.
—Robinson's Epitome of Literature is printing a series of articles on the private libraries of Philadelphia. The number for October contains a most interesting description of the library of Mr. Henry C. Lea, the author of “ Superstition and Force.”
—The New York Oratorio Society will give four concerts and four public rehearsals this season under the direction of Dr. Damrosch. Among the works selected for performance are Handel’s “Messiah” and “Alexander’s Feast,” Mendelssohn’s “ Psalm 114,” and (a decided novelty) Kiel’s “ Christus.”
—After all the humbug about German bands, we are going to have the genuine imported article. A concert band of forty performers will arrive in New York about the middle of October. They will be known as the “ Red Hussars,” and their conductor is K. Schreiner, a well-known composer and violinst.
—The press of New York gives Wilhelmj the most enthusiastic praise, and speaks of him as the greatest violinist of the age. He is described in person as attractive, in manners suave, and in dress neat, without ostentation. In years probably not more than 33 or 34. He speaks English fairly, having lived in London from 1875 to 1877, and was instrumental in securing the visit to London of Wagner.
—It is stated that the Pope, with a view of rendering the Vatican Library more useful to students, has given orders for its contents to be rearranged and purposes at the same time, while he determines the attributes of the new office of Under Librarian of the Holy Church, to which he recently appointed his brother, Don Giuseppe Pecci, to make considerable changes among the officials in charge.
—M. Jules Simon is about to bring out a work in two volumes called “Le Gouvernement de M. Thiers.” Sampson Low & Co. will at the same time publish an English translation of it. Charles Mathews’ widow has put into the hands of Mrs. Charles Dickens abundant material for a life of her husband, including, for the early life, an autobiography, prepared for publication by Mr. Mathews, together with notes for the continuation of the same, letters, etc.
—The new number in the series of Artist Biographies, edited by M. F. Sweetser is on Van Dyck. Though his art-life was in some measure overshadowed at home by that of Rubens, he found room for fame in England, where his portraits are cherished to this day as precious legacies in many noble families. He was, indeed, the prince of portrait-painters. Sir Joshua Reynolds, perhaps, under


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
107
9.
<
rated him in thia capacity, though with the least jealousy and the utmost honesty in the world. The present biography contains many interesting anecdotes, and will prove well worth reading.
—Robert Smith writes to the London Times as follows: “In Mr. Gladstone’s article ‘Kin Beyond Sen,’ the couplet from Heber’s ‘Palestine ’ is strangely misquoted. Instead of the lines:
No workman steel, no ponderous hammers rung, Like some tall palm the stately fabric sprung, as incorrectly given by Mr. Gladstone, they should read:
No hammer fell, no ponderous axes rung.
Like some tall palm the mystic fabric sprung.”
—A Paris dispatch (Oct. 7) to the New York Herald says: “Charles Gounod’s new opera, ‘Polyeucte,’ was produced at the Grand Opera House to-night; but it rather disappointed the expectations of the great audience that had assembled. It is the most ambitious of Gounod’s works, yet many of the effects of instrumentation aimed at by the composer have not been realized. The music was rather heavy and colorless, although the opera was presented by an excellent company. Mme. Krauss and Lassale surpassed themselves. The mise en scene was magnificent, and full justice was done to the work by the directors of the OperaHouse.”
—The University ofBonn has just suffered a heavy loss by the death, on September 18th, of one of its Catholic professors, Dr. Joseph Beaurband, at the age of 78 years. He showed himself in evil days as well as in quiet times a faithful and obedient son of the Church. He was himself the object of the greatest respect and affection to his numerous scholars. After Walter he was regarded as the ablest and most learned jurist of the Rhineland. He was for some time a Deputy in the Landtag, and was subsequently created a member of the Upper House. His gentle and benevolent character, his uprightness and courteousness of manner won the esteem and love of his fellowcitizens.
—The Oxford correspondent of the Times says:—Professor Seager, whose death occurred a few days since, at the Congress of Orientalists, had only lately been re-admitted a member of the University of Oxford, from which he had been exiled upon his adhesion to the Church of Rome. A decree was passed enabling him to replace his name without payment of the usual fees. As a member of Magdalen Hall he obtained the Pusey and Ellerton Scholarship in 1834. In 1836 he was elected scholar of Worcester College, was placed in the third class, aud obtained the Kennicolt Hebrew Scholarship. He was a pupil of Dr. Pusey’s, under whom he gave public lectures in Hebrew. He was one of the earliest members of the secession to Rome of which Dr. Newman was the leading spirit. He was the author of various publications, political and religious, and was an excellent Oriental and good classical scholar, familiar with many of the more out-of-the-way branches of learning.
—The great Chinese encyclopaedia, recently purchased for the British Museum at a cost of $7,500, is voluminous indeed. There are 5,020 volumes all told. The Emperor Kang-he was a great admirer of ancient literature, and was deeply grieved to perceive that extensive corruptions were everywhere creeping into the texts that were reproduced. To put a stop to this he determined to gather together in one authoritative work the entire mass of Chinese literature from the earliest times until his own day. A learned commission was appointed to collate and /verify all Chinese works, and the Jesuit missionaries were simultaneously employed in casting a vast amount of copper type. The collection and examination occupied the commission for forty years, and before it was fully completed the wise old monarch died, leaving the execution of' his great design to Yung-Ching, his successor. He seems to have taken up the great literary scheme with keen interest, and it was his hand which wrote the preface to the work when it was at length published. The commissioners professed to have taken all works from about 1,100 B. C. to 1,700 A. D., and it is supposed that the whole Chinese literature of any importance between those dates is to be found embodied in these 5,020 volumes. The subjects are classified under six headings, under which are
arranged writings relating to the heavens, the earth, mankind, inanimate nature, philosophy, and political economy.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic Publication Society Co., No. 9 Barclay St., New York, sends us The Young Girl's Month of October, by the author of “ Golden Sands,” an excellent little book for those for whom it is published.
—We have received from the Pilot Publishing Co., Boston, Mass., a copy of J. Boyle O’Reilly’s Poems, which we-consider too good for a short notice in this column. In a week or so we will publish a lengthy review of the book. A Catechism of the Christian Religion*. Translated from
the German of Rev. Joseph Deharbe, S. J. Revised, with Additions by an American Ecclesiastic. First American Edition. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1878. Pp. 138. Price, 75 cts.
We have already spoken words of praise concerning the excellent Catechisms of Deharbe. They certainly deserve the serious consideration of all engaged in the instruction of youth when about to select a text-book in Christian doctrine.	,
Ax Introductory History of the United States. For the
Use of Schoo's. Arranged on the Catechetical Plan. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., 1878. Price, 40 cts. Pp. 142.
This little history is an excellent work and makes a good introduction to the History of the United States published by the same house. It is concise, yet sufficiently full for young beginners. The illustrations are good, and the whole “get up” of the book worthy of the good name of the publishers.	.
History of the Middle Ages. Adapted from the French of Rev. P. F. Gazeau, S. J. With Review Questions added. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1878. Pp. 501. Price, §1.
It has always been our belief that Catholic publishers would do more good were they to encourage our own people to prepare text-books and to write histories, novels, etc., than they do by getting up translations from other languages. But as it seems that we must have the translations, we prefer having them of good books. Gazeau’s histories have long enjoyed a high reputation in France, • where they have been used in most of the Catholic schools. We have not seen in English dress the other histories of the learned Jesuit’s series, and so cannot speak of the series as a whole. The volume before us has been well translated, and will serve as an excellent text-book in Catholic schools. The volume is well gotten up.
—“ You wan’ to jine the ban’, do you ? ” said an old negro preacher to a young convert.
“Yes, sah, I wan’ to jine.”
“ Well, sah, do you b’lieve Gerliah, a pickaninny little shaver, slewed a great big man called David, that was longer dan de Centre Market, wid a pebble dat was no bigger dan A huckleberry ? Eh ? ”
“No! I don’t b’lieve nothin’ like dat,” was the reply.
“Den you can’t jine.”
“ Well, den, I b’lieves it. On wid de katekise.”
“ Do you b’lieve,” continued the deacon, “ dat dar war a man called Joner who swollered a whale, an’ kept it down a awful long time before he spitted it out? ”
“ No sar; can’t make me b’lieve dat,” was the response.
“ Den you can’t jine.”
“ Well, now, by jingo, I b’lieve dat too. Go on wid de katekise.”
“ Do you b’lieve dat dar was a man named Delilia, and dat a woman called Samson got down in de cellar of a big house what weighed more’n de Centennial, and lifted it kerslap clean out ob de world?”
“Don’t b’lieve nothin’ob de kind,” was the indignant reply-	-. ,
“Den you can’t jine.”
“Don’t want to jine. I don’t b’lieve dat fish story you just told me, either.”
There was no further “ katekise.”
4
.108
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

IVotre Dame, October 19, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
- Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of. those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above aU,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.30 T*er	Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Chapel of the Sacred Heart.
A MEMORIAL OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME.
Yielding to the entreaties of esteemed friends, and to the loud praises of the numerous visitors who come daily to see the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, and who pronounce it admirable, unfinished as it is, the Very Rev. Fathers Sorin and Granger had almost concluded to have it consecrated next Slay. Our worthy Bishop, recently consulted on the subject, was himself of the same opinion. But after serious examination it was found altogether impracticable to do so. The present sanctuary would not admit one half of the Rt. Rev. dignitaries who would be invited for the solemnity; there would be no room even for the best and most honored friends of the house and those who had taken an interest in the erection of the Church. Besides this, there is another reason that weighs even more heavily, viz.: the conviction that what is already the object of so much admiration is in no way to be compared to the effect looked for when the entire plan shall have been fully completed. When the sanctuary shall be finished, with the seven chapels radiating around its precincts; when, on entering by the front door, one will behold in the extreme rear, 270 feet distant, over the altar - of the main Chapel of the Sacred Heart, the large and beautiful statue of our Saviour, all flooded in a mysterious light, showing His Divine Heart to His faithful worshippers; then there will be an effect, even at his first step into the temple, from which no Christian could save himself.
From this last remark it must appear evident that in the design of the originators of the plan, as in the mind of the Church, the Chapel of the Sacred Heart must be the richest, the finest and the noblest part of the whole edifice. Its name alone clearly reveals and demands an unequalled superiority, compared to which the rest will appear as a simple introduction.
Hence the thought of offering the honor of its erection to those best loved here, to the noble band of students who
since 1844 had the best chance of knowing Notre Dame, and who, let us be permitted to express here a public sentiment, feel as justly proud of their Alma ALater as she herself does of the brilliant army she has sent forth through our happy land, which, we trust, they will continue long to adorn and enrich from the priceless store of .sound knowledge and virtue acquired here under the eyes of the Heavenly Queen to whom every soul is consecrated on these lovely premises.
Why is it, as we hear, that the students of Notre Dame remain so fondly attached to their Alma Afater? As well might it be asked why a mother’s memory ever remains sweet in the human heart. They learned once how to love her with a filial love; they know that she continues to care for them, and could no more prove indifferent to their destinies than their own mothers at home; hence the imperishable affection of all who while here were honorable students of Notre Dame.
“ We would,” writes Father Sorin, “ have deemed it an offence in the building of what the public voice already calls a monumental church, to ignore and pass by our students—that is to say, the very first element for which Notre Dame exists in this land. We make no appeal, but simply deem it an act of justice to offer them the honor of erecting, * themselves, the crowning part of this glorious monument of faith and piety, the Chapel of the Sacred Heart. To this honor, we feel confident, they will respond with an exceptional zeal.
“The Chapel of the Sacred Heart is to be the gem of the whole church. In point of decoration, painting and gilding it will certainly be superior to anything now to be seen in the church. It will be 55 by 32 feet, admitting 140 seats. The chief reason for which the originators feel so anxious to make it superior to everything else, and therefore to spare no money or pains on it, is that the Blessed Sacrament will be kept there (in Rome, and wherever it is possible, the Blessed Sacrament is always preserved in a tabernacle different from that of the main altar). Lamps therefore will be kept burning there day and night. The various Sodalities will meet there regularly. The Diocesan Retreats for the Bishop and his Clergy, the yearly Retreats of our Fathers and Brothers will be preached there; the annual High Mass for the Alumni will be celebrated there; three times a day the Community will meet in it for Mass and regular exercises. As everyone can see, this new Chapel of the Sacred Heart is to prove the centre ■ of all devotions and the source of all blessings at Notre Dame, as the Divine Heart is to be enthroned in it.
“The cost is estimated at §12,000. But what is that where so many generous hearts will exert themselves to excel each other in liberality? Each name, and we know them already, will be inscribed with its donation in a manner that will perpetuate the memory of the glorious deed. This is not, however, all that is intended in acknowledgment of the pious gifts. Something far more precious is intended for those who rejoice in our holy Faith, namely the establishment of a daily Mass forever especially for all who shall have contributed to the erection of the chapel. This is our part. We do it cheerfully: it will afford us and our successors the pleasure every day to pray for all who lived with us here, offering in their behalf the Holy Sacrifice for their eternal happiness and even their temporal prosperity; nay, to place therein all, dead or alive, in the Sacred Heart of our loving Redeemer. Alas, many of Notre Dame’s best students have already entered into eternity. Here is an
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
109
opportunity for parents and friends of extending to them the benefit of a daily Mass, the most efficient means to help the' dear departed ones.
‘‘ As we intend going to work at once, we will consider a prompt reply a favor; for we must know before beginning what we may depend upon. Should any one want a little time we could wait six months from this date.”
The names of the donors will appear, as they come every week, in our columns.
The St. Ceeilians’ Entertainment.
• A finer night for an Entertainment at Notre Dame than that of the 12th of October it would be impossible to imagine. The moonlight was simply grand, and the roads were jn fine condition. Such being the case, it is no wonder that a large audience assembled in Washington Hall to greet the St. Ceeilians.
Besides the Very Rev. Father Sorin, in whose honor the Entertainment was given, there were many clergymen present, while visitors from Chicago, Indianapolis, South Bend, and other places, occupied front positions in the hall. The hall itself was finely decorated; indeed we do not remember having ever seen so much taste displayed in the arrangement of the wreaths, etc. The work done reflects the highest credit upon those who had it in charge, as well as the individual workers.
With a promptness ever to be commended, the University Band struck up the grand, entrance march, the audience rising as the venerable Father Sorin, accompanied by a large number of priests, entered the hall. When the Band had concluded, the String Quartett played Kreuzer’s Night in Granada, after which addresses were read. The first of these was a French address by Master J. Castanedo, of'New Orleans. His pronunciation was very correct and added to the graceful style in which the address was written. He was followed by Mr. L. Evers, of Sing Sing, N. Y-, in a well written and w'ell read Greek address. The Latin address was given by Mr. A. Hertzog, of Nachitoches, with grace which comes only from a thorough acquaintance with the language. The Junior address, a beautiful production, was read in a faultless manner by Master Frank Bloom, of Vincennes, Ind. Master E. Piekenbrock, of Dubuque, was the reader of the German address, and he acquitted himself honorably. The address of the Senior Department was made by Mr. J. J. Quinn, of Tolona, Ill. It is spoken of by everybody as an excellent production. The manuscript was asked for by the editor of the Daily Register of South Bend, who was so well pleased with it that he desired to print it in full, and it accordingly appeared in the Register of Tuesday morning. The Minims were represented by Master F. P. Brady, of Tuscaloosa, Ala., who carried the house by storm. Between the addresses, Prof. M. T. Corby, of Chicago, by request of the members of the St. Cecilia Association, sang a number of pieces, among others, “ Let me like a Soldier Fall,” from Maritana, and Sullivan’s Romanza, “ Once Again.” He was the deserved recipient of a number of encores.
The addresses having been given, Master Gustave Schnull, of Indianapolis, made his appearance on the stage and spoke the prologue to the play. He spoke it gracefully and handsomely.
The play chosen for the evening was “The Hidden Gem,” by the late Cardinal Wiseman, a play capable of bringing out dramatic talent. Although most of the members of the St. Ceeilians of this year had never before ap*
peared on the stage, yet they rendered the play in a most acceptable manner. The rehearsals, besides, were only seven in number—scarcely enough—yet the acting of the young gentlemen showed that they benefitted themselves greatly by the instructions of Prof. Lyons. Almost without exception the parts were taken very well. “Enphemi-anus,’’ the Roman Senator, was gravely personated by Master A. J. Zahm, of Huntington, Ind. “Alexius,” who figures through the play as “Ignotus,” found worthy personation at the hands of Frank W. Bloom, of Vincennes, Ind., who held the sympathy of the audience throughout. Master Kickham Scanlan, of Chicago, took the part of “Carinos ” in a manner deserving of great praise. George H-Donnelly, as “Proculus,” played with much skill and carried off' much honor. The part of “ Eusebius ” was taken by Master M. J. Burns, of Grand Rapids, Mich., and was well played. “ Bibulus ” found an excellent personator in Master Frank T. McGrath, of Chicago, who gave us the villain in good style. The parts of “Davus,” “Ursulus” and “Verna,” were played respectively by Edward Ewell, of Milwaukee, J. Frank Mug, of Lafayette, and J. A. Gibbons, of South Bend, Ind., all of them doing well. The character of “ Gannio,” a beggar, received entire justice in the person of W. J. McCarthy, of Booneville, Mo., who received repeated applause. The remaining parts were taken by Masters J. G. Brady, of Tuscaloosa, Ala.; Alexander Rietz, of Chicago; Frank Pleins, of Dubuque, Iowa; George Orr, of Steubenville, Ohio; Frank Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio; Edmund Walter, of Mt. Vernon, Ohio; John Nelson, of Chicago; Frank W. Weisert, of Vincennes, Ind.; Roger Williams, of Mon mouth, Ill.; Alexander Caren, of Columbus, Ohio; William Rietz, of Chicago; Frank Grever, of Cincinnati, Ohio; Eugene Murphy, of Norwalk, Conn.; E. Piekenbrock, of Dubuque; and J. W. Eisenhauer, of Huntington, Ind.; all of whom rendered their parts in a good manner. The epilogue was spoken by Master George H. Donnelly.
When the play had concluded, Rev. Thomas Hayes, of ’52, now on his way to Europe from his home in Colorado, made, at the request of Rev. President Corby, the closing remarks, and in a most happy manner, being frequently applauded.	-
Between the acts of the drama the University Band played. The music during the play was furnished by the Senior Orchestra.
The whole evening’s entertainment was extremely enjoyable, and reflected honor not only on the young gentlemen who took part in the exercises but also on Prof. Lyons, the veteran manager of eutertainments at Notre Dame. With him at their head, and with the talent possessed by the members, we have every reason to believe that the St. Ceeilians of ’78-’79 will not bring discredit on their Society, but that its lustre will remain undiminished.
Personal.
—John Lambin, of-’68, and Eugene Sugg, of ’67, were here on the 13th.
—Mrs. J. Snee, of Chicago, was among our visitors on St Edward’s Day.	•
—Michael McCormack (Commercial, of ’75,) is residing at Nashville, Tenn.	•
—Henry L. Dehner, of ’76, is doing well at Cascade, Iowa, where he resides.	-
—James McClain (Commercial, of ’70,) is in the job printing business at Trenton, N. J. ■	-

T
110
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
t
—	Peter F. McCullough (Commercial, of ’78,) is in busi-with his brother in Dubuque, Iowa.
—	Rufus H. McCarty, of ’71, is Assistant Surgeon at the-United States Naval Hospital, Washington, D. C.
—	Edward Freeze (Commercial, of ’74,) and his wife and Mrs. Phillips, of Fort Wayne, visited Notre Dame on the 12th.
—	Frank Ready (Commercial, of’71,) is superintendent of the letter-carriers’ department in the Nashville, Tenn., post-office.
—	The College Librarian returns thanks to E. T. Cox, Esq., State Geologist, for a copy of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 4 vols.
i —Mr. Thomas Walsh, of ’60, of Chicago, visited his 1 brother, Charles Walsh, of the Senior department here, on the thirteenth.
—	A. F. Ames (Commercial, of ’76,) is in business at Charlotte, Mich. He is the senior member in the firm of Ames & Deming.
—	Rev. P. Johannes sang his first Mass at the Novitiate last Monday morning. Rev. N. Stoffel will sing his first Mass at Mishawaka to-morrow.
—	We learn from the Boston Daily Globe of the 10th inst. that Thomas F. Gallagher, of ’76, was admitted to the bar in the Superior Court at Salem, Mass., on the day previous.
—	John Ney, of ’75, was married lately in Chicago to Miss Colby. Quite a number of old students were present, among others, J. P. McHugh, of ’78, and W- P. Breen, of’77.
—The RL Rev. Daniel McCarthy, lately consecrated Bishop of Ardfert and Aghadoe, Ireland, is an uncle of W. J. McCarthy, of Booneville, Mo., now attending class here.	■
—	James Wilson, of ’71, is living at Trenton, N. J. In writing for The Scholastic for the coming year, he says that “ the column of personals in the paper is worth its weight in gold.”
—	Mr. Joseph Murphy, of New York city, who has achieved a great reputation as an actor in the play of “Kerry Gow,” and his business manager, Mr. Edward E. Kidder, visited Notre Dame last Tuesday morning.
• —P. L. Garrity, of ’59, of Chicago, has our thanks for a st box of fine cigars. Mr. Garrity is in business at Nos. 41 ' and 43 Wabash Avenue, Chicago, where all who wish to enjoy a good cigar should call. In this line he cannot be beaten.	’
—The Daily True American of Trenton, N. J., gives a long account of the funeral of the late George V. Sampson. Were it not so long we would transfer it to our columns. We have, however, given a good account, written for The Scholastc by an old friend and subscriber.
—John Dillon, of ’63, died an Chicago last Monday. Mr. Dillon was the brother of Rev. Fathers Patrick and James Dillon, now deceased, of Thos. Dillon, of ’71, and Michael Dillon, of ’57. His many friends throughout the States mourn his death. May his soul rest in peace.
•	•	A •	—	♦	y.	JL 4JW	1.11 AX <4	111 v.* . ii > 1 *	xzX	t B I ■_»	U«	1^1. II I Al rt.	(75 I	1 1 j 1II*
—Among the visitors during the past week were : Geo. I patrian Society was held on the 15th. J. H. Schoby was r TT.mnrcnn f’hmatrn* Rptf M A RrnnmolrAr WatorfmrH	_j_ji ..	__ __t_ -r^	»
W. Emerson, Chicago; Rev. P. A. Schumaker, Waterford, Wis.; B. Eisenhauer, Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. Col. Crane,
New York city; Miss H. McMahon, Watertown, Wis.; Miss L. Johnson, Milwaukee, Wis.; M. T. Corby, Chicago; Miss Elizabeth Haerly, Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. G. Rhodius,
Indianapolis; Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Chicago ; Miss Kuebel and Miss Horne, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mrs. Bach, Indian-, apolis; John .Walsh, Chicago; Mrs. W. S. McCormick,' Salt Lake City; Mrs. B. Gallagher, Omaha, Neb.; and
Miss Rose Devoto.
Local Items.
—The last coat of paint has been put on The Scholastic office.
—There was a fine audience at the St. Cecilians’ Entertainment.
.—There were several games of racket played during the past week.
\	—The St. Cecilians had their photographs taken in cos-
A tume on Saturday last. .
। —The Philopatrians, though among the smallest, are the ijolliest boys in the college.
■ 1 —The game of racket seems to have taken the place of hand-ball with the Juniors.
—Quite a number of ladies honored the Juniors with their presence at the out-door sports.
—The day could not have been finer than it was on the 14th for field sports. It was just lovely.
—The Rev. Director of Studies will begin to visit the classes of the Senior department next week.
/ —The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Bro.
'Albert for specimens donated to the Museum.
—The Thespians have been preparing a number of selections from Shakespeare for their meeting to-night.
—The decorations in Washington Hall for the St. Ce-cilian Entertainment were the finest ever put up in it.
—The annual out-door sports took place on Monday.
/There was much excitement, especially among the Juniors. I —The Senior Orchestra are working with a will. They
will furnish the music at most of the gatherings of the boys.
—Everyone admires the singing at Vespers. With a little effort the singing at Mass might be greatly improved.
—The Franks of the Junior department did nobly last Monday at the field sports. Nine of them received prizes.
—St. Edward’s Day was all that could be desired for field-sports and for the boat-race. There was hardly a ruffle on the lake.
—We return thanks to Messrs. R. Keenan J. Arentz, G. Cassidy, G. Sugg, and J. Baker for a pleasant row on the lake last Wednesday.
—The competition in the Third Catechism Class took place last Friday. The prize—a beautiful prayer-book— was awarded to J. W. Guthrie.
—A great number of visitors were present at the boatrace on the 14th. This boat-race was one of the most exciting ever had at Notre Dame.
—There was quite a grand Entertainment at St. Mary’s on the 14th in honor of Very Rev. Father Sorin. We leave to our correspondent to describe the exhibition at length.
—On Sunday, the 13th, the members of the Community called upon Very Rev. Father Sorin at one o’clock in the afternoon, when they congratulated him on the recurrence of his feast.
—The picture from the room of the late Pope Pius IX, presented to Father Sorin by his Holiness Leo XIH, has been placed in'the new church just over the altar of the Blessed Virgin.
—Not a single student was laid up in the infirmary at the b- ginning of the week. In a population of somewhere neat i thousand, this makes a good show for Notre Dame as a sanitary place.	.
—The third regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-
elected a member.
number of members.
Declamations were delivered by a
—Sixty-nine Juniors’ names appear on the Roll of Honor this week, which speaks well for the department when we consider how strict the members of the faculty are in regard to the Roll of Honor.
—One of the best races last Monday was the cold-water sjace. It was new, novel and really amusing to see a large ' number of boys running with a pail of water in their hands, the water flying in all directions.
—On the 13th the pupils of the Manual Labor School called in a body to offer their congratulations to Very Rev. Father Sorin. An address was read by Master A. Spangler, to which Father Sorin answered in a feeling manner.
Mr. Joseph Murphy, the actor, when visiting Notre Dame last Tuesday, took a look at the interior of the new church. He says that there is not a church in any city that he has visited so handsomely decorated as that at Notre Dame.
—No sooner were the festivities’of St. Edward’s Day over -than the bt. Cecilians, notwithstanding the fatigues of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ill
fl
j
s
getting up the Entertainment on Saturday night, went to I taking part in them lost too much time. This charge canwork at their studies with a will. Not one of them took a not be made against the St. Cecilians.
trip to the infirmary.
—The St. Edward’s Literary Society was organized last Wednesday evening at the Manual Labor School. The following are the officers: Director, Rev. P. Hurth; President, M.Buchmeire; Vice-President, D. Clune; Secretary, Jas.Fenner; and Treasurer, W. Healy.
—Ou the 18th inst. an exciting and closely contested game of baseball for a prize was played between two picked nines in the Minim Department. The game re' suited in a score of 15 to 17 in favor of McDevitt’s nine. Ten innings were necessary to decide the game.
—The fifth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held on the 15th. A vote of thanks ■was tendered the editor of Thb Scholastic, Bro. Leander, Bro. Wilfrid, Bro. Simon and Prof. Edwards. The thanks of the members were especially tendered to The Scholastic lor a gift of twenty-seven volumes.
—The following are the names of the members of the Academia: A. B. Congar, Luke Evers, Ambrose Hertzog, G. P. Cassidy, W. A. Widdicombe, Richard Russell, Wm. Arnold, and J. P. McGrath. In order to become a member it is necessary that the student send an essay to the editor of this paper. If he considers it meritorious the party is admitted.
—The members of the Academia are under obligations to the Rev. Director of Studies for a fine feast of oysters last Wednesday. The members of the Academia are the regular essayists of the The Scholastic, and of course the editor of the paper is only too happy to record all favors extended to them. We hope that tne membership of the Society may be increased during the year.
—The Academia reorganized on Wednesday. Mr. Luke Evers, of Sing Sing, N. Y.,was elected President; John B. McGrath, of New York city, Vice-President; and Richard Russell, of Oshkosh, Ill., Secretary. After the Society had organized, the Rev. Director of Studies treated the members to oysters. They will have a turkey-carving in January, and will dissect spring-chicken in June.
—Rev. Father Oster, of Vincennes, has the thanks of the v Librarian of the Lemonnier Library for “Alberti Magni Paradisus Animae,” Antwerp, 1565, a precious relic of the saintly Bishop Brutd, enriched with his autograph and many marginal notes. Father Oster has also given to the Library a valuable scrap-book, which was the property of the late Dom. Jaussion, 0. S. B., from the celebrated Abbey of Solesmes, France, grand-nephew to the first Bishop of Vincennes, and who spent some time at Notre Dame.	■
—St. Edward’s Day passed off very pleasantly at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was sung at 8 o’clock by Very Rev. Father Sorin, with, Very Rev. A. Granger as deacon and Kev. L. J. L’Etourneau as subdeacon. After High Mass the membets of the faculty called in a body upon the celebrant, and through their spokesman, Prof. T. E. Howard, congratulated him on his feast and wished many recurrences of the same. Father Sorin made a touching reply. All day long he received calls from friends in the neighborhood.
—On the evening of the 13th a very entertaining impromptu concert was gotten up in the College parlor, in which quite a number of visitors look part. There was plenty of instrumental and vocal music. The string Quartette, the Senior Orchestra, George Cochrane, and others, took part in the instrumental music. Miss McMahon, of Watertown Wis., Mrs. Crane, of the same place, Miss Johnson, of Jefferson, Wis., Mrs. Freeze, of Fort Wayne, Ind., Prof. Corby, and others, gave vocal selections. A pleasant evening was spent.
—The St. Cecilians deserve especial credit for this, that they got up their Entertainment in one week’s time, and lost only one hour of study each day for seven days. Not a single class was missed. The members were not kept up late at night, nor did they sleep in the mornings. They have set an example that we trust will be followed by the members of other societies. The great complaint heretofore made against frequent entertainments was that those 1
i’.
not be made against the St. Cecilians.
—The Daily Register of South Bend has changed hands. Daniel S. Marsh has taken editorial charge of the paper, with Chan. N. Fassett as city editor, H. S. Fassett as business manager, Frank A. Marsh as foreman, and E. M. Herr as superintendent of the job-printing department The Register is one of the pioneer papers of Northern Indiana. With this- change in editorial and city departments we have every reason to believe that new vigor will be infused into it and that it will continue to be one of the leading papers in the St. Joseph Valley. Mr. Marsh is an excellent writer, while Mr. Fassett is one of the best local editors in the State. We wish the Register every success.
—The contest for prizes in out door sports in the Minim Department on the 14th inst. resulted as follows: the 1st prize for foot-race was won by Frank Campau, of Detroit, Mich.; 2d prize, Wm. McDevitt, of Chicago, Ill. In the three-legged race, J. McGrath, of Chicago, and Guy Woodson, of Fort McKinny, W. T., carried off the prizes. In the sack-race the 1st prize was won by O. Farrelly, of Chicago; z 2d prize, by Joseph Gordon, of Cairo, Ill. The prize for best throw was awarded to Wm. Rheinhafdt, of Chicago, Ill.; 2d prize to Amedeus Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio; 3rd prize, Charles Garrick, of Chicago. Prize for best time with large velocipede, Geo. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind.; best time with small velocipede was awarded ex ceguo to Harry Kitz and Joseph Inderrieden.
—The field-sports in the Senior Department on the 14th were very interesting. The following received prizes, viz.: The 1st prize for first foot-race was won by T. Hale, of Bunkerhill, Ill.; 2d prize, A.Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario; 1st prize, 2d foot-race, M. H. Bannon, of Waukesha, Wis.; 2d prize, A. E. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario; 1st prize, 3d / foot-race, J. R. Kelly, of St. Louis, Mo.; 2d prize, C. Walsh, of Chicago, Ill. 1st prize, three-legged race, Chas. Walsh and C. J. Clarke, of Chicago, Ill; 2d prize—gift of Prof. Edwards—won by G. Sugg, of Chicago, Ill., and J. G. Baker, of Fort Wayne, Ind.; 1st prize for standing jump, P. J. Hagan, of Dungannon, Ohio; 2d prize, M. H. Bannon, of Waukesha, Wis.; prize for running jump—gift of J. B. McGrath, of N. Y.,—won by J. Coleman, of Ardee, Ireland ; prize for blindfold race, A. A. Lent, of Waterloo, Ind.; prize for throwing ball, P. J. Hagan of Dungannon, Ohio.
—Saturday evening was the commencement of the thirtyfifth annual celebration of St. Edward’s Day at Notre Dame—the Patronal Feast ot Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and founder of Notre Dame. The Entertainment at Washington Hall consisted of literary exercises in the shape of addresses in English from the Senior, Junior, and Minim departments, and special French, Greek, Latin and German addresses (original compositions) from those classes. The hall was beautifully decorated with evergreens and flowers, and with the excellent music by the University Band and the Senior Orchestra, the happy smiles of all those most interested in the Entertainment, the delight and enthusiasm of the audience, all went to make an occasion long to be remembered at the University, as well as by the many friends who witnessed it. At the conclusion of the drama, Rev. Father Hayes, of Del Norte, Cal., made an address extempore, in a felicitous and happy strain, referring to the time when he, too, was a student at Notre Dame, of the trials and labors of Very Rev. Edward Sorin in founding Notre Dame in the wilderness, and of his final grand success in making it a mountain among the educational institutions of the land.— South Bend Daily Register.
—The field-sports in the Junior Department on the 14th passed off' pleasantly, with the following results, viz.: the first foot-race was won by A. Rietz, of Chicago, Ill.; 2d prize, R. Williams, of Monmouth, Ill. 2d foot-race: 1st prize awarded to K. L. Scanlan, of Washington, D. C.; 2d prize, 0. Eigholz, of Toledo, Ohio; 3d prize, J. Guthrie, of Carroll City, Iowa; 3d foot-race: first prize awarded to Frank Becker, of Canton, Iowa; 2d prize, Frank Zeis, of Chicago, Ill.; 3d prize, J. Kennedy, of Cincinnati, Ohio. First sackrace: A. Rietz, of Chicago, was awarded 1st prize; R. Williams, of Monmouth, Ill., 2d prize. 2d sack-race: 1st prize

112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•was awarded to Frank Pleins, of Dubuque, Iowa; 2d prize J. Nelson, of Chicago, Ill, 3d sack-race: 1st prize was awarded to Frank Gaffney, of Detroit, Michigan; 2d prize to D. Reidey, of Cincinnati, Ohio. First three-legged race was won by Frank Bloom, of Vincennes, Ind., and Frank Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio. 2d three-legged race: 1st prize was won by Charles Brinkman, of Indianapolis, and Frank Grever, of Cincinnati, Ohio. Free-for-all-foot-race was won by Frank McGrath, of Chicago, Ill.; 2d prize, J. Frank Mug, of Lafayette, Ind. The cold-water race—where all were required to carry a bucket filled with water—won by C. F. Fogarty, of Pittsburgh, Pa. The prize for the longest throw of baseball was won by G. H. Donnelly, of Chicago, Ill. The prize for the longest running-jump was awarded to E. Cleary, of Chicago, Ill. Prize for the longest standing-jump, M. J. Burns, of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
—Of all the out-door exercises which characterize the celebration of St Edward’s Day at Notre Dame, none attracts more attention than the boat-race. This could be easily seen from the manner in which the shores of St. Joseph’s Lake were lined with eager spectators—composed of the faculty, students, and many visitors, who are always present on such occasions at Notre Dame. They all anticipated a good and hotly contested race, and in this tbey were not disappointed. The day was indeed lovely; the sun shone forth in all its splendor, and threw a cheering aspect on the scene; the wind, which often on such <>cct-sions is an impediment to boat-racing, was all that could be desired. At ten o’clock sharp, the whites of the Hiawatha and the blues of the Minnehaha steered out of the boathouse, amidst the applause of the spectators. E ich crew rowed out to their respective courses, and at the wind “start” sent their boats gliding up the lake. Side by side they pulled for some time, till the whites of the Hiawaiba took the lead and kept it till the goal was reached, com ng in nearly two boat-lengths ahead, making the race in 3 45. It was one of the most interesting races ever witnessed «i Notre Dame, and the young gentlemen surely deserve credit for the skill they manifested in rowing. Tae following are the names of the young men who to part in tberace. Hiawatha (victorious):—J. J. Coleman.stroke; M. McCue, 2d and Captain; M. J. McEniry, 3d; A. Keenan, 4th; O. Rettig, 5th; M. J. Murphy, bow; A. Her z >g, coxswain. Minnehaha:—H. Nevans, stroke and Cap'ain; J. P. Hagan, 2d; W. Arnold, 3d; E. Maley, 4th; J. B^ker, 5th; J. P. Kinney, bow; J. R. English, coxswain.
—A friend living at Trenton, N. J., writes to us as follows: “In forwarding our subscription for The Scholastic I presume a few words regarding the death, or rather the burial, of our dear young friend, George Sampson, will not be out of place and will prove interesting. Death in any form and at any time is sad, but when it comes as that in the case of our dear friend it is hard to realize that he is gone, but alas it is too true. His father arrived home with the body on Thursday night, and the funeral took place on Friday afternoon. The body, on opening the casket, was found slightly decomposed, causing a double affliction to his family and friends, as the remains could not be seen. The funeral was one of the largest ever witnessed in the city, and St. John’s Church was crowded during the short funeral service, at which Rev. Father Byrne, the pastor, officiated, and who, in a few appropriate remarks, spoke of the uncertainty of life and of the equal certainty of death; he also spoke of the character of the deceased, and alluded in touching words to the letter received by him from Rev. Father Corby regarding George’s standing at Notre Dame. He closed his remarks in sympathetic and consoling words to the bereaved parents, sister, brothers, and friends of the dear boy. The remains were conveyed to St. John’s Cemetery for interment, followed by an immense throng of sorrowing friends. Among the pall-bearers were Messrs. Arthur W. Johnson, of Milwaukee; Thomas F. O'Grady, of Dover, N. J.; and James Wilson, of ’71. The two first named were students last year, and are now finishing their medical studies at Bellevue Hospital, N. Y. In speaking of our dear friend I can add but little to what has already been said. I loved the good-hearted, good-natured boy dearly, and many a pleasant chat we had during his vacation, he telling me of old friends and acquaintances, and both of us conversing with pleasure about the old spot and scenes of our happiest days.”
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
;	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
! W. H. Arnold, J. F. Arentz, R. E. Anderson, J. G. Baker, Jas. Brice, A. J. Burger. J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. M. Byrne, James Buchanan, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, T. Conlan, W. Connolly, W. E Carpenter, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, D. S. Coddington, C. E. Cavanagh, T. Chalfant, F. W. Cavanaugh, George Cochrane, M. H. Bannon, T. Barrett, M. Doty, J. H. Delaney, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, J. R. English, M. English, A. J. Hertzog, L. Horne, J. T. Har-	;
risen, M?J. Hogan, J. M. Hermann, J.Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney,	i
J. F. Krest, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, B. Kratzer, A. A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, M. Laughlin, W. J. Murphy, C. F. Mueller, R. P. Maver, Thos. Mackey, W. B. MeGorrisk, *Wm. N. McGee, AL J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, J. J. McErlain, M. J. McEniry, H W Nevans, R. E. O’Brien, W. O’Brine, L. N. Proctor, S. 8. Perle.v, .1. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, J. J. Shugrue, T S.
.Summers. R. D. S’ewart, T. W. Simms, G. 8. Sugg, J. Scheiber, P. She, J. t-leuzak, C. L. Stuckey, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogle, F. Williams F. X. Wall, E. Ward,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
AL J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. Af. Boose, C. J. Brinkman, F. W. Blo'un, B. A. Casuy, C. B. Cones, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, E. P. Clean, C. J. Crenvan. G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. D vitt. L. D. Dimick. E. J. Ewell, O. C. Eigholz, J. AL Eisen-han r. H. J. Fen :er. E. F. Fogarty, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, H.-G G»ynn, F. Glade, F. H. GreVer, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, H. M. Haeriy, J. Kurz, James Kennedy, J. A. Lumley, E. Murphy. T. F. M'cGrath, J. L. Aforgan, W. J. AfcCarthy, J. F. Mug, J. L. Nelson, R. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E B. Pi< kenbrock, A. Payro, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, •\. Kietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A. S. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. A. S. eger, J. AL Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, F- C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, Alax Wolf, F. E. Weisert, E. 8. Walters, A. F. Zahm, Frank Zeis, J. AL Scanlan.
minim: department.
P. F. Brady, A. M. Coghlin, J. J. Gordon, C. B. Crowe, G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, W. F. Rheinbardt, J. AL Courtney, G. Wi odaon, C. S. AfcGraih, P. S. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, J. S. MiGruh, H. C. AIcDonald, J. J. Inderrieden, A. H. Chirhart, O..Farrclly J. H. Garrity, F. J. Garrity, G. AI. Long, E. Howard, E. 8. Chirhart, J. AIcGrath, G. C. Earner, A. F. Schmiickle, F. Farrelly, C. J. Welty, H. A. Kitz, F. H. Parsons, L. J. Young, W. AlcDevitt, F. A. Campau.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OP MODERN LANGUAGES, “FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL
BRANCHES.
J. Coleman, J. Hermann. L. Horn, AL J, Burns, R. Anderson, P. H. Vogle, R. Russell, W. Arnold, D. Coddington, H. Kurz, J. Brady, AL T. Bums, E. Murphy, J. Seeger, A. Mergentheim, T. Phillips, F. McGrath, C. Brinkmann, E. Piekenbrock, D. Reidy, F. Grever, J. Schneider, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. Rietz, F. Glade, J. Halle, E. 8. Walter, G. 8. Schnull, A. Manning, W. Jones, J. Alug, A. 8 Rock, C. Van Mourick, A. J. Burger, W. Carpenter, AL AIcCue, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. Sugg, J. Berteling, A. Cougar, T. Barrett, C. K. De Vries, J. Baker, R. Stewart, J. Gibbons, F. Bloom, E. P. Cleary, W. MeGorrisk, B. Claggett, K Scanlan, J. Nelson, J. English, G. Walters, E. Sugg, A. Keenan, J. Eberhart, J. Arentz, E. A. Walters, R. P. Alayer, J. Thompson, G. Sugg, H. Niles, R. Keenan, F. Weisert, J. W. Guthrie, C. F. Mueller, C. Cavanagh, R. Price.
List of Excellence.
Course of modern languages, fine arts and special
BRANCHES.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
German—E. Piekenbrock, F. Phillips, A Reitz, M. T. Burns ; French—J. Coleman, R. Russell, G. Schnull, G. Castanedo; Artistic Drawing—R. Anderson; Linear Dawing—M. J. McCue, J. A. Burger, J. Berteling; Elocution—P. Hagan, R. Russell, A. B. Congar, W. A. Widdicombe, F. T. McGrath, G. Donnelly, K L. Scanlan, R. P. Mayer; Telegraphy—R. Price, R. Keenan; Music —B. J. Claggett, F. Bloom, H. Niles.
\
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
113

—Mr. Fisk, editor of the Montana Herald, with his bride. en route for Europe, visited St. Mary’s at the beginning of the week. Miss Fisk, nee Walker, graduated at St. Mary’s in the class of ’74.
’	—The Rosary and Altar Societies held their first meeting
Tuesday evening, Oct. 8th. The following officers "were I appointed: President, Miss M. Perley; Vice-President. | Miss Hope Russell; Secretary, Miss Mary McGrath; Tn-as ( urer, Miss Mary Usselman; Librarian, M’ss Adelaide |	Kirchner.
I	—St. Edward’s Day, the Patronal Festival of Very Rev.
I	Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the
f Holy Cross, falling on Sunday, the Entertainment given i by the pupils was postponed to Monday. Sunday, then. | was devoted to the usual religious observances. About f 4 p. m. the bell announced the arrival of Very Rev. Fa'her. | The Community-room had been previous!}' decorated with | vines, flowers and mottoes. Pretty as were the arrange-1 ments, they were not necessary, except as symbols of jov;
for the Very Rev. Father knew well the welcome deep in every heart, and the gratitude all rendered to God that their Father was not in a foreign land on St. Edward’s Dtv. After a few moments the bell summoned all to the Chapel. Here had been gathered all the choicest flowers, sweet J - types of innocence and devotion. The societies had lent their banners, so expressive of the combat of a Christian S hero, and of victory over obstacles. Rev. Thomas Hayes, of % New Mexico, delivered the eulogium of the Saint which |	the Church honored on that day, the bolv pUr m <>f our
g	beloved Father, the great and good King E I ward the Con-
fessor, whose life has been the admiration of the world, but T whose virtues are best recorded in the annals of the Church. 3 From the life of the Saint, the Rev. orator passed on to that ;; of our Very Rev. Father, King Edward’s noble imitator. \	going back to the early history of the foundation of the Con-
/	gregation of the Holy Cross, thirty-five years ago. Tne
I presence of Father General was evidently embarrissing, C but Father Hayes, like a true son of Erin, managed the sit-i uation with ready tact, and gave many touching rec'dlec-i tions of those early days when Father Sorin was “ all to
all,”—founder, professor, priest, friend and guide. Bene-t diction was given at the close by Rev. Father General. 2 There are moments words cannot describe, and such were those when heads and hearts bowed to receive by his ven-erable hand the blessing of the God Eternal, and to whom m were offered at that solemn instant the most fervent peti-tions.
—The visitors to the Academy during the week were Rev. \ Father Quinlan, of Union City, Ind.; Messrs. M. and K.
Tinobrengar, Miss L. and Mr. P. M- Weightmann, Miss M. Mornley,Chicago; Mrs.and MissEvamonted, Chicago; Mr. Higgins, Chicago; Mrs. Condon, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. A H. S. Lecrioms, Mrs. L. D. Cortright, Hyde Park, Chicago ;
Mrs. Kingsbury, Chicago; Mrs. Belligmann, Chicago, Ill.;
Rev. Father Zurwellen, Plymouth, Ind. ;.Mr. John Fingteo, Mrs. P. Garrity, Chicago; Mrs. Mulligan and two daugh-r? ters, New York city; Rev. Father Koenig, Rev. Father '£■ Rademacher, Fort Wayne; Rev. Father O’Reilly, Valpa-'Z raiso; Rev. Father Hellhake, Columbia City; Rev. Father
Hubelen, Fort Wayne; Rev. Father Moench, Fort Wayne;
... Rev. Father Schmidt, Muncie City; Rev. Father Young, Leo city; Rev. Father Becks, Michigan City; Rev. Fa-X ther Hartnet, Fort Wayne; Rev. Father Bucklemann,
• Goshen; Thomas Walsh, Chicago, Hi.; Mr. and Mrs. D. G.
Gibson, Uniontown, Pa.; Mrs. G. Forbes, Ottawa, III.;
Miss J. F. Thompson, Ottawa, Ill.; Mr. V. Zimmermann, ? - Rochester, Ind.; Mrs. C. B. Cones. Goodland, Ind.; Mrs. i B. Phillips, Fort Wayne; Mrs. C.E. Freese, Fort Wayne;
Mrs. E. Hurley, Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. J. M. Snee, Chis' cago, Ill.; Rev. P.JSchumacher, Waterford, Wis.; Professor
Corby, Chicago; Miss Shue, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Misses ? A. and J. Shephard, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Mrs. Clara S. t Fitzgerald, New York city; 0. W. Fisk, Niles; Mr. B. Eis
enhauer, Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. C. W- Fisk, Niles; W. McKeon, Chicago, III.; H. M. Keist, Chicago,III.; Mrs. J. D. Crane, New York city; Miss H. McMahon, Watertown, Wis.; Miss L. A. Johnson, Faribault, Minn.; Mrs. Julia Walker Fisk, Helena, Montana; Mrs. W. S. McCormick, Salt Lake City; Mrs. B. Gallagher, Omaha, Nebraska; Mrs. Sarah Walsh, Notre Dame; Mrs. M. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. K. Bachmann,Noblesville, Ind.; Mrs. Robert Culbertson, Cincinnati, Ohio; Miss,Stevens, Detroit, Mich.; D. W. Fisk, Helena, Montana; Victor Coffman, M. D., Omaha; Mrs. Clara Fitzgerald, New York.
—Monday afternoon, at the hour announced, the guests filled St. Cecilia’s Hall, which had been festooned with evergreens in a most tasteful manner, and presented the same aspect of graceful taste, so often admired in former years. Snon the martial tones of the Entrance March announced theapproach of Very Rev. Father General and the Reverend Clergy from Notre Dame. The assembly arose; smiling fices and sparkling eyes gave a welcome most expressive, f w every year brings but an increase of love and gratitude, due to the venerated founder of St. Mary’s. When all were comfortably seated, one of Schumann’s bright choruses tillf'd the hall with sounds so joyous that we were certain the Entertainment would be a shower of harmonious congratulations from all the departments on the theme, “St. E Iward’s Day, our Father’s Feast.” Most appropriate was he fir.-t address, offered in the name of the “Children of Mary,” by Miss Russell, Father General being their own Chaplain, and he devotes to them every Monday morning h is m >st eloquent and practical instructions. Next followed a cavatina from “Linda,” well calculated to show Miss E. Kirchner’s vocalization; and here we may mention that the accompaniments to all the numbers played by Misses Silverthorn, Galen and Geiser, were sympathetic, and ever subordinate to the singers. The Senior Depart-ment was well represented by Miss A. Cavenor, who faith-lully reproduced their sentiments, couched in refined and elegant language. We scarcely know how to describe the juvenile entertainment. Their movements were so quick, and the varied colors of their costumes gave such a kaleid-o-copic appearance it was impossible for a while to recognize even those of former acquaintance. Among them also were so many new Juniors and Minims; we noticed everyone wore badges, with the name of the State whence she came. Such a gathering from the North, East, South and West, was a living proof of the extent of the work of the Order founded by Very Rev. Father Sorin. All being ranged in line, one of their number stepped forth and announced that they were recruits in the Body Guard of St Edward; the roll was called in military parlance, each member answering present, and, filing round the standard-bearers (Misses A. Ewing and A. McGrath), saluted, and took the oath of allegiance. The Minims then repeated their vocal exercises, nnder the training of their vocal teacher, Ella Mulligan. This part of the Entertainment being particularly for Very Rev. Father’s benefit, and had gained such applause at the Exhibition, from which he was absent, it is useless to speak of such as’.ounding culture of Minim throat organs. The well known “ Sestette,” from Lucia, was evenly sustained by Misses A. Kirchner, C. Silverthorn, M. Usselman, G. Winston, A. Gordon and A. Brown. We hope to hear them frequently at the regular soirees of the Conservatory. Miss Mary McGrath took the occasion presented by her reading of the Felicitation Framjaise, to thank-Very Rev. Father General for the gold prize medal, which he had so generously donated for competition in the French Class at the June Examination. The honor fell to Miss McGrath; but Father General’s absence from the Commencement had deprived her of its highest value, that of receiving the prize from his own hand. Mrs. Fi’zgerald, of New York, who lately returned from Europe, very”kindly consented to play a harp solo. Her skilful fingers drew from the instrument some of its sweetest tones, when after a brilliant prelude and amid artistic skill she displayed the technical and testhetical beauties of harp playing. As Mrs. Fitzgerald intends to remain sometime at St. Mary’s, we hope to hear often her beautiful strains. Miss A. Kirchner read an excellent German address, in which was forcibly expressed the beautiful feature of religious schools, which, like the Church, ignore all nation- ' ality; that under Father General’s fostering guidance all
114
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux.
,	GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Rebecca-Neteler, Theresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Annie Herman, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh.
3d Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Tam.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Alice Donelan, Mary Fitzgerald, Margaret McNamara, Jennie Sunderland, Mary Zimmermann, Julia Butts.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier, Theresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman. "
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell. Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Sullivan, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Catharine Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Henrietta Hearsey, Emma Gerrish, Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Annie Cavenor.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Sarah Purdy, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Lulu Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Elise Dallas, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Minna Fisk, Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chares.
Harp—Misses E. Galen, M. Campbell.
Organ—Miss Criep.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Theresa Walters.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Leota Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Hackett, Clara Silverthorn, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Anna Woodin, Aurelia Mui hall.
5th Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Hearsey, Emma^Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Birch, Charlotte Van Namee, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Zoe Papin, Leota Buck.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Hope Russell, Elizabeth Schwass, Laura French, Jessie Grover, Marie Dallas, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts, Angela Dillon, Ellena Thomas, Aurelia Mulhall, Minna Loeber, Catharine Campbell, Sophie Papin Maud Casey, Julia Kingsbury.	’
FAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Rebecca Neteler.
3d Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Sarah Moran.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
are but one family, united in the one desire, to show their gratitude. St Edward’s Day was always welcome to the German pupils on this account. Miss Rose Devoto sang one of Arditi’s brilliant arias. Her voice has -gained in compass and strength since we heard her last; she is fast developing into a rich soprano. Annie McGrath read an address from the Sodality of the Holy Angels, a neat little affair. Elise Dallas gave a graphic description of the tableau of the Guardian Angels, which was disclosed afterwards. Each angel with its earthly charge formed a truly angelic picture. Another tableau represented the Blessed Virgin and her Court; St. Michael with his shield was at her right, St. Gabriel with his Divinely commissioned scroll, with the words “ AveMaria ” in golden letters, to her left, and near by St. Raphael leaning on his staff; King Edward and others bearing symbols expressive of his good works; little angels whose faces peered forth from between their wings, as seen in the works of the old masters. One has scarcely time to note all the details, for living pictures have not that repose belonging to canvas, and the curtain is always drawn before one can enjoy the half. Miss Geiser rendered “Tannhauser,” transcribed by Liszt, as a piano solo. To the musical amateurs present, her management of the difficulties was fully appreciated. Miss Winston then read the prologue to the Operetta of “Laila.” The parts taken by the Vocal Class were well enacted and sung, when we remember how early this festival occurs in the training of the scholastic year. The simple plot gave ample scope to the several soloists and double choruses. Miss Silverthorn played an instrumental solo—Chopin’s 3d Ballad. She has now entered on the Classic Course, and, with the other members of her class grade, studying to sound the depths of real music. We shall expect to be invited when such music only shall form the programme. Very Rev. Father General thanked the young ladies for the pleasure they had given during the whole performance, and called upon Prof. Ivers, who closed with a speech in his own happy manner. Retiring march by Misses H. Buck and E. Keenan.
Boll of Honor.
'ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russel], Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk.
1st Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn,Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Anna Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney, Mary Birch.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Grace Glasser, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cavenor, Jessie Grover, Adella Gordon, El’zabeth Walsh, Mary Sullivan, Alice Farrell, Marie Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Angela Ewing.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Hearsey, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Alicia Done-lan, Adella Geiser, Mary Usselman, Emma Gerrish, Anna Jones, Anna McGrath.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary English, Julia Kingsbury, Ina Capelle, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary Feehan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Anna Herman, Linda Fox, Ollie Williams, Mary Hake.
Junior Prep.—Misses Anni.e Orr, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Elise Dallas, Mary Garrity, Sophia Papin, Mary McFadden, Ellen Lloyd.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavois. FRENCH
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Birch.
3d Class—Miss Genevieve Winston.
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher.
FRENCH CONVERSATION.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath, Hope Russell.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie, Aurelia Mulhall.	x
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, Angela Ewing.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Cavenor, Theresa Walters, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Henrietta Hearsey, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Laura French, Julia Butts.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Net eler, Anna Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zoe Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner,’Ellen McGrath, Mary Birch Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirch-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
115
ner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Marie Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Br.iwn, Annie Cavenor, Efnma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Cat ’arine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, L’hilo-mena Wolford, Jessie Grover, Harriet Buck, Catharine Lloyd, Grace Glasser, Theresa Walters Mary Usselman, Henrietta Hear-sey, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Mary Carroll, Emma Gerrish, Anna Jones, Louisa Neu, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Julia Kingsbury, Alma Moe, M. English, Mary Fitzgerald, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Mary Ludwig, Della McKerlie, Anna Herman, Annie Purdy, Teresa Zahm, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Hake, Frances Sunderland, Alice Hiltman, Mary Campbell, Genevieve Sunderland, par excellence.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Maud Casey, Jane McGrath, Mary Chirhart, Mary Poquette, par excellence. Misses Mary Feehan, Laura French, Blanche Garrity, Julia Butts, Mary Garrity, Mary Lyons, Sophie Papin, Julia Cleary, Elise Papin, Elise Lavois, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer, Martha Zimmerman.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation...................... 5 00-p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express...........................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL, Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City i nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2	25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 pun.
11	05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 05am; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
4 50 and 4. p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.i
4 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26,187"7.
Northward Trains.		No. 5* Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Man,Ft.W.,ToI. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis. .. “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		....	6.10 P. 31 8.30 “ 9.25 “		12.25 P. 31. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. 31. 9.52 “ 10.47 ”	
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte*....;	 “ Michigan City			9.30 P. 31. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.			11.02 A. M. 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City .. “ La Porte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 p. 31. 11.47 “ 1.40 “		8.05 p. M. 8.55 A. M. 10.33 “ 12.35 “			
Lv. Peru	 “ Kokomo	 “ Indianapolis....	2.00 P. 3t. 3.05 “ 5.25 “		12.40 A. M. 1.45 “ 4.00 “			6.10 A. M. 7.05	“ 9.35	“
EsT" Palace Sleeping Cars are attached to trains leaving Indianapolis at 6.10 n. m.. Michigan City at 8.05 p. m. Passengers may remain in the Sleeping Cars during the day. .
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. SHICKEY.
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
CTE WELB/’Y.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years.
Was a Minim in lt'64 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St. Louis. Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., owNKite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
116	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE. .
Time Table-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		*Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express. 19 00 p m 11 15 “ 2 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 31 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ f. 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	
				*Jac<son Express.		
						
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.			tPacific Erpress.	^Evening Express.
				5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “			9 50 p.m 12 45 a.u 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and South Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N.Dame— 852 ••	6 38 *• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715“			♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “			
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
C. & N.-W. LINES.
TWIT, CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and. Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office. 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
. W. EL Stennett,	Marvix Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). . On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
-	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,		 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 A.M. 310 “ 445 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	900 A.M. 10.15 “ 1250 p.m. 2.30 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 « 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,		Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12 25 a.m.			
Lima,.					
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive			2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,		Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 A.M. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 a.m.		
Forest,				2.48 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4 30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 1215 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 "
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. .
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. P. & I. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAlXIL. STEAMERS.
NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, *.
Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PA.RI8, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among: the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.	-