
; Notre Dame Scholastic.
i	.
4	——------------------- ------------------
«? —------- ' - . ~ ------------------------------
A
,	Disce quasi semper vieturus; vlvc quasi eras moriturus.
( Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 28, 1878.	Number 44.
- ■ -
*
|	Sonnet.
i	----
’	As some fair child upon a sunny day,
!	O’er meadow lands or summer-scented lawn,
.	Chases, with eager swiftness of a fawn,
'	A gilded butterfly of colors gay,—
Till caught at last upon some flow’ry spray, .	Behold! ’tis crushed—its former beauty gone,
And the bright colors o’er his fingers dawn, Sad ending of his joyous sport and play!
So, many a time in life, we oft pursue, An object that our passion paints so fair; J	At last perchance our wishes are obtained,
J	And lo ! delusive fancy proves untrue,
3	Its beauty vanishes in empty air,
;	While by the dead delight a soul is stained I
i	E. J. M.
Commencement Week.
MONDAY MORNING.
The Annual Commencement exercises began on last Monday. The day was one most favorably suited for such an occasion. Although the sun came out stronger than it had for two or three weeks previous, yet a cool breeze swept across the grounds, making it in all a very pleasant day. The exercises began at 9 o’clock, a. m., the College Cornet Band playing in the Senior yard before entering Washington Hall. Then the visitors could be seen flocking from all sides. The Band having seated the audience with some choice music, Mr. T. F. O’Grady, the representative of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, appeared upon the stage. He commenced by stating that as the history of the Archconfraternity, the oldest Society in the College, had been spoken of many times, and was familiar to most present, he thought nothing would be more deserving of their attention for a few moments that morning than a few words on “Devotion to the Blessed Virgin.” He spoke at some length of the mistaken ideas of those outside the Catholic Church concerning devotion to the Blessed Virgin; he said that Catholics’ loved and honored her, first, because of her purity of character; and having commented on this for a few moments he asserted that devotion to her was natural because nothing was more natural than to love and honor a benefactor. Having cited some familiar examples of the gratitude of men towards benefactors, he went on to say that the favors of the Blessed Virgin were not confined to one nation only, as theirs were, but extended to her sex and the entire world—to her sex, by teaching its true dignity, and raising woman from the debasing position to which paganism had reduced her; to the world, by giving it a Redeemer. He dwelt some time on the honor shown to the Blessed Virgin by God, and finally of our devotion to her being founded on natural justice, because she was the Mother of God, and that by depreciating her we depreciated God, sincev-.o sentiment in the heart of man was more sensitive than that of a son’s when the honor of his mother was called into question. In conclusion, he exhorted his fellow-associates to persevere in their honor of and devotion to the Blessed Virgin, and that even though they were about to separate, many to meet no more
on this earthly pilgrimage, yet if they proved worthy children of Mary, and practiced the virtues instilled into their hearts here by the kind and sheltering care of their dear and zealous director, Father Bigelow, they might confidently hope, by Mary’s powerful intercession with her Son, that she would obtain for them the means to be one day again united in heaven.
Mr. O'Grady’s discourse concluded, Mr. Hertzog took the stand on the part of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society. His manner of delivery and his learned address did honor to the Society which he represented, and he showed himself one whom they might well be proud of. He chose as his subject one which bears so close a relation to college education that were we to separate the one from the other we would only be depriving ourselves of one of the most powerful means by which the mind of youth may be prepared to struggle with the difficulties which naturally beset the path of the student. It was, “ The Advantages of Literary Societies.” Of those devoted to debate and oratory, he said they throw in our reach vast stores of historical knowledge, and the opportunities necessary to cultivate our reasoning powers, which are so necessary in all the different phases of society, no matter where or with whom we are, and which enable us to weigh well all the intricate questions of life and to choose between the good and the evil. He spoke at some length on the attention paid to oratorical composition. ThaJ; it, like poetry, was a gift bestowed in a high degree on comparatively few individuals; that it is an art most pleasing to all; and that when revolution is about to sweep a nation, it is then that eloquence sways and curbs the passions of men. He showed the gratitude they owed to their kind and generous director, and concluded by thanking him, as also the other Rev. gentlemen of Notre Dame, for their zeal in their welfare, and in behalf of the Society bade farewell to all.
The stand was next taken by Mr. Widdicombe, the representative of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, who devoted himself to “ Oratory” alone. He displayed great proficiency in composition, but by reading it lost the great effect it would otherwise have produced by declamation. He spoke of the perseverance of some in order to attain a high standing in oratory; he spoke of the Roman and Grecian schools, and of some of the great orators of our own land, and showed that although yet but in its infancy our country has produced many and great men, such as Patrick Henry, John Adams, Daniel Webster, and others.
Next appeared Mr. Eugene F. Arnold on behalf of the Tnespian Association. After a short address in praise of the Society, he ended by declaiming “The Raven.”
Next in order came the repesentative of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society, whose address was pointed and witty, and caused laughter several times; yet it lost much of its effect by being read.	_	.
Mr. J. Fitzgerald, representing the Columbian Literary and Debating Society, spoke in an able manner on the Society’s motto, “Don’t give up the Ship.” He showed that perseverance was necessary to the accomplishment of any action of note. It was by it that Columbus, their patron, brought America before the eyes of all nations, and opened to the poor and persecuted of every nation in Europe a home free from the chains of oppression. It was perseverance that raised the pyramids in all their majestic grandeur. It was perseverance that opened a shorter route to Europe for the riches of India; it was perseverance that drove barbarism far towards the setting sun and caused th?
690
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wilds of this western world to be changed to beautiful cities and cultivated fields.
The address of Mr. Burger, the representative of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, was indeed “ short and sweet.” It was, like some of the others, read. It is a pity he did not commit it to memory, which would render it more agreeable to the auditors.
And last, but not indeed the least, as far as composition is concerned, appeared the representative of the Society of the Holy Angels, A Coghlin. He spoke in a clear and distinct manner, and was loudly applauded by the assembly.
Monday, 8 p.m.
The annual examination of the Elocution Class,— Which is always looked forward to with great interest by our visitors, inasmuch as they are sure to witness a display of elocutionary ability seldom if ever seen at any college, took place Monday, June 24th, at 8 o’clock p. m., in the College parlor. Many distinguished visitors were present, and the large parlor was filled long before the appointed hour. The Senior Orchestra opened the exercises of the evening by discoursing two or three lively pieces of music in a manner which elicited hearty applause. Prof. Lyons, the teacher of the Elocution Class, stepped forward and said that the examination would begin with a declamation by Mr. P. Dougherty—subject, “Rienzi’s Address to the Romans.” Mr. Dougherty delivered his declamation in a most praiseworthy manner. He is the possessor of an excellent voice, and though his delivery was not faultless he well merited the round of applause which greeted his effort. Master T. J. Fischel, of Milwaukee, Wis., was next on the 1 i^t, and delivered in a very graceful manner a eulo-gium on “ Washington,” the Father of his country The selection was a splendid one, and was well rendered. Master T. Nelson, of Chicago, followed with “ The Hessians’ Captive.” This young gentleman is to be complimented on his graceful gesture and ease of delivery. His was certainly one of the best delivered declamations of the evening. Next came Master Frank McGrath, of the same city, who, though by far the youngest member of the Class, is by no means the inferior. His subject was “The Battle of Fontenoy.” The delivery was good, the gestures graceful and appropriate, but a little more care in inflection might, however, be suggested.	•
To vary the exercises they were interspersed with either vocal or instrumental music, and Prof. M. T. Corby, of Chicago, was called upon to favor the audience with a song. This he kindly consented to do, and, as is always the ease, he'was encored. He gracefully responded to the encore and received a deafening round of applause. It is needless to say anything of Prof. Corby’s singing, as nearly all the friends of Notre Dame know of him ere this, and that it is a treat to hear him.
Master J. Perea, of Bernalillo, New Mexico, was next called upon for a declamation, and delivered “ The Miser Fully Punished.” This was one of the best-delivered and most loudly-applauded declamations of the evening. Master Perea was followed, by Mr. P. Hagan, who rendered the “ Polish Boy ” with that fire and pathos which the successful rendition of this piece requires. He was greeted with immense applause. Mr. Hagan was succeeded by Master F. Cavanaugh, of Dubuque, Iowa, who had chosen for subject “Released,” by John Boyle O’Reilly, written on the occasion of the release of some Fenian prisoners who had been confined in a British jail. It is a piece very difficult to render in a satisfactory manner; but Master Cavanaugh overcame all difficulties and gave it with much force and grace. Master G. Cochrane, of Chicago, next favored us with a piano solo. We have lately had occasion to notice, and to praise in no stinted terms, the playing of this young gentleman, so we may only add that he was warmly applauded on the present occasion. Mr. A. B. Congar delivered “ The Ride of Collins Graves.” Mr. Congar has an excellent voice and fine delivery; a little more attention to gesture—though he already evinces much grace in it—will make him an excellent speaker. Master W. A. Widdicombe, of Minneapolis, Minn., gave a eulogiumof the great “Pio Nono” in a masterly manner. Mr. Eugene F. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., was the last speaker on the list. He is quite an orator, possesses a good voice, and * from the manner of his delivery one can easily see that he has left no stone unturned to excel in the elocutionary art.
Criticism would be captious in his case, and the applause he received was well deserved.
Among the audience was the celebrated Shakspearean reader, Prof. King, of New York, who was here attending our Commencement exercises, and Prof. Lyons, at the unanimous request of the students, invited him to close the evening’s exercise by favoring us with a selection. Prof. King kindly consented, but before so doing he said that he could not but express his admiration at the manner in which the Elocution Class had acquitted themselves. In the course of his remarks he said that he had attended many Commencements, at which he had witnessed the examination of Elocution Classes, but never yet had he seen such a display of elocutionary ability as he witnessed at Notre Dame. He concluded by giving “Hamlet’s Soliloquy ” in that manner in which only Prof. King can render it.
Taken all in all, this was one of the most successful examinations in Elocution ever held at Notre Dame.
Tuesday.
The Solemn High Mass of the Alumni was celebrated by Very Rev. Father Corby, with Rev. Fathers Walsh and Kelly as deacon and subdeacon, and Rev. A. Morrissey as master of ceremonies, at 6 o’clock in the morning.
The meeting of the Associated Alumni occurred at 9 o’clock. The following were elected officers: T. E. Howard, of ’62, President; First Vice-President, M. T. Corby, of ’65; Second Vice-President, A. J. Stace, of’64; Secretary, R. W. Staley, of ’74; Treasurer, J. A. Lyon®, of ’62; Historian, William W. Dodge, of’74; Orator, D.E. Maloney, of ’74; alternate, W. J. Clarke, of ’74; Poet, W. T. Ball, of ’76; alternate, David J. Wile, of ’77.
The Alumni Banquet was held in the afternoon, Very Rev. Father Corby presiding. Prof. A. J. Stace acted as toast-master. About eighty gentlemen sat down to table and did ample justice to the generous meal provided.
Dinner over, the speech-making was begun. Mgr. Seton responded to the toast of “ Pope Leo XIII,” in eloquent terms. He, like his hearers, felt proud of being recognized as among the children of the far-distant potentate, the Pope. One year ago, it would be remembered, they honored the name of another potentate, now passed away to his reward. Now they honored the successor of Pius IX as loyally as they did that beloved head of the Church, The Pope dies, but the Papacy ever lives. “ The Pope is dead—long live the Pope! ” The good Catholic ever looks to the potentate who stands at the helm of the Church. The future he leaves in the hands of God. He was glad to see the Catholics of America so loyal to the Holy Father of their religion. He hoped this loyalty would ever continue. In the course of his remarks he alluded to the publications in The New York Herald, which were represented to be the productions of a Roman Catholic Prelate, and denouncing them as an imposture, as no Catholic Prelate would, unless fallen from grace, commit himself to an attack on Pope Pius IX, of holy memory. The Monsignore concluded by warning his'hearers against giving attention to persons who set themselves up as critics of the Papacy. They were presumptuous fools, that ought to be despised, if not derided.
• “The United States of America” was the next toast' and was ably responded to by Rev. Father O’Sullivan, of La Porte, Ind. He briefly and, at the same time, comprehensively embodied the idea of the sentiment, tracing the progress of civilization, religion, government, and nationalities down to the dawn of independence in this country and its glorious realization. He also spoke in high terms of the American people, who, although occasionally given to prejudice, were, on the whole, liberal-hearted, and hated tyranny in every form that it could assume. As to the fact that the spread of Catholicism in America was conducive to the benefit of the country, he alluded to the growth of this belief among the Protestant people of America in sending their children to be educated in Catholic universities, where they were certain that their morals could not, by any chance, suffer. [Applause.]
Speeches were also made by Messrs. Wile, Fitzgibbons, and others. The following telegram was received from Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., (gf ’52) of Heaffron, Ont.:
“ Sorry cannot attend the banquet. Should the Alumni Association see fit to open an endowment subscription for the University, put my name down for $1,000.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	691
The entertainment and reunion were extremely pleasant.
Tuesday Evening.
The evening exercises in Washington Hall were witnessed by an immense audience. The first part was chiefly devoted_ to instrumental and vocal music, in which the University Band and Orchestra were the performers. The “Laughing Song” was given by A. Sievers and the Choral Union. H. V. Hayes, of Chicago, read an interesting poem on the “ Reminiscences of College Days,” which was very heartily applauded. His effort was as follows:
If strong desire could inspiration breed In one unused the glowing pen to speed, And best intentions anything avail To guide the unskilled hand, I should not fail Instead of rhyme, a poem grand to weave, Worth the occasion, in memory long to live. But fain I must on friendship kind rely, Faults to excuse, deficiencies supply.
It seems to me of all assembled here, Old students most enjoy Commencement cheer. •Away from pressing cares of toilsome life, Away from cities’ noisy, ceaseless strife, Where Mammon reigns, and Commerce dwells in state, Or humble Labor struggles hard with Fate. From rural homes and busy marts of men We come to rest in this dear spot again.
Amidst what scenes we live, or whence we come, It matters not, or where our race is run ;
For here, “ O Time, we find thy halcyon day, To cheer Earth’s weary traveller on his way ” ; With joyful greetings, hand is clasped in hand; Heart joined to heart, affection’s golden band. Here old acquaintance is once more renewed, And cherished memories are again reviewed. Here midst these walks of learning and of ease, All Nature smiles, as though intent to please. Brought back anew by each familiar scene, Our schoolboy days return as in a dream. The shady paths their thronging memories bring, From rock, and spreading tree, and sheltered spring; Each mossy bank invites us to recline ;
The well-worn grounds to join the boisterous Nine. St. Joseph’s Lake, disturbed by many an oar, Rolls up her wavelets on the pebbly shore. The painted boats, symmetrically framed In graceful curves, for Indian beauties named, Instinct with life, like racers seek the goal;— Impelled by vigorous arms, of men with heart and soul Enlisted in the strife. Each chosen crew Urged on by cheers their efforts to renew, In well-timed strokes the ashen oar they bend, And brain and muscle to the contest lend.
With nerves well strung, all struggle for the lead, And skill and strength combined increase the speed,— Through flashing waves in arrowy course they fly, While diamond drops and pearly chains thrown high, In colors bright reflect the friendly sun, Who smiles with pleasure as the race goes on. At length the victors reach the welcome bound; With wild applause the hills and woods resound ; The gilded badge, the wished for prize is won,— No country ruined and no mischief done.
No mother mourns her sons untimely slain, No wife a husband’s loss, while Triumph vain Heedless of sorrow, suffering, and despair, Flaunts her red banners in the poisoned air;— But pleasure reigns, and innocence, and peace, And joy, and mirth attend the closing feast. The startled bell peals forth no wild alarms, Within this circle of so many charms;
The ponderous hammer marks the flight of time, And every note that trembles from the chime, Rings, not a warning to arouse our fears, But sweetest music to attentive ears.
How blest the youth whose strong, ambitious mind In scenes like these will more than pleasure find; Who learning seeks, and virtue’s priceless gem, Crowned by religion, gift of God to men! Impulsive nature, led by wild desires To scorn obedience to what Law requires, Impels the student now, as in the past, To seek enjoyment which may end at last In stern reproof, dishonorable mention, Or perchance a lesson in detention.
Methinks that those who waste these precious days Must hear the voice of Wisdom sternly raised:—
“Ye reckless spirits, what are ye denied ?
Behold here’s more than every need supplied.
Untimely pleasures no contentment bring, But joys perpetual from your duties spring. Though Knowledge spreads her copious rays around, Yet live ye here in ignorance profound;
Though Learning here comes forth in bright array, Yet all her charms displease, you turn away.
While thus persistent you yourselves deceive, Persuasive Truth is powerless to relieve.
Contented minds to those alone belong Who choose the right and so reject the wrong. When all too late you may regret the past. And ever grieve for best occasions lost Then will you see the purpose of each rule, Which now you judge oppressive to the school. -Break not the rules, but cheerfully obey
The teachers kind, who train you day by day;
And learn to trust the future for that light
Which clears the judgment and reveals the right.”
Happy they who heed this warning voice, And of the better way make early choice. Now, friends, adieu ! may each revolving year, Brighten the chain of friendship welded here; Prosper and bless Professors, pupils, all, And our beloved Father Sorin call
To honors new, and wide-extending praise, With health and peace serene, and happy sunset days. Our Alma Hater, faithful friend and guide,
Adieu 1 Thy precepts, though we leave thy side, Will guard our steps, and shield us from the blows Of luckless Fortune, or designing foes;
Will brace our courage, and our hopes renew, In manly strife onr duty well to do.
Whate’er of fair success, or honest fame
Life’s struggles bring, we owe thee, Notre Dame.
Charles J. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, delivered the Oration of the Alumni, the subject of which was “American Institutions.” It was an able effort, and our regret is that we could not persuade the young gentleman to furnish us with the manuscript. He was frequently applauded, and everyone is loud in praise of his oration. Mr. August K. Schmidt, of Chicago, read the prologue, which was well received. It introduced the play of “Henry IV,” with the following cast: “King Henry,” James Quinn; “Henry, Prince of Wales,” Joseph P. McHugh; “Hotspur,” A. K. Schmidt; “Falstaff,” Eugene F. Arnold; “Vernon,” J. P. Quinn; “Blunt,” William H. Arnold; “Worcester,” J. B. Berteling; “Westmoreland,” P. J. Dougherty; “Northumberland,”E. C.Davenport; “Douglas,” George Sugg; “Bardolph,” T. E. Nelson; “Prince John,” W. McCarthy; “ Poins,” F. Cavanaugh; “ Quickly,” E. J. Dempsey; “Roby,” E. Maley; “Francis,” O. Mc-Kone; “ Sheriff,” H. Murphy.”
For an amateur performance the play passed off most creditably, and we have the word of one well acquainted with professionals that the manner in which the parts were taken was far superior to affairs of this kind, and indeed would not do discredit to the majority of professionals themselves. Messrs. McHugh, Schmidt, Cavanaugh, Berteling, Arnold, Nelson, and both Quinns performed their parts to universal satisfaction. The other performers also did well, and the audience dispersed perfectly satisfied with the evening’s entertainment. The young gentlemen showed great proficiency and reflected much honor on their teacher. Prof. Lyons.
The Epilogue was spoken by Mr. Joseph P. McHugh, and it over, there was music by the Band.
Wednesday Morning.
The closing exercises of the thirty-fourth Annual Commencement of the University occurred on Wednesday morning in Washington Hall. The grand march, by the University Band, summoned the professors, students, and visitors, whose name was more than legion, to the hall at 8 o’clock. “ Semiramis,” from Rossini, was finely executed by the Orchestra. At half-past 8 o’clock, the Very Rev. Father Corby, President of the University, introduced John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, O., to deliver the Valedictory. The young gentleman displayed hereditary talent in dealing with a subject which has become rather threadbare. He made his speech both original and highly interesting, and delivered it with a manliness and spirit which redeemed the effort from the traditional melancholy and monotony
692
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of such addresses. Bouquets and applause were showered upon him when he concluded. He said:
Right Rev. Bishops, Fathers,
Ladies and Gentlemen:
There are times in the life of all that tell most powerfully on their future career. There are moments when men must in after-life feel that their future was formed before them. Such is the present moment—such is the present time for our youthful band. To-day we stand on the threshold of old Alma Mater, looking back wistfully on the pleasant and happy days of college youth; and looking forward, let us trust, with Steadfast courage to the struggles and trials, the joys and triumphs of the world’s battle. To-day our Mother sends us forth, no longer boys, but men, fitted for the noble duty of our race. It is a moment of import to us, and as we to-day are ready, girt for the contest, or laggard, wishing for repose, so shall we in life’s battle win or lose. Our Mother has done her work, reared us from untaught boys in the knowledge of Heaven and Earth. She has watched over our youthful endeavors, aiding us in the passing years, and pointing out to our youthful minds the road to true success. But her work is now over. With mother’s love has she watched over us, and now with a mother’s benediction and prayer for true success does she send us forth. Forth into the world we go, and there our duties must be fulfilled strictly and to the letter. Then there shall be no excuse for shortcomings, for our time of preparation was given and is passed.
Comrades, standing here, let us reflect and let us think on our future days. For each and everyone of us a special duty has been placed, a work of the passing years has been allotted. Perchance some one of us may be stricken in the moment of triumph, when his days lie happy before him, and perchance we may live to tread together, in spirit if not in person, the downward path of the years, touched and “ mellowed by the stealing hours of time.” Only the All-Wise can tell our future; we can but tread the unseen road, relying on His guidance. But the years allotted must be well spent, and the days of study through which we have passed have been but a preparation for those that are to come. The path of life in our land and our day is beset with many and great dangers. Folly and untruth are abroad. Evil seems now aione to flourish, and only the coming years can guarantee its overthrow. As true men, we can do much good; as false and recreant to our duty, great evil. Let us, comrades, but be faithful to our college teachings, and we shall prosper in the future days. Let us but listen to their directing voice, and we cannot fail in the coming trials. Thus acting, we shall receive the reward of a true and perfect will, if not of a glorious life. Let this be our aim, always and ever to act as true Americans and as true Christians, and the duty of Alma Mater shall have been well done. Be faithful to thy God and to thy country. Such is her wish—let it be-our aim.
But the moments are fleeting, and our farewells are not yet spoken; and, as we turn to give them, the years now feded into the past rise up before us, fraught with memories, many and dear. How the faces of old college boys are gone; and how the memory of ourselves shall one day soon vanish away. Classmates, ’tis a sad, sad duty, but it has come.
Esteemed and beloved President, pray that our steps falter not as we leave your trusty guidance. You came among us, unknown to the most, when we had lost one whose fatherly ways and whose unpretending knowledge had endeared him to the hearts of all; and you have won an equal place in our esteem. Long may our beloved College have you at its head to control and guide those who so well love and cherish you.
To you, dear Father Granger, do we turn: you who have taught so well by precept and by example the science of the Saints. Spared to us you have been, let us hope, for many years; and the memory of your holy, sainted life shall do much to hold many a wayward son in the true road.
Farewell, kind-hearted and devoted Father Walsh. You have dealt with us long, and yet each succeeding year has imprinted in our hearts a greater esteem aud love for one whose kind and gentle ways know few equals, and whose name shall be blessed and esteemed while one who knows him has voice to tell his praises.
To you, our guide of discipline—to you, esteemed Father Kelly, farewell.' We boys have had in you one who knows the bent of youth, and who with watchful and kind caution kept us in the path of true order. To you and your zealous assistants, our devoted Prefects, may many years be given: may many a generation of college boys in the future enjoy and praise your mild and gentle sway.
Farewell, honored Professors. You have devoted your lives to the care of the hope of our land, the youth of the coming generations. With untiring zeal have you worked, and your talents have you devoted to the cause of education. May God grant you in this and in the future life the reward promised to those who toil and labor to lead others in the way of truth.
Farewell, fellow-students, both to those who may and those who may not return to this our college home. True honor, fame, and success be yours. To one and all, farewell.
Old Notre Dame, how the heart thrills as we stand here with our last farewell said, and as we linger to glance but for a moment at thy well-known walks and thy cherished walls! 0 thou our second Mother, may never a stain be cast upon thee, and mayest thou ever increase in honor and glory as the years glide by. And as we, one by one, drop from life’s stage, may we see thy renown shine brighter than ever, and tliy name ranking higher in our land. May thy halls ever be filled with the crowd of seekers after knowledge, and may thy sons point with loyal pride to the beauty and the prosperity of their Mother. Mother of learning, we leave thee. Thy beloved ways are becoming but a memory of the past. We can but linger in spirit in thy midst. O thou, our bounteous and beauteous Mother of learning, farewell, farewell!
Comrades, our duty is over, and I turn to you to speak my last good-bye. May all success attend you, and may your names be recorded on the scroll of time and of eternity as those who deserve the praise of their fellows. May we meet once more, if not on earth, at least above. We have toiled together now for many years, and the day of separation at last has come. Gone are all the ties uniting us to college days, and we must now turn to the world, and face the dangers, and strive manfully for the glories therein bestowed. May our future, as now we encounter it, be such that when the hand of Time has been laid upon us, and our heads are bowed with toil and sorrow—may it be such that then we shall rejoice in its promise for a reward on earth and in heaven. Let us strive for the fulfilment of the wish of our loved Mother of learning, that we be faithful to our God and our country. Comrades, farewell; may we ever keep green the memory of our youthful days, and may we guard well the treasures of our youthful manhood, until we hear the call for that journey which shall end in the Land of Promise. We must go; our paths now lie before us.
Farewell to you, brothers, farewell!
Messrs. J. P. Dougherty and E. J. McMahon rendered a duet in a pleasing manner.
THE RT. REV. DR..SPADDING,
Bishop of Peoria, delivered the oration of the day, which was marked by stirring eloquence, broad liberality, and political as well as sacerdotal philosophy. Notre Dame never heard anything to rival Bishop Spalding’s oration in the characteristics specified. He spoke as follows:
Young Gentlemen:—To few men does life bring a gladder or a brighter day than that which, placing the crown of honor, won by toil, upon their brows, bids them go forth from the dear old halls of their Alma Mater into the great world’s battle-field. There is a freshness and joyousness in these early triumphs, which, like the bloom and fragrance of the flower, are quickly lost, never to be found again even by those to whom fortune reserves the most glorious victories. Fame, though hymned by a thousand tongues, has no charm compared with the delight we drink in from the beaming countenances of our mothers and sisters. Suffused with tears that gather to the eyes from the proud, overswelling heart, in the sacred hours when we can yet claim as our own
The love of higher things, and better days ;
That unbounded hope and heavenly ignorance Of what is called the world, and theworld’s ways;
The moments when we gather from a glance
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6.93
More joy than from all future pride or praise, Which kindle manhood, but can ne’er entrance
The heart in an existence of its own.
The highest joy is serious, and in moments of supreme delight there comes to the human soul a stillness which gives it the power to lift itself into the serene sphere where truth is most gladly heard and most easily understood. .
It will not, therefore, I think, be out of keeping with the solemnities of this day, if I speak to you serious words. Life is not what to young eyes it seems to be.
YOU THINK IT LONG—IT IS SHORT.
You think it full.of happiness—it is full of cares and disappointments. This double illusion, which widens the horizon of life and tinges it with gold, gives to youth its peculiar charm; making it a blessed state to which, like our first parents driven forth from Paradise, we ever turn regretful eyes. But I am wrong to call illusion that which in truth is the shadowing forth of the divine possibilities of man’s nature.
LIFE IS NOT MEAN OR SHORT to the young, because the infinite freedom of youth has power to make it noble and immortal. You, young gentlemen, are standing upon the threshold of the busy world. Of the thousand careers which are open to human activity, each of you will choose one. Your fortunes will be various, even though your merits should be equal. Position, fame, and wealth are often denied to the most persistent efforts and the best ability. It is consoling to know that they are not the highest. As they are hot the end of life they should not be its aim.
An aim, nevertheless, you must have, if you. hope to live to some purpose. All men, in fact, whether they know it or not, have an ideal of some sort, base or lofty, which to a greater or less extent molds their character and shapes their destiny. Whether it be pleasure, or gain, or renown, or knowledge, or several of these, or something else, we all associate life with some end or ends the attainment of which seems to us most desirable. This ideal, which in our inmost souls we love and desire, which we lay to heart and live by, is at once the truest expression of our nature and the most potent agency in developing its powers. Now, it is in youth that we form the ideals to which in mature age we labor to give life and body. “ Was man in der Jugend gewUnscht" says Goethe, “Aat man im Alter die Fulle." That which we have strongly desired in youth is heaped upon us in old age. All-important, therefore, to you, young gentlemen, is the choice of an ideal; for this, more than rules or precepts, must form your character; and then,
A noble aim
Faithfully kept, is as a noble deed
In whose sight all virtue doth succeed.	/
The love of the best is twin-born with the soul; but WHAT IS THE BEST?
What is the worthiest aim and true ideal of life ? It must be something within the reach of every one; as nature’s best gifts—air and sunshine and water—belong to all. What only the few can attain to can never be life’s real end or the highest good. The beneficence of the Creator is most manifest in this, that the best is not far removed from any one of us, but is near alike to the poor and the rich, the ignorant and the learned, the shepherd and the king; and not less is this, that the highest good alone can give to the soul repose and contentment.
What then do I propose to you as the ideal of life? Revolving in my mind the thoughts and theories of many men, I can find nothing better than this—“ Seek ye first the kingdom of God”: or as Carlyle has emphasized the precept,—“ Love not pleasure; love God. This is the everlasting. Yea, wherein all contradiction is solved: wherein, whoso walks and works, it is well with him.”
Observe, young gentlemen, that I do not pretend to trace for you a career; each one will choose his own; but I point to
the GOAL TO WHICH THEY SHOULD ALL CONVERGE, and over which alone is suspended a crown worthy of a noble life.
To the high and ambitious heart of youth, fame, honor, glory, appeal with such irresistible power and appear clad in forma so divinely beautiful, that, at a time ot life when we are all unreal in our sentiments and crude in our
judgments, they are often mistaken for the best. But fame is nominal. They who have deserved it, care not for it.
The fame that follows death is nothing to us;
And what is fame in life, but half-disfame And countercharged with darkness ?
A great soul is above all praise or dispraise of men, which are ever given ignorantly and without fine diseern-ment. The popular breath, ever winnowed by the winds of centuries, is hardly pure. And other fame cannot be the good of which I speak, for only the very few can even hope for it. To nearly all, the gifts that make it possible are denied; and to others the opportunities. There are many, indeed, who win notoriety, and who mistake the rustic cackle of their burg for the murmur of the world; but such as they need not detain us here.
A LOWER RACE OF YOUTH, in whom the blood is warmer than the soul, think pleasure life’s divinest gift; the only good on earth, for which they dolf the world aside and bid it pass. But to give such an end to life were to thwart one’s own purpose; for joy, to be good, must come unbidden. The pleasure which we seek begins already to pall. If it come as refreshment to the weary, solace to the heavy-hearted, or rest to th o’erlabored, it is good and gives buoyancy and strength® But if loved for its own sake and dwelt upon, it is “ the. honey of poison flowers and all the measureless ill.” I will not insist upon this, for pleasure seems worth living for only to the young or the depraved. It is of such light and volatile nature that it is never possessed.
You seize the flower, its bloom is shed; Or like the snow falls in the river. A moment white—then melts forever.
Who so loves God, or freedom, or growth of mind, ot strength of heart, should flee pleasure as his deadliest foe.
A king of feasts, and flowers, and wine and revel, And loye and mirth, was never king of glory.
OF WEALTH AS THE END OR IDEAL;
or even a special aim of life, I should not, it would seem, in addressing young men, be compelled to speak. As a contempt for life, an eager willingness to throw it away in defence of any just cause or noble opinion, is one of the finest privileges of youth, so the generous heart of the young instinctively holds cheap the material comforts which money procures. To be young is to be free, to be able to live anywhere on land or sea, in the midst of deserts, or among strange people; to fit the mind and body to all outward circumstances, rising almost above nature’s iron law. He who feels this high and heavenly spirit of liberty in his soul will dream of flying, and not of hobbling through life on golden crutches. Nevertheless, I may not pass this subject by, lest I should hear from you the question,
What is that which I should turn to, lighting upon days like these ?	'
Every door is barred with gold, and opens but to golden keys The very law and movement of our whole social organization seems to point to wealth as the chief good.
“Contemplate the objects of this people’s good,” says Dr. Newman, and his words are as true of America as of England; “survey their standards, ponder their Ideas and judgments, and then tell me whether it is not most evident, from their very notion of the desirable and the excellent, that greatness and goodness and sanctity and sublimity and truth are unknown to them; and that they do not only not pursue, but do not even admire those high attributes of the Divine Nature. This is what I am insisting on, not what they actually do, or what they -are, but what they were, what they adore, what their gods are. Their god is Mammon. I do not mean to say that all seek to be wealthy, but that all bow down before wealth. Wealth, is that to which the multitude of men pay an instinctive homage. They measure happiness by wealth and by wealth they measure respectability. Numbers there are, I say, who never dream that they shall be rich themselves, but who still at the sight of wealth feel an involuntary reverence and awe, just as if a rich man must be a good man. . . . Theirs is a disinterested homage, it is a homage resulting from a genuine hearty admiration of wealth for its own sake, such as that pure ' love which holy men feel for the Maker of all; it is a homage resulting from profound faith in wealth, from the
694
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
intimate sentiment of their hearts that, however a man may look, poor, mean, starved, decrepit, vulgar, yet if he be rich he differs from all others; if he be rich he has a gift, a spell, or omnipotence,—that with wealth he may do all things.”
THE COMMUNISTIC HATRED of the rich, which would seem to conflict with this sentiment, is really only a different form of the worship of wealth. It is possible to persuade the poor that they are intolerably wretched, only after having convinced them that money is the chief good; for, as I have said, the best, like air and sunshine, should be equally within the reach of all; and if wealth be that best, a state of society which fatally concentrates it in the hands of a few is radically bad and communism is justified.
A charge brought by Buckle and Strauss against the Christian religion is to the effect that it does not inculcate the love of money or inspire a passion for wealth; and one who should listen attentively to the general tone of the pulpit in this country would little suspect that it was caught from the lips of Him who said, “ Blessed are the poor,’’ or hardly shall a rich man enter the kingdom of heaven.. Nevertheless, here as elsewhere, faith and reason are in harmony. Wealth is’ not the best, and to love it as such is idolatry, and, as St. Paul declares, the root of all evil. Man is more than money, as the workman is more than his tool. The spirit that is in man craves quite other nourishment than the bread which he eats.
“ Oceans of Hocheimer, a throat like that of Ophiuchus: speak not of them; to the infinite shoeblack they are as nothing. No sooner is your ocean filled than he grumbles that it might have been of better vintage. Try him with half of a universe, of an omnipotence, he sets to quarreling with the proprietor of the other half, and declares himself the most maltreated of men.” The chief good of man, and consequently the ideal of life, is not material, but spiritual and moral. Fame and wealth and pleasure are good when they are born of noble deeds and in turn lead the way to something higher; but if sought as ends, and dwelt upon and loved for their own sake, they rot inward to the soul and molder all.
OF CULTURE AS AN IDEAL OF LIFE
I need hardly speak. It is reducible to the theory of pleasure, is possible to but few, and if considered as an end must result in mere dilettantism. It may be remarked, too, that a democratic society is not favorable to the highest culture, and that the pursuit of such an ideal is therefore, in a.country like ours, attended with special difficulties. Culture must be made to subserve some ulterior purpose, that is, cease to be an end and become a means, or it degenerates into a principle of exclusion and isolation, destroys all sympathy with what is called the vulgar herd, and terminates in weak and sentimental self-worship.
Nothing remains then, young gentlemen, but the ideal which I have already proposed to you—
“SEEK YE FIRST THE KINGDOM OF GOD.”
Unless the light of heaven fall across your pathway impenetrable darkness will gather round you, and in the end, though your fondest dreams of worldly success shall have been fulfilled, you shall find yourselves without God and without hope.
“For man’s willing faith is properly the one thing needful ; how, with it, martyrs, otherwise weak, can endure the shame and the cross; and without it worldlings puke up their sick existence, by suicide, in the midst of luxury.”
So long as any seriousness is left in man, religion is his deepest and first concern. Indifference here argues stupidity or depravity; and
DOUBT IS DISEASE.
Difficulties assuredly there are, underlying not only faith but all systems of knowledge. How am I certain that I know anything? is a question debated in all past time, debatable in all future time. But we are none the less certain that we know.
The human mind is governed by laws which no philosophy can change; and the ever varying metaphysical theories pass away and are forgotten, and the eternal problems present themselves ever anew, clothed in the eternal mystery. No great knowledge is required to show us how poor and symbolical are the thoughts of the multitude.
Half in pity, half in contempt, we rise into higher regions, but we are not long in discovering that wherever we may be there also are the laws and limitations of our being; that in whatsoever sanctuaries of learning we may hide ourselves we still belong to the common crowd, and, like them, see darkly, as through a glass.
We cannot adequately grasp the infinite; human language cannot adequately express even that which we know of the Divine nature; and, therefore, there remains ever a background of obscurity where it is possible to adore or to mock. “ My experience is,” said a great and noble woman, “that	.
CHRISTANITY DISPELS MORE MYSTERY THAN IT INVOLVES. With Christianity it is twilight in the world; without it, night.” You, young gentlemeu, have the certain light of faith, and are in no danger of fainting in this obscurity so long as your hearts are pure. A clever boy may perceive the difficulty without being able to find the solution; but this need not lead him to doubt. Doubt springs from a moral cause;- from sin. When the impure breath of the world has dimmed the.mirror of the soul, God’s image is blessed and the darkened mind finds all things questionable. God has placed us here to act, and not to doubt.
Leave quibbles to those who can find no better use for life; do you rather, with strong faith in God and man, seek out some work worthy to be done.
.	DISTRUST IS THE LAST KNOWLEDGE
which a great heart learns. Be not therefore of little faith, but trust the larger hope, in the strong conviction that the generous view is, in the end, the true view.
In some good cause, not in mine own, To perish, wept for, honored, known, And like a warrior overthrown.
Having pointed out to you that a long course of life should transcend its own sphere and seek its justification and consecration in some higher and heavenly aim; in other words, that God, as He is the beginning, so should He be the end and ideal of life, I will, with your permission, young gentlemen, lay yet further claim to your attention, and my words shall be addressed to those among you who, having with honor run their course here, are about to say farewell to these walls and to go forth into the world to do the work of men. To the rest of you days like to this will return when from other lips than mine it will be your privilege to drink in lessons of higher wisdom. Seek to know that which you are able to do—for this is the highest self-knowledge which is possible to us—and, having found it, do it with all your might. Be not deceived by sottish vanity, or blinded by pride, or hoodwinked by a secret love of ease. Wretched is he who toils at that for which nature does not intend him; and he is happy who, loving God, digs ditches or drives swine, if this is his fit work. Yet have not a mean opinion of your ability, for if you possess the
GENIUS OF LABOR you are able to do more than you dream of. .
The commonplaces on this subject are not unknown to you. That labor has a quasi-omnipotence, that without it there is no excellence, that it is the law and condition of all progress, God’s true wonder-worker and beautifier of the earth, realizing day by day yesterday’s impossibilities. Genius, said Buffon, is a strong disposition to take pains, and Newton declared himself that if he knew anything, he
OWED IT TO PATIENT THINKING.
“ What is your secret of success ? ” asked a lady of Turner. “ I have no secret, madam,” he replied, “ but hard work.”
“Excellence in any department,” said Dr. Johnson, “can now be attained only by the labor of a lifetime: it is not to be purchased at lesser price.”
“ There is but one method,” said Sidney Smith, “ and that is hard labor; and a man who will not pay this price for distinction, had better dedicate himself to the pursuit of the fox.”
“There was in the whole city,” says Plutarch, “but one street in which Pericles was ever seen, the street which led to the market-place and the council house. He declined all invitations to banquets and all gay assemblies and company.” But you are familiar with the examples: and may after all feel disposed to ask me whether in addressing Americans I might not dispense with any exhortation to labor. We certainly are eager, active, and enterprising. Our
THE &OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	695
life is feverish; we are in a hurry and are very busy; but that we are laborious is not so evident. He who has learned the secret of labor is patient, because he knows its power, and is not therefore in a hurry, is not over eager. To climb steep hills requires slow pace at first—the fire that mounts the liquor till it run o’er in seeming to augment, wastes it. Our young men are apt, like peevish children, to rush forward to pluck the fruit ere it is ripe.
THEY PROMISE BETTER THAN THEY PERFORM.
They lack strong ambition and rest satisfied with low aims.
Notoriety seems to them a good, and they think it something to be in the legislature, or to be an aiderman, or a governor, to live in a marble house. Unhappy youths, from whom the power and beauty of life are hidden, who stand in the centre of immensities, in the conflux of eternities, betwixt heaven and hell, with all the divine possibilities around them which freedom holds out to the young, and yet can dream no better dream than some aldermanic nightmare. Not by the spiritual growth of the soul, kindling itself at the fire of infinite truth and love, do we hope to become men, but by tacking on our poor bodies the forms and rags of office or position.
Like our fathers, we are prostrate before the Juggernaut car of the hideous idol—Success. Let a man invent a reaper or a sewing-machine, let him compound a patent medicine or discover a new way of making soap, and thereby grow rich, and straightway he becomes a national hero. Or let him accidentally win a decisive battle, or successfully run a faro bank, or so manipulate the ballotbox as to put in office one who was not elected, or combine popular talent with a scandalous life, or rehearse with coarse humor the more superficial arguments of the atheist, —he is at once worthy to be placed in Emerson’s gallery of representative men. We all, like whimsical Emerson, CONTUSE SUCCESS WITH GREATNESS.
But it is not my purpose to be censorious, lest I should give you evil example: “ It is better to fight for the good, than to rail at the 111.”
Old Age, sitting in his easy-chair, may lament that he has fallen upon evil days, and laud the times when he was young. No days are evil to him who feels that God gives him the strength to make them better. It is yours, young gentlemen, to act and not to complain. Your age and your country are as your father and your mother. There may have been, there may be, better, but you should never think so.
The best ages have not been good. I do not find one that might even serve as a standard for comparison. But with liberty we can endure all things and hope for a remedy. Never complain, I implore you, that your Catholic faith is, in this country, an obstacle to the achievement of any noble purpose. True manhood needs no recognition, as excellence is its own reward; but, if you are the highest, your eminence will not be denied by Americans because you are Catholics. If, however, you unfortunately are of the breed of men who are made by votes and patronage, you may well think ita grievance that the Protestant backwoodsmen have not yet lost sight of the Pope’s cloven foot. To be a Catholic is certainly in the United States
AN ARGUMENT AGAINST CHOOSING POLITICS AS A PROFESSION,
but this I cannot look upon as a hardship. I think it not only a civil but a religious duty to take an interest in public affairs; the fate of this country will, I believe, be that of democratic government. Should liberty and civilization fail here, thoughtful men everywhere will hold this to be an all-sufficient proof of the radical incapacity of the people for self-government. Again, I believe there is in the wide earth nowhere a more hopeful future for the Catholic Church than in this country of ours, which I love ever as I love freedom and my religion. And yet I cannot regret, except as part of a general evil, the obstacles which are thrown in the way of the political career of Catholics. In a society like ours, the qualities which go to make a successful politician are not the highest. It is not to be presumed that the lowest will elect the highest; that the foolish will elect the wise, or that the corrupt will elect the pure He who is above the crowd, if he would win it, most stoop. Nor, if the ablest man should be chosen, is there reason to think he could work to goad purpose in the present condition of parties. It is idle to urge the best to
come forward and elect the best. The best are the few. Every attempt at reform is abortive, because nothing can • be accomplished in politics without the aid of cliques and rings. Another consideration which weighs not a little with me is this: If Catholics were popular the temptation to promote the interests of religion by political means would be greater, and there is nothing, I think, so little to be desired. Politicians are like fortune—they sell what they seem to give. Timeo Demaos et donaferentes.
But what I would specially call your attention to is the danger to which political aspirations expose the young. They are thereby thrust forward into the noisy babbling crowd, and are thrown into rude contact with disenchanting experiences of life, when they should be occupied fashioning mind and heart in the sanctuary of silence. That every college graduate should be a statesman, eager to enlighten the multitude with his views upon the state of the country and the remedies for existing evils, is not well. Our civilization seems to provoke universal utterance; superinducing thereby ineffable vacuity. In a blatant land let the young learn the golden wisdom of silence. The noblest characters are fashioned in secrecy, through long travail, like
Wines that, heaven knows where, Had sucked the fire of some forgotten sun And kept it thro’ a hundred years of gloom, Yet glowing in a heart of ruby.
It seems to me it were well worth the labor and expectation of a lifetime to be able even once to do the right thing excellently well.
THE COURAGE TO WAIT, not in idleness, but in patient diligence, is a mighty power; and he who has the will to excel must possess this courage. The eager passion to display one’s self, to speak and act in the eyes of the world, is boyish. Will is concentration, and a great purpose works in silence.
Of young men who graduate at college, people are wont to say—They have finished their education. This is unfortunately true of a majority of college graduates. They finish their education
JUST WHEN THEY ARE PREPARED TO BEGIN THE WORK. The most brilliant course of learning is valuable chiefly because it fits us to enter intelligently upon the sublime duty of educating ourselves.
To cease to study, therefore, upon leaving college is to sacrifice the very position for which through years of labor you have been contending. What would be thought of a general who having sacrificed the lives of many of his soldiers to gain a stronghold, should at once, without cause, abandon it to the enemy ? Year after year large numbers of graduates, crowned with honors, go forth from the colleges of the country, and people ask one another, What becomes of them ? As a stone thrown into the water creates for a moment a commotion and a noise, then sinks beneath the silent wave to lie forever still and unnoticed, so the graduate, with his commencement oration, is greeted with a murmur of applause; the ripple extends to his immediate circle; then quietly, with folded arms, he seeks repose, and of him nothing is heard for evermore. He becomes a subject of reproach to the fair mother who had looked to him to add another gem to her crown of glory. If the colleges are to blame, it is because they fail to inspire the enthusiastic love of knowledge which makes study through life a duty as pleasing as imperative; but that graduates who grow intellectually idle should be intellectual nobodies cannot be the fault of any institution of learning.
You will, I hope, young gentlemen,
HAVE TO MAKE YOUR OWN WAY
in the world. Even though it should be your misfortune to be the sons of rich men, you will, I feel confident, be able to rise above the slavish habit of mind which great wealth often begets, and to trust to yourselves and hot to your father’s money. What value there may be in the talk of politicians about the dollar of our fathers, I am not prepared to say; this, however, I do know—it is a bad dollar if the sons put their trust in it and not in themselves. But having to make your own way, you will be met at the very outset with the cry—All the walks of life are overcrowded. Yes, in the ranks of the indolent and unskilful. There seems to be a press and consequent dis tress; but the patient, skilled workers of the world ever
696
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
find themselves, it matters not how, where there is room and space. Take anything which it is well to do, learn how to do it thoroughly well,
BETTER IF POSSIBLE THAN ANYONE ELSE, . and you are at the head of a realm, high or low, but in any event away from the crowd’s pressure. The land is filled with young men who can find nothing to do, because they do not know how to do anything thoroughly well. To be able to do what ten thousand others without special training can do also, means low wages and uncertain employ-, ment. The fine skill which places us in the front, where there is always room, can be acquired by patient, assiduous labor, and in no other way. Even the instances which seem to be in contradiction to this law, are easily brought under it. It is God’s law of progress, the law of liberty and of inequality giving dignity and charm to life.
WE ARE WHAT WE MAKE OURSELVES by the free use of God’s gifts.
0, the goodness and the seriousness of life; the illimitable reach of achievement which it opens up to the young who have a great heart and a worthy aim! With this is God’s infinite power and love; His very presence is hidden by a film only; the heavens break open, and from this little islet in ethereal space they look into immensity; angels bend over them, and the earth bears them up as though it would have them fly. Take strength, young gentlemen, and be men.
In a boundless universe .
Is boundless better, boundless worse.
Choose ye the boundless better:
For all may have, If they dare choose, a glorious life or grave.
Better not be at all than not be worthy. Suffer not the sceptic blight of a materialistic age to eat into your souls and dry up the forms of high hope and generous courage. Upon my ear has fallen the question: “ Why wear out life in unselfish devotion to a noble cause? We get no thanks.” It is the fiend’s phrase denying that God is. It is enough to have done the thing one ought, whether it brings a crown or a cross. Be bold and confident; labor for the good cause,—for truth, justice, and freedom; and, though all men should bend the knee to idols, do you trust to God alone. Each day gives me stronger faith in the power of a great-hearted man. Have courage. Despondency is good neither for life nor death.
.	.	.	. I hold .
That it becomes no man to nurse despair, But in the teeth of clinched antagonisms To follow up the worthiest till he die.
Prof. Corby, of Chicago, rendered “ Let Me Dream Again ” in a highly artistic manner, which produced vivid enthusiasm.
The distribution of prizes, honors, medals, diplomas; and conferring of degrees was then proceeded with, the Very Rev. President being aided by Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, and Mgr. Seton, Jersey City, N. J., in this duty.
Following is a full list of those who were fortunate in the receipt of honors:
CONFERRING OF DEGREES, Etc.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Hon. Philemon B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio.
The Degree of Master of Arts on Rev. C. Kelly, of Notre Dame, Ind., and Rev. N. Stoffel, of Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on Rev. A M. Kirsch, of Notre Dame, Ind.; and Benjamin L. Euans, of Watseka, Hl.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts on John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; Joseph P. McHugh, of Lafayette, Ind.; A. Morrissey, of Notre Dame, Ind.; W. K. Roche, of Trenton, N. J.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science on John Coleman, of Ardee, Ireland.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws on Daniel E. Maloney, of Harvard, Hl.; James J. Quinn, of Tolona, Ill.; and Eugene F. Arnold, of Washington, D. C.
Medical Certificates were awarded to Albert W. Johnson, of Milwaukee, Wis., and Thomas Francis O’Grady, of Newark, New Jersey.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to Jos. Krost, of
Crown Point, Ind.; Geo. Saxinger, Crown Point, Ind.; C. Nodler, Keokuk, Iowa; J. Rothert, Huntingburgh, Ind.;
C. Walsh, Chicago, Ill.; O. J. Hamilton, Flint, Mich.; G. P. Cassidy, Shawneetown, Ill.; Jno. Healy, Elgin, Ill.; F. Keller, Norwalk, Ohio; J. Kuebel, Louisville, Ky.; F. Hoffman, Monroe, Mich.; E. W. Robinson, Mill view, Fla.;
M. H. Bannon, Waukesha, Wis.; J. G.Baker,Fort Wayne, Ind.; J. J. Houck, Portland, Oregon; R. Routledge, Milwaukee, Wis.; O. McKone, Lafayette, Ind.; F. Hellman, Dubuque, Iowa; A. Ginz, South Bend, Ind.; I. Chatterton, Springfield, Ill.; A. Hettinger, Freeport, Ill.; P. J. Dougherty, Coldwater, Iowa; John Matthews, Kenosha, Wis.;
L. Eisenman, Louisville, Ky.
FIRST HONORS.	?
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	|
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, L. J. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, | P. W. Mattimore, J. D. Montgomery, H. Maguire, W. L. s Dechant, F. Keller, J. J. McEniry, P. F. McCullough, J.
H. Rothert.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. J. Burger, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cav- $ anaugh, G. L. Ittenbach, T. E. Nelson, F. T. Pleins, K. L. f . Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, G. Donnelly, J. M. Scanlan.	1 ’
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Amedeus M. Coghlin, John J. Inderrieden, Charles M. . Long, William J. Coolbaugh, George J. Rhodius, John A.
Seeger, George M. Lambin.
SECOND HONORS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	,
J. E. Cooney, T. Barrett, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, M. ( Hogan, J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman. A J. Hettinger, J.	%
J. Kotz, W. J. Murphy, C. F. Mueller, T. F. O’Grady, M.	p
J. Regan, M. J. McCue, T. S. Summers, F. J. Walter, J. P.	f
McHugh, J. P. Kinney, A. J. Hertzog, J. P. Quinn, J. R.
Lambin.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	,
R. Keenan, A. Rietz, A. W. Sievers, F. W. Singler, C. ■ Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter, «L A. Lumley, J. F. Arantz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J.
A. Burger, H. E. Canoil, T. F. Clarke, C. E. Cavanagh, G.	■
H. Cochrane, J. M. Byrne, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling,	i
J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, S. S. Perley, K. W. Rey- I nolds, J. B. Ittenbach, R. P. Mayer, D. S. Coddington, M.
T. Burns, E. S. Pennington, P. P. Nelson, A. J. Bushey. I MINIM DEPARTMENT.	I
Owen J. Farrelly, Armin Hartrath, Francis Gaffney, William A. Coghlin, Charles M. Crowe, Charles L. Garrick, William F. Rheinbardt, Charles H. McGrath’, Nicholas P. Nelson, Robert G. Costello, James M. Courtney, s James Devine, Joseph F. Courtney, Joseph S. Inderrieden, i Francis J. Berry, Clement S. Crennan, Sylvester Bushey, | Charles Bushey, Patrick Fitzgerald, William McDevitt, z James McGrath, Thomas McGrath, Harry Snee, Thomas O’Neil, Harry E.Kitz, Charles Welty, John A. Crowe.	t
HONORABLE MENTION.	j
The following young gentlemen were not long enough ] at the University to receive Second Honors, but will be	.1
honorably mentioned in the Catalogue for their excellent	.
conduct:
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
A. Dorion, H. W. Nevans, J. Rabbitt, J. S. Sheridan, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, E. Maley, J. S. Smith, H. Murphy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	;
J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman, J. L. Halle, J. T. Mat- ; thews, H. J. Newmark, W. Rietz.	I
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	Jj
J. Boose, M. Devine, E. Esmer.	®1
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.	1
CLASSICAL COURSE.	1
The Quan Gold Medal, Senior Class, Classical Course, , was awarded, ezoquo, to John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, i Ohio, and Joseph P. McHugh, of Lafayette, Ind.	•,
The Junior Class Gold Medal, to Ambrose J. Hertzog, ’ of Nachitoches, La.	.	,
The Sophomore Gold Medal, to J. P. Quinn, Tolona, Hl.
The Freshman Gold Medal, to Frank	W. Bloom, Vin-	-
cennes, Ind.	W
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	S
The Junior Gold. Medal, was awarded to Martin J. Me- ® Cue, of Greenwood, III.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
697
The Sophomore Gold Medal, to Anthony J. Burger, of Beading, Pa.
The Freshman Gold Medal, to Peter F. McCullough, Dubuque, Iowa.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Gold Medal was awarded to M. H. Bannon, Waukesha, Wis.
The Gold Medal for History was awarded to James J. Quinn, Tolona, Ill.
The Senior Gold Medal for Elocution, to Eugene F. Arnold, of Washington, D. G.
The junior Gold Medal, to W.A. Widdicombe, J. Perea, F. T. McGrath, ex aquo.
ART DEPARTMENT.
The Grand Gold Medal of the Art Department was presented to Prof. Luigi Gregori, of Rome, Italy, in recognition of his eminent talent.
THE RENDITION
of “ Home, Sweet Home,” by the Band was the signal for dismissal.
Most of the students and their friends left for home on the afternoon train, having fully enjoyed themselves.
The exercises were the most interesting held at Notre »Dame during many years.
Premiums.
The following is the list of those who received premiums at the Annual Commencement:
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Arnold, E. F.—1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Arnold, W. H.—2d Accessit in 8th Latin; 1st Premium in 3d French.
Claggett, B.—Accessit in Instrumental Music.
Cooney, J. E.—2d Premium in 7th Latin.
Chatterton, I.—1st Premium in 3d German; 3d Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Congar, A.—1st Premium in Elocution.
Calkins, E.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Dougherty, P.—2d Premium in Elocution.
Davenport, E.—1st Accessit, Execution, in Book-keeping.
Dorion, A.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
De Vries, C.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Evers, L.—Premium for Progress in Instrumental Music; 1st Premium for Progress in Evidences of Christianity.
Eisenman, L.—1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Ewing, F.—1st Accessit, Execution, in Book-keeping; 2d Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
English, J.—1st Premium, Execution, in Book-keeping.
Fischel, T. F.—Premium for Progress in Instrumental Music; Accessit in Elocution.
Fitzgerald, J.—2d Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Ginz, A.—3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d German; 4th Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Garret, J.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Hertzog, A.—Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Hellman, F.—Premium for Progress in Piano; 2d Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Houck, J.—1st Premium in 1st Geography and History;
Premium for Proficiency in Instrumental Music.
Horne, L. —1st Accessit in 2d German; Accessit in Reading and Orthography.
Hagan, P—1st Premium in Elocution.
Hale, T.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in Elocution.	•
Hoffman, F.—1st Accessit in 1st German.
Hoffman, J.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 8th Latin; 3d Accessit, Execution, in Book-keeping.
Hettinger, A.—1st Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium; Theory, in Book keeping; 2d Premium in Public Reading, 2d Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Hamilton, 0—3d Accessit in 8th Latin.
Horne, P.—Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Keller, F.—1st Accessit in 8th Latin; 1st Accessit in 2d Geometry; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Kratzer, B.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Krost, J.—1st Accessit in 2d German.
Kinney, J.—1st Accessit in 5th Latin; 1st Accessit in 5th Greek.
Luther, F.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Lambin, J^-2d Premium in Elocution.
McKinnon, V.—Premium in Landscape Drawing.
Murphy, W.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Mattimore, P. W.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin.
McCue, M.—1st Premium in 6th Latin.
Murphy, J.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Accessit in Reading and Orthography.
McCullough, P.—1st Accessit in 6th Latin.
McKone, 0.—3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Montgomery, J.—Premium for Progress in Piano.
Murphy, H.—1st Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Mueller, C—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography and History.
Maley, E.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography.
•McHugh, J.—1st Premium for Proficiency in Instrumental Music; Premium in Violin; 1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Nodler, C.—2d Accessit, Execution, in Book-keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Nevans, H.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Sth Latin; 1st Premium in 4th German.
Ohlman, W.—3d Premium in Algebra; 1st Accessit in 3d German.
O’Brien, C—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Price, R.—1st Accessitin 3d French; Premium in Teleg-.raphy.
Quinn, J. J.—Accessit in Instrumental Music; 1st Premium in Public Reading.
Quinn, J. P.—1st Accessit in 5th Greek; Accessit in Instrumental Music.
Regan, M.—2d Accessit in 5th Latin; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry.
Routledge, R.—2d Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Rogers, j.—2d Accessit in 2d Geography and History.
Rice, J.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic.	-
Rettig, O.—1st Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Rothert, J.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; Premium in Violin.
Robinson, E.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 5th German; 1st Premium, Execution, in Book-keeping.
Schmidt, A.—1st Premium in Figure Drawing; 2d Premium in Water-Colors.
Shugrue, J.—3d Accessit in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in 1st French.
Smith, J.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Violin.
Sheridan, J.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Walters, G.—1st Accessit in 3d Algebra; Accessit in Instrumental Music.
Ward, E.—2d Accessit 2d Reading and Orthography.
Walter, F.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Williams, F.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Walters, E.—Accessit in Instrumental Music.
Vogel, P.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Geography. Van Valkenburg, W.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Arantz, J.—2d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium, Execution, in Book-keeping; Premium in Telegraphy.
Bloom, F.—1st Premium in 6th Greek; Premium for Progress in Violin; Premium at Semi-Annual Examina
698
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion; 1st Premium in Public Reading; Accessit in Vocal Music.	.
Bannon, M.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium, Theory, in Book-keeping.	.
Baker, J.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Geography and History; Accessit in Piano.
Burger, A. J.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Violin; Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium at Semi-Annual Examination.	.
Buerger, J. A.—Premium in Instrumental Music; 2d Premium in 5th Latin; Premium at Semi-Annual Examination.
Burns, M.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in Greek; 1st Accessit in 4th German.
Byrne, J.—Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Brinkman, C.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in Landscape Drawing; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Bushey, A—Premium in 3d French.
Burket, C.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography.
Berteling, J.—1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity; 2d Premium in Public Reading.
Clarke, F.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cannon, W.—1st Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic: 1st Premium in 2d Geography.
Crawford, G.—2d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 3d German.
Canoil, H.—1st Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium for Politeness; 3d Accessit in 5th German.
Cox, W.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
Cavanagh, C.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Carroll, F.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium in Piano; 1st Accessit in 7th Latin; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Cassidy, G.—1st Premium in 7th Latin; 1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity.	•
Cavanaugh, F—3d Accessit in 5th Latin; 3d Premium in Public Reading; 1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Cochrane, G.—Premium in Piano.
Clarke, C.—Premium in 3d Algebra: 2d Premium in Public Reading.
Coddington, D.—Premium in United States History.
Cavanaugh, T.—-Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography ; Accessit in Arithmetic.
Cassard, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Geography; Premium in 2d French; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Donnelly, G.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in Elocution.
Doyle, W.—1st Accessit in 3d Geography; Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Garceau, L.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Guthrie, G.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography and History; Accessit iu Vocal Music.
Gibbons, J.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; Accessit in Violin; 1st Premium iu Christian Doctrine.
Gramling, H.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Ittenbach, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography ; 1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d German ; 2d Premium in Landscape Drawing. .
Hafner, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Healy, J.—1st Premium in 5th Greek; 2d Premium in 5th Latin; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1stAccessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
Herrick, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Heitkam, A.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Hagan, C.—2d Premium in Elocution.
Hatt, A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Water-Color Painting; 2d Premium in Figure Drawing.
Halle, J.—Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Herrick, M.—2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Jones, W.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Arithmetic.
Kelly, J. R—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Keenan, R.—5th Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit in Piano; Accessit in Latin; 3d Premium in Elocution. ‘
Ittenbach, G.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d German; 2d Accessit in Pastel Drawing.
Lumley, J.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Lang, F.—1st Accessit in Landscape Drawing.
Larkin, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Lemarie, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; Premium in 1st French.	'
Matthews, J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Geography and History; 2d Premium in 5th German; 2d Accessit, Theory, in Book-keeping.
McNellis, J.—1st Premium in 5th German.
Mayer, R.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit on Flute; Premium in 4th Algebra, 2d Division; Accessit in 4th German; 3d Premium in Elocution.
McGrath, F.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Public Reading; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Moseler, S.—4th Accessit in Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in Geography and History.
McKinnon, C.—2d Accessit in Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Nelson, T.—3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography; 2d Premium, Execution, in Book-keeping; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Newmark, H.—2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st German; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium, Theory, in Bookkeeping.
Nelson, P.—2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Orr, G.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
O’Donnell, J.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Perea, J.—1st Premium in Elocution.
Pleins, R.—2d Accessit in Figure Drawing.
Pennington, E.—Accessit in Christian Doctrine; Accessit in 2d French.
Reynolds, R.—2d Accessit iu 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra. '
Rietz, A.—2d Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d German; Accessit in Reading and Orthography.
Rietz, W.—4th Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Schoby, J.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar.
Scanlan, K.—1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Accessit on Violin; 2 Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit, Execution, in Book-keeping; 1st Premium in Vocal Music.
Sievers, A.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium on Violin; 2d Premium in Vocal Music.
Sugg, G.—Premium on Flute; 2d Accessit in 7th Latin.
Singlet, F.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Stang, W.—1st Premium in 3d Reading and Orthography ; 1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Geography; 1st Accessit in 5th German.
Scanlan, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Geography; Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Walters, E. S.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Welty, S.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 5th German.
Widdicombe, W. A.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium inPublic Reading.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
699
Weisert, F.—2d Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 4th Ac-cessit in 4th Grammar.
Walker, W—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Geography ;• Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Walsh, C—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
. VanMourick,C.—3dAccessitin4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography.
MENIM DEPARTMENT.
Berry, F.—3d Premium in 3d Reading.
_ Boose, J.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in United States History; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Orthography.	-
Barret, T.—4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Bushey, C.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Bushey, S.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Coolbaugh, W.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Geography ; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading.
Grennan, C.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2rd Accessit in 2d Reading; 2d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Costello, R.—4th Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Coghlin, W.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar.
Coghlin, A.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in United States History.
Courtney, Joseph—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Reading; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Courtney James—-1st Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Crowe, C.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Crowe, J.—3d Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Devine, J.—1st Premium in 4th Reading.
Devine, M.—4th Premium in 3d Reading.
Esmer, E.—2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Farrelly, 0.—4th Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium for Proficiency in Piano; 4th Accessit in United
States History; 5th Accessit in 1st Geography.
Farrelly, F.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic.	.
Fitzgerald, P.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine;
2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Gaffney, F.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Garrick, C.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Geography; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 2d Reading.	-
Hartrath, A.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Inderrieden, John—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d. Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Inderrieden, Joseph—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading.
Kitz, H.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Geography.	.
Lambin, G.—1st Premium In 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium for Proficiency in Piano; 4th Accessit in 1st Orthography.	.
Long, C.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
McDevitt, W.—3d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Penman
ship; 3d Premium in United States History; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar.
McGrath, C.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
McGrath, J.—1st Premium in 3d Reading.
McGrath, T.—4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Nelson, N.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
O’Neill, T.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Parsons, F.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Rhodius, G.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 1st Reading.
Rheinhardt, W.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 6th Accessit in 2d Reading.
Seeger, J.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Snee, H.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Welty, C.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Young, C.—5th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Personal. '
—Rev. F. Frere is taking a vacation at St Vincent’s, Ind.
—	J. C. Kelly (Commercial), of ’67, is banking at Le Mars, Iowa.
—	F. P. Wode, of the I. P. and C. R. R. was present at the Commencement exercises.
—	James B. Gray (Commercial), of ’76, is Deputy County Treasurer of Carroll Conty, Iowa.
—	Thos. Nelson, Esq., of Chicago, witnessed for the twentieth time the Commencement exercises at Notre Dame.
—	We are happy to say that Wm. Clarke, of ’74, received the nomination for Prosecuting Attorney of Franklin County, Ohio. The people of Columbus could not find a better man for whom to vote than Mr. Clarke. We hope that he may be elected.	.
—We were pleased to see during Commencement week Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne; Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding, of Peoria, Ills.; Rt. Rev. Monsignore Seton, of South Orange, N. J.; Rev. Fathers Tighe and Egan, of Chicago; O’Sullivan and Oechtering, of Laporte; Oechter-ing, of Mishawaka; Duhmig, of Avilla; Ghomely, of Ohio Station, Ill.; Shea, of St. Vincent’s, Ind.; Capon, of Niles, Mich.; Becks, of Michigan City; Hallinan, of Lafayette; Hannan, of Toledo; Lauth, of South Bend; Baroux, of Ecorse; Lambin, of Pittsburgh; Creighton, of Brooklyn, N. Y.; Maloney, of Lodi, Ill.; Noll, of Elkhart; Wardy, of Chesterton; Baldi, 0. S., of Chicago; Koenig, of Fort Wayne; Thoma, C. PP. S., Wapakoneta, Ohio; Cyzewski, of South Bend, and Reynolds, of Omaha.
—Among the visitors during Commencement week were Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Hon. Jas. Forrester, Laporte, Ind.; Hon. Thos. Anderson and wife, New Orleans, La.; Col. R. King, Chicago, Ill.; A. G. Schmidt, Thos. Nelson, J. J. McGrath, Chicago; P. M. Guthrie, Carroll, Iowa; Chas. M. Ford, John C. Carroll, and W. H. O’Brien, Chicago; John C. English, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. and Miss Jones, Columbus; S. R. Claggett, Lexington, Hl.; J. Matthews, Kenosha, Wis.; M. Baker and G. Arantz, Fort Wayne; J. T. Hug, Esq., Mrs. E. Hug and son, Jas. Murdock, Esq., Mrs. Murdock and son, Mrs. R. M. McGrath and son, all of Lafayette, Ind.; James B. Claffey, Bertrand, Mich.; Mrs. Samuel Zaehnle and Miss Maggie Zaehnle, South Bend, Ind.; W. T. Ball, Chicago, Ill.; N. J. Mooney, Amboy, Ill.; W. and C. Hake, Grand Rapids; G. Nester, Saginaw, Mich.; H. Faxon, H. Quan, T. Cochrane, Mr. Sugg, and Mr. Hafner, Chicago; C. N. Fassett and wife, South Bend Tribune; J. C. Birdsell, Jr., South Bend; Prof. P. Broder, Beloit, Wis.; O. B. Maples, South Bend, Ind.; B. F. Roberts, Independence, Mo.; C.
700
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Proctor, City and County Civil Engineer, Elkhart, Ind.; Chas. Rietz, K G. Schmidt, Chicago; Mr. Jameson, South Bend; Robert Boyle, Chicago; Thos. A .Dailey, South Bend; G. W. Schaefer, E. M. Miller, Wm. J. Miller, F. Schaefer, Peter Konzen, John A. Konzen, Jacob, John, Frank, Mary and Josia Konzen, Miss Schank, Mrs. Mulberry, Miss M. Whalen, Miss Emma Kaner, Miss Annie Howard, George Beck, Barbara Deutch, Miss E. Beck, Miss D. Barshaw, M. J. Roundy, all of South Bend, Ind.; J. Dickenson, England; Mr. English and daughter, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. Clarke, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. George Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. E. J. Larkin, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mr. Walsh, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Pleins, Dubuque, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Dodge, Burlington, Iowa; Mr. Gaffney, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. Brinkman, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. Guthrie, Carroll, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Quinn, Tolona, Ill.; B. F. Roberts, Independence, Mo.; Mrs. P. Congar, Fulton, RI.; C. Slater, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Vandervannet, South Bend; Mr. Price, Kewanee, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Irvine, Harris Prairie; Mr. and Mrs. Summers, South Bend; Mr. Routledge, Milwaukee, Wis.; Miss Zimmerman, Mrs. Barretity, Miss Flaherty, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Savage, Mrs. Scanot, Miss Clemens, Miss M. Gillespie, Mr. Haney, Mr. Leman, Mr. Balmer, H. S. Fassett, J. English, J. McGill, J. L. Monta, E. S. Babcock, A. N. Balsler and daughter, Mrs. Blodgette, Franklin Ulrich, all of South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. M. Powers, Niles, Mich.; H. T. Hatt, Mrs. La Puch, Mrs. Louis Lemont, Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. M. M. O’Donnell, Notre Dame; M. H. Callahan, South Bend, Ind.; B. J. E. Stillson, K. Shannon, Laporte, Ind.; Cornelius Callaghan, Wm. O'Connor, Miss-Lefebvre, A. Russwurm, South Bend, Ind.; S. McGrath, Mrs. M. M. Devine, A. J. O’Reilly, Chicago, Ill.; J. Irving, J. M. Miers, Lancaster, Ohio; Hon. L. G. Tong, Mayor of South Bend, Ind.; J. Lyle, Laporte, Ind.; Jno. Singler and wife, Plymouth, Ind; E. B. Balde, Jr., Green Bay, Wis.; Mrs. A. Garner and daughter, Escanaba, Mich.; Mrs. N. Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; F. Honor, Jno. Reasse, South Bend, Ind.; J. Grace, C. Bolls, Notre Dame; J. J. Fitzgibbon, J. J. Finerty, Chicago, Ill; Mr. Kirchner, Detroit; Mrs. M. M. Phelan, Lancaster, Ohio; Mr., Mrs. and Miss O'Connor, Miss Hines, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Spier, Miss O’Neill, Miss Heneberry, Peoria; Mrs. Studebaker, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. Wilson, Trenton, N. Jersey; Mr. Keenan, Canada; Judge Turner, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. Crowley, Cairo, Ill.; Mr. Maloney, Elgin, Ill.; Judge Barnes, Mich.; Mr. Frankenburg, Miss L. Harris, Niles; Mrs. Julius, Miss Morrill, Niles, Mich.; Miss Bannon, Mrs. Miller, Mrs. B. and K. Spencer, Port Huron, Mich.; Doctor and Mrs. Wood, Hampton, Iowa; Mr. Plattenburg, of Illinois; Mr.H.Hayes, Chicago; Mrs.Papiu, St.Louis; Mr. and Mrs. Whiteside, Chicago; Miss Canning, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. G. Corcoran, Chicago; Mrs. Kavanagh, Chicago; Mr. A. R. Lerbin, Mishawaka; Mr. M. Markley, Penn.; Mrs. Orsbach, Miss Welty, Indianapolis; Miss Confrey, Miss Hayes, San Pierre, Ind.; Mrs. Chilton, Washington, Va.; Mrs. Richardson, Cleveland, 0.; Mr. and Mrs. Russell, Wisconsin; Mr. and Mrs. Van-derhoff, Mrs. J. C. Vanderhoff, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. Nolan, San Pierre, Ind.; Miss Schwass, Miss Platz, Mrs. J. Platz, Mrs. J. R. Platz, St. Clair, Mich.; Mrs. J. M. Bohn, Fowlerville, Mich.; Doctor and Mrs. Rupp, South Bend Ind.; Mrs. Reising, Aurora, Ill.; Mrs. Hackett, Grand Rapids; Mrs. Hackett, Watertown; Mr. Peak, La Crosse, Wis.; Mr. and Mrs. Giddings, South Bend, Ind; Mrs. Ortmayer, Mrs. Geiser, Mrs. Haustreck, Chicago; Miss Cavanaugh, Miss Brown, Dubuque, Iowa; Mr. Higgins, Chicago; Mrs. and Miss Farrell, Keokuk; Miss Barner, Elkhart; Mr. Seeger, Dubuque, Iowa; Miss M. Walsh, Mr. and Mrs. Casselmann, Chicago; Miss Larkin, Virginia; Mrs. Snee, Chicago; Miss Smith, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. and Miss White, Crawfordsville, Ind.; P. J. O’Connell, Chicago; Mrs. Sullivan, Chicago; Mrs. Fisk, Mich.; Miss Ritchie, Mr. Cregier, Chicago; Miss Burgert, Mr. Dougherty, Wis.; Prof. Ivers, Mrs. Ivers, Prof. Howard, Prof. Schnurrer, Miss Alterog, Detroit; Miss. J. Locke, St. Louis; Mrs.' Gerhart, South Bend; Mrs. Morgan, Centralia, Ill;. Mr. and Mrs. Danaker, Lansing, Mich.; Mrs. Cavenor, Mrs. Reynolds, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mrs. Honel, Miss B. Pechs, Mich.; Mrs. Quinn, Tolona; Mrs. and Miss Veasey, Mrs. Byerly, South Bend; Miss M. Hooper, Niles; Miss West, Chicago; Miss Radin, Mrs. Fox, Mrs. Piquette, Miss Perley, Miss Kirwin, Miss Neteler, Miss O’Connor, Mrs.
Redmon, Miss Sturgis, Mr. and Mrs. Remier, Laporte; William F. Clarke, of Columbus; A. W. Arrington of Chicago; and hundreds of others whose names we failed to receive.
Iiocal Items.
—The Campus has a deserted look.
—	Everybody was delighted with the oration of Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding.
—	About fifty of the Alumni were here during Commencement Week.
—	Everyone should immediately send his subscription to the Scholastic.
—	The badges this year were very fine. The old members all wore theirs.	-
—	A large number of old students attended the exercises of Commencement week.
—	Anyone having our copy of No. 3, Vol. II, Oratoris Sacri will please return it.
—The St. Cecilians had their room admirably decorated during Commencement Week.
—There are two Seniors, two Juniors, and eleven Minims spending the vacation at Notre Dame.
—The Commencement week passed off pleasantly. The weather was fine and the exercises were well carried out.
—The play on Tuesday evening was a grand success. We have the word of a professional that no amateurs could have done better.
—The next number of the Scholastic will appear about the 15th of August, and will contain matter of great interest to all students.
—Many of the old St. Cecilians, Thespians, Philodemics, Columbians and Philopatrians were present at the exercises of Commencement Day.
—Every one at Notre Dame returns thanks to the Michigan Southern, the Western, and Northwestern railroads for courtesies shown during Commencement Week.
—About eighty old members of the Thespian Association were here on Wednesday of Commencement Week. Rev. P. Creighton, who was also here, was a prominent member in ’52.
—We intend binding some twenty copies of the Scholastic to be given as premiums at the next Commencement. The Scholastic was the most desired premium given last week.
—On Commencement Week Prof. Lyons closed his twentieth year at Notre Dame. He was never more gratified with the work of one year than he was with what w.as accomplished in 1877-8.
—We understand that the Commercials of former years will next June form an Association similar to the Alumni’s. This is right, and the authorities of the College will do everything in their power to help it along.
—The members of the Thespian Association and the Columbian Club held a meeting on the morning of Tuesday, June 25th. A vote of thanks was tendered to Bros. Theodore, John and Timothy for favors shown the Associations.
—We are much pleased to learn that the examinations of the students of the college of St. Laurent, near Montreal, were extremely satisfactory, as the general average was a little over 82 per cent. The Annual Commencement Exercises took place on the 20th inst.
—We call attention to the advertisement in another column asking for information as to the whereabouts of William Gates, aged 18 years, who was a Minim here in 1864-5, and resided afterwards in Chicago and St. Louis. We will gladly forward any information of him that may be sent us.	.
—A game of baseball resulting in the smallest score on record here this year was played on the 20th ult. between a junior nine from the 4th ward, South Bend, Ind., and the Quicksteps, a nine in the Minim Department. At the ninth inning the score was 4 to 6 in favor of the Quicksteps. On the 23d ult. the same two nines played a second
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	701
match game, the Quicksteps winning again by a score of 6 to 18.
—The many friends of Willie Cash, of ’77, long and favorably known here among the younger students, will be sorry to heat that he met with a serious accident near his home in Chicago lately, falling from a high platform and striking his side with great violence against a large stone. He attributes his narrow escape from death under God to the special protection of St. Joseph, whose cord he wore, having received it during his sojourn here at college. We trust soon to hear that he has been declared out of danger.
—The last regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean and the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Associations were held Tuesday morning, June 25th. After the diplomas and medals were distributed a vote of thanks was tendered the Editor of the Scholastic; Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh and Kelly; Bros. Leander, Paul, Lawrence, Simon, Stanislaus, Theodore, Columkill, Celestine, Alban, Bruno; Messrs. Joseph McHugh, A. K. Schmidt, M. Regan and R. Meyer. The members concluded the meeting with “ Three cheers for old Notre Dame.”
—On Wednesday evening after all the exercises at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s were over, a little impromptu entertainment was got up in the College parlor, and was one of the most, enjoyable affairs it has ever been our fortune to attend. There were select readings given by Col. King, of Chicago, and Mr. Larkin, of Wheeling, and plenty of x music. Prof. Corby, of Chicago, gave quite a number of artistic solos. It was a night long to be remembered and we know that all whose good fortune it was to attend will look back on it with pleasure. Indeed there were many who took the evening train who would have remained had they known what an enjoyable time they might have spent here.
—According to their annual custom, the St. Cecilians assembled in the Junior refectory, and with their usual good nature invited the Thespians, Philopatrians, Columbians, Band, and Senior Orchestra. The entire Faculty was also present, together with quite a number of visitors. All filed in to a fine march by the Orchestra, and, after grace, sat down to a bounteous repast, gotten up under the supervision of Prof. J. A. Lyons, President of the Association, and prepared by the good Sisters. After all were filled to satiety, speeches were made by Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh and Kelly, Profs. Stace, Howard, Lyons, and also by C. J. Dodge of Burlington, Iowa, and Gen. S. Anderson, of Louisiana. The toasts were all to the point, and abounded in choice sentiments, and the speeches were not too long, but exactly appropriate. The ceremony of drawing for the ring was then performed. Mr. T. Nelson was the happy recipient, and became king of the day. The Orchestra then played a lively galop, and all left the banquet hall exceedingly well pleased.
—We advise all our friends who are in search of health or pleasure to visit Waukesha, Wis., the Saratoga of the West. There they will find the celebrated Bethesda Spring whose life-giving power is known to the whole world. A few words here may not be out of place for the benefit of those who are unacquainted with the effects of this water. Its curative power was accidentally discovered by Col. Dunbar in the autumn of 1868. Previous to that time he had suffered much from diabetes in its worst form, and his family physician, the distinguished Dr. Willard Parker, of New York city, having ineffectually exhausted medical skill for his relief, advised him as a last resort to visit Europe. This he did, but returned home unbenefited. Dr. Parker then told him there was no use in resorting to further remedies, his case was beyond the reach of medical aid; he had better put his affairs in order, and resign himself to his fate, as in all probability a few weeks at most would bring him to his end. While at the University. of Notre Dame shortly after, attending to some family affairs, Col. Dunbar was called to Waukesha by the death of Mrs. Dunbar’s mother, who had resided there, but, being in very feeble health and enduring great bodily suffering, he very reluctantly made the journey. He describes his thirst as insatiable; he says it was beyond the power of man to describe his sufferings. While at Waukesha he was induced to ride out one day to see some real estate purchased by his sister-in-law, but became so overpowered by thirst that he bemoaned his imprudence in leaving the house,
and wished to return to slake this insatiable thirst. Miss Clarke, his sister-in-law, remarked that there was plenty of water on the newly purchased property, whereupon Mr. Dunbar was taken to one of several springs on the place, and which is now known as the Bethesda Spring. He drank six tumblerfuls at first, and immediately felt a grateful and refreshing feeling. He remarked to the ladies accompanying him that there was something peculiar in this water. After resting awhile under a spreading oak near the spring, he drank six more tumblerfuls in succession, making twelve in the space of half an hour. On his return he felt a strange sensation, and before he reached the house the object he had sought for years through the aid of medicinenow seemed to come ofitself: a profuse perspiration set in, and that night he enjoyed such undisturbed repose as he had not had for years. After using the water for three days, Col. Dunbar considered nimself completely cured, and has, we believe, enjoyed since then full immunity from his previous troublesome complaint. He now spends his time in making known the curative properties of the spring to others and in dispensing the waters to those who may need them. To those who visit the spring in person nothing is charged, we believe, but when sent abroad there is something charged to defray the incidental expenses. It is now, we understand, shipped in barrels to all parts of the world, even to China and the East Indies, and is con- . sidered a specific for all diseases of the kidneys, for dropsy, gravel, diabetes, Bright’s disease, etc. We refer to the matter more particularly as there are persons here at Notre Dame who have experienced in their own case a wonderful relief by the use of the Bethesda Water, and we consider ourselves doing a benefit in making its curative properties known.
An Enjoyable Banquet at Notre Dame.
One of the most enjoyable events incident to the close of school at Notre Dame University was the twentieth annual banquet of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, given in the College refectory, on Saturday afternoon. In this instance the occasion was made a union affair by including in the participation several societies, the Thespian, Columbian, Philodemic, Philopatrian, the two Archconfraternities, and a number of the seminarians. There were also present all of the officers of the College, led by President Corby, a large number of the fraternity, members of the faculty, among whom were Prof Tong* Mayor of South Bend; Profs. Lyons, Howard, Edwards, and Stace County Surveyor; and a large number of visitors, among whom were Gen. T. C. Anderson, of Louisiana returning board notoriety; Mr. Patrick Gibbons, of this city; Dougherty, of Mason City, Iowa; Mr. English, of Columbus, Ohio; Messrs. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa; Mooney, of Ambov, Ill.; and Sheppard, of Alton, former students of the University; Mr. Keenan, of Toronto, Canada, and others. At five o’clock the societies and visitors assembled in the great dining hall, which had been tastefully festooned for the occasion, and took seats at the large, numerous and well-filled tables. An impressive grace by Very Rev. Father Corby preceded the gastronomic exercises, which were long continued and effective. But human capacity was exhausted at last, and there was a drawing back of chairs in anticipation of the more aesthetic but not the less gratifying “ feast of reason and flow of soul,” which followed in the form of toasts and responses.
“Pope Leo XIII.—Like his glorious patron, the great Leo, he stands forth the champion of right, justice, and civilization, against the Attilas and Genserics of the modern world. No more glowing eulogy can be paid to his exalted merit than to say that he is in every way worthy to continue the work of the immortal Pius IX.” Response by Very Rev. Father Corby, President of Notre Dame. “To the founder of the University of Notre Dame, though now beneath a foreign sky, yet still present by his influence and by the affectionate remembrance every instant excited by the mention of his name. Let us all unite in a health to the Very Rev. Edward Sorin.” Response by Mayor Tong. “The President of the United States. Regarding him as the head of the nation, our prayers shall ever be offered that he may be qualified by

702	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Divine assistance to guide the ship of state through the shoals and quicksands to the golden port of prosperity.” Response by Prof. T. E. Howard. “ Our College Days.” Response by Rev. Father Kelley. “The University of Notre Dame: as it was, as it is, and as it ever shall be.” Response by Mr. Charles Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa. “ The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.” Response by Prof. Stace. Gen. Anderson responded very happily to a call for a few remarks. The last toast was read standing:
“Green is the turf above them, Friends of our latter days ; None knew them but to love them, None named them but to praise.”
Prof. Lyons, in accordance with the annual custom, distributed a number of small cakes among the St. Cecilians. One of these cakes contained the Society7 ring, and when all had been distributed it was found that Thomas Nelson, Jr., of Chicago, was the fortunate recipient. He acknowledged the favor with a few words, and his fellow-students cheered him to the echo. Prof. Lyons then made a few remarks to the students, and the President gave them a few words of parting advice.
The clock in the tower of the new church had struck the quarter after six before the bauquetters arose from the tables and left the scene of the memorable occasion.—South Bend Daily Tribune.
June Examination.
GENERAL AVERAGES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, 75; E. Arnold^ 98; W. Arnold, 93 ; J. Cooney, 75; I. Chatterton, 79; A. B. Congar, 94; L. Eisenman, 85; E. Dempsey, E. Davenport, A. Dorion, 84; J. Fitzgerald, 94; A. Ginz, 78; E. Gramling, 77; J. Garrett, 78; A. Hertzog, 90; F. Hellman, 84; J. J. Houck, 92; L. Horne, 84; P. Horne, 89; P. Hagan, 96; T. Hale, 78; F. Hoffman, 90; J. S. Hoffman, 79; J. O. Hamilton, 90; J. Krost, 77; J. P. Kinney, 90; F. Luther, 84; J. Lambin, 75; H. Maguire, 98; V. McKinnon, 100; J. Murphy, 75; W. J. Murphy, 100; P. W. Mattimore, 92; F. McMullen, 87; M. J. McCue, 99; P. F. McCullough, 86; O. McKone, 75; J. D. Montgomery, 99; H. Murphy, 93; C.F.Mueller, 83; E. Maley, 77; E. McMahon, 75; C. Nodler, 84; H. Nevans, 94; A. Keenan, 84; W. Ohlman, 85; C. O’Brien, 90; F. Keller, 80; J. J. Quinn, 99; J. P. Quinn, 99; M. Regan, 85; R. Routledge, 76; J. Rogers, 91; J. Ric?, 84; J. Rothert, 75; E. W. Robinson, 90; J. Sheridan, 86; J. J. Shugrue, 93; J. Smith, 87; P. Vogel, 82; Geo. Walters, 90; F. Williams, 87; F. Walter, 82.
The names of students whose average percentage for examination fell below 75 do not figure on the above list.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Adams, 84; M. Bannon, 93; J. A. Burger, 100; J. Berteling, 94; F. Bloom, 98; J. G. Baker, 92; A. J. Burger, 85; M. Burns, 86; J. M. Byrne, 78; C. Brinkman, 87; A. Bushey, 85; C. Burket, 78; F. Cavanaugh, 96; G. P. Cassidy, 96; C. Clarke, 89; F. Clarke, 83; W. D. Cannon, 86; H. Canoll, 85; W. Cox, 84; F. Carroll, 94; G. Donnelly, 75; W. Doyle, 80; J. Cassard, 91; L. Garceau, 75; J. W. Guthrie, 90; J. Gibbons, 96; H. Gramling, 88; A. Hatt, 79; J. Halle, 78; M. Herrick. 83; J. Herrick, 82; J. Hafner, 79; A. Heitkam. 87; C. Hagan, 70; G. Ittenbach, 90; J. B. Ittenbach, 80; J. Kelly, 85; R. Keenan, 78; J. Matthews, 92; J. Lumley, 84; F. Lang, 76; J. Larkin, 84; J Lemarie, 86; W. J- McCarthy, 83; J. McNellis, 88; F. McGrath, 82; S. Mosier, 90; C. McKinnon, 90; P. Nelson, 87; H. Newmark, 91; G. Orr, 88; F. T. Pleins, 69; R. Pleins, 76; S. Perley, 90; E. Pennington, 87; W. Rietz, 89; A. Rietz, 88; J. Schoby, 76; K. Scanlan, 90; A. Sievers, 88; F. Singler, 89; W. Stang, 83; J. Scanlan, 90; C. Van Mourick, 85; E. 8. Walter, 88; 8. Welty, 85; F. Weisert, 87; W. B. Walker, 89; C. Walsh, 84; J. Healy, 93; K. Reynolds, 81; G. Sugg, 85; W. A. Widdicombe, 83.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. Berry, 93; J. Boose, 89; T. Barrett, 86; C. Bushey, 94; S. Bushey, 92; W. Coolbaugh, 100; J. Chaves, 75; C. Grennan, 78; R. Costello, 94; W. Coghlin, 98; A. Coghlin, 100; J. Courtney, 95; Jas. Courtney, 92; C. Crowe, 98; J. Crowe, 90; J. Devine, 89; M. Devine, 96; E. Esmer,
79; O. Farrelly, 98; F. Farrelly, 87; P. Fitzgerald, 79; F. Gaffney, 92; C. Garrick, 87; A. Hartrath, 100; J. Inder-rieden, 94; J os. Inderrieden, 98; H. Kitz, 97; G. Lambin, 99; C. Long, 92; W. McDevitt, 96; C. McGrath, 98; J. McGrath, 96; T. McGrath, 94; N. Nelson, 96; F. O’Neil, 95; F. Parsons, 68; G. Rhodius, 94; W. Reinhardt, 92; J. Seeger, 93; H. Snee, 100; C. Welty, 90; L. Young.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
[In the following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, B, J. Claggett, A. B. Congar, E. Collins, E. C. Davenport, P. J. Dougherty, A Dorion, E. J. Dempsey, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. J. Fitzgerald, W. C. Farrer, J. A Garrett, E. C. Gramling, A. Ginz, G. A. Goble, A. Hertzog, P. Hagan, J. Houck, P. Horne, L. Horne, M. Hogan, T. Halle, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, O. Hamilton, F. Hellman, A Johnson, J. Kinney, F. Keller, B. Kratzer, J. Kelly, J. J. Krost, J. R. Lambin, F. C. Luther, A. A Lent, P. W. Mattimore, W. Murphy, H. Murphy, J. Montgomery, H. Maguire, E. Maley, C. Mueller, L. Marrentette, V. McKinnon, Jos. P. McHugh, M. J. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. McKone, F. McMullen, E. J. McMahon, C. Nodler, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, W. Ohlman, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. Regan, R. Routledge, J. Rothert, E. W Robinson, J. Rogers, J. Rabbitt, O. Rettig, A. K. Schmidt, J. J. Shugrue, J. S. Smith, J. Sheridan, G. Sampson, P.-Vogel, R. Van Valkenburg, F. Williams, G. Walters, E. Walters, F. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arantz, W. Adams, J. Baker, F. Bloom, M. Burns, M. Bannon, J. Burger, A Burger, J. Byrne, J. Berteling, A. J. Bushey, W. Cannon, H. E. Canoll, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, J. 8. Cassard, T. Cavanaugh, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, L. H. Garceau, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, G. A Heitkam, J. L. Halle, M. E. Harrick, G. L. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, F. W. Lang, J. A. Lumley, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, S. Moseler, T. E. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, P. P. Nelson, G. Orr, J. O’Donnell, F. T. Pleins, E. J. Pennington, K. W. Reynolds, A Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. K. Schobey, G. F. Sugg, A W. Sievers, F. J. Singler, W. Stang, J. M. Scanlan, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. 8. Walter, W. A. Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, R. Costello, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, J. Boose, James Courtney, O. Farrelly, C. Crowe, W. McDewitt, Joseph Courtney, F. Gaffney, C. Long, C. Garrick, John and Joseph Inderrieden, T. Barrett, C. Bushey, 8. Bushey, J. Chaves, C. Cren-nan, J. Crowe, J. Devine, M. Devine, E. Esmer, F. Farrelly, P. Fitzgerald, A. Hartrath, G. Lambin, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, T. O’Neill, F. Parsons, G. Rhodius, W. Reinhardt. J. Seeger, H. Snee, C. Welty, L. Young, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, F. Berry, H. Kitz. -
Annual Commencement Exercises of St. Mary’s Academy.
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS.
June 26, 1878.
(Taken principally from the Daily Press.)
June 26.—The Annual Commencement exercises of St. Mary’s Academy were presided by Right Rev. Bishop Spalding of Peoria, assisted by some thirty of the Rev. clergy from different dioceses, and about one hundred and fifty invited guests, parents of the pupils and friends from various parts of the country, chiefly of course from the West, althoug the Catalogue shows a large number of students from the East and South. The hall was handsomely ornamented with evergreens, rose colored and lace curtains.
THE EXERCISES ON TUESDAY afternoon consisted of music and essays. The musical composers represented were Ambrose Thomas, Schumann, Von Weber, Chopin, Eckert, Beethoven, Liszt, and Haydn. Of the vocal numbers, Miss Cavenor’s rendering of Bee-


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	703
thoven’s “Adelaide” was remarkable for purity of intonation and intelligence of delivery. Miss Cavenor’s voice is a pure soprano, of high range and uniform timbre; she will be a valuable acquisition to Chicago musical circles. Of the instrumentalists, Miss Wilson, of Trenton, N. J., evinced great talent, her touch being exquisitely high and her phrasing worthy of especial commendation. Miss Thecla Peins, of Dubuque, rendered Schumann’s “Faschingsschasswank aus Wein” with spirit and discrimination. The vocal chorus work, which included Schumann’s gay “ Deck we the Pathway,” and a part of the “ Marvellous Work ” from the “ Creation,” was pleasing, the voices being so fresh, the balance good, and the time judicious. The accompaniments, especially those played by Miss Foote, of Burlington, and Miss Silverthorn, of Cassopolis, Mich., were noticeable for that rare taste which appreciates the relation between the underscore and the vocal park
The essay of Miss Henneberry, of Peoria, was a consideration of the aim we should have in life and the methods by which the objects of this aim may be attained. The bee was suggested as a good model. Trials and disappointments are not to be dreaded. “ Oh, good for the soul is the merciful strain of a grave obligation.” Experiments will do in chemistry and the patent office, but not for Christians in ethics. Masters spent years in completing a single work of art. Mankind, said Miss Henneberry, can afford to spend a lifetime in preparing for eternity. Miss Cooney, of Cleveland, wrote of “ Gratitude to Our Heavenly Father” for the beauties of the universe. We should be grateful
. . . who trace our pedigree so high, That God for us and for our race
Created earth and sky,
And light and air and time and space, To serve us, and then die.
We should be still more grateful for intellect and for the power of loving and for the gift of faith. Miss Elizabeth O’Neill, of Peoria, rejoiced that it was the privilege of man to astonish the world with military successes, political exlpoits, and the utility of his inventions, and to guard with brave arm and strong mind the honor of his home and the rights of his loved ones; but that “The Privileges of the Christian Woman ” were to preside in the home, to bind the wounds of war, and to cultivate peace, virtue, and quiet happiness. Man is the head, woman the heart of the world.
“ The Imperial Power of Genius,” by Miss Gaynor, of Escanaba, Mich., was a comprehensive review of the achievements, good and evil, of genius in ancient and modern times, in all departments of thought and action. This essay was tersely written, and a thoroughly good effort. “The Graduate’s Recompense to Her Parents for Favors Received ” was the theme of Miss Mary O’Connor, of Chicago. The young lady lamented that, in return for , the devotion and self-sacrifice of parents in affording education to their daughters, the latter too often carried home small scientific attainments, with unkindness of manner and selfishness of disposition. Filial affection, solicitude for the younger members of the family, a good example and correct precepts, were factors in the recompense to .	which the graduate’s parents are entitled. Miss O’Connor’s
।	voice was lacking in volume, but her inflection and
| emphasis were exceptionally correct. “The Light of Science” was the theme of Mish Amelia Harris, of New York. Facts are less important than the interpretation of them. The highest and noblest aim of science is to draw man nearer to his Creator, whose omnipotence and love have bestowed upon the world such beneficent faculties and so vast a range of grand principles, whose gradual evolution is man’s chief delight. Miss Minerva Spier, of Peoria, descanted in graceful blank verse on “The Chris-i tian Home Circle” as the “stepping-stone to heaven.” An t	essay in French	“ Azz Religion le Soleil de la Vie—la Science
[	son Etoile" by	Miss Mary McGrath, of Chicago, was
? warmly applauded, and deservedly, for it was not only well |	thought, but the	thought was enunciated in French whose
fi	accent betrayed	only very slightly that the tongue was not
$ to the manor born. Miss Adelaide Kirchner’s essay on :	“Liebe des Vaterlandes" was intensely German in enthu-
siasm and allusion; there was no mistaking that the language had been acquired in infancy.
After adjournment the company proceeded to st. lure’s studio, on one of the highest floors of the main building, a apacious w j v htea an“ well-aired apartment, whose walls, tables’ and brackets were covered with evidences of the young ladies skill in pencil, crayon, water-colors, and oil. Much of the work was exquisite, especially in flower-pieces; and the pencil-drawings, which represent the basis of the pupils knowledge, were remarkable no less for their accuracy than for their variety. No drawing is done from flat copies; the pupils work exclusively from sight of the object, whether block, flower, fruit, or face. Painting on china—-which has become “ the rage ” eveiy where—has been the recreation of some of the pupils, and, having had the advantage of admjrahie teaching and considerable practice, their plates and cups are fully equal to the decorated yaience which was so much admired in the late women’s art exhibition in Cincinnati, a white velvet chasuble, the cross of which wa3 painted by Miss Kirchner, the embellishment consisting of the passion vine, lilies and the passion flower, was greatly admired. It is a gift for Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit. The sewing-room was fully as interesting as the Studio. Babes’ dresses, gentlemen’s shirts, all sorts of -wearing apparel, plain and moderately fancy, were to be seen, the product of the pupils’ daily hour with the nedele,—for many of them, doubtless, a more profitable hour than that devoted to the pencil or the piano. We admired exceedingly six handsomely embroidered prie dieu, elegantly upholstered in scarlet, maroon, royal purple velvet and French walnut. It was a charming idea of the graduates of Peoria, Cleveland, Chicago and Trenton to present their school-girls’ last work to their respective Bishops as an offering to their Cathedral sanctuaries. Miss McGrath, who received the Gold French Medal, worked and presented an equally beautiful one to Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross; and in the name of the Academy, a similar one was made and presented to Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger for the sanctuary of the Fort Wayne Cathedral. Each prie dieu is an extremely beautiful illustration of George Eliot’s happy phrase, “ Women’s small finger-tips have eye.” We noticed handsome slippers, worked by Miss Lucia Chilton, of Virginia, for the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Richmond, and another, equally as beautiful in design, made by Miss Keenan, of Canada, fon the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Kingston. Connected with this department, or, more properly, with the art, is what may be called a miniature lace manufactory, consisting of several Sisters, natives of Belgium, who learned the craft there, and whose nimble fingers fly about among the bobbins with indescribable rapidity, producing Valenciennes and applique. The designs are almost exclusively ecclesiastical and are full of dignity and grace. None of this lace is for sale; a pious Association, under the inspiration of St. Mary’s, has the monopoly, and presents it to the sanctuaries of churches too poor to purchase appropriate garniture for their altars.
THE EXHIBITION EXERCISES PROPER occurred on Wednesday. An immense concourse of distinguished guests and patrons was awaiting the time announced, to enter St. Cecilia’s Hall, which, when the doors were opened, was immediately filled. Harps and pianos, in full harmony, gave the signal of the entrance of the Right Rev. Bishops Spalding and Dwenger, of Peoria and Fort Wayne; Monsiguore Seton, of Jersey City; Very Rev. Father Corby, President of Notre Dame University; some Gity of the Rev. clergy, and over five hundred invited guests. The entrance music, Schiller’s Fest-March, was played on two harps by Misses Cavenor and Galen, and four pianos by Misses Wilson, Spier, Pleins, O’Neill, Harris, Geiser, Silverthorn, and Kirchner. The dangers which beset such a composition thus rendered readily present themselves —the dangers of the slightest variation of time, a little ti-midity on somebody’s part, a little trepidation on the part of another, a slip of the eye over a bar, or the involuntary touching of a wrong key in the hurry of the movement, which would scarcely be noticed in a solo, but which might wholly destroy the concord of six instruments. It is fair to say that the young ladies, with rare self-posses-
704
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sion, executed the entire march in excellent time and with a precision and spirit which is testimony enough to the discipline of this Conservatory. A notable feature of Wednesday’s programme was “The Harp that Once Through Tara’s Halls,” sung very tenderly by Miss Cavenor to a harp accompaniment by Miss O’Connor, of Chicago. Miss Foote and Miss O’Connor, post-graduates, had good opportunities for displaying their vocal gifts in the aria from “ Dinorah,” “ Ombria Leggina,” and in Gounod’s sparkling Arietta Waltz. The vocal choruses included “ Thanks Be to God” from “Elijah,” and the “Lord is Great” from “The Creation,” all admirably rendered.
Liszt’s Illustrations from Meyerbeer’s “Prophete”— “Hymne Triomphale,”—“Marche du Sacre”—was played on two pianos by Misses Wilson and Pleins. The composition demanded every inode of touch. Full staccato chords, long sweeping basses, cadenzas,—some of the most pearly, delicate kind; others, rushing loud over over the keys with lightning speed, went between both as a unit. The hymn sounded like a rich choral, a deep, full religious strain. Their most powerful touch, however, was reserved for the march movement. Through its massive chords, the trumpets ringing martial tones, brought forth with such electric power, sent a thrill through the hall. As the players modestly retired they took with them the golden opinions of the artists and amateurs among the audience, whose judgment had already awarded the gold medals awaiting them.
THE MUSICAL MINIMS.
A decade of bright little girls, seven to ten years old, from New Mexico, Illinois, Missouri, and Michigan, then took possession of the platform, under the direction of their self-elected teacher, Ella Mulligan of New York, one year older than the eldest of the class, who in dignified tones explained first in English then in French that her Vocal Class, contrary to that of others’, of less merit throughout the extent of America, followed only the method of the birds, without any particular reference to pitch or time. Therefore in purest free style she begged the appreciative audience to pay great attention to the most expressive gestures, which alone clearly elucidated the meaning of the words. As we cannot do justice to the subject, which kept the audience in peals of laughter for about twenty minutes, we leave it to the trumpet of fame.
THE PREMIUMS.
Handsomelybound books w’ere given as premiums to over eighty pupils in the Senior Department, and over fifrty in Intermediate and Junior Departments, in all the various studies in the English course, French, German and Latin, Vocal and Instrumental Music. Harp, Piano, Guitar and Organ, Drawing and Painting, Embroidery, Plain Sewing, and Cooking.
GRADUATING GOLD MEDALS IN ACADEMIC COURSE were conferred on Miss Mary J. Cooney, of Cleveland; Miss Pauline Gaynor, Escanaba, Mich.; Miss Amelia Harris, New York; Miss Minerva Spier, Peoria; Miss Mary O’Connor, Chicago: Miss Anastasia Henneberry, Peoria; Miss Elizabeth O'Neill, Peoria; and Miss Bay Reynolds, Cassopolis, Mich.
GRADUATING MEDALS IN CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC were conferred on Miss Bridget Wilson, of Trenton, New Jersey, and Miss Thecla Pleins, of Dubuque, Iowa.
CLASS MEDALS.
The Gold Medal for improvement in German, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, was awarded to Miss Adelaide Kirchner, of Detroit, Michigan.
The Gold Medal for improvement in Domestic Economy, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland, was awarded to Miss Mary R. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio. This medal for plain sewing and cooking was received amid the hearty applause of her comrades, and the entire audience showing how highly they appreciated the honor of having one of our most distinguished Prelates encourage “old-fashioned accomplishments.” When sending this medal to St. Mary’s, his lordship remarked: “ I think it the most valuable part of a woman’s education that she know how to do housework well, and is not above it. I do not mean that she should do it herself, but that she must have learned how to do it ere she be fit to direct others how to do it.”
The Gold Medal for improvement in French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of
the Holy Cross, was awarded to Miss Ellen McGrath, of Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for improvement in Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, Washington, D. C., was awarded to Miss Elizabeth Kirchner, of Detroit, Michigan.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio, was awarded to Miss Elizabeth O’Neill, of Peoria, Ill.
The Valedictory, in short metre and alternate rhyme, was delivered by Miss Bay Reynolds, of Cassopolis, Mich.
The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Peoria gave a most eloquent closing address. This was his lordship’s first visit, and he expressed the pleasure it gave him. He had heard much of these twin institutions, situated in the midst of smiling plains, heaven-reflecting lakes and beautiful foliage, for their reputation is world-wide like that of the founders of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Here woman makes herself independent of man, and, raising her heart to God, devotes herself to His holy work in the education of youth. The Right Rev. speaker paid a magnificent eulogium to the labors as well as to the character of monastic institutions. Then, addressing the graduates, his lordship expressed his pleasure at being present the day previous at the reading of the essays. He remarked that the character of the compositions in English, French and German particularly pleased him. The ornamentation was always subservient to ideas. If figures were used, they were for the purpose of bringing out more clearly some useful and grand thought. In conclusion, he spoke of his pleasure in finding among the graduates three of the fair daughters of the city of Peoria, “the city in which I dwell and which I love.” Addressing the entire Class, his lordship gave a glowing tribute to the grand influence which woman should exert, and which educational establishments like St. Mary’s are destined to ennoble, to expand, and to purify.
At the close of the exercises the Right Rev. Bishops and clergy repaired to a fine banquet prepared for them. The graduates, their parents and friends dined in a separate hall, and some four hundred invited guests took their dinner in another of the spacious halls of the institute.
at the •	•
STUDENTS’ OFFICE, No. 54, Washington St., South Bend, can be found the best stock of Cigars, Tobaccos, Snuffs, Pipes, etc., to be found in Northern Indiana. Remember the place,	•
Blum’s Old Stand.
E. & E. T. Ivins.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aaed about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1E64 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Kesided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St. Louis. Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.	’
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. jlf ary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.