Bwxrtexl ta tte interests nf ths Staxhnts,
“LABOK OMNIA NIINCIT.”
Volume V.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGUST 24, 1872.
Number 44.
Fragmentum.
The evening zephyr rustles in the trees, Recalling moments sweeter far than these ; For then a friend, loved with a brother’s love, Walked by my side in this delightful grove,
Where now I sit alone another paug to prove.
We talked and laughed in gladness unrestrained, For each forgot what otherwise had pained, ■And spite of all that makes men sigh or grieve, Life seemed delightful on that blessed eve
Ere Harry of his boyhood’s frieud took mournful leave.
But he has gone, as others went before, Slaying a joy which time cannot restore;
Leaving a wound the future ne’er can heal Until the human heart shall cease to feel,—
Yet still I’ll pray for Harry’s happiness and weal.
An. Enemy Hath Done This.
Not many years ago, there lived in an obscure country town two estimable families, between whom there had always existed a close friendship, which contributed not a little to the mutual advantage and happiness of each.
Both families were wealthy, cultivated and generous, and enjoyed the esteem and confidence of all their fellow-citizens. Yes; the Parsons and the Millers were authorities on all subj< cts, and in cases of discussion or difference between any of the citizens, they were appealed to for a decision, and their decision was always respected.
The Parson family consisted of the happy parents and an only son, named Milford, who, though generous and good, did not pos-ess that ability which is deemed necessary to succeed in life. The Miller family likewise numbered three —the parents and a son, named Selh, who was justly the pride and hope of his happy patents, not only because of his noble disposition, but also on account of the rare talents which he possessed.
Between these two young men there grew up a friendship as warm and noble as that which existed between the parents. Each was the other’s confidant—each seemed to consider the interests of the other as his own, and while some felt a secret envy at seeing the mutual loveot these two young men, all were forced to admire its noble and disinterested character.
Matters went on thus till the young men were entering upon that age when it became advisable that they should begin to take part in the active duties of life. Here the difficulty began. Mr. Parson, senior, well knew that his sou could never succeed if left to his own exertions, and he therefore determined to secure him the advantage of a business partner possessed of the abilities in which his own son was deficient.
Nothing would have pleased him better than to have his son form a partnership with young Miller. But circumstances were not favorable to this arrangement, and hence he was obliged to seek another. Such a one he found in James Torbel, who was universally esteemed as an honest, upright and energetic young man, though not possessed of the means necessary to open business on his own account.
Negotiations were going on in view of this proposed partnership, and all things were proceeding satisfactorily, when the friends of Torbel, naturally ^desirous of a partnership which they foresaw would be highly advantageous, and fearing that young Parson’s intimacy with Miller, junior, might in some way interfere with the project, thought themselves bound in duty to their friend to withdraw young Parson entirely from the influence of his life-long and sincere friend.
Accordingly Miller was watched and interviewed without end. Every expression which he uttered was understood to mean some underhand thrust at his friend, and so reported by the officious, selfconstituted spies. If he proposed a ride to the country, or a hunting or fishing excursion, Parson was solemnly warned to beware, as that might all be intended as a trap to divert his mind from business, and cause his ultimate failure. If he spoke in praise of his friend, some selfish motive was always discovered by the watchful spies, and another warning administered; if he happened at any time to make even a remote allusion to any of young Parson’s deficiencies, the spies were loud in their denunciation of his want of friendship, and Parson, of course, duly informed of the slanderous manner in which his pretended friend spoke of him.
Young Miller all this time, little suspecting that the vile worms of envy and self-interest were gradually gnawing at the roots of a noble friendship, took no unusual precautious against the effects of this snakelike proceeding, confiding fully in his own integrity of purpose and in the solidity of his friendship with Parson, which he never dreampt could be interrupted, until a very marked disposition on the part of his young friend to avoid his company, or, when accidentally thrown together, to treat him with studied coolness, suddenly awoke him to the truth that Parson was no longer his friend. ’
, Miller, though a sincere friend, anej. of a generous, forgiving disposition, was still proud-spirited, and would not stoop even to conquer. He could not imagine the cause of Parson’s coldness towards him, and knowing his friend's noble nature he felt that an enemy had sown the seeds of discord between them. Yet as he had given no occasion for the late conduct of his former friend, he did not feel called upon to make any advance towards a reconciliation. Consequently, though sincerely regretting the breach between himself and Parson, being of an independent spirit, he determined to let matters right themselves. Whereupon he quietly broke off all intentional intercourse with the friend of his boyhood and youth. Yet still, when occasion rendered some action on his part unavoidable, he never failed to manifest for Parson the real esteem which he entertained for him.
But did matters right themselves? Of course they did, as they always do—for “all things come right in the end.” Parson for some time felt quite inj ured by what he termed the desertion of his friend, and though he outwardly showed indifference, he really, and in spite of himself, felt that Miller was not to blame, and he secretly regretted the break. This led him to think more seriously of all that
had passed. He could not find any serious cause of complaint against Miller. He thought more seriously, and by degrees the true state of the case began to dawn upon his mind. He saw that envy and self-interest had made him their dupe for a., time. His former confidence in his old friend began to revive, and his regret at the estrangement which had existed between them increased in proportion. He longed to become reconciled with his injured friend; but it is easier to break a sound vessel than to mend one already broken.
We drop the curtain here, leaving the reader to supply the rest from his own experience or observation, remarking, however, that the friends of Torbel defeated their own plans by the means which they employed to secure their accomplishment, and young Torbel was the greatest sufferer; for Parson, seeing that on his account he had been . led to break with his best and dearest friend, suddenly broke off all negotiations and left Torbel not only in his original condition, but with the additional pain of knowing that the bright hopes which he had entertained for some time were forever blighted.	_
“ Truly an enemy hath done this.” “ M.”
Piofouad. Criticism. '
Mr. Editor : It is somewhat amusing to listen to the assumption of those who imagine that they know all that can be known of any given subject; “ verily they are the people, and wisdom will die with themat the same time, their condescension for the shortcomings of others is very touching. When such persons turn critics their acuteness is simply wonderful: the plainest language is shown to have a meaning quite opposite to that which ordinary mortals would suppose. Por instance, when Macaulay says, “The Latin literature which has come down to us consists almost exclusively of words fashioned on Greek models,” these writers can see only an “appearance of saying what he does not mean.” In presence of such criticism it may well be doubted whether two and. two make four.
It seems also that when Niebuhr says that Latin poetry is a “mere translating of the Greek," he means only Latin metre. It is true that, to common people, it sounds quite absurd to speak of translating Greek metre; in our stupidity we should as soon speak of translating the Greek alphabet, and in either case would prefer the word, “adopt” or “use;” but a truly wise man, no doubt, can easily show that “poetry” means just about the same thing as “metre,” and that the word “ translate ” is not, after all, so very different from the word “ adopt”
We may also learn, if we will but shut our eyes, that Horace teaches that the Greek “dramatic taste, in comparison with that of the Latins, was contemptible.” What a dull brain Simple Simon must have: he never knew before that the Latins produced any dramatic poetry of any value; he always thought that the great dramatists of anti quity, Alschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, were Greeks; it would now appear that they must have
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
been ‘Latin writers. What a bare-faced deceiver Macaulay must be, then, to say that “ The Latin tragedies are bad copies of the master-pieces of ■Sophocles and Euripides,” and that “ The Latin ■comedies are free translations from Demophilus, Menander and Apollodorus" I Wonder what Latin dramatists Macaulay referred to; Simple Simon never heard of any who could for a moment compare with those great masters whom he supposed to be Greeks. Horace also contends, it appears, “that the Latin language was intrinsically as powerful as the Latin arms." To be sure, Simple Simon imagines Horace to have said that Latium would be {font) as powerful bj- her language as by her arms if her writers would only bestow the same labor on their productions as the Greeks had done; but then, to an acute critic, all’s one whether you use the subjunctive or the indicative mood.
Then again we are condescendingly informed that Horace declared “ it was not the least honor of the Latin authors that they dared to desert the Greek footsteps;" and Simple Simon is gently admonished that he is wrong in representing “ Horace as not saying that all, but as only saying that some, of the Latin authors dared to desert the Greek footsteps.” Let us see now if we can discover whether so sensible an author as Horace here means to say that all the Latin authors, or only some of them, “ dared to desert the Greek footsteps.” In Smart's standard literal translation the disputed passage reads as follows:
“ Our poets have left no species [of the art] unattempted ; nor have those of them merited the least honor, who dared to forsake the footsteps of the Greeks, and celebrate domestic facts; whether they have instructed us in tragedy, or comedy. Nor would Italy' be raised higher by valor and feat of arms, than by its language, did not the fatigue and tediousness of using the file disgust every one of our poets.”
If Horace is “the best authority of all” this is certainly pretty damaging testimony. I have no doubt, however, that this translation might be argued away by simply referring to the fact that Smart was an ignoble English University scholar, or more simply still by merely observing that his name being Smart he must, by way of compensation, be a blockhead himself.
But what is meant by speaking of “ Macaulay’s own performance in his translation of the Lays of Rome?” An ordinary reader would understand these words to signify that Macaulay had merely translated some old Latin poems and dubbed them “The Lays of Ancient Rome," and that they were not his own composition. Simple Simon would not, however, merely on the strength of the word “ translation,” which may' here mean “ composition” as in reference to Niebuhr it meant “ adoption,” he would not for this one word place his accomplished critic in the company of that good man of Missouri who declared that the only unwise thing President Johnson ever did was to appoint that foolish Nasby postmaster.
As Simple Simon has exhibited so much “superficiality in ‘uffish thought,’” whatever that may be, and as his versatile, not to say' slippery, critic has shown so much depth in knowing an author's meaning better than the author knew it himself, it must be a matter of congratulation that both have found something in which they can agree. Simple Simon has as little patience with fashionable follies as any one can have, and he heartily agrees with the spirit of the last paragraph of his opponent’s last article. He is also gratified to learn that the English is not “ positively ” ignoble, knowing, as everybody else does, that what is not positively ignoble is not ignoble at all.
Which is the noblest language may be hard to decide, owing to unfashionable as well as to fashionable prejudice; but which is the noblest literature would seem to be clear enough. The French, the
Italian and the Greek, alone can compete with the English in this-respect, and none of them can show such a list of great authors in so many different branches of literature. Latin literature, as we have seen, is little more than an outgrowth of the Greek; Spanish literature was never fully developed; while German literature is in process of development; and there is nothing more.
Simple Simon cannot close without acknowledging bis admiration for the able, though not always ingenuous, defence which his accomplished opponent has made of an utterly hopeless case—the deliberate attempt to fasten the stigma of “ ignoble ” upon one of the grandest forms of human speech. To us it seems indeed one of the providential blessings of this country that, with all the nationalities represented here, we have but one language, and that representing the best elements in the speech of all these nationalities; nor can it be other than a just pride for us to remember that this is the language of Washington and Shakspeare, the language of the peoples that have given to the world the Declaration of Independence and the Great Charter, as well as the noblest literature of the human race. So, moralizing, concludes
Simple Simon.
Musings.
It is the solemn hour of midnight,—a deathlike stillness pervades all nature. No sound of life greets myr are save that caused by’ the heavy breathing of my next-door neighbor. I sit alone at my open window, gazing out into the uncertain starlight and thinking of past sorrows and joys—of friends far away and of friends near; all, at this moment, wrapt in sleep and unconscious of my’ existence. What a startling change from the bustle and excitement of the busy day! What contrast with the merry laugh—the music of some cherished voice, still ringing sweetly through the sacred chambers of memory ! What a solemn commentary on human life!
Reader, have you ever sat at the open window at midnight, and resigned your mind to the control of memory and fancy? If you have, then you have some notion of the thoughts which fill my mind at this moment. If not, I fear I shall not be able to make you appreciate the solemn grandeur—the pleasurable sadness of a midnight musing. Yet I feel constrained to put my thoughts on paper, though I should fail to communicate to you the sentiments which now hold sway within my soul.
Well, here I am—alone; for the moment forgotten by all the world, but myself incapable of forgetting,—nay, doubly alive to the ceaseless voice of memory, which trills its silvery treble in my soul as it recounts the pleasures of the past, yet from time to time, in harsh bass tones, assails my shrinking spirit with the revived strains of departed sorrows. The breathless stillness of the hour reminds me of the tomb in which I shall soon be laid in silence, and my soul asks itself the.question : Shall I then be wakeful as I now am, and possessed of renewed powers of feeling? Shall I then remember the pleasures, the friendships, the sufferings and sorrows of the past, and will they then appear in the same light as they now do ? Ah! this is a soleinn thought—the thought of the uncertain future, so well represented by the shadowy space that lies before me, and into which my eye in vain strives to penetrate.
But that passing breath of air playing among the leaves of the trees and shrubbery, whose dim outline is still visible in the starlight, recalls me to the present. The silence is for a moment broken, and my loneliness relieved; but the gust has passed, and again the midnight stillness resumes its sway. How like the life of man! How like the changeful friendships of the world! Yes, our life and our experience are like the changing time.
Our life has its morning, its noon and its night, with all the varied changes of time and seasons. So, alas! have our friendships. The roseate mom of an early friendship soothes and consoles us, as the cool breath of a summer morning. Under the influence and inspiration of that newly awakened sympathy, our souls are glad and strengthened to meet the trials and labors of life. The day of our friendship advances,—our sympathies increase and grow more and more intense, as the rays of the rising sun, and we feel that life is grand. The noonday is passed, and, like the waning day, our sympathies decline—worn out, as it were, by the very enjoyment of its previous existence, till the night of oblivion, or, perhaps, of utter estrangement, throws its impenetrable veil over the inanimate form of what once was—leaving it but a sadly pleasing memory of the past—the shadowy outline of a reality no longer distinctly seen nor ’actually enjoyed.
Ah! fancy, be still! Call not from their tomb the memories of dear ones,—once very dear—now forgetful, and perhaps forgotten,—no, not forgotten, for memories like these can never die,—yet bring them not back so vividly to mind; for they dim the brightness which hope sheds upon the present, and inspire a fear that the future may be but a repetition of the past.
Fancy, you have triumphed!—the question which you naturally inspire forces itself upon me. Shall this really be the case? Shall the friendships and the sympathies which now buoy up my spirit and make me feel that life is not without a purpose,—shall these, too, in future years, be but memories ? Alas! it may be; and a shade of sadness passes over my soul as the possibility of such an event presents itself to my mind.
But we are slow to believe that which is painful, though it were a reality. Why, then, should we believe the severing of friendship’s golden ties even possible ? No, I will not believe it, though reason should assert it a hundred times; and yet it is quite possible, but I will not tiiink of it now.
Farewell, inconstant, wakeful fancy; I go to dream of brighter days than yet have shone upon the world! Farewell, dim shadows that stand sentinel-like before my window; I place a crystal barrier between myself and you, that I may the more easily forget in sleep the past -which you represent. Sleep on, thou slumbering world; I join in your repose, to awake on the morrow prepared to “poke along” through life, more wise, more hopeful, though, perhaps, more sad.
“ Somniatoil”
How he did Business.
Ivo Shrewdpate began life in a very bumble way, depending upon his daily labor for a livelihood, and he felt perfectly happy if, when Saturday night came, he was able to pay the little debts contracted during the week, and still have a few shillings left to “ lay by for a rainy day.”
Although Ivo was by no means ungenerous when charity or friendship demanded a little sacrifice, still he was quite saving,-and in a few years had laid by a considerable sura, which he was now desirous to invest so soon as a favorable opportunity should present itself
Such an opportunity, however, did not occur as soon as might be expected. In the mean time, Ivo was engaged to do a portion of rough work in a large establishment, and, receiving an unusually large compensation, not only on account of his efficiency as a workman, but also and chiefly on account of his high reputation for honesty, was able to add every week more and more to his growing capital.
From time to time, Ivo was called upon to lend a hand in the higher departments of business, and manifested such aptitude that Mr. Fairdealer, the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
proprietor of the establishment, finally gave him a respectable and lucrative position, which greatly increased Ivo’s facilities for enlarging his capital and at the same time his knowledge of mercantile practice.	.
Two or three years more passed by, and Ivo had accumulated quite a sum of money—probably two or three thousand dollars. This would have enabled him to shirt a tolerably fair business for a young man, but Mr. Fairdealer was so well pleased with his honesty and efficiency in business that he determined to give him an opportunity suited to his rare ability.
Accordingly he proposed to Mr. Shrewdpate, one day to set him up in a neighboring town, leaving him bis own capital on hand to meet incidental expenses, and requiting only a nominal interest on the value of the stock advanced for a term of three years.
Ivo accepted the offer gladly, and for some time manifested and really felt a lively gratitude towaid his benefactor. Uis former connection with the establishment of Fairdealcr at once recommended him to the public, and he did a flourishing business for a number of years.
The house of Shrewdpate became prosperous and popular, and its proprietor began to grow wealthy. He no longer depended upon bis early benefactor, and this independence soon reduced his former sense of gratitude to a simple business courtesy. With increase of wealth came a constantly growing desire for more, till Shrewdpate became almost miserly. lie forgot bis former generosity, and now never bestowed a cent unless he saw a probability of his making five by the transaction.
Fairdealer, seeing with regret this change in the man whom he had esteemed and benefited, remonstrated with him, but to no purpose, save a widening of the breach which avarice bad already begun to open between them. Shrewdpate went on, turning all things, even reputation, into cash, and though still strictly honest, began to have recourse to such small means of making money that all his friends and patrons began to open their eyes in wonder and surprise.
Not content with making a reasonable profit on his goods, Shrewdpate had lately deemed it just and necessary to charge his customers for the wrapping paper in which they were done up. Then he thought it no more than right to make a separate item of the extra time speut in exhibiting his goods to his customers, and it was no unusual thing to see such bills as the following issued from his establishment:
Mrs. Slightkopfe, to Ivo Siirewdi'ate, Dr.,
For Silks, 12 yards @ $150................SIS	00
For Satin Ribbon, IS yards @75 cts........ 13	50
* • * * * * *
For Wrapping Paper.......................... 05
For time unnecessarily consumed............. 15
331 70
EST Please remit at earliest convenience.
Another business dodge resorted to by this avaricious merchant was this: every year he got up a flaming report of his establishment, in which he dilated largely on the fine qualities of his merchandise—and in justice to him I must say he kept first-class articles—affixed his lowest prices, leaving out the wrapping paper, etc, and really produced a neat trade circular, which procured him many new customers.
But this circular cost time and money, and he did not think he ought to stand the whole expense, and the profits realized from his increase of business did not seem to him a sufficient compensation for the annual outlay; so he put his wits to work to devise a plan by which to secure himself against this extraordinary expense. His plan was this: he ransacked his books, made out a list of all his customers, said something very gratifying of
A Peep into Futurity.
The student of the English language is often struck by the inconsistency between the grammatical and the real. And perhaps the moods and tenses of verbs offer the largest field for the display of this inconsistency. The imperative mood, for instance, is seldom imperative. Of the seven petitions of the Lord’s Prayer, the first three are in the third person (ignored by some of our modern grammarians) and the last four in the second person of this mood; while, per contra, only two out of the ten commandments are in the imperative. In common language, mandates are issued like adjectives, in three degrees of comparison, thus:
Positive.—“You had better not smoke;” Comparative.—“You mustn’t smoke;” Superlative.—“ You shan’t smoke;”
none of which commands are issued in the imperative mood. Observe, also, that whilst the only real difference in meaning is a difference of intensity, the grammatical difference is one of tense, which is past in the first, present potential in the second, and future in the third. But what we particularly desire to call before the reader’s attention in the present article, is the variety of methods of expressing futurity in the English language, with the various shades of decision or compulsion conveyed by them. Observe that what is called “tense” alone, without an adverb of time, is insufficient to distinguish between the present and future. We will therefore connect the adverb “ to-morrow,” with several tenses of the verb “ to go ” and examine results.
To express simple futurity, unmodified by any ideas of compulsion, resolution or obligation, the “ present progressive ’’ of grammarians is used:
each of them, got a second-class poet to celebrate the beauties and advantages of his establishment and bis customers in lame verses—in a word, identified his advertising circular with the vanity or curiosity of his patrons—gave his neat melange the attractive title, “ Secrets of the Shrewdpate Establishment,” and sent a number of boys about town selling bis advertisements at ten cents apiece. In this way he made a decent profit on his shrewd publication, and reaped besides all the benefits which would otherwise have resulted from it, without any expense to himself.
At first his customers were rather pleased at the notice taken of them, and readily paid the ten cents; but “murder will out.” They soon perceived the dodge; they saw that their names were used merely to advertise Shrewdpate’s goods, and that they had to pay his advertising expenses. They were disgusted, and cast their eyes ab-mt them for some other equally good house, to which they might transfer their patronage; many even were willing to patronize an inferior establishment, so great was their contempt for the man who had for a time made them his tools without giving them any equivalent.
The end may be seen: one by one Shrewdpate’s customers deserted him. He, it is true, was wealthy, and might have retired from business and lived comfortably for a reasonably long life on the wealth he had already accumulated, but habit was strong within him—money was his object, and business was his means of securing it He made several efforts to regain his lost popularity. He increased his stock and offered extraordinary inducements to customers, but his goods rotted on the shelf; he lost his credit with the public, and wasted his wealth in fruitless efforts to regain it. He was once more—Poor Ivo Shrewdpate.
Moral.—Littleness may succeed for a time; but a day of retribution is sure to come, and great will be the disappointment of the unfortunate victim.
Observer.
“I am going to-morrow.’* •
The simple form of the present tense would express strong resolution on the part of the speaker:
“ I go to-morrow.”
A less vigorous ^resolution is expressed by the “simple future:”
“ I shall go to-morrow.”
But if obstacles are opposed to this resolution# you use the form with “ will:”	•
•	“ I will go to-morrow.”	.
The “future progressive” is as simply predictive as the “present progressive,” b it is used only . when the “going,” is merely a circumstkildd from which something more important is to restlift
“ I shill be going to-morrow, aal,” etc.
It is evident that the form with “ will ” cannot be used here. To express th it your departure is occasioned by circumstances over which yon have no control, you may use several grid itions, in proportion as you wish to bring out the force of circumstances, more or less intensely. Tue mildest is a peculiarly English idiom—the verb substantive followed by the infinitive, thus:
“ I am to go to-morrow.”
The “present potential” with “must” is the next degree:
“ I must go to-morrow.”
A more pressing necessity still is expressed by “I have to go to-morrow.”
But if the necessity be moral, say:
“ I ought to go to-morrow.”
If your departure is asked as a favor.-
“ I can go to-morrow.”	■
But if you don’t want to go:
“ I could go to-morrow.”
A fair probability:
“ I may go to-morrow.”
But mere possibility :
“ I might go to-morrow.”
If you are advising a friend, and telling him what you would do under certain circumstances:
“ I should go to-morrow.”
Or if you wish to be more decisive:
“ I would go to-morrow.”
The probability expressed by “may” and “might” is diminished by the progressive forms:
“ I may be going to-morrow.”
“I might be going to-morrow.”
And doubts are thrown upon the necessity implied by “ must ” and “ ought ” in the same way:
“I must be going to-morrow.”
“I ought to he going to-morrow.”
In altercations the present emphatic is sometimes heard:
“ I do go to-morrow.”
Add to these what is called the “ past progressive subjunctive,” used in contingencies:
“If I were going to-morrow.”
And you find that we have twenty-one forms of expressing futurity without any circumlocution, such as “ I am going to go,” each of which has as valid a claim to be called a “future ten-e ” as any other, although some are named “present” and even “ past ” tenses by grammarians. In this, we are led on the one hand to admire the richness of the English language, and on the other to deplore those imperfections of English grammar which arise from seeking to classify English words under the same rules as are used for those languages in which grammar is chiefly an affair of inflections.
Grammaticus.
Coleridge once having occasion to go from home, his wife packed his portmanteau, and gave him strict orders to put on a clean shirt every day. On his return imagine her dismay in finding his portmanteau shirtless. But inquiry developed the fact that her absent-minded unworldly husband had obeyed her order to the letter, having put on a clean shirt every morning, but had -forgotten to take the soiled one off And there the seven were on his back.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Published every Week during Term, Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editors Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year....................................$2	00
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Ofike.
End. of Volume Fifth.
With this number of the Scholastic ends the Fifth Volume.
Although we have had some days of stormy "weather our course has been a sunshiny one, and we cannot but feel a tinge of regret that Volume Fifth and vacation are finishing.
To our subscribers we say that we have had the best intentions to make the paper an interesting one, especially to the students and their friends.
To the many able writers who have contributed so much to make the Scholastic the readable paper it is, we give our heartfelt thanks, and hope that in future they will not fail us, but be as true to us as heretofore.
Next month it will be time enough to speak of the future of the Scholastic.
Vacation.
We have not had much of it.
And what we have had—as far as the traveling was concerned—did not amount to much as vacation.
As a steady hard job of work, for a longer time than the advocates of the eight-hour system would allow, commend me to a ride in an old-fashioned car, over a dusty, shaky road, and the thermometer varying from 99 upwards.
To add to the arduousness of the work and horror of the situation, three crying babies are very efficient.
After the work, however, comes a pleasant time.
To meet relatives and old friends, not seen for years, is well worth the labor of a railroad trip.
Having spent a few days with friends, we again applied ourselves to the arduous task of getting back home by rail.
That is why we rail so now.
We got into the way of it.
But we will rail’ way no more this vacation.
Notes.
There is a fair promise of a very full house at Notre Dame next term.
As to a full house, we have it already. What with the members of the General Chapter and the Rev. clergy of the diocese who are now making the biennial spiritual retreat, the college building is well filled up.
But before September comes all these will go to the Dominion, to Europe, and to their respective parishes, and leave the college free for the old students and a number of new ones.
There will be some few changes in the personnd of the college faculty,—but that is what we may expect in this vale.
As we heard some one remark, sitch is life and its getting sitcher and sitcher.
Since the last number of the Scholastic there has been a festival at the Portiuncula. Quite a number of persons visited the chapel on the 2d of this month.
Among the priests from France who are here for the holding of the General Chapter we are rejoiced to see Veiy Rev. Father Drouelle, Provincial of the Order in France, and every time we see him it docs our heart good. This is not his first visit to America. He has a vivid recollection of a short stay he made here in *48, and of his trip over the corduroy roads from South Bend to Indianapolis via Plymouth and Logansport. The surprise and wonder of the Rev. Father at the changes that have taken place he cannot express in adequate terms with the limited stock of English adjectives and adverbs he has at command, but when he launches forth in French he does the subject justice.
Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, who, in the short time he has had charge of this diocese of Fort Wayne, has won the reverence and affection of both clergy and laity, arrived at Notre Dame some days before the beginning of the Retreat. He officiated at Pontifical Mass on the feast of the Assumption.
We witnessed, in the chapel at St. Mary’s, the always interesting ceremony of taking the veil. We have not the names of all the young ladies who had the happiness of consecrating themselves to God, but hope the names will be given in before we go to press.
Hon. P. B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, with his wife and son Thomas and daughter Eleanore, was at St. Mary’s on a short visit, to be present when his eldest daughter received the white veil.
Dr. Bigelow, of Detroit, spent a few days with us. The principal object of his visit was to witness the ceremony above alluded to,—his daughter Mary being one of those who received the black veil of religious profession.
Rev. Father Vagnier is back. We are happy to see him looking so well. “ It does me good.”
Rev. Father Lilly has gone to Fort Wayne, to remain for a few weeks.
Our foreman, Mr. McMichael, has returned after a few weeks travel in Iowa, and is looking bronzed and healthy.
Mr. Jno. Gillespie, who ran the office in the absence of our efficient foreman, is of the opinion that he is entitled to a brief rest after his labors, and, acting upon that opinion, is preparing to strike out for Michigan. We wish him a pleasant time and a merry. Also a quick return.
Ouit students should be present here on the day appointed for the opening of the session.
Prof. Howard, who was quite ill some time ago, is now happily enjoying his usual good health.
Rev. Father Vagnier has returned from a four weeks’ mission at Oxford, Ind., looking much improved.
Very encouraging news continues to reach us from all quarters, and bids us hope for a very large attendance next September.
Some ten or twelve students are expected from Galveston in charge of Very Rev. L. Chambodut, Vicar General of the Diocese of Galveston.
Some letters of commercial graduates which have come lately .under our notice do not do much credit to their writers so far as penmanship is concerned.
Prof. Stace has returned, looking as genial and hearty as ever. He has been indulging his taste for rural enjoyments on Harris’ Prairie since Sunday.
Letters from the far West intimate that a portion of the Trumpet editorial corps has changed the key, and celebrate in rapturous strains the blessings of freedom.
The east side of the new church has finally reached its destined height. It looks quite imposing, and indicates that the church, when completed will be a beautiful structure.
We shall soon begin to believe in the old proverb: “ Out of sight—out of mind,” unless some of our friends soon favor us with letters. G., A., L., J., M., K. What has become of them?
Prof. Ivers concluded his Vacation classes on the 14th inst. All those who enjoyed the advantage of his instructions are highly delighted with him and look forward to next Vacation for a similar treat.
We expected that the General Chapter would have completed its deliberations by the 15th inst., but owing to the amount of important work on hand it will, probably, not adjourn till the end of the month.
Three students, J. F. O’Connell, S. Wise, J. McGrath, from Alton, Illinois, have already arrived in company with Bro. Celestine; they wished to be iu time, and we hope others will follow their example.
The singing on the 15th was superior to anything heard at Notre Dame for a long time previous, owing to the presence of Prof. Corby’s peerless tenor and Prof. Von Weller’s rich bass. The Ate Maria by Prof. Corby was truly artistic.
Prof. M. T. Corby, A.M., so well known as a vocalist, has been visiting at Notre D.ime during the Vacation. We were delighted to see the Professor, and would be still more pleased if we could persuade him to remain with us during the coming year.
Dr C. J. Lundy, of Detroit, Mich., formerly a Professor at this University, paid us a short visit last week. We were glad to see the young physician looking so well, and to hear fr"m himself of the success with which he has thus far met Our best wishes always accompany him.
Persons desirous to obtain Catalogues of Notre Dame University have asked us lately if our Catalogues were for sale. We wish to have it well understood that we never charge for Catalogues or any other official document. They are sent to our friends with our best regards. Sometimes it happens that Catalogues are mislaid, and do not reach the parties to whom they are sent. Tn that case we beg to be informed of it, and other Catalogues will be sent promptly.
Reporters should be gifted with just and impartial minds; they should lay aside petty views and narrow prejudices, which are a source of egregious blunders and injustice. It is only lately that our attention wai called to sundry reports in the Scholastic which were not very creditable to their writer. We learn from one of them that a gentleman came all the way from Belgium to accompany with his violoncello a distinguished pianist in our neighborhood.
Letters from some students have reached the Director of Studies of which he receives quite a number every year—asking him how long it will take them to graduate by doing this, and doing that—studying during vacation, attending private lessons, etc.? To these inquisitive writers there is but one answer. You will graduate when you have gone through the full course marked in the Catalogue; not before. Do not rely on any promises whatever, but rely on yourself; and when the graduate examination comes on, be well prepared, and do not imagine that your good looks or your friends’ influence will serve you one iota. The ambition of Notre Dame is not to make many graduates, but to make good and thorough ones -and, depend upon it, the examiners will be more and more exacting every year. Forewarned, forearmed !
Students who have only a limited time to spend at College should try to make the best pos
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sible use of it. Now, it is entirely ridiculous to throw away the best hours of the day in the study of branches which will be of no practical benefit hereafter. (We speak for those who do not follow a regular course.) What does one intend to do with a smattering of algebra or even of geometry? Of what use will be to him the superficial knowledge of these branches if he does not intend to apply them practically afterwards? Would not the study of languages, so much required in our day, prove of greater benefit? If’College time needs to be spent at something, let it be spent at something useful. Now, German claims to-day its share of the student’s attention. It has become nearly a necessary part of the College curriculum; it is demanded daily in hundreds of instances; whereas other branches are not wanted, and may be totally ignored. In order to be practically learned, we do not suppose that one should absolutely go through all the conventional studies which old routine keeps yet on College programmes. (Of course we speak for those who follow optional studies.) Learn what will be of practical benefit to you, and do not be ensnared into the study of branches which will never remunerate you.
The French language is now so universally known and studied that it commends itself to the earnest attention of all students laying claim to a finished education. We do not think it should be studied by the younger boys, unless their parents speak it. French is not a difficult language, and it can be mastered sufficiently in one year of earnest application under an able teacher. We hope that all the scientific and classical students will hereafter give due attention to the study of this language.	_
For the past few years Notre Dame has received from her friends valuable tokens of their appreciation and friendship. In return, Notre Dame feels deeply grateful to those generous friends, and treasures the remembrance of their names and of their deeds.
We have reason to believe that these marks of interest in behalf of education will be continued in the future. Several of our best students have been of late years the fortunate and worthy recipients of gold medals which some of Notre Dame’s truest friends volunteered to subscribe. We understand that there are promises of substantial donations whereby some of the most valuable gold medals will be secured for ever to the best students in the different courses. Such examples, given by those who feel most interested in Catholic education, would serve in no small degree to awaken the apathy from which Catholic Universities and Colleges have to suffer. Every day we hear of large donations made to Protestant Colleges by Protestant friends whose spirit of generosity is truly commendable; but we hear very seldom of Catholic names mentioned in connection with donations to Catholic Colleges. It is only lately that noble-minded persons have come efficiently to the rescue. To these Notre Dame returns her best thanks, and cherishes the hope that their names will be for ever engraved in the tablets of her gratitude.
The following medals and prizes are given each year at the Commencement by the University of Notre Dame, and out of her own funds:
First Honors—a §10 gold medal to each of the best behaved students of the Senior, Junior or Minim Departments who have been at Notre Dame at least two years without any reproach or fault whatever. Thirty-two such medals were awarded at the last Commencement.
Competition Prizes—one §6 gold prize (it should be a §50 prize) and two silver prizes (§2 each) to the best compositions in the Classical, Scientific, Commercial and Preparatory Courses, making four gold and eight silver prizes.
Some of our friends contribute the most valuable prizes for some particular branches; such was the prize given last year for Elocution to C. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, by Mr. W. J. Quan, of Chicago, Illinois.
The most notable and most desired rewards are those given, 1st, in the Classical Course; 2d, in the Scientific Course; 3d, in the Commercial Course; and 4th, in the Preparatory Course. The gold Competition Prize in each of these Courses is worthy of the generosity of our friends.
General Chapter of the Order of the Holy Cross.
The General Chapter of the Order of the Holy Cross is now in session here. Members from Home, France, Algeria, Canada and the United States, representing the various houses situated in those countries, have met together to transact the general business of the Order. The members whom we expected from India have not been able to come, and are represented by substitutes. The language used in the Chapter is the French, which is spoken or understood by all the members.
Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, presides. There are present, Very Rev. Father Champeau, S.S.C., First Assistant General, Superior of the College of Notre Dame de St.e Croix, at Neuilly, near Paris; Very Rev. Father Reze,,S.S.C., Second Assistant General, Provincial pro tern, of Canada and New Brunswick; Very Rev. Father F. P. Battista, S.S.C., Procurator General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross near the Holy See, residing at Santa Brigitta, Rome; Very Rev. Father V. Drouelle, S.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation in France, residing in Paris; Very Rey. Wm. Corby, S.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation in the United States; Rev. Father Lefebre, S.S.C., Superior of the Missions in New Brunswick, and President of the College of Memramcook; Rev. Father Toohey, S.S.C., representing the Houses of Louisiana and Texas, Very Rev. Father Marini, S.S.C., Deputy from France; Rev. Father A. Granger, S.S.C., Superior of Notre Dame; Rev. Father J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., elected as substitute in place of Right Rev. Bishop Dufal, of the Province of Eastern Bengal, who could not be present; Bro. Gregoire, S.S.C., General Steward of the Congregation, residing at Paris; Bro. Bernard, S.S.C.. General Treasurer of the Congregation, residing at Paris; Bros. Maurice, S.S.C., and Vital, S.S.C., Deputies from France; Bros. Lawrence, S.S.C., and Edward, S.S.C., Deputies from Notre Dame; Bro. Boniface, S.S.C., Deputy from the Province of Louisiana; Bro. Arsene, S.S.C., Deputy from the Province of Indiana ; Bros. Stanislaus, S.S.C., and Louis de Gon-zague, S.S.C., Deputies from Canada.
The Chapter began Monday, 5th inst., and may not terminate as soon as expected, owing to the large amount of business yet on hand.
Sons Valuable Gifts.
Among 'other objects of value bestowed on the University of Notre Dame by Very Rev. F. P. Battista, Procurator General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Rome, are five old paintings of great artistic merit. One of them, an Italian landscape, is a genuine Salvator Rosa. It represents a wild scene, such as were conceived by the weird genius of this famous painter.
The other paintings are an Annunciation, reputed to be by one of the great painters; a Mater Amabilis, a Mater Dolorosa, and a St. John the Baptist. All these paintings are veiy excellent, and quite old copies of the orginals. The Class of Painting owes many thanks to the Very Rev. Father, and trust that he will favor them again with such manifestations of his kindness. Many
thanks are likewise due to Prof. C. A B. Von Weller, who attended to the difficult task of cleaning those pictures and giving them their original freshness.	*
Among other pictures already in the studio we notice a landscape by Bingham, a forest scene by a French painter of the last century—Perrin, we think,—a sea piece, and a landscape representing a mill in the mountains. AH these paintings are excellent models.
M. Paulus, Loader of ths French Band.	•
We received the following letter too late for publication in the July number, and the Band and its leader are now enjoying the pleasure of being back in beautiful but sadly situated France. We publish the letter of our correspondent as a record for future students of the College:
Chicago, July 18,1372.
Editor Notre Dame Scholastic : Yonr correspondent here had the pleasure of calling several times on the famous leader of the Garde Repub-licaine Band, M. Paulus, not, indeed, with an idea to interview him, but simply to see him and talk with him. A man more modest, more unassuming, and readier to welcome any one calling upon him, is probably very seldom seen among musicians. M. Paulus is, or seems to be, forty-five or fifty years old, wearing the decoration of the Legion of Honor, and bearing the military and scholarly look of an Officer of the Guard. His moustache, a Vimperinle, and slightly aquiline nose, give his countenance a sort of Napoleonic air which is most striking. His sweetness of manner, affectionate welcome, and extremely gentle address tell his visitor that there is in him not only a great artist but also a sincere Christian.
“Mjm Pere,” said he, pressing my hand warmly when I had introduced myself, “ how glad I am to see you!” and his countenance beamed with a smile of happiness such as a devout Catholic alone feels for a priest who is his countryman. “ You live in Chicago?”
“No,” said I; “I live at Notre Dame, a very large College, where I would be delighted to invite you with all your Band, to recreate yourselves a little, for you must be extremely fatigued.”
“Oh! that—yes—fatigued and slightly homesick,” continued he, with a smile which was not free from some sadness. “But,” said he, “they received us so well in America! Oh, I could not tell you how they received us in New York, and especially in Boston. When we reached that city we were tired out, dusty and not fit to be seen; 'yet they were waiting for us in countless multitudes, and gave us a reception that we can never forget”
“ Yes,” said I, “ the papers told us all, and we were happy to hear that your Band was awarded the prize for the perfection of its playing.”
M. Paulus took my hand warmly. “Thank you,” said he, smiling, “ thank you; we did our best. Jfais, mon Pere” said he, changing the theme, “you are, no doubt, acquainted with some of the Fathers at Vaugirard ?"
“ No,” said I, “but I am acquainted with several of our Fathers at the College of Neuilly.”
“I would have been delighted,” said he, “to tell some of the good Fathers at Vaugirard that I saw you in Chicago.” I thanked him for his kindness.
“Well, M. Paulus,” said I, “you would perhaps enjoy a ride,—we have a carriage at the door, and—”
“ Thank you, said he; “I have not gone out of the hotel yet; and, to tell you the truth, I could not enjoy the pleasure you offer me.”
The same cordial smile, tinged with an indubitable hue of sadness, told me that the thoughts of
WOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
home, and the longings to go back to la-idle France overcame every other feeling of pleasure.
"Were it not that we have acquired a little glory, and that we hope to acquire a little of something else to add to the soldier’s pay, you see, mon plre, we would have gone back already; but we were invited here,—they have received us with extreme kindness. We must show that we appreciate it, and we may possibly stay longer than a week.”
Our conversation lasted a little while longer, and, after promising to call again, I bade him au rezoir, receiving his most cordial poignee de main.
Two days after (last Thursday) I called again on M. Paulus, at the request of,.and accompanied by, Father Cole, of the French church, who desired to secure the Band at High Mass in his church the next Sunday. He received us with his usual kindness and courtesy, and was delighted to make the acquaintance of Father Cote, whom I introduced as Jf. Ie Cure de Chicago. The serene countenance of the artist bore an unusually happy smile at the idea of M. Ie Cure coming to see him.
“ He comes,” said I, “ to invite yon and all your Band to High Mass on Sunday.” M. Paulus looked at Father Cote, in a sort of jovial mood, and grasping his hand with both of his own, said:
“Jdbn Pere, nothing would afford me more pleasure; but, alas! you know it is pretty hard to command when every one ought to be free. My men are, moreover, very much fatigued, and—well, mon Pere, do not press that on me; but as for me, I will certainly go,—of course I will,—and if you wish I will take with me M. Pecot, who is quite a violinist. He is our Saxophone alto in the Band, and occasionally diverts himself on the violin. How will that do? He could play a piece at the Offertory.”
“Very well,” said Father Cote; “I am greatly obliged for the favor.”
M. Paulus added: “ I could bring other instruments ; but, Father, I think it will be far better with the violin alone, accompanied with your organ; besides we have found it impossible to do much in Church Music in this country: the diapason of our instruments is not in accordance with the American diapason,—there is half a tone of difference; but you may rely on the violinist and me.”
The conversation lasted a while longer, on various topics, and ended with the conviction on our side that the gentlemanly leader of the French Band was both an artist and a Christian. We understood better, too, the secret of the magnetic influence which he exercises over his men, all of whom seem to worship him—an influence which can only be obtained by great personal merit The degree tffconfidence which his men place in him seems to be returned equally by him, and this appears strikingly on the concert platform before the gaze of thousands. The quiet, undemonstrative way with which he leads his Band through all the wonderful intricacies of their playing shows the perfect command he has over them. It is hard to tell when he gives the signal for the beginning of a piece. No doubt his musicians have Argus eyes for all his movements and gestures, even the slightest; but the bystanders can scarcely detect the signal for starting.
I wish I could enter into all the details of the concerts whch have been given here by the Garde Republicaine Band, and speak of the famous soloists who, one after another, have been brought before immense audiences at their concerts; but as this would be beyond my power, and as, moreover, the papers have given sufficient information on this subject I will dose here by saying that a few minutes passed at one of the concerts would have told you much more than I can tell you.
I looked in vain for some of our Notre Dame musicians. I heard, however, that Prof. Van de Velde was at one of the concerts. He is too
much of a musician to neglect opportunities like these.
With kind regards to all, I remain,
Visitor.
Hew Publications.
Human Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene: A Text-book for Schools, Academies, Colleges and Families. By Joseph C. Martindale, M.D. Philadelphia : Eldredge and Brother, Publishers.
This neat volume of 242 pages is well got up. The explanations are concise and clear, the illustrations excellent, and the typography all that could be desired. It is a work full of useful information, and just the thing for an elementary textbook on the important subjects of which it treats.
Tub Histories of Livy. Books I, XXI and XXII, with extracts from Books IX, XXVI, XXXV, XXXVIII, XXXIX, XLV. Edited and Annotated by Thomas Chase, M.A. Philadelphia: Eldredge and Brother, Publishers.
This is the neatest edition of Livy we have yet seen, and so attractive is its appearance, both as regards size, shape and print, that we almost regret the fact that our days of classical studies are ended. The notes are judicious, and calculated to aid the student not only in understanding the text, but also in appreciating the spirit of the times of which this venerable history treats. Altogether, we can recommend this work to students and teachers of the language of ancient Rome.
Manual of Ancient History. By Thalheimer.
Published by Wilson, Hinkle & Co., Cincinnati.
The students of ancient history, will find in the above work a concise and trustworthy record from the first ages of the world down to the end of the Roman Empire. It is one of the finest books of the kind that can fall into the hands either of the tyro or the scholar. Its division into books and periods according to the great events of history are clear and well justified. The author has drawn his materials from the best sources, and presents to the American student a real treasure of historical lore. The beautiful maps which guide the students, together with the rich engravings illustrating the context, reflect greatly to the credit of the author as well as the publishers.
Elements of Physiology and Hygiene. By R. T.
Brown, M.D., Chemist-in-chief, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Published by Wilson, Hinkle & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
This is a most sensible work, which gives in a familiar way excellent precepts in hygiene, and all desirable information in physiology. The students of physiology will find this work all that it pretends to be.
A School History of the United States. By W.
H. Venable. Published by Wilson, Hinkle & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
In a volume of 250 pages, the author has written a good and interesting history of the United States. The work is amply illustrated, and made very attractive to the student. The firm of Wilson, Hinkle & Co. publishes the finest style of school-books which we have yet seen.
Memoir of Chief-Justice Taney.—John Murphy and Co., the well-known publishers of Baltimore, have in press preparing for early publication a “ Memoir of Roger Brooke Taney, LL.D., Chief-Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, by Samuel Tyler, LL.D., of the Maryland Bar.” The experience of Mr. Tyler as an author, and his selection by the Chief Justice himself as his biographer, are assurance that the work has fallen into fit hands. Not only will the book be interesting to the general reader, but especially must the Bar of the United States feel a deep pride in the biography of their illustrious chief, who by
his pre-eminent talent and exalted character added fresh lustre to their profession. His glory is their glory, and in honoring him, they honor themselves. No such important contribution as this book will be to the histoiy of the country has been made for years, giving as it does a thorough view of the workings of the Government and political parties down to the Chief-Justice’s death. And it is a significant fact that the biography will appear just at a crisis when the country is on the ere of a great political revSution, and the people promise a return of those true principles of constitutional gov-ternment, to which the Chief-Justice was the lifelong expounder and defender. The book is embellished with a fine steel engraving of the ChiefJustice, and the work will be finished in the highest style of art for which Messrs. Murphy & Co. are so justly famed.
The Railroad, Hog'.
“ This seat is taken, sir.” All persons who have travelled to any considerable extent are familiar with the formula. It tells the stoiy of the railroad hog—the small-souled, mean, selfish brute who pays grudgingly for one seat and strains his small wit to hold two. This particular hog wore a plug hat shiny with the genuine Boston gloss, an enamelled shirt and closely cropped iron-grey beard. I know his kind. He is an eminently respectable beast who always pays his debts promptly, takes an interest in Sunday schools, administrates he deceased brother’s children out of their patrimony, is the president of joint stock companies and has biographical eulogies published in the newspapers when he finally kicks the bucket. I knew the hog lied when he said “ This seat is taken, sir,” but I found one “ that was not taken, sir,” and watched him to see how many times he would reproduce the falsehood. The coach was rather full, and, would you believe it? that miserable hog told sixteen separate and distinct lies in order to gratify his mean selfishness. Enough to sink a healthier soul to perdition. He varied the formula; one time it was a waive of the hand and a look to the rear of the car to indicate that the holder of the seat had gone for a drink of water and would be back soon. Another time, to the inquiry of a mild-mannered and timid questioner, he replied by a stolid stare, and then, spreading himself a little wider, he resumed the perusal of his newspaper. I was tempted to crawl up behind him and hiss into his ear: “You’re an awful liar.” But I had my revenge. A big, red-faced two-hundred-pounder, in a dirty linen coat, came in at a way station. He was sweaty to a fearful degree. His feet smelt like valerianate of ammonia and rotten fish, and his breath was a hot, stinking sirocco, based on bad whisky and onions. This fiery and fragrant behemoth preferred to settle himself in the seat that was taken. “This seat is—” began the hog. “Well, I guess I’ll take it till the other fellow comes,” returned the sweet-smelling heavy-weight, and down he plumped, partially crushing the hog in his descent. The latter frowned and began to bluster, but the red-faced ruffian soon took that out of him with a threat to swallow him whole—to chaw him up and spit him out—to pitch him out of the window—to go through him like a dose of salts, and to make various other dispositions of him in case he didn’t simmer down. Our porcine friend simmered, and then the barbarian grew good-humored. He told funny anecdotes, and poked the hog in the ribs. He wanted to know where he came from and where he was going. He spat quarts of tobacco juice across him out of the window, spattering his shirt front, between his boots and all around. He offered him a “ chaw” every time he took out his plug of navy. The hog perspired freely, and shivered with disgust. Finally he crawled out and stood up for forty miles, until another seat was vacated.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“ Ths .Coll&rless O’Keefe.”
How a “Ragged Buffer” of a Newsboy Got the Appointment to Annapolis.
The Board of Education building, in Elm street, N. Y., had some attractions for the aspirants to honors such as Farragut and Nelson won in shrouds and smoke. There were twenty-six of them, all boys, some of them plainly dressed, some attired in flue raiment and bearing all the marks of gentle rearing, and one shambling fellow, whose collarless shirt, sieve-like shoes, coarse, dirty clothes and unkempt hair seemed to indicate that he had no right to be there; that his proper sphere of life would be acting the part of a wharf-rat or a market bummer. He spoke to nobody and nobody spoke to him; yet there was in that face the look of reliance and resignation. The boys were waiting for the examination of applicants for the cadetship in the Annapolis Naval Academy, in the gift of Col. W. R. Roberts, of the Fifth Congressional District. Their na'mesbeing called,Masters Duane, Clancy, and O’Keefe filled within the railing and took their seats. Last to enter was O’Keefe, the “ragged buffer,” as he was dubbed by a spectator without the building, and his appearance attracted much attention, but little or no comment.
The examination lasted from eleven in the morning until nearly three in the afternoon; but before it was half through everybody was interested and amazed at the collarless O’Keefe, who stood by the desk with an open mouth, distended nostrils, sparkling grey eyes, and head thrown forward to catch the questions put by Mr. Harrison. While at rest in that attitude he reminded the beholder of a sprightly dog catching flies. This is perhaps an ungenerous comparison, but it is nevertheless a homely one. Without hesitating he answered nearly every question quickly, his eye still set upon the propounder; then his mouth would close an instant, only to open for the next question. There was smiling all around the room, and tbc whispers passed, “ That boy wins; see if he don’t.” The committee retiring, remained out an hour, and, returning, Joseph Tooker arose with great dignity, and after shaking his beard, proclaimed that John O’Keefe had won the goal, and the committee would so report to Col. Roberts.
From the neighbors of the young cadets the reporter learned that young O’Keefe has been attending school pretty regulary since he was eight years old, assisting to support his parents and three sisters by selling p ipers in the morning and evening and running errands about Washington Market and the piers. He has some reputation as a “ wharf-rat,” and many stories are told of Johnny O’Keefe diving from the yard-arms of vessels into the river, swimming under vessels’ bottoms, and making nude excursions to upper air in the rigging of merchantmen. In personal appearance he is one who is able to elbow his way in the world. He has a bright, sparkling, grey eye, black hair that does not look as if it had ever made the acquaintance of a comb, muscular limbs, a moderately-sized head and an aquiline nose. His gait is a shambling, ungainly one, and when in the streets selling papers he has all.the appearance of a saucy, overgrown newsboy, who feels that, no matter how the world wags, he is sure to “ be gay and happy still.”
A paper says: “ We have adopted the eighthour system in this office. We commence work at eight o’clock in the morning, and close at eight in the evening.”
In New Hampshire, the following is posted on a fence: “Nottis—Know kow is alloud in these medders, eny man or woman letten tbare kows run the rode, wot gits inter my medders aforeseed shall have his tail cut orf by me, Obadiah Rogers.”
SAINT MARYS’ ACADEMY.
St. Marv’s Academy, 1 August 8, 1872.	)
The vacation is passing pleasantly and rapidly. Already preparations are making to receive the crowd of pupils who are soon to fill our spacious halls. The comfort and convenience of all will be greatly enhanced by the many improvements added to the interior of the academy. The artist’s room is transferred to a hall GO x 30 feet. The refectories are to be in the new building. The culinary ararngements are admirable. The graduates of 1873 will find in the spacious, convenient new kitchen ample room in which to exercise themselves in the culinary art. Many of the old frame buildings will be removed, and the appearance of things will soon be so changed th.it even the old pupils will require a guide to enable them to find themselves, or rather their latitude and longitude, in relation to the old boundaries.
On the 4th inst. the pupils at the Academy had the honor of welcoming the Rev. Fathers of the Holy Cross who have come from Rome, France, Canada, and New Orleans, etc., toattend the General Chapter of their Order now being held at Notre Dame du Lac.
Miss Nellie Gross of Philadelphia read a very elegantly couched French address from the senior pupils. The French Fathers seemed astonished and delighted to hear their native language spoken with such purity and fluency by native Americans. This proves that the French lessons given at St. Mary’s are thorough, and made eminently practical by French conversations.
Below we give the names of the pupils on whom honors were conferred. We refer those interested in the list of premiums to the catalogue for 1872, which will be sent to any one who will address Mother Superior, St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Respectfully,
Stylus.
Graduating Medals were conferred on Misses Mary Kirwan, Ottawa, Illinois; Annie Borup, St. Paul, Minnesota; Lizzie Marshall, Chicago, Illinois; Jennie Forbes, St. Paul, Minnesota; Mattie Sherland, South Bend, Indiana; Georgia Hurst, Springfield, Illinois; Annie Clarke, Buchanan, Michigan; Hanna Tinsley, Chicago, Illinois; Mary Dillon, St. Mary’s, Indiana; Katie McMahon, Chicago, Illinois.
Crowns of Honor, in Senior Department, for politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, were awarded to Misses M. Kirwan, H. Tinsley, M. Toberty, K. Brown, K. Zell, A. Shea, A. Todd, K. Haymond, M. Lange.
First Honors were awarded to Misses M. Sherland, G. Hurst, L. Marshall, A. Borup, J. Forbes, A. Clarke, M. Dillon, M. Cochrane, L. Buehler, L. Pfeiffer, I. Logan, L. Ritchie, H. McLaughlin, M. Kelly, B. Schmidt, I. Reynolds, B. Crowley, L. Duffield, A. Piatt, R. Spiers, R. Devoto, J. Walker, I. Edwards, A. Lloyd, C. Creveling, C. Woods, V. Ball, M. Letourneau, M. Leonard, K. Miller, B. Reynolds.
Second Honors were awarded to Misses EL McMahon, R. Manzanarez, A. Mast, J. Valdez, E. Culver, A. Hambleton, F. Moore, N. Vigil, M. Wicker, A. Conahan, J. Coffee.
Third Honors were awarded to Misses M. Lassen, M. Prince, E. Sullivan, I. Wade, E. Drake, J. Miller, E. Plamondon, A. Emmonds, M. Mooney, E. Wade, A. St. Clair, A. Woods, H. McMahon, M. Roberts.
Honorably mentioned for neatness, order, amiability, politeness and correct deportment, but in consequence of not having been at St. Mary’s the first session they do not receive the Honors: Misses E. Boyce, S. Addis, L. Pease, E. Dicker-hoff, A. Calvert, R. Klar, K. Casey, L. Sutherland,
M. Busch, M. Addis, N. Ball, M. Layfield, M. Donahue, Mr Brown, L. Harris.
Crowns of Honor, in Junior Department, for neatness, order, amiability, politeness and correct deportment, awarded to Misses IL Quan, M. Kearney, A. Clark, A. Gollhardt, M. Faxon, K. Follmer.
First Honors awarded to Misses M. Walker, G. Kelly, F. Munn, F. Lloyd, J. Duffield, A. Rose.
Second Honors awarded to Misses L. Niel, M. Cummings, J. Kearney, S. Honeyman.
Third Honors awarded to Misses A. Lynch, N. Gross, M. Carlin, B. Quan, L. Harrison, T. Cronin, M. Quill, L. Tinsley, E. Horgan, M. DeLong, M. Reynolds.
Honorably mentioned for polite, amiable and correct deportment, but in consequence of not having been at St. Mary’s the first session they do not receive the Honors:
Misses A. Noel, E. Richardson, E. Lappin, E. Parker, M. Hepp, N. Thompson, E. Thompson.
Rats in tub Hessery.—A lady who has a number of fine hens to which’she had devoted a good deal of care and attention during the winter, in hopes of obtaining an early and a fair crop of fresh eggs, was surprised at the meager result actually reached. The hens made noise, in singing and cackling, enough for every-day layers, and yet only occasionally did she get an egg. The lady at length determined to watch operations and ascertain, if possible, the cause of the failure. She saw the hens go up in the nest, but if she was not present when they, came off, no egg was found. At length constant watching solved the mystery. A day or two since, while on the watch, a hen came off the nest and commenced cackling. Almost instantly an old rat came out of the hole, and running into the barrel, which was thrown down on its side, and in which the hen’s nest was, at once nosed the egg out upon'the ground; then lay down upon its back, and, getting the egg between its fore-paws and nose, commenced squealing, when two other rats came out, and, taking the rat with the egg by the hind legs, dragged it—egg and all— into the hole. The lady affirms that she can substantiate the foregoing fact by at least three witnesses.
The United States has now 65,000 miles of completed railroads.
The average cost of building a mile of railroad is $44,225 in this country.
An exchange says: “A clock in a New York factory has been seized by the workmen, because it has not struck for eight hours.”
■What is the difference between the entrance to a barn and a loafer in a printing office? One is a barn door and the other is a dam bore.
A Connecticut school-boy has written a composition on.the horse, in which he says it is an animal having four legs, “ one at each comer.”
Rather Equivocal !—A sign pinned to a shirt in front of a River street store in Troy days: “ Would you be without a nice shirt for seventy-five cents?”
A lady, while in Philadelphia, a few days ago, was attracted by a handsome necklace in a window, and determined to buy it She stepped in and asked the price. “ Sixteen thousand dollars, ma’am,” replied the salesman. Being $15,900 short of the sum, she changed her mind.
An idiot, allowed to frequent the grounds of Eglinton Castle, was one day seen by the Earl taking a near cut and crossing the fence. The Earl called out, “ Come back, sir! that’s not the road.” “Do you ken,” said Will, “whaur I’m gaun?” “ No,” replied his lordship. “ Well, hoo then do ye ken whether this be the road or no?”
J a
8'
N ’OW E DAME SCHOLASTIC
, The Bottle of On,.—Once upon a time there lived an old man in a large house. He had servants and everything he wanted, yet he was not happy, and when things did not go as he wished, he was cross. At last his servants left him. Quite out of temper, he went to a neighbor with the stoiy of his distresses.
“ It seems to me,” said the neighbor, “ it would be well for you to oil yourself a little.”
“ To oil myself?”
“ Yes, and I will explain. Some time ago, one of the doors in my house creaked. Nqbody liked to go in or out by it. One day I oiled its hinges, and it has been constantly used by everybody since.”	’
“ Then you think I am like your creaking door I” cried the old gentleman. “ How do you want me to oil myself?”	■ '
“That's an easy matter,” said the neighbor. “.Go home'and engage a servant, and when he does right praise him. If, on the contrary, he
THE EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL SESSION WILL OPEN on the first Tuesday in September. The Academical does something amiss, do not lie cross; oh your ana Clneoicnl Dopartjnents llavc becn ^jy iniarged by voice and words with the oil of love."	spacious buildings. A large Hall, WlxSQfvet. has been
The old gentleman went home, and HO harsh or appropriated to Choice Models in Busts, Chromos and Oil ugly word was found in his house afterward. Every family should have a bottle of this precious oil; for every family is liable to a creaking hinge in the shape of a fretful disposition, a cross temper, a harsh tone, or a fault-finding spirit.
“ Watch ” is from a Saxon word signifying “ to wake.” At first the watch was as large as a saucer; it had weights, and was called the “pocket clock.” The earliest known use of the modern name occurs in a record of 1542 which mentions that Edward VI had “ one larum or watch of iron, the case being likewise of iron gilt, with two plum-mettes of lead.” The first great improvement, the substitution of the spring for weights, was about 1550. The earliest springs were not coiled, but only straight pieces of steel Early watches had only one hand, and required winding twice a day. The dials were of silver or brass; the case had crystals, but opened at back and front, and were four or five inches in diameter. A plain watch
cost the equivalent of §1,000 in our currency, and QELICAGrO TO ST. LOTTIS
after one was ordered it took a year to make it. There is a watch in a Swiss museum only three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter, inserted in the top of a pencil'case. Its little dial indicates not only hours, minutes and seconds, hut also days of the month. It is a relic of the old time, when watches were inserted in saddles, snuff-boxes, shirt-studs, breastpins, bracelets and finger-rings. Many were fantastic—oval, octangular, cruciform, or in the shape of pears, melons, tulips or coffins.
' Temper.—Temper in a man answers to temper in edged tools. A man destitute of that quality would be as insufficient in the hand-to-hand difficulties that must he encountered as a rock-drill without the correct temper. An axe may be made of the choicest quality of steel, ground to an edge ■ and polished so beautifully that a chopper can see
The only Line running Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars between Chicago and St. Louis.
_	,	_ _	Close Connections in St. Louis for all points in Missouri,
tlw rnlnr nf hid pvpq in thp nnlkhprf qnrf.trp T.pf Kansas, Colorado and California. The Direct Route and Hie color oi Dis eyes in toe pousneu sunace. L.eL the only ALL rail route to Memphis, Vicksburg, Mobile, him sink such a tool into a Stick Of green bass- New Orleans, and an points South. .
Avoid a long Steamboat Transfer of Twcney-Five Miles, and changes of Cars by taking this Route.
Pullman Palace Cars run on this Route only from Chicago to New Orleans, w ith but one change.
wood up to the eye, and the bright edge will seem adequate to any requirement, but strike a hemlock knot, and the beautiful edge writhes and turns this way and that way, into a double and twisted corrugation. Ah! the correct temper is lacking. But thrust the burnished steel into the fire, and give the §dge a proper temper, and it will walk straight through the gnarly oak and the knotty hemlock, as a warm knife passes through a roll of frozen butter. But the instrument is the same in both instances. Nothing of an appreciable nature has been needed to or taken from the steel. So it is with a man or woman. Correct temper gives efficiency to every word and action.
Tlie “AVE MARIA,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to tbe Holy Mother of God. Fubliabed weekly at Notre Danie University. Indiana, encouraged and approved by tbe liigl.est authority of the Cbnrcb._
TERMS: -	.
Life subscription. $20, pay aide in advance, or by install* meats paid witbin the y ear.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5. in advance.
For 1 year, $1, in advance.
Single copies. 19 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Avb Maria for $25. in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Avb Maria for $45, iu advance. .
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Avb Maria tor $50, in adrance.
The postage of the Avb Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid tn advance—either by remittance to tbe mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber's post office.
Address,	Editor ATE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
>A1 NT
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Painting for Pupils who wish to enter the School of Design, and devote their time to Drawing and Painting. St. Mary's Conservatory of Music has also been enlarged. All branches of Music are taught on the plan of the best Classical Conservatories of Europe, under the direction of eight Teachers of Instrumental and two Teachers of Vocal Music. Pupils can procure Special Course of Studies, com-prhing Theory, Practice and ^Esthetics, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing, Piano, Harp, Organ, Thorough Bass and Principles of Teaching.
For full information send for Catalogue, and address, MOTHER SUPERIOR, St. Mary's Academy, Fbtre Fame, Ind.
OLD, RELIABLE AND POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE WEST.
(Sec Classification of Bailways by Board of Bail way Commissioners.)
The Shortest Best and Quickest Route
FROM
AVitliont Change of Cars.
STRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via^ Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ilf., and Louisiana, Mo.
ARRIVE.
*9:15 a.m.
*6:00 pan,
*9:15 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
(7:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
+6:30 pan.
__,____,____________ .______ $9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. ] Daily. § Except Monday.
. The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, aud a Saturday Night Train.
Time, only 11 Hours.
Louisiana, Mo., New Short Route7Chicago to Kansas City a	from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with
via Chicago & Alton and North Missouri Railroads, passing Pullman Palace Cars attached. A hrough betw een Chicago through Bloomington and Jacksonville, HL, and crossing the Mississippi at Louisiana, Mo.
Tbe best Short Route, from Chicago to Kansas City without change of Cars.	’
Close Connections In Union Depot, Kansas City, with all
Western Roads for Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and Cal-
ifomia, and in Chicago with trains of all Eastern roads.
Elegant Day Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars run through from Chicago to St. Louis and Chicago to Kansas
City
WITHOUT CHANGE
PullmanPalacePiningandSmokingCarsonalldayTrains.	u bwxj rresiueuv
The only Line running these Cars between Chicago and • j. N. MCCULLOUGH, Geu’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
St. Louis, and Chicago and Kansas City.	j. M c CREIGHTON, Ass’t Sup’t, Pitubureh.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,	H. W. GWINNER, Geu Pass. Rud Ticket Ag't. Philadelphia.
Gen’lPass. and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Superintendent, F. R. MYEK8. Gen'l Puss and Ticket Ag't Pittsburgh. ’ * CHICAGO.	CHICAGO. W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen'l Pass. Ag't, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	*
Situated near the Michigan Southern It Northern Indiana Bailroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States
TERMS: .
Matriculation Fee,
$ 6 00
French. German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each,
Instrumental Music, ------Use of Piano, --------Use of Violin, --------Drawing. -
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek);
Washing and Mending of Linens, per Session oi five ~ nionths^	~~~	150 00
- 10 09
12 50
- 10 CO 2 00
_	-15 CO
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Coni'l. $5 00; beient'e, 28 00; Claes’l, 1G GO Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the Col-
)
lege are charged, extra, -	-	.	-	-
Payments to be made invariably in advance. Class Books, Stationary, etc , at current prices.
35 00
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the Second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address ‘
Very Rev. W. COHBY, S.S.C.,
President.
<1
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
SUMMER ARRANGEMENT.
IJ1RAIN3 now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 11 30 a. m.
“	“	1253p m.
“	“	9-18 p. m.
“	“	12 35 a. ni.
“	' “	8.5up. m.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.25 a.m u	“	4 3u a. m
"	“	2 00 p.m
“	“	6 25 p.m
“	“	6.50p.m..
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 30 p. m. “	“	315 a. m.
528 p m.
0.35 arm.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8 CO p. m “	“	6.50	a.	m
“	“	7.25	a.	m
“	"	10.(0	p.m
“	“	10.30	a.	m
Making connection with all trains West nnd North.
£3* For lull details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at rhe depot and other public places.
J&B* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEKEUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland.
C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
Jno. Desmond, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago, TH.
J W. Cary, General Ticket Agent Cleveland Ohio.
C. Mouse, General Passenger Agent. Chicago, Illinois.
* E. C. OviATT. ticket Agent, South Bend. * A- J. White, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CBOSSING.
. To Lafayette and Louisville.
F Going North—Express passenger. 6(9 p. m.; 8.5S a. m.; 5.29 a. m. Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8 06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8 58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.;
9.25 p.m. Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a.m.
11. N. CANIFF, Agent.
PENNSYLVANIA OENTBAL
DOUBLE TBA0K RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, d^ttsbuigh,Philadelphia and New York without Change,
I
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington City.
ON and after June 1,187L the 9 p.m. train from Chicago arrives in New York at 11 c0 a ni. the second day,lj£ hour in advance of any Other route ; uitb corresponding reduction to Buston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Sundays.
Tbe 5 15 p.m train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6.41 am. the second morning,!^ hour in advance of any other line. Ibis train has an elegant Silver Jaluce Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia and hew York without change.
I1 I
and New York, without change, horns in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line offers this andvantage.
Trains from Chicago to Clev eland lia Crestline and “Bee ” Line, connecting at Cleveland w it h trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
h
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office, 65 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot.comer Madison and Canal streets, Chicago.
. 9HOMAS L. SCOTT, President