THE SCHOLASTIC.
JDeVCXTFD TO . THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturua
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 28, 1874. Number 10.
JNO.HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
, City Judge.	Notary Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG, •	•
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly -	:	:	■	-9
.	Before going elsewhere, go to
BS. PECKS, , .
,	Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
p J. HOLLAND, & Co.,
*	Wholesale Manufacturers of	- •
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBEES and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
' 1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
p E. CUMMINS,
‘DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
.	(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
' Do you want a drive ? Go to pEN COQUILLARD’S	'
LIVERY STJYBLES, '
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
It THE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^ pENRY BLUM, WHOLESALE AND BETAIL DEALER IN
CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc., No. 54 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. %o24-tf
g NICAR & Co.,
’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS, -	,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA -
HEADQUARTERS FOB	.
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., _____________________________________-____________________________________o2Ltf -yr NICAR,____________________________.
DEALER IN HARDWARE,	.
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. ..
ALL SORTS OF .	-	.....____.
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—	* ~
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. 	oU-tf y£RS. C. S. STOVER, MILLINER, 129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in	- -
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc. ^^"The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	o24-Jan 1 _
~p[IGHT & FAIRFIELD,
JEWELLERS	'
South Bend, - - - Indiana. Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Ilario COXFIDENT IN	’
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, -
None Can Fail to be Suited.	,
£5?” Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	'	o24-3nx
QEORGE HEHR,	-
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN	'
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN STEEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Stall s.)	%o24^tf . _
•	A
THE KNOBLOCK STORE, 63 WASHINGTON St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
Is the Place For all Kinds of . CHOICE FRUITS (FOREIGN and DOMESTIC),
—ALSO—'	'
CHOICE .BRANDS of CIGARS and TOBACCO, .
Cheaper than at any other place in the city. o24-lm
114
THE SCHOLASTIC.
yALMER & VanWINKLE,
1	-	Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
- Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
ISf Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. 'o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
. IRELAND'& SON,	.
PROPRIETORS of
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, ’
- No. MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(Opposite the Dwight House). .	--o——
HA.CK. line
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	J£o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
-----------0-- DROP IN AT “THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
See the Curiosities.	.
No. 114 Michigvn Stebet, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, - N South Bend, Indiana. '	-	-	o24-tf
JgDWARD BUYSEE, Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. jj-tf
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public -may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of horn e during their stay,
JE^Y KN1GHT,) Prnnr,PtnrR.
o24-tf
captain mills,
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
A HANAUER, Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, ' ____	South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
.	STAPLE AND FANCY DEY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to *DUZBY & GALLAGHER, -	CLOTHIERS,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
AND DEALERS IN Gents’ Furnishing Goods, .	HATS, CAPS, &c.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH SEND, IND. o24-2m
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
-OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT
■ Brackett & Boyden's Hand and Machine sewed Goods, THE
Largest Stock
* In The City.
Give us a CaH and see the Nobby Styles!
and
LADIES
We would call your attention to our immense- Stock of FINE" SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3m
ICECREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT
SATIN GLOSS PHOTOGRAPHS.
For the most improved Satin Gloss Photographs or Gems (4 for 50 cents), go to
BECKWITH’S GALLERY,
107 & 109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana
(Over National Bank.)	' H o24-6m.
99 MAIN STREET,
- SO UTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ALWAYS ON HAND!
JggT Fresh Candies Made Daily.
Mo24-tf
8
The Scholastic'
pEVOTED TO THE
Disce quasi semper -victui'iis; vive quasi eras moriturus
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 28, 1874,
Number 10,
I
Autumn
Sunnyside Eeveries,
Fall, this one season of all the round year, When ruddy, ripe fruits in the branches appear, •With manifold shades in deep lustre around Tinted and touched on the soft, mellow ground ; Fruits, hung among leaves, no less bright as they hide The smooth oval shape of some out-peeping side.
This season, when Jack Frost, the artist so clever, With icy-cold fingers his paints puts together, And covers his canvas so well in the dark
That nought can destroy the effect of his art; Not even the brightness of subsequent day, Can injure his work, as it drives him away.
Very little cares he for the Orient beam, The herald of day as in morn it is seen ; But gleefully thinks of the time, with a shiver, When he can rime over some lake, pond, or river, Pinch red the nose of some bright little boy, Whistle all day and full freedom enjoy.
Although the leaves fall at this time of the year, And flowers, and plants and green grass disappear, Leaving all things in nature so dreary and’bare That even the birds take their flight through the air, Still from out this destruction, this waste in the Fall, There is pleasure and fun enough left for us all.
How delightful to stroll on a bright sunny day, Through some garden of trees and view the display Of color, as varied as spectrum can show, Unrivalled by art or the hues of the bow;
This too after heat of the hot summer sun, And before the cold winds of Winter have come..
What fun ’tis to hunt through the stubble* for chicken, . And steal through the groves after woodchuck or pigeon; Or, better still, striving to try our good luck On the water, by shooting a goose or a duck.
Surely there’s sport enough left in the Fall, This season of harvest, to satisfy all.
As Fall bringeth pleasures to young and to old, Let’s not reject them, but do as we’re told In this month, to which there is none can object, For its teachings are good and most surely correct— “ Rest well the mind, often labor suspend,
And thus with more vigor and health gain your end.”
H. V. H.
—Gifts break through stone walls.
—A creditor always has a better memory than a debter.
—A handful of mother wit is worth a bushel of learning.
—Enjoy what little yon hava while the fool islooking for more. .
—May you have good luck, my son, and wit will serve your turn.
ESSE QUAM VIDERE.
The student of human nature is often perplexed to see a. man who is seemingly upright, honest, and straightforward in every action grow more and more unpopular every day. Starting out in life with a brilliant intellect, thoroughly trained by a long and judicious course of study, his pros-spects seemed most flattering and enviable, but when he comes to take his place in the profession he has chosen and offers to fight the world’s battles, he finds the world will not trust him, but on the contrary ridicules his every, action and forces him into the background, while men with not one half his talent or wisdom are given the very-foremost rank.
To-day I was thinking of an illustrious example of this class of men, and unconsciously I found myself pondering over the probable causes of such an unfortunate result. There are, no doubt, many reasons why men who have the ability to do a great good to their fellow-men are not appreciated, but it recurs to me that the most important one is to be found in the unpardonable vanity with which such men regard their own abilities. Few of them are bold enough to directly laud their personal achievements, but they are so full of self that it appears in their every movement, and becomes obvious in their every action. Men naturally desire to be popular and receive their share of the world’s esteem, and the moment they see one of their fellows trying to absorb the modicum they consider their just due they abandon his cause and denounce him as unworthy their support. Now this instinctive judgment springsfrom the basest sentiment in the human heart—selfishness; but it is none the less certain on that account, and seldom fails in detecting the egotist, whom it is unsafe to trust. Two concomitant vices which spring directly from this vanity.are selfishness and deceit. Analyse the heart of him whose craving desire for popularity has never been appeased, and you will find an overweening selfishness the central principle and the motor of his whole life. Now there is no vice which the human heart so abhors and cries out against as selfishness; and no matter how well concealed it may be, if it exist at all, the instinctive intuition of the heart will discover it where the intellect might altogether fail. No one recognizes this fact more clearly than the habitually selfish man, and hence his futile endeavors to conceal his true character. This leads him into the well-trodden avenues of deceit, until, at last, naturally enough, his friends forsake him, and he begins to despise himself.	'
From this very principle often proceed great charities. The selfish man frequently gives largely of his wealth for the laudable purpose of convincing the world that he is

116
SCHOLASTIC.
i
generous, and to render his name popular; and in both of these results his failure is complete. The world cannot be blinded by such speciousness. It is not enough that the charity be beneficent in its practical application; it must come as a spontaneous outburst of a'noble heart, a heart moved by natural goodness, and sympathy with the un-fprtunate.in their distress. I think the assertion justifiable that the greater proportion of the money dispensed to the poor is given through the impulse of a base and unworthy motive. Of course it does not matter to the needy recipi-ient what may have been the operative agency which tended to his relief; but in this case if the donor receive no other recompense than that which he sought, the praise and approbation of his fellow-men, then his reward is certainly meagre enough, and not a valuable consideration. There is nothing wrong in this: the principle is just as it should be, for he who gives with a calculating hope of thus rendering his name popular performs an action deserving of no reward.
The fiat is universally promulgated throughout the world that selfishness is essentially mean and contemptible, and we must abide by the decision. This fact is easily recognized, but strange enough its application is very little understood. We see men around us every day whom we do not admire, cannot like, and yet they appear to be no worse than the average of mankind. Were you asked why you do not admire them, in all probability you could give no valid reason, but would likely answer, “There is something wrong about them. I don’t know what it is, but it exists all the same.” Yes, there is something wrong about them; and it is this: they are not what they seem. They live for self alone; it is the centre of their being, the hinge upon which they turn. If selfishness were removed from the world I think we would find but little trouble in obeying the command to love one another,—in fact, there would be ho necessity for the command, as we could not refrain from loving our neighbors, any more than we cbuld refrain from loving Him who framed that divine mandate.
If you would be popular and have the world sing your praises you must appear noble and generous from impulse, and be wliat you appear. There is no other way; and there s no need for any other, as this is applicable to all. Some men are endowed from infancy with this beautiful spirit of generosity, and vanity is a folly of which they never dreamed; but the great majority of mankind are not so happily situated, and love of self enters largely into all their thoughts. Now, this were a deplorable circumstance if impossible to overcome, but we know such is] not the case. By. improving every occasion to sacrifice self to the good of others a habit of generosity is easily acquired; and, like all other habits, when once formed is very tenacious. Th this habit of generosity the most beautiful and touching of the Christian virtues have their being, and the halo of their beautiful borrowed light—borrowed from heaven and shed upon the iniquity, deceit, and selfishness of this strangely revolving world—so modifies and softens its repulsive outlines that in it man may still catch occasional glimpses of that beautiful home beyond the shores of Time and the river of Death which the bountiful hand of an e ver-generous Father has adorned with all the magnificence of infinite resources, and which He offers without reservation to the humblest and meekest of His children.
T.A.D. -
Considerations on the Origin and Progress of Physical' Science. . .
A LECTURE READ BEFORE THE NOTRE DAME SCIENTIFIC
ASSOCIATION.	■
The same year which witnessed the discovery of oxygen, records aslo that of chlorine by Shcecle—an element now so estensively used as a bleaching agent. But why attempt to enumerate the countless discoveries which have been made in chemistry and phys cs within the last two hundred years? Why speak of the great advantages which mankind have derived from a practical application of the principles of these sciences ? Why. mention the names of those great benefactors of mankind, since they are familiar to all ? I have forborne from speaking of the great results consequent to the application of the telescope by Galileo, the invention of the steam engine by Watt, the discovery of the laws of gravitation by Newton, of dynamical electricity by Galvani and Volta, of electro-magnetism by Oersted, etc., as I did not wish to trespass on your time or impose on your patience by rehearsing a series of facts with which you are all conversant. However, permit me to present a brief extract from that excellent scientific periodical “Nature,” No. 25, which expresses perfectly what I wish to say concerning the utility of a proper study of the physical sciences and the benefits which have accrued to humanity—to the working classes in particular—from those great inventions and discoveries of which we now enjoy the fruits. -	.
“The discoveries of voltaic electricity, electro-magnetism and magnetic electricity, by Volta, Oersted and Faraday, led to the invention of electric telegraphy by Wealstone* and others, and to the great manufactures of telegraphcables and telegraph wire and the materials required for them. The value of the cargo of the Great Eastern in the present Bombay telegraph expedition is calculated at the three million pounds sterling. It also led to the employment of thousands of operators to transmit the telegraph messages and to a great increase of our commerce in nearly all its branches by the more rapid means of communication. The discovery of voltaic electricity led to the invention of electro-plating, and to the employment of a large number of persons in that business. The numerous experimental researches on specific heat, latent heat, the tension of vapors, the properties of water? the mechanical effect of heat, etc., resulted in the development of steam engines and railways and the almost endless employments depending on their construction and use. About a quarter of a million of persons are employed on railways alone in Great Britain. The various original investigations on the chemical effects of light led to the invention of photography, and have given employment to thousands of persons who practice that process, or manufaclure and prepare the various materials aud articles required in it. The discovery of Chlorine by Scheele led to the invention of the modern process of bleaching and to various improvements in the dyeing of the textile fabrics, and has given employment to a very large number of our Lancashire operatives. The discovery of Chlorine has also contributed to the employment of printers, by enabling Espartograss to be bleached and formed into paper for the use of
* Americans claim that the priority of invention of the telegraph belongs to Prof.Morse, or to Prof. Hemy, now Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.	'	-


THE SCHOLASTIC;	. .	.117
our daily press. The numerous experimental investigations in relation to coal gas have been the means of extending the use of that substance, and of increasing the employment of woikmen and others connected with its manufacture. The discovery of .the alkaline metals by ; Davy, of cyanide of potassium, of nickel, phosphorus, the common acids, and a multitude of-other substances, has led to the employment of a whole army of workmen in the conversion of those substances into articles of utility-. The ■foregoing examples might be greatly enlarged upon, and a great many others might be selected from the sciences .of physics and chemistry, but those mentioned will suffice. There is not a force of nature, nor scarcely a material substance that we employ, which has not been the subject of several, and in some cases of numerous original, experi-.mental researches, many of which have resulted, in a (greater or less degree, in increasing the employment of . workmen and others.”
lu conclusion, I have but a few words to say: First, I ;may here repeat what I have said in another part of this .essay/that I have not the least apprehension that science, •although making such rapid progress, will ever be found . antagonistic to religion. For, with the illustrious Cardinal . Wiseman, ,lwe may consider the end and development of ■any science as entering essentially into the established order of God’s moral government; just as the appearance of new stars, from time to time, according to what astronomers tell us, must be a preordained event in the annals of creation.” Secondly, and lastly, I- would have none under the impression that I ani one-of those who would have •science studied only for the material advantages which may cbe derived therefrom. No: besides this, a laudable reason . it is true, we should have other and nobler ends in view - in our pursuit of science. In consulting the interests of t the body, we should not overlook those of the soul; in our . concern for the amelioration of man’s material condition, we should not disregard what is of still more importance— .the purifying of the heart, the ennobling of the intellect. .If Ovid could say of the fine arts:	didicisse fiddi-
,Ur artes emoliil mores, nee sinit esse feros," what could not be said of the spiritualizing influence of science when properly studied. It not only exalts the mind by enabling it to better contemplate the works of nature, and view in a different light the various natural phenomena every day observable, but elevates it above the things of earth to those of heaven—draws it from the creature and attracts it to the Creator. Indeed to the eyes of the true scientist the universe is a mirror from which the attributes of the Deity are faintly but admirably reflected; for the smallest crystal, the tiniest flower, proclaims the glory and omnipotence of God in language as eloquent as do the countless worlds and systems of worlds which, according to certain fixed laws, incessantly move through the boundless realms of
• space. In the simple yet sublime language of the Psalmist: Cedi enarrant gloriam Dei, et opera manuam qus annvntiat firmamentum: “The heavens show forth the glory of God, and the firmament declareth the work of His hands.”
[The End']
—To advertise honestly is to adverise twice. -
—He is a rich man who has God for his friend.
—Advertisements labor while the advertiser sleeps.
—He is the best scholar who has learned to live well.
Qbsaxvatms on what ars called. Addition and Subtraction in Algebra.
Teachers sometimes wonder how it is that a good number of their pupils studying Algebra experience so much difficulty in learning the right meaning and proper use of the -f- and — signs. This difficulty must arise either from a defect of intellect on the part of the student, or from, a defect of notation and terminology on the part of our. adopted text-books of Algebra. Since we do not believe the former to be the case, it devolves upon us to prove the latter. We think there is a certain unscientific looseness in algebraic notation and terminology, which, instead of rigidly designating what is meant by the and — signs* leaves the beginner, in many cases, simply to guess what may be meant.
The two fundamental operations in Algebra are “increasing and decreasing,” “addition and subtraction,” for which the -f- and — signs are used; and the two principal quantities that are thus operated upon, are positive and negative quantities, for which the and — signs are likewise used. And this is the first defect of algebraic notation : to use one and the same sign for expressing an “operation ” on quantities, and expressing the character or relation of the quantities operated upon. Hence the difficulty for beginners to understand the meaning of those signs in a particular case,- and this difficulty might easily be removed by using a large -J- and — sign to designate addition and subtraction; and a small + and a kind of a prefix, to designate the positive or negative character of the quantity.
And now a few words about positive and negative quantities.
In “ space ” there is an up and a down, a right and a left, a north and a south, an east and a west; in “time” we find a future and a past; in “matter” there are forces attractive and repulsive, centripetal and .centrifugal, electric and magnetic; light and darkness; heat and cold; powers working one way, and powers working in an opposite way; then in business there is a’debit and a credit, a gain and a loss’ a premium and a discount, merchandise bought and merchandise sold, cash received and cash paid out, income aud outlay, assets and liabilities.
If now, value, weight, motion, distance, force, time, etc., be measured in one direction from a certain point, we get “positive” quantities; and if the same be measured in an opposite direction from the same point, we get “negative” quantities; the former being indicated by the +, the latter by the — sign. Thus 100 miles upwards from where you are may be written -}~100m.; 100 miles downwards from the same point, —lOOrn.,- 75° North of the Equator, -j-75d.; 75® South of the Equator, —75d.; 100° East of Washington, -f-lOOd.; 100® West of Washington, —lOOd.; 100 years to come, 4-100y.; 100 years ago, —lOOy.; 50 pounds attraction, -}-50p.; 50 pounds repulsion, —50p.; 50® heat Reaumur, -J-50R.; 50° cold Reaumur, —50R.; 10 per. cent, gain, -f-10 per cent.; 10 per cent, loss, —10 per cent.; 20 per cent, premium, -f-20 per cent.; 20 per cent, discount, —20 per cent.; $100 on the debit of an account, -f-lOOd. .$100 on the credit of an account, —100d.;'and so on through the whole scale of measurable things.
This method of distinguishing-denominate quantities by the 4- and — signs, when reckoned in opposite directions, may also be applied to abstract quantities in such a man-

iijigaiiaMi
118
THE SCHOLASTIC.
,ner that those which are counted upwards from zero, are marked and those which are reckoned downwards from 0 are called — (negative). Comparing for instance the two quantities, -}-5d.,'—6d., we find that the first stands lid. higher in the scale of values than the second, since 5d. above 0 and 6d. below 0 make a distance or difference of lid.
The + sign, then, rspresents quantity measured in one direction; the —sign the same in an opposite direction? the former being called “ positive/’ the latter '* negative.”
From what has been said, it must be evident that positive and negative quantities indeed belong to the same “genus,” but differ in “species,” as widely as species can differ. To use a simile, they are very much like fish and bird i the onelivihg above the level of the sea, the other below—both', however, being animals. Since then positive and negative quantities are different sorts of things, values Of ah opposite Character (though belonging to the same genus), they cannot properly be said to be added to each other, or subtracted from one another; since only things or values of the same kind can be added or subtracted. And here appears the second difficulty in the way of those who enter upon the study of Algebra. They come with the correct notion acquired from a previous study of Arith-Ihetic; that they may add $6 gain to $9 gain; §10 spent to $15 spent; but that they should add §6 gain to §9 loss, or $15 received to $10 spent, never entered their minds, until they entered the Algebra class. Slay be they were in the Book-Keeping class, and learnt from their professor that they must add up tbe items on the debtor side of an account, and next those on the creditor side, then subtract the less sum from the greater, c tiling the difference' a balance to ’ be brought forward on the proper side of the account.; and now they hear that Algebra calls all these distinct operations by the name of addition! They always thought, with the rest of mankind, that addition meant an “ increase,” Which’it does mean in common sense, iu Arithmetic, in grammar, in law, in music, in the ordinary ways of life ; and now they find out that addition, in Algebra, may mean, and often does mean “ a decrease.” So they com-• mence to doubt whether they are iu their right senses, or whether their algebraic professor is.
There are three cases of algebraic addition : 1, The addition of positive quantities; 2, The addition of negative 'quantities; 3, The addition of positive and negative quantities combined.
! An example of the first kind is the following:
(+a)-J-(-r2a)-}-(+3a)-|-(-f4a)-}-(+oa)=(+loa) which is a real addition, in the right sense of the word; ‘because quantities of the same kind and character have been united into a sum which is greater than any of its parts, and has the same sign or character that the parts have. -
Js an example of the second kind, also representing a true •addition; because in it quantities of the same kind and •character have been united into a whole which is greater than any of its parts, and having the same sign or character that the parts have.
The following examples, belonging to .the third case, represent the addition of positive and negative quantities combined:.
• (+a)-(-(—2a)-1-(+3a)4~(—4a)-f-(+5a)=(+9a)-|-(-6a)=(+3a); and
(—a)-f-(+2 a)-|-(—3a)-{-(+4a)-|-(—5a)=(—9a)-{-(+6a)=(—3a ).
Here we meet the paradox that the whole is less than some of its parts; also that the sign or character of the sum is opposed to the sign or character of some of the parts. Moreover, we find that the answers -p3a and —3a are the result of three distinct operations; that is, an addition of positive quantities, an addition of negative ones, a comparison of the two sums, and a statement by how much the one exceeds the other. Thus the answer (-f-3a) means that the sum of the positive quantities exceeds the sum of the negative by 3a; and the answer (—3a) shows that the sum of the negative quantities is by 3a more than that of the positive quantities. From what has been said it is plain that the addition of positive and negative quantities combined may be looked upon as a defective terminology implying a contradiction, in as much as it means not only addition but also subtraction,-and furnishing sums which are less than their parts. To say that (9a) added to (—6a) gives 3a; or that (—9a) added to (4~6a) gives---3a; is'a mode of speaking that seems little calculated to promote clearness of thought and simplicity of dietion, but rather tends to obscurity and confusion, which might as well be avoided by calling those answers—not a sum,—but the final result of addition and subtraction combined; or better, the result of comparing positive and negative quantities. In algebraic subtraction we meet tbe same trouble and difficulty in a still higher degree, but of this we shall'speak in our next article,	O.M. S.
Countzy vs. Town.
City people as a rule think rural life to be the dreariest that can be imagined. But it is not without its advantages and pleasures. It has neither theatres nor balls, nor indeed other like amusements to be found in the city; but neither has it the conflagrations, diseases, want of employment anti starvation which are common to the city. A farm is worth more to a man than a house and merchandise iii the city. A farm remains always, but the house is liable to be destroyed at any time by fire. No man need want wTork in the country, and he may always earn enough to keep him in necessaries; but it is not always the ease in the city. How many complaints do we not hear of the want of employment in the Eastern cities since the kite panic; but there are no such complaints from the country. Laborers would prefer stopping in the cities, almost starving, rather than go to the country to obtain work; and it would be an insult to some of them to talk to them about going West. They prefer rather to stay in the Eastern cities, tbe servants of others, than to go West and become independent farmers, as if it would not be more respectable to be a farmer depending on no one for employment than a servant to some rich employer,	P. H.
The Catholic Church from Without and ’ from Within.
I have met with an illustration, I think in one of Cardinal Wiseman’s works, which admirably expresses the difference between the Catholic Church as she appears to"those outside her pale, and to those who. have been admitted within it. It is that of a painted window as seen from without and from within the sacred building which it adorns. To the external observer it presents nothing but a confused mass, without distinctness of outline or variety of color.
IV
THE SCHOLASTIC.
119;
' Prom within, on the contrary, all appears orderly and beau- St. Cecilia and Roman Society; III, The Babington Con-tiful. The mass develops into a religious subject; the spiracy—Mary Stuart; IV, The Pilgrimage to Pontigny; dingy hue clears up into colors of the most surpassing V, Aubrey de Vere’s Alexander the Great'; VI,’ The' In-
brilliancy and the most precious composition, which are fidelity of the Day—The New Scheme of Catholic Higher rejected in rainbow tints upon the marble pavement be- ’‘	~	‘	"
neath them'. There was, even from without, a certain shade going forth—a dim augury—of the glories within $ hut to those alone who have passed the threshold does the work reveal its wonders, or eVen disclose its significancy. It is thus that the Church of Christ must be entered, in order to be understood and appreciated—Canon Oakeley.
Society Notes.
.—The St. Cecilians have a play in rehearsal,
. ‘—The Archconfraternity is in a thriving condition.
—The Thespian Association have decided upon a
play.	-
new
4
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels is in a flourishing condition-.	„	‘
.—Six persons were blackballed by the H. O. B. Club last Tuesday.
—The St. Ceciliansare busily preparing for the next pub-; lie Entertainment.	:
—We hear rumors of a new Literary Society in the . Classical Department.
—We understand that Bro. Albert is going to resuscitate the Thespian Cadets.
—The Philepatrians expect to cause considerable of a stir when they give their Exhibition.
—We have had no news from the Columbians for some time. We hear, though, that they are progressing.
. —At the regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association a vote was unaminously passed thanking Bro Marcellinus for favors shown the members on Saturday, afternoon, Nov. 21st.
—At the regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society the thanks of the Society were without a dissenting voice tendered to Bro. Leander for his favors to the members on Thursday, Nov. 19th.
. —The Sth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was held Nov. 23rd. At this meeting Masters J. Lambin, J-. Nelson and L. Goetig presented themselves for membership, and, after performing the necessary conditions were unanimously elected. Masters H Quan, M. Roelie, J. Delvecchio, L. Pilliod and C. Whipple delivered declamations.
—The 14th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Nov. 20lh. At this meeting the following deserve honorable mention for declamation: J. F. Beegan, W. S. Meyer, J. McHugh, A. Schmidt, J. F. Soule, J. O’Hara, R. Downey, W. Lawless, H. Faxon, and W. Byrne. Mast R. Walker read a composition. Rev. Father Golovin, G. S. C., the esteemed Director of the Association, congratulated the members on their progress, and after giving some wholesome advice on public speaking and English Literature, he distributed the parts of a drama entitled, “ The Miser," translated from the French and remodelled for the Association.
Literature,
■ —We have received the Dublin Review for October. The contents are: I. The Sovereignty in Modern States; II,
Education; VII, An Examination of Herbert Spencer’s Psychology ; VIII, Church Music; IX, Note to the First Article in Our Last Number; X, Notices of Books. .
The high character of the Duldin Renew requires ho praise from us.	'
—The articles in the December Number of the Cdtkdw 'World are up to their usual standard-. The contents are: I, The Persecution of the Church in the German Empire ;-H,The Veil Withdrawn; III, Church Music; IV, Assunta Howard; V, Swineburne and De Vere; VI, Requies Mea; Vn, Ontologism and Psychologism; VIII, Reminiscences, of a Tile-Field; IX, The Ingenius Device; X, The RigiV XI, The Church Song; XII, A Discussion with an Infidel; XlII, The Ice-Wigwam of Minnehaha; XIV, A Russian Sister of Charity; XV, New Publications.
We have expressed our opinion concerning the Catholic World so frequently that there is no necessity of our again" urging all to subscribe for it.
—The Eleventh No. of “Die Kamel” has just been received, and is, as usual, full of interesting and instructive. reading-matter. It contains eleven sermons, besides a few addresses, etc., added by way of appendix. To preachers, and catechists, for whom it is primarily intended, it is a most useful publication.	.
Storia CoApendIosa bi S. Francesco e de Frances-canI. Per F. Panfilo da Magliano, M. O. R. Roma: Tip. Cattolica di F. Chiapperini, 1374. Vol. 1,162 pp. The first volume of this work has been sent us by a friend in Rome with a request to notice it. We have examined it, and found it an admirable work. -It is, in our judgment, a great improvement on the histories—and they are numerous—of the Seraphic Order and of its holy founder which have hitherto been written. Although the work is written in Italian, the author is not unknown to English readers, as it was he who, a few years since, when Superior of one of the branches of his Order in this country> who had published, with additions and emendations, a reprint of the little book entitled “St. Francis and the Franciscans,” written by a Poor Clare, and first published in England. The Italian work, however, is far more erudite and comprehenssve. The first volume, the only one yet published, we presume, embraces the entire historyof St. Francis, together with that of the First Order Until the Order of St. Boneventure, followed by an epitome of the history of the Second and Third Orders. All the materials of the work are drawn from original sources, and arranged wsth great care and skill. The style is chaste and simple, and possesses an unction which renders it particularly attractive. We earnestly recommend it to all who read Italian, as a book replete with instrution and interest
—The Catholic Standard, of Philadelphia, says:
A grand sacred concert for the benefit of the Catholic Normal School, conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in Balti-' more, is to be given at Ford’s Opera House on the 22d inst. The Sisters of the Holy Cross are establishing a training school in Baltimore for poor girls of good capacity to enable them to become school-teachers, and the foundation is commended by the Archbishop, who has issued a circular in behalf of the edu* cational enterprise,”	-
i
i
12$
T H E S C H O L A S T I C .
The
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY. -
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre'Dame, Indiana. TERMS:	•
. One year......................$100
'Single copies (Sets.) can be obtained at the Stu dents’ Office.
—A number of articles written a few years ago for The Scholastic concerning text-books were republished in almost every Catholic paper in the United States. That they Vere productive of some good is shown by the fact that since their publication there has been considerable activity manifested by the Catholic publishers in issuing schoolbooks, and also by the fact that many non-Catholic pub-ishers sent to our office corrected proofs of books, leaving out objections! passages. We insisted years ago that in institutions of learning conducted by Catholics those books published by Catholic houses, all things being equal, should be used in preference to those published by Protestant houses. Our reasons then were that the tone of the books issued by Catholic houses would be more in harmony with the spirit of religion; that it was important that the minds and hearts of young children should be imbued with the spirit of Catholicity; that the very atmosphere of the school-room should be impregnated with true piety; and that all these things might take place, it was necessary for Catholic schools to use Catholic school-books It is not sufficient that the catechism alone should teach children their religion. How many a child has learned his Catechism perfectly andyet has gone forth into the' world and in a short while lost his faith ? No, we must needs make all of our education Christian; we must instil in the child the precepts of God and His Church in everything he learns.
We in a former number of the Scholastic noticed the difficulties which present themselves: that Catholic houses do not publish all the books required; that sometimes books published by them are not as good as those issued by Protestant ones, and that Catholic publishers charge too high for their class-books. We then showed how these difficulties might be overcome, were the patronage of Catholics given to their own publishers: that then Catholic houses would be able to issue all books required for Catholic schools; that they would be able to improve the standard of their books, and that they would be enabled to issue them much cheaper and in better print and binding. If only small patronage be given to publishers then they will be unable to do this. But though this may be said for the . benefit of publishers, are they not in a great measure to blame that their books are -not more used in Catholic schools ? . We think they are. There are very few of them who advertise to any extent. If a person wishes to know .what books Kelly & Piet publish, they must subscribe for -Kelly & Piet’s weekly paper. If they wish to know what books O’Shea publishes it is necessary to subscribe for one or two papers in which alone he advertises. The Messrs. Sadlier advertise in their own paper. And so it is with most of our-publishers. They may send circular after circular to those in charge of schools, but these circulars
are put in the waste-basket unread. This is not sufficient.
They should make use of live advertising, in the newspapers. We picked up the Catholic Record the other day, and of six or eight advertisements of school-books only two or three were those of Catholic houses. And so it is with all our exchanges. The amount of advertising done by Catholic houses is very small. The Georgetown College Journal is taken, we believe, in every institution conducted by the Jesuits. An advertisement in it would be worth money to any publisher. The Index Niagarensis and tlie College Message are read in all the houses under the direction of the Priests of the Mission. Our own paper is taken • by no less than twenty-five or thirty houses of education, besides by a great number of priests who have parochial schools under their charge. Yet we see no advertisements of Catholic publishers in any of our College exchanges. We see very few'in the Catholic press of the United States. Are not Catholic publishers to blame if they are not patronized ?	.
Still, notwithstanding the want of-enterprise displayed by Catholic publishers, we recommend to all institutions receiving our paper that thejr pitronize Catholic publishers to the exclusion of those non Catholic houses which issue • books in which the Catholic religion and its customs are ridiculed and misrepresented.
And allow us to say one thing more: We have Catholic reading books now in abundance. If a publisher wishes to obtain Catholic patronage is it not time for him to issue other books than readers and spellers? It is not in the readers alone that the spirit of the Catholic religion is to' be instilled into the minds of children. Would it not be well if our publishers would i-sue a geography which' would not only be, not iin-Catholic, but Catholic in spirit. In most geographies now published, though they may not say anything misrepresenting the Catholic religion, yet, when speaking of towns or cities they, perhaps unconsciously, say things which show the real spirit of the author. For instance, they speak of Spiers as the place' where Luther made his celebrated protest, etc., and so with regard to other places; but do they ever mention any of the great events in Catholic history in connection with • the geography bf a country ? Thus the child is left with the impression in its mind that the really great events of this world are connected with Protestant history.
We have no Catholic geographies, no Catholic schoolbooks save readers and a history or two. We hope that Catholic publishers will look to this: that they will issue complete series of Catholic school-books, and we have no doubt but that, with proper advertising, they will receive the patronage of Catholic schools.
—We confess that we always feel indisposed to speak about our college exchanges. All college journals are not published with the same ends in view. It would be unfair for us to lay down certain rules for editing a college’paper and insist upon our exchanges following them. Perhaps the very end which they have in view would be totally at variance with our rules. We, for instance, publish’ our little journal in order to give the parents of the students information concerning the progress of their sons; to give to former students and friends the news of the University; and, in the words of the College Message, “ to advance the interest of our alma, maier '; to spread abroad the advantages of a perfect system of education; to keep fresh and
THE SOHO 1A S T I-C\
121
>	green the recollection of our college days, and lastly to
’	train up	a body of writers the purity of whose pens will
<i	in some	degree stem the seething torrent of immorality
which to-day covers the land.” But more especially do we I	publish our paper to give the parents a knowledge of the
!	progress	of their sons and to give to our friends the local
I	news of the -University which they can obtain in no other
way. These two objects, then, being the main ones for I	which our paper is published, it is fair to criticise it with
|	reference to them. But it would by no means be fair to
insist that our exchanges should be j udged in the same way.
•/	Some of them do not pretend to inform the parents of the
standing or progress of their sons,—it is not for us to complain that they do not follow the example of our paper and .	give this information. We may think that we promote the
interests of the students and the usefulness of the paper by .	publishing our “rolls” etc., or that;a college paper which
gives its readers plenty of local news is the most readable:
1	yet we may be mistaken. Indeed many of our exchanges
do not seem to lay much stress upon these two things.
;	Intending, as we do, to continue our paper with these two
,	ends in view, we do not find fault with our neighbors.
;	For fear that we may, by mistaking the objects for which
i	they are published, be led to be unjust in our critiicisms.
| i However, we intend this week to say a few words concern-|	ing some of the college journals on our table.
:	The first one which we pick up is the “ College Message''
from Cape Girardeau, Mo. It comes to us in a neat and ' tasty dress. It is one of the best exchanges on our list, its matter being fully equal to its external appearance. We wish it every success, and endorse what it says of college journalism, though we think that the tone of-Calholic collegejournals should be Catholic.
We must find fault with the press-work of the publishers ■ of the Index Niagarensis. The columns of the numbers i	which are received at our office present a poor appearance;
J	the letters are blurred and in some parts of the page the
type make no impression on the paper whatever. Good type would make a great change for the better in the '	Index. If the type were equal to the matter it would be
i	one of our best exchanges, for the articles in the Index are
>	generally written with care and show much spirit and
ability.
The Spectator, of St. Laurent College, Montreal, has each week quite a number of excellent articles. If they i	would make the arrangement of their matter a little more
J	orderly the journal would be.improved greatly. Still with
I	each issue it improves, and we doubt not will continue to
I	do so.
i	The Oicl of Santa Clara, this session is not a bit less
entertaining than in years past. The Georgetoion College
I	Journal presents an excellent appearance. Tinted paper
is becoming fashionable with our college journals, and deservedly so. The mere look of the Journal is enough to make you feel friendly towards it; and then a glance over its pages confirms this feeling—for it is under good management.	.
The Archangd, from away out in Oregon, comes to us with quite a bashful look. However, as its years increase so we hope will its merits. We are not particularly eni	amored with its three narrow columns to the page. We
।	wish our young friend may keep up in the great advances
/	made by our brethren on the Pacific slope and expand it-
.y \ self with each succeeding term.
I \	' ' '	’ '
Personal.
—Willy Breen is clerking in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Rev. P. Creighton, of ’52, is in East New York.
—Nat. Wood, of ’66, is in a bank in Lafayette, Ind.
—Rev. Father Cooney is expected home every day.
—D. E. Maloney, ’74, is studying Law in Havard, Ill.
—Rev. Father Toohey arrived home safe last Tuesday.
—Chas. Duffy is doing well in Watertown, Wisconsin.
—Robert Shealey, of’57, is in business in Lafayette, Ind.
—Bro. Gabriel goes to the new college at La Salle, Ill.
—Rev. Father Brown is in good health in Watertown, Wis.	‘
—Bro. Francis de Sales will be stationed at Watertown. ' Wis.	•
—C. H. Ilgenfritz, of’71, is prospering in Clarksville, Iowa.	. ;
—Lew Hayes, of ’74, is in- the real estate business, Chicago, Ill.	.	-
—Nathan Mooney is extremely attentive to his duties as sacristan.	>
—Thos. Cashin, of ’73, is Secretary for Sheldon & Co., Chicago.	;
—Thos. Lonergan, of ’61, is in St. Louis, in the U. S. service.	.	- '
—Rev. Father Demers, C. S. C., arrived at Notre Dame last Saturday.	.
—Fred Ells vorth, of ’66, is in the dry goods business in South Bend.	:
—Jacob Eisenman, of ’72, is in business with his father in Louisville, Ky. -	'
—Jno. Armstrong, of’60, is doing a large business as an architect in Chicago.	.	~
—Chas. Taylor, of ’59, is proprietor of the Passenger House, Mendota, Ill.	'
—J. J. Fitzgibbon, of ’60, is doing a large commisioir business in Chicago, Ill.	•’
—Rev. Thos. Murphy, of ’64, is pastor of the Catholid church in Aurora, Ill.	• -
—T. F. Heery is in Clarksville, Iowa. He was married, last year and is doing well.	•	. k
—Florence McNulty, of ’59, is a.partner in the firm of Devlin & Co., New York.	'
—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, of ’52, is pastor of the church in Stratford, Ontario, Canada.	'	" *
—Will Taylor, of '67, is Superintendent of the Northern
Illinois Coal Co., La Salle, Ill.	:
—Bonifacio J. Baca is selling dry goods to the darkeyed signoritas in Lincoln, Texas.	- .
—L. Barth,, of’67, was married lately. He is in the sash and lath business in South Bend.
. —Frank Pierce, of ’60, is one of the most gentlemanly conductors on the M. S. and L S. R. R.	.
—Rev. R. Shortis, of'49, is one of the leading men at the College of St. Laurent, Montreal, Canada.
—We still take it as a great favor if our many friends will give us information as to the whereabouts-of the old students.	.	-
Local Items.
—Snow 1
—Beautiful snow!
—Not by’a long shot.
—Don’t grumble.
—Colds are plenty.
—Christmas is coming.	•
—“ We’ve got new hats.”'
—The yards are deserted.
THE SCHOLASTICS *
—To every man his work. .
—Thanksgiving has gone.
—Winter is here in real earnest.
—In the morning “ Fanny ’* was dead.
—We are to have an Ekhibitibq sooh.
;	—Bhd and Jack are first-rate firemen.
;	—The new scenery will soon be finished.
>	■—The Minims have two study halls now.
!	—'‘I’ll give you a cookie for that knife.’*
J	—It’s Quite icy ( stars!) on that lower porch.
—We are happy to see Prof. Stace around again.
:	—That was a high wind We had the other night.
’	•—“ Do you whistle now as well as you Used to ? ”
!	—Whose bundle is it that lies in the parlor? Take it
sway.
—Stained-glass windows for the new Church are expected
!	’ soon.
,	. —1125 was the number of Scholastics printed last
■	"week.	.
4	• —The Glass of Calisthenics trip it on the light fantastic
'■	eVery week.
S	—Every day we have an increase in the number of our
Ji	subscribers.
—Patronize the Lemonnier Circulating Library if you |	Want good reading.
c	—Bro. Ferdinand sends over plenty of steam. He
■;	knows how it is himself.
|	—We will publish “ recollections of the days of old ’’ in
|	the course of a few weeks.
I	• —The “ Ave Marut” is to have a new cover, and will be
Sprinted next year on tinted paper.
—The Philosophy Class of '75 is larger than any class !| '	since the foundation of the University.
3	• —A reading room is to be attached to the Circulating
Library which will be conducted by Prof. Edwards. Pat-
1	ionize it.
r	—The Philosophy Class, with their Prof., ReV. Father
‘	O’Connell, made a pleasant trip to Niles on Wednesday
!	last.
—The Chapel of Our Lady of the Angels has been closed J.	for the winter. The building is too cold to be used in
j	winter.
•	;	—The South Bend Union has changed hands. It comes
Ji	to us fresh and spicy. All the South Bend papers are
k	excellent. .	’	'
!	—The library of the late Rev. Father. Gillespie has been
>	|	placed in the Presbytery’, to form the nucleus of an ecclesi-
i	aslical library.	.
|	—The name of the Circulating Library has been changed
!	to the “ Lemonnier Circulating Library,” in honor of the
!	late Father. Lemonnier, who was its founder.
J	. —At a/meeting of the St. Joseph’s Total Abstinence
p	Society of South Bend, a resolution thanking (he.Rev.
>	i	Father Golovin for his able lecture was passed by a unan-
imous vote.
J	—The Notre Dame Scholastic has recently enlarged to
*	1	twice its former size, and we learn its subscription list is
>	rapidly increasing. It is the best college paper we receive
j	at this office—South Bend Tribune.
;	—We call the attention of all our friends who when
■	visiting Notre Dame pass through Niles, Michigan, to the
I	card of Mr. McKay, proprietor of the Bond House. If any
I	person wishes to stop over at Niles for the night, they will
:	find every accommodation at the Bond House.
;	—Messrs. O’Leary and Hunt, of the Commercial Depart!	ment, report that §190 have been subscribed towards the
;	Lemonnier memorial chapel; Messrs Beegan, Meyer, Soule,
i	Schmidt, Faxon and Minton report §150 as subscribed by
i	the Junior Department; Bro. Albert reports §31 as sub;	scribed by the Minims, and Messrs. Horne and Graves ret	port $30 as subscribed by the Collegiates.
<	—For Morton’s Gold Pens, the finest French, English
and French papers, call at Smith and Holloway’s. Their new store is one of the finest in South Bend. Tnere you can pass au hour most agreeably looking oVer the newest novelties in fancy goods. They make a specialty of fine stationery. Call and see their holiday goods, just opened, and you will not be compelled to obtain your supply from . E istern Houses.
—The Right Rev. Bishop of Columbus, Ohio, honored uS with a Visit this week. We were delighted to see the good Bishop, and hope that he will visit Notre Dame very often. ■ On the afternoon of the 26th all the students assembled -in front of the College. The Notre Dame Band played a	1
number of excellent fnorceaUs^ after which Mr. McLaughlin	I
read a well-written address to the Bishop. Dr. Rosecrans replied in an excellent manner, thanking the students'	i
for the attention shown him, and giving them some practical.	I
advice relative to their duty as students.
—The following books have been lately added to the Lemonnier Circulating Library;
Cummings’ Spiritual Progress; Spalding’s History of the Great Reformation; Venable’s History of the United States; Marcy’s Christianity and its Conflicts; Hill’s Phi* losophy; Louage’s Philosophy; Silver Jubilee of the Uni*	,
wrsity of Notre Dame; Life of St. Aloysius; Life of Car- ' 1 dinal Cheverus; Life of Bishop Flaget; Life of the Blessed Virgin; Worcester’s Dictionary of the English Language; Bennett’s Spiritual Compendium; Tappan’s Logic; Incidents on Land and Water—Mrs. Bates; Boyd’s Logic; Longley’s Vocabulary of Names; Hooker’s Ulus* trated Natural History; Lady Fullerton, 8 vols.
The patrons of the Lemonnier Circulating Library hereby return thanks to Prof. J. A. Lyons for 3 vols.; Mr. Thos. Kinsella for ovuls.; Bro. EdWard for 2 vols.; Mr. McLaine for 1 vol.; Rev. J. A. O’Connell for 1 vol., kindly donated to the said Library. J. F. EdVabds, See.
—We print in our advertising columns the card of Prof. A. J. Stace, who having been elected County Surveyor is now prepared to attend to the duties of his office. The Prof, was for a long time locating engineer on the Kansas City, Memphis and Mobile R. R., and in addition to his theoretical knowledge of surveying has acquired a great prac* tical knowledge bv his experience on the R. R. |He will shortly open au office in South Bend, of which a notice in due time will be given in our columns.
We welcome The Scholastic of Notre Dame, Ind., to out sanctum. Our cotemporary, as we learn from its prospectus, is a weekly journal, published during term time, and devoted to the interest of the students at Notre Dame University. From a hasty inspection of its columns we should say it is a journal of much merit, and many of its articles give evidence of more than ordinary ability. It is very handsomely printed on fine tinted paper, and is cer* tainly a most creditable production. It speaks well for the University which sends it forth. We predict for it in-creasd success and usefulness.in future—Uhicago Pilot.
—On Thursday, the 19th, the members of the St. Stanis* laus Phib>patrian Association enjoyed a pleasant afternoon. Granted a holiday by Father Golovin, they started out on a promenade in company wit h Bro. Leander. After visit- • ing the Manual Labor School, where they were shown by Bro. James the new ball-alley, which is superior to any at	I
Notre Dame, they started on their way to the Junior Refec-	I
lory for a lunch. On their way back. Jack Hayes, one of	I
them, arrested the run-away horse of Prof. Stace. He was	1
not long in possession of it, for it was taken from him and	I
sent to the stable. The Refectorian of the Juniors being	I
absent, Bro. Cyprian invited them to the Seniors, where	I
they feasted the inner man. It is needless to say the mem-	I
bers voted Bro. C. thanks without number. The remainder	I
of the afternoon was pleasantly spent in different sports.	I
Towards evening they waylaid Prof. Lyons, who kindly	I
asked them over to Bro. Thomas’, where they again laid in a	I
stock of good things. Having reduced Bro. Thomas’stock	I
somewhat, they returned to the college. The members of	I.
the Society were greatly surprised to learn that there are-	I'
some persons at Notre Dame who were ignorant of their existence. All persons who have not been aware of their 1, existence up to this time are requested to attend one of l| their meetings, where they will find them to be one of the L, most wide-awake Societies in the College.	■
the scholastic;:	123
—We have been handed the following letter for publication :
Burlington, Iowa, Nov. 2,1874. .
Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. G., Notre Dame, Ind.
Rm. and Dear Sir:—Your telegram, announcing the lamented death of Father Lemonnier, i's received. It was.kind and thoughtful in you to send it, as his many friends here were suffering intense anxiety on account of his perilous condition.
“ Death loves a shining mark,” and surely he selected such an one when he chose Augustus Lemonnier, 0. S. 0. He has now passed beyond the reach of praise or censure, and we speak Of him in the light of biography and history.
With favorable opportunities of knowing him, I may be permitted to say that as President of tile University of Notre Dame he was the “ right man in the right place,” and that, like a good soldier, he died at his post, with his “ harness on.” ■ ■ The death of such a man—possessing qualifications and accomplishments so rare—is a public calamity, especially to the cause of education and rciigiou to which his life had been dedi- | cated. To “suaviter in modo ” he united in an eminent degree "fortiter in re," qualities which peculiarly fitted him for the high place which he so graced and adorned.
If the outside world, those not connected with Father Lemonnier-by the ties of blood, “brotherhood” or religion, feel his death so sensibly, as I know them to do, how much more poignant must be the grief of yourself and his other pious associates. You have, indeed, lost a colleague, a friend and a “ brother,” whose noble and amiable qualities had bound you to him as with “ hooks of steel.” Who, that knew him, can ever forget his open, frank and urbane bearing—that smile that seemed to be the pure, warm sunshine of the heart; and the thousand courtesies and kindnesses which gave a “daily beauty to his life”?
Born and reared in “ la be'le France" he possessed the polite and refined manners of the Parisian gentleman ; but far more attractive than these, nature had given him what the great Lord Bacon calls a perpetual letter of recommendation—a countenance not only good, but sweet and winning—radiant with the virtues of his soul, and such as no traveller, even in the desert, could behold without saying: There is a man in whose hands I could deposit life, liberty, fortune, honor.
Alas 1 that so much excellence should have perished so soon 1 that such a man should have been snatched away while yet so young, and all his faculties still ripening and developing. In his character were blended the good and generous qualities of our nature ; and the elements so mixi d in him, that nature might stand up and say to all the world: “ This was a man.” In deep sorrow for your, our, and the country’s loss,
I am your friend,	A. 0. Dodge.
Art Nites.
—Prof. Gregori is at work on his portrait of the late Rev. Father Lemonnier. It will be full size.
—Prof. Gregori is engaged on a portrait of the late Rev Father Gillespie. It will be the same size as that of Fr. Lemonnier.
—Bro. Francis, opposite the post-office, has on hand some beautiful photographs of the late Fr. Lemonnier.
—Prof. Lyons will soon have a beautiful collection of photographs of the prominent St. Cecilians of other years. The photos will be of the members as they looked when members, and not as they do now.
—We made a visit to the Academy Studio at St. Mary’s and were much pleased with what we saw there. They make an addition to their collection each year. We would suggest that the reindeer was somewhat tired standing on -his two hind limbs. The young ladies while at work in their studio have a number of birds to sing for them.
Musical Notes.
—A clarionet is to be added to the Band.
“Let me Dream of Home, sweet Home” is the title of a very pretty song publised by F. W. Helmick, 378 W. Sixth St., Cincinnati, Ohio.
—The Mendelssohn Club have made quite an addition of music to their repertoire.
—F. W. Helmick, of Cincinnati, Ohio, has sent us a charming ballad entitled “Tell me truly, little darling.” The air is simple and charming.
—The meeting of the Mendelssohn Club on Tuesday last was not the most successful one held.
—Prof. Paul has added some ten or twelve soprano and alto voices, to the Vocal Class.
—We understand that Messrs. Gillespie, Staley and others are about, to form a glee club.
—The Arion Quartette Club has had quite a number of excellent productions added its repertoire.
—The French sold at the meeting of the Mendelssohn Club on Tuesday night was exquisite.
—Revs. W. O,Mahoney and Jacob Lauth were elected honorary members of the Mendelssohn Club. •
Our Boz.
We have received a number of letters this week; The first one we open is from an old friend who desires us to retract a statement which we made in our last issue to the effect that he had recovered. We make the retraction desired, and in excuse for having made the statement we will add that the wish was father to it. Our friend says: “I am not recovered yet; so please retract your calumny. Also, instead of “Fabiola” is being read in the refectory, you should, say •‘Fabiola” is reading in the refectory, which though startling to minds not ini'iated into the intricacies of English grammar is nereti theless true.”
Mr. J. C. Golsen writes us that we were in error when we stated that he was to be one of ihe players for the championship. He says:
“ In the last issue of your paper I saw my name .in one of the columns as being the partner of Mr. T. Solon in the list of names, of those who were to play hand-ball for the championship of the Junior Department. This is a mistake, as I do not intend playing, nor doe's Mr. Solon, and I hope that in the next issue of your paper you will correct the statement ”
“ W. N. L.”, who seems to be a Junior, writes us conn plainingly of the reading to which he is treated every day in the refectory. There was to be an article concerning public reading in last week’s Scut lastic. It may be that it will be crowded out of this week’s issue. If it is; it will appear in our next. Our correspondent says: • i
“ I have been looking over the columns of the Scholastic most earnestly trying to find an article concerning the reading in tb< refec;ory. It is really a Wonder that some of out fiarned friends have not taken notice of said reading. 1 hope it is not because all their time is taken up with their knives and forks while at table. Now, I don’t intend to give any instructions on this subject, neither do intend to criticise. I merely write this to attract the attention df some person who will be kind enough to say something on this subject, which will give the public readers a hint with regard to the Way they should re -d, for, in my humble opinion, they need it.	■ '■
“ While I have my hand in, I might make a remark about the way some of the readers sit while reading. They get up into the pulpit and seat themselves very comfortably in the corner, hold their head 'down with the book in their lap. and look very much as if they were going to sleep. The consequence is that the reader himseif has all the benefit of What he is reading. Some go up With the in rention of readingbravc-ly, but, alas'. When they commence it is "not to read but to chant a very pitiful lamentation. They gi e us a long monotonous string of sentences, which do not in the least serve to excite the interest of their hearers. 1 will say no more, but I trust some kind person will give us some instruction on public reading.”
The writer then goes on to compliment certain readers in the Junior refectory, which compliments we suppress. We hope that the readers in the said refectory, will not deluge us with letters replying to any of the insinuations contained in the above letter. They should remember that if tney do they will make themselves thought among those who read as charged. If they are among the number, let them improve in their reading. If they are not they will understand that the letter has no reference to them.
On the same subject, “Enquirer,” who is a Senior, asks: “ Is it any benefit to the public if a person atte.mpts to read for them in the refectory who cannot be heard ten feet from the pulpit?
We do not see that it is, and hope that all readers are of the same opinion.	'
124
THE SCHOLASTIC;
’	- Additional Arrivals.
t)aniel Claffey,...Bertrand, Michigan. John Ingram,.........Laporte, Indiana, Jerome Whalen,...Cornell, Illinois.
Thomas J.- Carroll,, i.......Pontiac, Illinois.
'	' Roll of Honor* .
1	SENIOR DEPART?.IENT.-
V. Baca, F.-Brady, J. Berringcr, J. Brown, R. Barrett, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, E. Chalfant, W. Dechant, B.< Euans, J. Ewing, J. Ferry, T. Flannagan, W.'Fullerton, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handley, T. Hansard,- A Horne, J. Hogan F. Hebard, S. Ken. nedy, J; Koph; M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. MeManus, H. Marble, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, E. Maas, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, T. CMariony, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, E. Ratigau, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahil, T._Schliuk G. Summers, C. Walters, R.- White, L. Zeitler. *
. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
. J. Beegan, A. Byrne, A. Bergck, F. Buckman, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, A. Crunkilton, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, J. T. Foley, J. M. Green, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, F. Hoffman, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, J. Keilty, C. V. Larkin, J. Lynch, P. McBride, V. McKinnon, T. McNamara, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, M. J. Murphy, W. P. Nelson, D. J. O’Connell, J. D. O’Hara, C. R. Post, F. Raymond, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T J. Solon, W. Smith, P. Sefinurrer, T. Talbot, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, F. J.- Weisenberger. -	.	-
-	-	MINIM DEPARTMNT.
-	Michael McAuliffe, Francis McGrath, Tommie Hooley, Albert Bushey, Louis Goldsberry, Charlie Bushey, Hugh Colton, Harry Ordway,- Eddie Raymond; Ralph -Golsen, Sylvester Bushey -Alexis Campau.-_____________
;	- Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26.
.	.	.LAW, MEDICINE AND FINE ARTS.
•_ Law—P. EL Skahill, j. Beegan, R. Staley, H. V. Hayes.
Medicine—J. Girard, E. J. McPharlin, A. Horne, G. Crum-iney, J. J.- Gilleri;
Civil Engineer'ing-^C. M. Proctor.
' German—A. Schmidt, G. Roulhac, W. A. Schultheis, A. Kramer, F. Mathews, P.F. Guilloz, C. Welty, J. F. Soule, F. Carlin, J. E. Marks, A. Leitelt, H. McGuire, J. Wood, M.
■ Kramer, P. L. Shaul,.E. L. Ratigan,- J. F. McNulty, C. Robertson, H. .Korty,-C. Larkin, F.- Hoffman, J. Berringer, J. Leitelt, •A. Lonstorf; R. Staley, W. Roelie, F. McGrath, R. H. McGrath, G. W. Hoyt, W. J. Ryan, M. Egan, J. F. Rudge, J. Thornton, T. McNamara; L. Chamberlain, J. O'Meara, C. Clarke, R. Gol--•Ecn, W. Forbes, W.- Byrne. -
. French—G. Gross, J. Minton, J. Delvecchio, R. Walker, J. ■Campbell, V.- McKinnon; C. Quinn.
’ Drawing-—J. Delvecchio, W. Schultheis, J. Kurtz, L. Smith, R. H. McGrath, P. E. Lawrence, J. E. Obert, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, J. Cullen, F. Morass, C. M. Proctor, G. Sugg.
’ Telegraphy—J. E. Wood, W. Stout, J. McIntyre, E. Gault, W. Chapoton, A. T. Chapoton, T. 0. Logan, J. Berringer, J. L. .Brennan, J. H. Korty, E. Ayers, -J. Beegan, W. Jenkins, G. . Cicott.	.
. ‘ Music—G. W. Hoyt,' F. Palmer, J. Kurtz, C. Otto, F. Schlink, • J. Campbell, A.; Reinke, G. Fraunknecht, E. Sugg, G. Sugg, A. Lonstorfj G.’-Lonstorf, H. Quan, T. O’Leary, A. Kramer, J.
Hamlin, L. Goetig, J. Thornton, F. Kleiner, F. T. Gallagher, J. J. Gillen, A. Bucker, L. Pelliod, J. Hackett, C. Robertson, W» Ciiapoton, H. Siekel, G. Gross, H. W. Petrie, R. Staley, j. Hayes, J. Colton,. J. Dryfoos, R; Maas, F. ■ Hooffman, J. Delvecchio, W. Stichtenoth, J. French, R. McGrath, A. Schmidt, G. Roulhac, F. Miller, W. Byrne, J. McHugh, E. C. Gramling, F. Goldsberry, J. Ferry, J. Keunedv, J. Berringer, J. Hackett; J. Crummey. E. Malis, F. M. Scrafford, M. Kramer, J. Brennan, J. Murphy, J. Lynch.	'
Vocal Music—N. Mooney, G. Kelly, E. Riopelle, F. Foxen, A. Horne.
Band—G. Roulhac, J. Brennan, J. Crummey, T. C. Logan, J. Quinn, H. H. Hunt, J, F. Kennedy, A. Horne.
Minim Department—Eddie Raymond, Colly Clarke, Ralph Go’s.en, Francis Carlin, Fianeis McGrath, Samuel Goldsberry, Clement Moody, Colly Campau, Otto Lindberg, John Duffield-, John O’Meara, Tommie Hooley, Oscar Bell, Willie Van Pelt, Willie Lindsey, Eddie Joice Dubois, Michael McAuliffe. •
List of Excellence
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Dirbtor of Studies]
General Physics—T. H. Grier.
Sports.	.
—Farewell to baseball.	’	..
—Out-door sports are wellnigb over.	’
—The boats have been placed high and dry for the winter.	.
—The tables in the two play-halls will soon be put up.
—The finest ball-alley about Notre Dame is at the Apprentices’.	.
—Skating will soon be in order. Remember the two Nicars’ in South Bend are the places at which to buy your skates. '	• t
‘—The most interesting game of the^season was played on the Professors’ billiard table last Tuesday night.
SAI1TT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—Croquet is no longer the play;
—The pianos are always in use. -	.
—The young ladies are highly delighted with the Scholastic.	.
—Rt Rev. Dr. Gilmour of Cleveland, left St. Mary’s for the South' on the 26th.	•
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Rosecrans of Columbus, Ohio, visited St, Mary’s last Wednesday,	'
—Mrs. E. Huckley, a graduate of 1865, now residing in St. Paul, Minnesota, visited old friends here last week.
—Miss N. Langdon, a graduate of last year, -was at the Academy to attend the obsequies of Rev. Father Gillespie.	'	.
—The instruction on Friday night was an important one. The moral conveyed will long be remembered, thanks to Mother Superior.
—The reading of the “Rosa Mystica" was postponed indefinitely. It cannot blossom in this stormy weather, though ready for the first pleasant day, '
—The ladies of St. Mary’s who recently purchased goods at.Mrs. Stover’s are well pleased with their bargains. Mis. Stover gives satisfaction to all her customers.	_
—We call the particular attention of the young ladies to the advertisement of Mrs. Stover in our advertising columns. There is no place in South Bend where better bargains can be made than at Mrs. Stover’s,. .	.
—Miss Emily Haggerty and Miss Ella O’Connor sang a beautiful “Ate Ilaria"—Miss Ella Quinlan at the piano-
THE S.C.H 0 L A S T.I C .
at the festival given on Saturday. Little Minnie O’Connor created much merriment by singing “ operatic” style.
—Saturday, the Feast of the Presentation, and the pat-ronal festival of the Children of Mary, was celebrated by them by the reception of Holy Communion. In the evening they gave a neat little entertainment in the green parlor.
—On Monday evening the Vocal Class enjoyed a delightful little entertainment in their class room. Apples and cakes were in abundance. Lillie West and Nellie Foot charmed the listeners with their beautiful songs. Lizzie Arnold furnished her full share of the amusements.
—We omitted to mention the visit of Professor Tong and lady on the loth inst. They came to offer their condolence to the afflicted relatives of Rev. Father Gillespie. The little Professor created quite an excitement. He is a bright, beautifu' babe, and must feel at home, for he was consecrated in Loreto, lit. Rev. Bishop Gilmour distributed their points to the Juniors on Sunday, at 11 o’clock a. m.
—We clip the following from the Baltimore Mirror:
, “The Sisters of the Holy Cross are anxious to establish a Training School iu this city for poor girls of good capacity, to enable them to become school-teachers. They have purchased a piece of property on which to erect the necessary buildings, and I most cheerfully and earnestly recommend their good work in ttie cause of charity and Christian education, to the sympathy and generous bounty of every one who is anxious to lay up treasure in heaven.
“Given at Baltimore, under our hand and seal, this 7th day of April, A. D , 1874.
“(Signed)	•}« J. Roosevelt Batley,-
“ Archbishop of Baltimore.”
ART NOTES.
—Several exceedingly pretty and effective Illuminations have been finished lately by the Juniors in the Studio. The designs for these illuminations are original.
—The embroidery-room is full of Christmas “intentions.” Berlin is likely to feel a diminution of trade iu the way of patterns, the home designs being so much more ' popular thau the imported ones.
—The Art Department is busy with the new screens, which have been provided for both Studios. These screens have been so arranged as to cut oft" the cross-lights from, the windows necessary for lighting such large apartments and are also movable.
—We have reluctantly returned to V. Rev. Fr. General several choice volumes containing engravings of pictures in the European galleries. The volumes are also very beautifully illustrated by the initial letters and headings. With the volumes, we return our very sincere thanks to Father General, who never forgets his children at St. Mary’s.	.
—We cannot refrain from expressing our admiration for the exquisite taste displayed in arranging the memorial flowers which were taken from Rev. Father Gillespie’s coffin. Some are very small; but these, like the larger ones, are put up with a taste we have never seen equalled. The original poetry, too, seems to have been inspired; whether two lines or twenty accompany the flowers.
—Among, the original designs of the past week is a lovely “ Are Maris Stella." The idea of original compositions is one to be encouraged. There is no reason why the heart and imagination should not be as active now as in the age .of Raphael or the age before him. Tn those days, every artist had an ideal Madonna in his mind, and it was the aim-bf his life so to pel feet this ideal as to leave behind him a type of the Blessed Virgin which would always inspire devotion. If we never encourage those original compositions we may always content ours-lves with copies, for we shall have nothing else. The remark of an experi-.enced teacher to his class in English comp>sition holds good in this case: “ I would rather,” said he, “have one kernel from your own garden, than a bushel of wheat borrowed from your neighbors’.”
TABLET OF HONOR, .
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOVEMBER 22, 1874.
For -Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct
Deportment and strict ..observance. of Academic rules’ the following young ladies are enrolled:	-
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M-Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.	-
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Ar--nold, L Bradford, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair, M. Johnson.
2nd-Sr. Class—Misses A. Walsh, L. Wyman, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunniog, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius.
3rd. Sr Class—Misses L. Kelley, M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoll,L. Hen-roten, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Clarr, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, N. Myhan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson,. E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, C. Thayer, A.-Duncan, M. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S. Hole, H. Russell, E. Bowman, J. Stough, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, B. Hildebrand, L. Mead, E. Cody, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, B. Turnbull,. L. Moran, A. Smith, S. Reising.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, F. Reppetan, L.-Brownbridge, G. Hills, A. Lehman, M. Railton. *	‘
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Graduatimg.Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.	.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fan-, ning, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, L. Bradford, A. St. Clair, M. Johnson.	.	•
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, J. Nunning, B.. Spencer, R. Spencer, M. Julius.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, L. Henroten, J. Kreigh, A. Byrnes, A. Harris, M. Carlin, M. Cravens.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, C. Thayer, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S. Hole, H. Russell, N. Myhan, E. Bowman, J. Stough, A.. Sweeney, S. Moran, M. Pritchard, E. Lange.	.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, B. Hildebrand, L. Meade, E. Cody, M. McCay, N. McFarlane, L. Moran, S. Reising.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, A. Lehman.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses C. Yates, L. Kirchner, M. Hogan, A. Ewing, N. Mann, L. Walsh, N. McGrath, J. McDougall, E. Lappin, C. Orr.
1st Jr. Class—Misses E. McDougall, K. Hudson, J".
-Carrigan, A. McGrath, M. Derby.	*
2nd Jr. Class—Misses J. Keedy, R. Goldsberry. -HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses R. Spier, E. Quinlan.	~
2nd Class—N. Foote, B. Spencer, L. West, A. Smith, R. Green, J. Kreigh.	’	1
2nd Div.—J. Nunning, E. Greenleaf, M. Julius. -
3rd Class—E. O’Connor, K. Hutchinson, J. Kearney,
S. Harris.	,
2nd Div.—E. Dennehey, L. Tinsley, M. Craven, A. St. Clair, L. Wyman, L. Henroten, J. Stimpson, A. Harris, L^ Arnold, M. Koch.	.
4th Class—A. T. Clarke, A. Dilger, J. Locke, L. Brad- -ford, J. Benneit, E. Cody, C. Morgan. •
2nd Div.—B. Wilson, L. Kirchner, H. Kraus, N. McGrath, H. Russel, A. Pool, M. Faxon, E. Haggerty, C. West, K. Joyce, B. Turnbull, A. Byrnes. "
5th Class—JI- A. Roberts, A. Duncan, L. Hutchinson, E. Bowman, JI Redfield, A. Lehman, M. Reily, L. McKinnon, M. Pritchard, A. Cullen, S. Reising, L. Ritchie^ M. McKay,. M. Jackson, F. Dilger, L. Johnson, A. Allen.

SCHOLASTIC.
2nd Div.—E. Thompson, A. Curtin, C. Orr. M. Thomp son, M Schultheis, M. Johnson, A. O’Connor, E. Lange R. Canell, F. Taylor.
• 6th Class—C. Woodward, A. Walsh, N. McAuliffe, L. Walsh, A. Goewey, H. Peak, J. McDougall, F. DeLong, E. McDougall, J. Stough, L. Stimson, E. Dougherty, B. Hildebrand. ‘
2nd Div.—M. O’Connor, A. Sweeney, S. Edes, R. Net-eler, E. Simpson, M. Siler, B. Siler, P. Gaynor, L. Brownbridge, M. Summers, I. Fisk, M. Brady, A. Smith, G. Hill, M. Quill, F. Middleton, C. Thayer, S. Hole, E. Lappin, M. Reynolds.	■
7th Class—F. Reppetan, E. Sweeney, I. Edes, E. Edes, C. Maigrey, H. Parks, M. Daily, L. Kelly, S. Cash.
8th Class—A. McGrath, K. Hudson, J. Brown.
9th Class—J. Corrigan, M. Bell, A. Ewing.
10th Class—C. Hughes, M. Hughes, M. Hoffman, A. Peak, R. Goldsberry, M. Derby.
Harp—M. Wicker, E. O’Connor, HL Walker.
Organ—F. E iston, L. Moran, S. Moran.
—What is it that constitutes the look of a gentleman is more easily felt than described; we all know it when we see it, but do not know how to account for it, or to explain in what it consists.—Hazlitt.
—The Detroit Free Press man has just returned from Saratoga. H^says: “The Saratoga belles merely taste food at the table, but fee the waiters to bring a square meal up the back stairs.”
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
. THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE	'
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DIME, INDIANA.
$1.00 PER YEAR,
THE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published, every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of ihis paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at. this University and at St. Mary’s Academy, and of the progress of their sons and daughters in these two institutions. For this purpose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names ol those who deserve; by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professors and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately in-forn ed on all that concerns their children.	.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive; while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and ability, render “Tub Scholastic” a valuable publication for all who desire variety and uiility in their .reading. “The Scholastic” consists of sixteen wide two-coiumn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matter and the remainder with advertisements.
3Noti.ce to Advertisers:
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: §1000 cash, and the rest
. in 6, 12 and, 18 months, .	with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the
.	New Church does not admit of its
depth, which is 12x18 feet in width.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin,
nov 7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
J. STAGE,
’ COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to.^^
Address (for the present,) Box 32, Notre Dame Post-Office.
nov 28-)^ tf.
THE BOND HOUSE, Niles,	Michigan.
A. McKlY, Proprietor. Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house. .	.	-	nov28-%tf.
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the following list of
prices:
One Page, (per months -	-	-	-	§10 00
One Column	“	-	-	-	-	-	6 00
Half Column,	“	-	-	-	-	4 00
One-Third Column,	“	-	-	-	.	-	2 50
One-Eighth Column,	“	-	-	-	-	1 50
Address,	Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC,
'	'	' Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
FOUNDED IN 18-12.
CHARTERED IN 1844.
rpHIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866. and fitted J. up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred students.
Situated near the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States. ’	.
Terms:'
Matricu1ation Fee. -	-	-	-	-	-	§500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-months, -	-	-	-	-	- - -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 «0
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-	12 50
Use of Piano, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Violin, -.	-	--	--	2 50
Vocal T J General Class Principles, -	-	- 10 00
'ocal ^es£ons •{ vocal Culture,	-	-	-	-	15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	-5 00
Uss of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 00
Telegraphy . -	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Ure of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus -	-	2 00
(Classical Course, -	-	-	-	16 00
Graduation Fee, •< Scientific Course, -	-	-	- 10 00
(Commercial Course,	v -	-	-	5 00
Doctors' Fees and Medicines at Physician’s Charges.
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the University are charged extra, -	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance. -
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February. '	•
For further particulars, address	‘
.	-. Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C. S. C»
TH.E SCHOLASTIC
12 ft
-	THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Denoted to ths Holy Mother of God. ■
'	Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
• -ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY .
HIS HOLINESS POPE PIUS IX,
And Many Distinguished Prelates. .
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians. but solely to such as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughdut the land;' commending itself not only to the various pio'us Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month. ’
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at’once, or in four installments within the space of one year.
Terms :
One Year, -	-	-	-	-	-	- S3 00
Two Years,	- . -	-	- .	-	5 00
Five Years,- -	10 00
Life Subscription, . - . -	-	-	20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc , should be addressed to
_	Editor of “AVE NARIA,”
•	Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JlOTRE JDaME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy < ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivets in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music .of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’S Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
Sontli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel. •
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
•nov 7 8m
' CANDY! CANDY!
Tre Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
OJLiurzDxr factory 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy _	_	_	_	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	.	35C.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
JE’i’oportionately Low Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
.	‘ -	o24-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
-----------o--	-
_M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
91 MieliigaiL St., South. Bend, Ind., .
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you .want in our Line will always be found.on our shelves.
our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clothing Is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our jVIercliiiiit Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths. Cassi- ■ meres and Vestings, and we turn out ihe best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
HORTON & PALMER, .
.	DEALERS IN	_	- , _
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
- AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and-at the lowest prices.	'
Ho. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
Hoif-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Con. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Oner Coonley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday-morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,	.
Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
o24-lf
128
THE SCHOLASTIC.
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—WE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—	'	'
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK
selected with great care
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SATING
—THAT—
FROM OUR FACILITIES —AND— TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
—IX the—
Root and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with
a call.
Respectfully,
1OO Michigan Street, o24-2m
D. IL B^KER, $ Bro.,
South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY
Onandafter'Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.35 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. M. (No. 2), M«l, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo,
5.35 p. st.; Cleveland, 10.20	*
12.27 a. M. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line;
- Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo
4.05 a. m.	-
7.54
3.55
3.20
4.50
p. m. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 P. m.
p. m. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Slain Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a m., Buffalo 1’10 p. m.' p. m. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
a. m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 630 a. m.
a. m.m(No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. M.
p. m. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 655; Chicago, 9 JO p. st.
p. st. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte
5.45; Chicago, 8 00.	.	'
a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. m , Chicago 11.10.
a. M. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Conductors aie positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trams.
-.J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H Parsons, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS. Freight Agent.	.
4.51
8.00
720 ' Note.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend. '	-.
CHARLES PAINE, GenT Sup’l
LOUISVILLZ W. ALBAN? & CHICAGO H.R.
Un and after Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Alban j ana Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NOH TH.
Pass .. . Freight.'. ‘ Freight..
Pass.'....
.7 29 P. .2.48 A. .8.57 P.
M.
M.
9.24 a. m.
Pass .. Freight ■Freight. Pass....
GOING SOUTH.
. .8 23 p.K. 10.47 A.M. ..4.45 a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent
Michigan Central Railroad
’ Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:	’	,
.	trains eastward.	•	■
Night Express, Mail. -	-	-
Day Express, -Accommodation, Atlantic Express Way Freight,
Evenins Express, Pacific Express, A ccommodation, Mail -	-	-
Day Express -
Way Freight -
TBAINS WESTWABD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles - . Three Rivers Accommodation Atlantic Express -	-
Way Freight -	-	-	-
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles Mail
Pacific Express -	-	- ’ -	-	-- ■
Way Freight- ------
12.45 a
9.10 a
12.12 a
7.35 p
8.55 p.i
8.00 a
-■ 2.35 a
4.40 a - 6.25 a
3.57 p - 4.35 p
1.45 p.
9.15 p - 7.40 p
9.00 p
10.30 a.
SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains leaxe South Bend—8 15 a m, 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 am, 11.40 am, 3,30 pm. 7.C0 pm
Leave Niles—6.30 am, 9.20 a m, 12.45 p m, 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 am, 9.55 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 am, 7.10 pm.
■	“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 am, 7.30 pm.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 pm, 5.05 pm.
Leave—8.20 am. 11.15 am, 3.05 pm. 6.35 pm.
Sunday Tbains.
Arrive—8.31 am, 5.30pm.
6.05 a.
3.45 p.
5.05 a.
5.05 p.
Leave—9X5 am, 7.05 pm..
H. E. SARGENT, Gen’I Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, AgentNotreDame
E B B b B B B	B B B b B B b“b'BB'B
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
fflJr'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near (Ip Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.- ’
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
*4:30 .rn.
$9:00 p.m.
17:15 a.m.
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, DL, and Louisiana, Mo.	$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a. m
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex cept Saturday. | Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’I Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’I Superintendent, CHICAGO
PBOSILVAMA CLATRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New ' York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. i Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. “	“	6.41 a.m.*
3rd train “	'•	9.00. p. in.	|	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’I Manager, Pittsburgh.	-
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t/Phielphia.
F. R. MYEK8. Geu'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh. • W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’I Pass. Agent, Chicago. ♦Second day.