Oisce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume IX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA DECEMBER 18, 1875.	Number 16.
There is a Land.
There is a land within my dream Which never was before mine eye, Whose outlines clear but then do seem, And from my waking vision fly.
In vain does faithful memory
Look o’er her pictures, one by one ;
That fair bright land she cannot see Which sleep so oft hath mused upon.
A’listless village straggles there,
All weather-worn, and still and gray,
Yet haunted with a witchery rare, Soft basking in the summer day.
Long sandy streets, the grass half-browned, Outlying lots, o’ergrown and waste ;
Hard by, a wood with old logs found, And mossy tombs well nigh effaced.
Beyond, a ridge of glorious hills, ' High stretching in the golden sun;
. Their oaken crown my vision fills, As o’er their crest my rapt eyes run.
Far down, a mighty landscape spreads, A shining river close below ;
While over all the sunlight sheds
A beauty earth may never know.
Echoes no voice that land of lull, Yet fascinates as some sweet home ;
Silent and strange as beautiful,
Mine own at will to go and come. •
O blessed night which opens wide The pirtals of that land of dreams!
More .real far I there abide ; _
The day it is that only seems.’
And when my night grows endless day,
The God-lit day that is to be,
E’en then, meseems, at times I’ll stray, In heavenly bound that land to see.
M. 0.
'	Cowper.
' There are few poets who have exercised a greater or more wholesome influence than William Cowper, and no poet has then more habitually and universally read. The poets of bis time and those who preceded him had followed slavishly in the train of the “glorious John Dryden” and Alexander Pope, without being possessed of their genius. Nature was to them a sealed fountain from which they c6iild not drink inspiration. Cowper came, and broke the। seal; and fill poe'ts-from his time have drank from the' Toun-.
tain. He was the morning star that heralded the mighty revival of poesy which took place in the beginning of this century, and though our . tastes may hive changed, and people now no longer delight to wander amid the pleasant fields and by the placid streams of pastoral and lyric poetry, but demand more passionate themes than those of the gentle Cowper, yet we must return to them. It may be that Tennyson and S .vineburne are now our favorites; but when we have grown older,—after we have learned by sad experience that everything human is vain and fickle, —that friends are often unfaithful, and fortune unstable,— when the necessity of religion becomes more and more convincing (a real want, which will be felt as soon as the wild storms of passion which so long held sway in our hearts have ceased) then, tiring of the rank pastures of a corrupt literature, we shall seek a more genial and health--ul soil. It has been said that no poet who foregoes the passions can ever be popular—but th>s is a mis"ake. Cowper is as much read as Byron, anl his nime will be held in fond remembrance as long as the English language is spoken; while the few pure gems of Bvron which sparkle here and there, amid the filth of his writings will not be able to rescue his name from the semi-oblivion Jt so richly deserves.
Cowper was pre-eminently a religious - poet. This is seen in all that he wrote. His beautiful soul is reflected in every line:	J
“In morals blameless, as in manners meek, ’	. -
He never had. a thought he might not speak.”
He was a great lover of nature, too, and many passages in his writings remind us of the not less delightful and contemplative Wordsworth. His extreme love for animals is proverbial. Tiney, Puss and Bessie, the dumb companions of his solitude, have been immortalized in his verse. It was his delight to describe moral scenes, and the solitude of a moral life was to him a pleasure.. His description of the sound of bells has been often quoted, and will bear repetition:
“ How soft the music of those village bells, Falling at intervals upon the ear ’ In cadence sweet, now dying all away, Now pealing loud again, and louder still, Clear and sonorous as the gale comes on, With easy force it opens all the cells Where memory slept---------”
Cowper was the moralist of his age, and was loved and reverenced for his sincere piety and purity of life.. His reputation is that of a moral and religious poet. Charity, Truth and Hope are such objects as gave him the most frequent inspiration, anl it cannot be denied that it was with such and kindred subjects that he succeeded best. The hymns which he contributed to the Olney collection
-242	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
re indicative of his deep religious feelings-and gentle, sensitive nature. Cowper’s intellectual power and poetic talent were of the highest order; his rythm is remarkably gentle, and his language pure and choice. No English writer has possessed a greater power of language, and few have excelled him in beauty of expression.
Cowper was an able classical scholar. His translation of Homer, on which he spent many years of hard labor, is a monument of his genius .and erudition. It to this day maintains its rank as one of the best translations we have of the great master of epic.
The publication of the famous ballad of John Gilpin which he is said to have written in one evening, and only for the amusement of his friends, made Cowper the most popular poet of the day; till then he was little known and admired, except by his intimate friends. Shy and reserved as he was, his popularity was most painful to him.
By far the best and most finished of his poems, and one which entitles him to a high rank among English poets, is “ The Task.” What a beautiful passage is not the following, culled from among hundreds of similar ones in this great poem:	.
“ Nature is but a name for an effect, . Whose cause is God. Not a flower
But shows some touch, in freckle, streak, or stain, Of His unrivalled, pencil. He inspires Their balmy odors, and imparts their hues, And bathes their eyes in nectar, and includes
' In grains as countless as the sea-side sands,
' The forms with which they sprinkle all the earth.
Happy who walks with Him! whom what he finds
- Of flavor or of scent in fruit or flower, Or what he views of beautiful or grand . In Nature, from the broad majestic oak, . To the green blade that twinkles in the sun, Prompts with remembrance of a present God.”
But the most beautiful and celebrated passages in “ The Task” are in the address to Winter in the fourth book. The ode to Friendship also is most beautiful, and is admired by all lovers of poetry.
For a man of literature, Cowper is said to have read little. Nature was the book which he most delighted to read; and, blended with religion, it gave a charm to all he wrote. The early death of his mother left a wound in his grateful, affectionate and tender heart that time itself could not heal; he mourned her loss throughout his melancholy life, and he recorded her memory in the most beautiful of his minor poems.
The dread of eternal punishment, which hung like a dark cloud over his troubled soul, was always present to his mind; a deep melancholy took possession of his innocent and once joyous heart, and he fell a victim to insanity. But throughout his melancholy life he was not morose. He tried to be cheerful, and the faint smile which now and then lit up his pale, intellectual face, gave it an expresion of peculiar beauty.
The sad, strange life of this great man was like his death. He bore his heavy cross even to the grave, and his pure soul, untainted by the wicked world in which he lived, found rest at last with the God he loved. As he himself wrote:
“ The path of sorrow, and that path alone, - Leads to that land where sorrow is unknown. -No traveller ever reached that blessed abode Who found not thorns and briers on the road.”
Assassins.
The Assassins were a tribe or class of people who inhabited a part of Syria, and are known as well by this name as by that of Ismaelians and Batemans. They pretended to derive their origin from the Arsacid®, the founders of the Parthian empire, and to the corruption of the word Arsacidse into Assassins some people ascribe the etymology of the word; but others claim that it is formed from Ha&-sissins, the name of the pogniard which was their usual weapon.	. ’
The Assassins probably owed their origin to the Karma-tians, a famous heretical sect among the Mahometans, which was, it is said, started by Carmat or Karmat, a pretended prophet in Arabia, where he made many proselytes. He fasted much, did manual labor, and prayed fifty times a day. He promised his followers to re-establish the family of Ali and to dethrone the caliphs. From-the most troublesome observances of the religion of Mahomet, he released his disciples, permitting them to drink wine and partake of such food as they might desire. By this indulgence, united to the hopes of plunder, he raised a great army and ravaged the dominions of the Caliph. He had many successors to bis authority, the best known of whom was Abu-Thaner. On account of their many wars, the Karmatians, becoming weakened, kept their religion concealed, and, mixing themselves with the Mahometans, they spread themselves throughout the East.
About the year 1090 they settled in Persia, where their first legislator in that country, Hassan Sabah, made his subjects even more fanatical and implicit slaves than they had been before. Their religion became compounded of that of the Magi, the Jews, the Christians, and the Mahometans ; but their chief article of belief was that, the Holy Ghost resided in their chief. Hence they believed that every order issued by the sheik or chief proceeded from God, and, as they were the declarations of His divine pleasure, were implicitely obeyed. The Sultan, Malek Shah, having sent orders to Hassan Abah to submit himself to the Government, and threatening him with the power of his arms in case of refusal, the latter in presence of the messenger commanded one of his subjects to throw himself headlong from- a tower and another to kill himself with his pogniard. He was instantly obeyed. Then turning himself to the Sultan’s envoy, the sheik exclaimed: “Away, sycophant, to thy mister, and let him know that I have seventy thousand subjects ready to do as much.”
In the course of time the Assassins or Ismaelians spread throughout Persia and Syria, and their prince or Iman sent his lieutenant to establish a colony and rule them on Mt Libanus. These colonists became notorious and formidable in the after-history of the country, and became known to the Europeans by means of the Crusades. They acquired or founded ten castles on the hills above Tortosa. and possessed many cities about Tyre. The chief, from his exalted residence on Mt. Libanus, was called the Old Man of the Mountain. Like a vindictive deity with the thunderbolt in his hand, he sent death to all quarters. Emperors, caliphs, sultans, kings, princes, Christians, Mahometans and Jews, all alike execrated and dreaded his sanguinary power, from the strokes of which there was no security. Let it be hinted that the Old Man of the Mountain had threatened death to any potentate, and the guatds of that ruler were doubled and every precaution in their
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	243
power taken to ward off the expected stroke. It is related that premature advice of the intention of the sheik to have him assassinated caused Philip Augustus of France to institute a new body-guard of men distinguished for their activity and courage, and the king himself never af terwards appeared without being fully armed. Most sovereigns paid secretly a pension to the sheik, however scandalous it might be to their majesty, for the safety of their persons; the Knight Templars alone dared to defy with force the machinations of their terrible foe.
The Old Mau of the Mountain was possessed of re sources such as were unknown to the most despotic tyrants of other nations and other times. His subjects were accustomed to throw themselves at his feet and request to be killed by his hand or order; to die in this way was looked upon by them as a favor, for dying in this manner they believed would surely lead them to paradise. If they were put in a place of danger it caused no impression on t lem save to push forward to death; if they were captured in any enterprise, they went to execution with a joy and magnanimity truly astonishing. Henry, Count of Champagne, who married Isabella, daughter of Amaury, King of Jerusalem, whilst going through a por inn of the territory owned by the Assassins, spoke highly of his own power to the Sheik, who had come to meet him: “Are your subjects.” said the Old Man of the Mountain, “a-< ready in their submission as mine?” Then, without waiting for an answer, be made a sign with his hand, when ten young men in white, standing on a tower near by, instantly threw themselves down.
Men who were so ready in killing themselves were equally alert in destroying others. When ordered by their master, they made no hesitation in stabbing a prince on his throne. Well versed in the dialects of the East, they conformed to the dress and even external religion of the country, that they might the more easily strike the blow commanded by their sovereign. With the Mahometans they were Mahometan, with the Christians they were Christian; in one place they joined the Mamelukes, in another the Crusaders; in the disguise of soldier or ecclesiastic, if necessary, they awaited the first, opportunity to execute the commission of death. Conrade, Marquis of Montserrat, a ze dous crusader, fell under the displeasure of the Old Man of the Mountain. Two’ Assassins were sent to execute the sentence of death: they insinuated themselves in disguise among Conrade’s guards, and openly, in the streets of Sidon, wounded him mortally. They were seized and put to the most exquisite tortures; but they triumphed amid their agonies and rejoiced that heaven had destined them to suff r in a cause they held to be so just and meritorious. The prince of the Assassins himself avowed the action in a formal narrative which he sent to Europe.
• It is related of Saladin that whilst he was besieging Manbedge, the celebrated Hieropolis of antiquity, he, with a few attendants, was reconnoitering the place, when suddenly a man with a dagger in his hand rushed upon him and wounded him in the head. The Sultan, wresting the dagger from the wretch, laid him dead at his feet; before Saladin had well recovered himself, a second encountered him, to finish the treachery of the former, but he met with the same fate; he was then attacked by a third, who also fel by the hand of the magnanimous prince whom he was sent to assassinate. With such rapidity was this attempt transacted that it was over before Saladin’s guards could come
to his assistance. He retired to his tent, and throwing himself on his couch he ordered his servants to take a s;rict view of his household and cashier all suspected persona. It afterwards appeared that the three villains had been sen by the Old Man of the Mountain, of whom the vizier Kam-schlegin had purchased the murder of Siladin, to free him self from so great a warrior, whom he durst not encounter in battle.
To animate his subjects in their frantic obedience, the sheik, before their departure on such attempts, was accustomed to indulge them with a foretaste of those delights which would be their recompense in paradise. He gave them hasheesh and other delicious soporific drinks, and while they lay asleep they were carried into beautiful gardens, where, awakening, as it were in paradise, every allurement invited their senses to the most exquisite gratifications. From these feasts, inflamed with liquor and enthusiastic views of perpetual enjoyments, they went forth, to perform assassinations of the blackest dye.
It is said that the Assassins once had, or at least feigned to have had, an intention of becoming Christians. They flourished a long time in Persia and Mr.. Libanus, but in the year 1254, Hulaka. the grandson of Jenghis Khan, entered th' ir country and dispossessed them of many places. In 1280 they were completely extirpated by the Mamelukes» and they no longer exist, unless it be true, as some claim, that the Druses, who still reside among the eminences of Mt. Libanus, and whose religion and customs are so little known, are a remnant of this race of barbarians. Their name is used in all languages of Europe in a most odious sense, to signify a person who kills another with the advantage either of an inequality in the weapons, or by means of the situation of the place, or by attacking him unawares.
Harmony of Nature.
Is it true that "harmony is the soul of the beautiful ”? Is it true that in those chef £ ceworea of painting,—those dreamy landscapes of Lorraine—those wild and majestic creations of Salvator Rosa—those breathing, beautiful, fascinating figures of Raphael—’tis harmony of design and execution that clothes the thought of the great artist with that garb of beauty and attraction which the mind loves to dwell upon in the Villa Madama,the Transfiguration or the Attilus Regulus? Is it true that in beautiful scenery, beautiful music, or beautiful painting our senses are entranced not so much by the perfection of each part as by the harmony of the whole? Is it true that even poetry leads captive the feelings and imxginations less by isolated, though striking and wonderful, gems of thought, than by a harmonious collectionjof less splendid images ? ’Tis needb ss to answer these questions. Experience changes them from interrogations to affirmations, and, even without- the aid of experiment, we instinctively feel that beauty without harmony is a myth, a monstrous conception, a libel on the finest feelings of our nature, a thing inconsistent with itself and revolting to the warmest impulses of the soul.
Who shall say, then, that nature is not supremely beautiful ? Who, possessed of a soul, and susceptible to the influences of beauty, can look around him and. viewing the external world as it is, say he does not find beauty at every glance? Truly is nature beautiful, for, everywhere— from a crystal of granite or spar to the brilliantly carved sapphireor diamond—from the lowest specimen of Crypto*

sssssssssga
i
THE NOTRE DADIS'SCHOLASTIC.
gains to the most perfect representa'ive of the flowery creation—from a Protozoan, almost without shape, to Man the type of animal structure and perfection—harmony reigns supreme, and nature chalIeng"S our criticism and commands our admiration. In this, as in everything else, nature is mtn’s guide, and displays an ideal perfection which he, even in his loftiest aspirations, can never equal. We speak of harmony in mu^ic, and proudly mention the names of the old masters who have earned immortal fame by their transcendent genius, and have left models almost inimitable and a science almost perfect. But is nature excelled? The lark, rising and pouring forth her matinal hymn of joy to her Creator could have taught Mczart, and Haydn might have found in the rich, entrancing song of the nightingale a degree of harmony that his creation has, indeed, imitated but not equalled, and none can ever excel. In our galleries of arts and conservatories we display models of sculpture, and wonder exceedingly at the minute perfection of the artist. We gaze with rapture on a Venus de Medicis and almost speak to it as to a living creature. A shapeless mass of stone has been chiselled to a form apparently perfect,—a piece, broken off from a block of marble, has almost assumed vitality at the command of the sculptor,—and the blood appears to course through those blue veins that seem as natural as those on our own arm. What more would we ask, you say ? Is not this perfect harmony? That the work is admirable we will grant you; that the skill of the artist was wonderfully perfect we will allow; but nature is not equalled. Take a gnat, the most insignificant insect we can imagine. In those wings that move with such rapidity as to be scarcely perceptible—vibrating, as they do, 15,000 times in a second. They are not simple, but compound, and the muscular exertion which keeps them in motion is of the most complex order, but they never interfere with each other. An insect never loses its balance; the movement is harmonious throughout. And the eyes! what harmony is not to be found in them? One would think they were composed of single lenses, but they are not. We see, as we imagine, two eyes only, but each of these is but a combination of lenses—many eyes, in fact, yet all formed with such harmony and perfection as to move in union with each other, and instantaneously concentrate light on a common focus. What strange mechanism and what wonderful sculpturing has wrought this result? Can man produce its equal? Can human genius conceive of harmony equal to this ? Michael Angelo with all his greatness could never carve these eyes and wings; and Phidias, the grand master of his art, would have produced but the .caricature of a gnat.
In painting, too, is not nature our guide, our master ? Claude Lorraine could paint an Italian sunset and throw on canvas that gorgeous flood of light, that melting beauty, that diffused splendor, that evanescent halo of glory that crowns the departing day, yet in all his sublime creations hot one can satisfy us for the original, not one can overpower and entrance the soul like that which he meant to portray. We feel that there is something wanting—the harmony is not there. Rosa Bonheur, with a delicate imagination and a lively play of fancy, passionately loved rural scenery and admirably delineated it, yet there is a sweet harmony of color, a merging of light into shade, a .grouping of tints, and a chastening influence of variety which she could never paint, which she could never coh-'ceive,—aha m ’fliiS nafure h'as'surpassed her. ~ Pick a tosh
and examine its shading. Think you, could the greatest, artist have painted it as it is? Never. ’Tis the work of nature, and nature alone could have done it. And what wonderful harmony we find depicted in some of the wild flowers of the forest? A delicite heather bell, blushing-•vit h beauty and drooping ’nwh the shade of surrounding foliage, is dyed and execuhd far more exquisitely than. Mesconier or Ponsdn could hive d>ne u. Indeed the vegetable world is full of examples exhibiting to man the. most perfect types of ideal harmony. Not only arejfcuwrs colored and tinted with harmonious perfection, but even in. \\ueform itioii of these, as in every other plant, we can discover the most perfect harmony exists. But how are we. < to study this new kind of harmony—this new species of beauty? The study is a science in itself, and, from the very subjects of which it treats, the most attractive of the natural sciences. A natural curiosity and admiration for nature would seem to have prompted men to study this science. Drop a seed in the ground; it appears dead, and unendowed with even the slightest vitality; but in a few months the plantlet may be seen springing afresh from the soil and mounting rapidly upwards, soon to spread out in luxuriant and richly variegated foliage, and tower aloft with its wreath of drooping branches and waving blossoms. Another seed planted in the same soil would de--velop into a tender flower and nestle under the protecting foliage of its more sturdy neighbor, shedding grace and beauty on the spot which gave it birth. How do these different actions take place ? By what law does the seed of a pine develop into an immense forest tree, while that of the lily reproduces its parent, a fragile, beautiful creature,* coming to maturity ere the pine has scarcely made its appearance, and drooping and passing away ere the latter has dropped its first leaves? Here is a study for the intellect, and well has man grappled with it. Nobly has he sought out the solution of this problem of creation, and all honor to those who have devoted their lives to the diffi-
cult task. We said difficult,—perhaps we should have used	;
another word. That it required years of patient labor and untiring research to gain the end they had in view, is true	j
no doubt, but they worked in a glorious field of labor, and	।
among the briers and dreary wastes that environed their	!
path, beautiful flowers and delightful limpid steams were	j
placed, and science crowned the brows of her votaries	'
with laurels and roses plucked from among Nature’s own	1
treasures; How charming is the contemplation of the	t
vegetable creation! How the soul loves to drink in the	(
beauty of the sunny landscape with its drooping and luxuriant foliage, its embroidery of rich and ever-changing vegetation wrapped in its royal mantle of verdure and studded over and around with flowers of surpassing beauty and loveliness!	;
God manifests Himself to man in a thousand ways. The sun, the moon, the silvery stars revolving through space for endless years and at an infinite distance from us, pro? claim in terms unmistakable and undeniable the great Creator who placed them in their orbits, and gave to them the first grand impulse of movement that has remained with them, and will impel them onward till the end of time. So, also, does the vegetable- world manifest the workings of its God. The Invisible Cause speaks through the visible effect,—the image of the Creator is seen amid the clustering beauties of the thing created,—the Infi.iite is-revealed in.the finite,—mau ls.addressed hy..his„G.Q'X-
..THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
245-
When we read: “ See the lilies of the field: Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed as one of these”—we feel it to be true,—we feel that those beautiful flowers are clad in a mantle of purity and sanctity, and by their very innocence and attractiveness are a standing satire on crime and ir-religion. What more fitting emblem of the living God than a flower—a lily ? What can be purer than it in its original sweetness? Untouched, untarnished—with the breath of its Creator still fresh upon its expanding glories, is it not the type of purity and virtue? It calls back to us what we were once, and may be again; and we see pictured in its folded sweetness the. gentleness and purity of that other lily, that Lily of Judea—the Lily of the Christian world—our lovely Queen of May.	J. M. G.
Christmas,
Tn the December number of the Manhattan and De La 8 die Monthly is contained a very readable article entitled “ Memories of Christmas Revels all over the World,” in which the writer says :
In seven! collections of old sons? and ballads, we have specimens of the popular revels or carols enacted or sung at Christ mas In England. In one of these we have one peculiarly popular am >ng the Cornish men, which is enacted to this day, we believe. It is called‘‘St. George.” The principal characters are St. George and The Dragon, a Turkish Knight, an Egyptian King, and s nnetimes others, as Father Christmas, a Doctor, etc. The costumery is of course of the extra-burlesque order, something in the style of the “ fantastical ” corps which occasionallj’ parade. The chief business of Father Christmas, who is armed with a cudgel, is to preserve order, and see that his festival is kept with decorum ; he announces himself, singing thus:
■	“ Here com-s I. old Father Christmas.
- ,	Welcome, or welcome not,
I hope old Father Christmas
Will never be forgot.”
The Turkish Knight, challenges St. George:
“ Here comes I, a Turkish knight, •	Come from the Turkish la.nd to fight;
And if St. George do meet me here, I’ll try his courage without fear.”
The saint of course takes up the gauntlet thus thrown down, and, after a “terrific combat,” despatches the turbaned Turk, much to the delight and satisfaction of the lookers-on. St. George has a busy time, like all stage heroes. His “business” consists in killing the Turk aforesaid, slaughtering the Dragon twice, encountering everything he meets, and, to use a Southwestern phrase, expressive if not elegant, “ whipping his weight in wild-cats ” generally. He is ultra-national, and is intended to convey a popular idea of the character known in our day as John Bull. He is not modest. Hear him:
“ Here comes I, St. George,
That worthy champion bold, And, with my sword and spear]
I won three crowns of gold.
■ I fought the Dragon bold,
And brought hitn to the slaughter,	.
By which I gained fair Sabra, The King of Egypt’s daughter.”
The Doctor is equally good for those suffering from “the flesh and the devil." Hear him:
“ I cure the itch, the palsy, and the gout, And if the devil’s in him, I'll pull him out.”
St. George is like the negro preacher, and has an eye on all those who leave before the collection is taken. He doggerelizes his epilogue:
“ Gentlemen and ladies, the sport is almost ended •, C one, pay to the box, it’s highly recommended ;
' The box it would speak, if it had a tongue,
Come, throw in your money, and don’t think of it so long.” This doggerel is supposedly some writers to have been invented by the Crusaders on their return from Palestine. _ .. ...
Sir Walter Scott, with his usual vivid felicity, gives a bril liantly suggestive and picturesque description of the religious rites, generous joy, outdoor hilarity and indoor hospitality, peculiar to the season; and pointedly alludes to the personal equality induced by the good old customs, based on the reverential acknowledgment of the occasion which brought tidings of salvation to all men:
“ On Christmas Eve the bells were rung;
On Christmas Eve the Mass was sung;	’
That only night in all the year	-
Saw the stoled priest the chalice rear.	,
The damsel donn’d her kirtle sheen ;
The hall was dress’d with holly green;	'
Eorth to the wo^d did merry-men go	.
To gather in the mistletoe.
Then open’d wide the Baron’s hall	’
To vassal, tenant, serf, and all;
Power laid his rod of rule aside,	.
And Ceremony doff’d his pride.	’
The heir, with roses in his shoes,	:
That night might village partner choose;	■
The lord, underogating, share
The vulgar game of ‘ Post and Pair.’	'
All hail’d, with uncontroll’d delight, Aird general voice, the happy night, That to the cottage, as the crown, Brought tidings of salvation down.”
Scott’s description of the feast—the grim boar’s head “ crested with bays and rosemary,” the huge sirloin, the plum porridge, savory goose, and good brown bowels—is vigorous and appetiz-. ing; and his indication of the mummers and carollers, all that' is necessary to those who have ever enjoyed the grotesque theatricals of the one, or the variously peculiar vocalizations of’ the others:	'
“ The Are, with well-dried logs supplied, Went roaring, up the chimney wide ; The huge hall table’s oaken face, Scrubb’d Oil it shone the dav to grace, Bore then upon its massive board	-
No mark to part the squire and lord.
Then was brought, in the lusty brawn	’
By old blue-coated serving man;
Then the grim boar’s-head frown’d on high,	:
Crested with bays and rosemary.
Well can the green-garb’d ranger tell	’
How, when, and where the monster fell;
What dogs before his death he tore, And all the baiting of the boar;	'	’
While round the merry wassel bowl,	■
Garnish’d with ribbon, blithe did troll.
There the huge sirloin reek’d ; hard by	'
Plum porridge stood, and Christmas pie;	.
Nor fail’d old Scotland to produce
At such high tide her savory goose.
Then came the merry maskers in.	-
And carols roar’d with blithesome din :
If unmelodious was the song,	*
It was a hearty note and strong.	_■
Who lists may in their mumming see
Traces of ancient mystery;	'	-
White shirts supply the masquerade,
And smutted cheeks the visor made;	.
But, oh I what masquers, richly dight, Can boast of bosoms half so light!	'
England was merry England when Old Christmas brought his sports again.
’Twas Christmas broach’d the mightiest ale;
’Twas Christmas told the merriest tale;	-
A Christmas gambol oft would cheer	.
A poor man’s heart through half the year.”	•
In a note to “ Marmion,* he illustrates a passage preceding the above, in which the wild customs of the heathen Danes at lol, from which we get the word Tale, are alluded to. The humor of the Danes at table displayed itself in pelting each, other with bones; and Torfaeus tells a long and curious story, in the history of Krolfe Kraka, of one Hottus, an inmate of the court of Denmark, who was so generally assailed in this manner, that he constructed, out of bones with which he was overwhelmed, a very respectable entrenchment to defend himself against those who continued the raillery. The dances of the Northern warriors round the fires of pine trees are commemorated by Claus Magnus, who says they danced and whirled round with such fury, holding each other by the hand, that, if the' grasp.of any failed, he was pitchedinto-the fire with-the- veK
246	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ocity and force if hurled from a sling. The sufferer ou such occasions was quickly pulled out, and obliged to quaff a certain measure of ale, as a penalty for spoiling the king’s Are.
Hasty Corrections to be Avoided.
Corrections are aptly compared to physic: and as no one would like to take from a physician a prescription dictated under the paroxysm of anger, in the same manner no one should attempt to give correction to a child or pupil under its influence. To obviate this inconvenience, it would be very advisable to put down upon paper the fault, with all its aggravating circumstances, and to read it to the offender the next day, when both the master and the pupil can form a better judgment of the offence, and of the measure and nature of the punishment. A further motive for this circumspection is the great danger of error in all hasty decisions, formed ou the spur of the moment. On such occasions, reason is seldom permitted to preside, and to exercise all her just rights. Pride, self-love, and prejudice, dispute the empire with her. Hence we should regularly suspect, our first impressions, weigh in a just balance the merits and demerits of the case, and come to no decision Without the most mature deliberation. The human mind, like the ancient city of Athens, is rarely governed by a Solon, but frequently by overbearing tyrants. The inimitable Fenelon teaches that small rewards for virtue will act with greater effect than great punishments for crimes; and that honor and shame are the most powerful agents with those who are acquainted with the human heart. It was a saying of the sweet and amiable St. Francis of Sales: “Be always meek”:—“with a single spoonful of honey you may attract more flies than with a hundred barrels of vinegar. If you lean to any extreme, let it be to that of meekness. There is no soil, however barren, that will prove unproductive, if softened with the dew of meekness and the milk of human kindness.”
If I only Had Capital!
This exclamation is heard frequently from strong, healthy young men, who, though God has blessed them with a sound constitution and strong limbs, still are not satisfied because they were not born rich.
Such a young man, seeing a comrade prospering, will attribute all of his success to his capital. Now he is sadly mistaken, and if he were placed in the position of his comrade and did not display more sense than he now does, he would soon lose his capital.
Whenever you hear a young man talking in this way. you can rely on it that he is lazy. If he were not, instead of laying around, watching otbers^get rich, he would make use of the faculties which God has given him, and work, yes even dig in the ditch, if necessary, to get a start, and then by economizing he would soon have his longed for capital. . But another thing is' yet to be stated. If he does not economize, no matter what his salary is, he will never accumulate any amount of money; for it is an old saying, and also a very true one, that “ any fool can earn money, but no fool saves what he earns.”
Now if these young men would look at it in this way, they would soon, if they really were desirous of getting rich,- quit their wishing, and their envying others capital, and go to work honestly and earn their own.
Vulgarity.
Vulgarity generally arises from the want of education and from the habit of keeping low company. Young people generally contract it at school, or among servants, with whom they are too often used to converse. When in good society they have to lay it aside, or good society will be very apt to leave them aside.
The various kinds of vulgarisms are without number. The vulgar man is always jealous and passionate about trifles; he suspects himself to be slighted; thinks everything that is <aid is meant for him; and if the company happens to laugh, he thinks they are laughing at him. Vulgarism in language is another mark of bad company and a bad education. In conversation, the vulgar man uses slang phrases, does not pronounce words correctly, but still likes to hear himself talk.
On the other hand, a man of good breeding and social refinement is very sparing in proverbs and vulgar sayings; he does not deal in pet phrases, nor use hard words; he never talks slang, or only with a subdued drollery, as if it were something he had picked up; nor does he ever manifest the least consciousness when slang expressions are used by others.
There are many words in our language which vulgarity has debased into doubtful meaning: these should be avoided as much as possible; but, if needful, they should be used simply and firmly.	E.
Art, Music and Literature.
—George Eliot, it is said, has been paid £7,000, or $35,000, for a single novel.
—The R-v J. S. C. Abbott’s new biography of Washington will be published soon.
—Mr. Hepworth Dixon’s “White Conquest” .will be honored by a French translation.
—A facsimile of the first issue of Walton’s “Complete Angler” is to be published in England.
—Miss Cracr ift, a niece of Sir John Franklin, is writing the lives of her uncle an l of Lady Franklin.
—Some posthumous notes, by Sainte-Beuve, on the men of his time, said to be very severe and very indiscreet, are shortly to be published.
—The “ History of the Sciences in Germany,” published by the German Historical commission, is approaching completion in sixteen volumes.
—Mr. Millais is reported to be painting a large landscape depicting a scene a little north of Birnam Wood, celebrated in the tragedy of “Macbeth.”
—The Nation vigorously denounces the little sect of English writers whom it calls the Neo-Pagats, at the head of which it puts Mr. A. C. Swinburne.
—Dr. Paul Kroll, Stuttgart, has been selected by king Louis to fill the new chair of art, history, and technology in the Royal Technological academy at Munich.
—“Der Junge Goethe,” treating of the poet’s youthful letters and poems, extending over 1704-1776. and containing much new matter, is to be published in Germany.
—A new. study of the life and philosophy of the pessimist Scbopenhauser, ou whose philosophical system Wagner grounds his musical theories, Is announced abroad.
—Two of Mr. Francis Parkham’s historical works, “ The Pioneer” and “The Old R-gime in Canada,”are undergoing translation into German under the supervision of Dr. Frederick Kopp.	*
—The newest and most remarkable work of art in the Parisian world is Gerome's picture of a chariot race in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
247
arena at, Rune before Nero. The critics are enthusiastic in praise of its spirit and action.
—The “Navy Group” for the Lincoln Monument at Springfield, ill., has been cast in the bronze department of the Ames Works, in Massachusetts, and will be sent to Springfield during the present month.
—An entertaining book about Russia is Mr. Butler Johnston’s “Trip Up the Volga to the Fair of Nijni Novgoro.” Russia, he insists, is not a nation, but. a continent, and her 60.030,003 are likely to reach 100,000,000 before the end ot the century.
—The latest work of Meissonier d<*picts an episode of the battle of Friedland, Ju ie. 14,1807, between the French, under Napoleon, and the Russians, under Benningsen. The Russians are being driven toward the river Alle by the victorious French.
1	—Capt. R. F. Burton’s “ Two Trips to Gorilla Land and
the Cataracts of the Congo” is not confined to a record of his own travels, but treats of geographical problems with great acumen. He confirms in the main Du Chailu’s account of the gorilla, and has many fine descriptions of the native tribes and their customs.
—M. Henri Hayard has written, under the title of “La Hollande Piftoresque,” an account of the deserted cities of the Zuyder Zee, which is very interesting. These Dutch towns, once full of the hum of business, abound in empty houses, deserted streets, walls enclosing large meadows, and cows grazing on ground once covered by human dwellings.
—One of the “art fraud" cases, between P F. Connolly, an American sculptor, and Mr. Healy, who made the original charges of fraud, and is sued for libel by Mr. Connolly (and who is to be carefully distinguished from G- P. A Healy, the portrait-painter, now in this city), was decided Nov. 15, at Florence, adversely to Mr. Healy, but will be carried to a higher court.
—There is to be a pleasant volume for the little folks who are learning French in the nursery. It will be pub-V? ' lished before Christmas by D. Appleton & Co. “Janet et ses amis’’ is a collection of brief sketches, stories and verse, printed in large type, all in easy French, and with new and fine pictures. It is meant to be read either to children, or
L	by them, as a royal road to learning French.
—Nine weeks ago, Mr. Nittebohm announced in the i	Leipsic Musikalisches Wbchenblatt that sixty pages of full
score of a hitherto unheard pianoforte concerto of Beethoven had been discovered. Those who heard the news hardly credited it, but Mr. George Grove, of London, has made inquiries, and has every hope of collecting the scat,	tered sheets and of arranging them in such a form that the
fragment may be performed at the Crystal Palace concerts, at any rate, next year.
—A writer says: It is, perhaps, not well known that Pius IX is a very fine musician. As a young man he culti vated hs taste for music very assiduously, and his voice was mag lifiicent. Even now it is very sweet and powerful, and when His Holiness sings at High Mass all who hear him are struck by the superb manner in which he executes the difficult Gregorian chant. He disapproves of the use of profane mu>»ic in churches, but, at the same time, recently |	expressed an opinion that, as a rule, what is usually called
'	sacred music was dull and dreary. He thought that sacred
music should be dramatic, but not theatrical.
—“An important technical work,” says the Academy, “entitled * Einfache Mobel im Charakter der Renaissance ’ (‘Simple Furniture in the Style of the Renaissance,’) is being brought out in parts in Germany under the superintendence of the Austrian Minister of Trade. It has been prep tred by Prof. Joseph Struck. The first number is devoted to the furniture of the dining-room, with its diningtable, seats, and buffets. The examples given are not merely of articles only suited for palaces, as is so of en the case in works of this sort, but are generally simple pieces of furniture, suitable for moderate-sized houses, that might easily be obtained by any person desirous of furnishing his
,	house according to the principles of Renaissance art.”
—Henry C. Watson, an eminent musical critic and composer, and one who has occupied an honored position in musical circles in this city for many years, died yesterday at the residence of his sister, No. 226 East' Eighty-third’
street, of Bright’s disease of the kidneys. Mr. Watson has been long and favorably known among musicians in this c mntry. His life was devoted to the best interests of the divine art, and as musical critic of the Tribune, and as editor of Watson's Art Journal, he showed an intimate knowledge of the art to which he devoted his life. He gained no inconsiderable honors as a composer, and many a graceful work from his pen has found its way to the drawing-room and concert hall. Although he had reached the age of nearly threescore years at the time of his death, yet there was quite a long term of usefulness for him in his art, bad he been spared. He took a lively interest in the musical arrangements for the Centennial, and his suggestions on that important subject are very valuable. The musical world in America will miss such an experienced representative as Henry C. Watson.—New York Herald. •
Books and Periodicals.
—We are well pleased with the December number of Brainard's Musical World, which lies before us. This closes the twelfth year of the popular musical monthly, and we wish its conductors every success the coming year. Among the writers for the World is Karl Merz the well-known musical writer, who makes the Musical World Letters very interesting reading. Each number of the World contains thirty six pages of choice music, vocal and instrumental, and instructive reading matter. The price of the World is $1 50 per annum. Any one sending that amount to S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, Ohio, will receive the Journal for one year and Karl Merz’s “Musical Hints for the Million,” or two portrait premiums.
—Yes, women are unreasonable, and you may have re marked that when one of them sits down in a new silk dress on a chair where aneighb >r’s child has carelessly deposited two cents’ worth of taffy, she will go on about it just as bad as if it were two dollars’ worth.
—A few days ago a youthful emissary from one bookstore entered another and made the inquiiy, “Have you ‘Cock Tails of Ancient Greece?’” The gentleman interrogated, distrusting his ears, required a repetition of the question, and it was given: “A copy of ‘Cock Tails of Ancient Greece?”’ The book was not in stock, but "Cox’s Tales of Ancient Greece” satisfied the desire of the embryo bookseller.—Exchange.
—The Knights of the pen, like ancient chivalry, are fond of keeping their visors down. This at present is peculiar to literature. No merchant places a false name on his sign, but the author has a distinct privilege. He is at first an adventurer who desires to feel the public pulse before he allows his full name to be known. The fashion dates back to the early days of British literature, as may be seen by a reference to “ Pier’s Ploughman.” This man’s book is preserved, but the real name of the author was never made public. Addison, when writing for the Spectator, signed many of his articles with one of the letters in the word “Clio.” Sam Johnson wrote for the Gentleman's Magazine over the assumed name of “ S. Smith.” Poor as he was, deeply humbled, he could not endure the rank of a rejection, save under this guise. Cave accepted his offers, and “ S. Smith” became almost the greatest literary luminary of his day. Poor Chatterton’s modesty sought a similar disguise, though he was self-conscious of genius. At the age of 16 he wrote for the London reviews over the title “Duherlmus Bristolensis.” He was the greatest genius Bristol ever produced, and it is sad to.think that he slew himself in London after a brief conflict with the sorrows of literature, being then only 17. He could not take to the hardships of such a life as Johnson did. “S. Smith ” could write speeches for members of Parliament, and also sermons for the clergy—anything to keep from starving. But Chatterton had too much pride, and. he perished rather than yield.—Ex.

-248	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
t ’ ' —A, i
|}<w yd|oM*+
Notre Dame, December 18, 1875.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be pro cured at the Tribune Store, South Bend, and at the Siu dents’ Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, $1.50 T*ei’ Auxuaxim, Postpaid.
A Merry Christmas!
Before the next number of The Scholastic appears, many of the students will be far away from the College halls, enjoying the holidays at home, among their friends and relatives. It is often said, and we believe it to be true, that the Christmas holidays area great inconvenience in colleges. Many arguments—and valid ones—have been brought forward to prove the assertion; still, for all that, the inconvenience does not abate,but rather increases year after year. Students are obstinately bent on going home; parents are incredulous and tender hearted; the classrooms must be emptied for a week or ten days; studies must be neglected for two—and often three and f>ur— ■weeks (for an allowance must be made for settling down to work after the return, and for packing up trunks, valises, etc., and for unpacking). And then the fun of the holidays has had scarcely time to pass before those who return are put to work on Horace or Virgil, and the change does not feel any too agreeable to those who must make it. Besides, homesickness in some cases sadly interferes ■with Cicero and Robinson (not the great circus man). Things are very dry after the holidays; the halls of the ~	College don’t seem so cheerful, in fact they are somewhat
■	gloomy; and then the dormitories—aye, the dormitories,
and that odious bell at half-past five—why ’tis enough to disgust one forever of college life, and it is notunfn-quently
I	the case that a Christmas trip home will go against the
fond expectations of parents, and make a studious and f	earnest young man a very careless and indifferent stu-
dent, and the younger boy a lazy, good-for-nothing lad. For our part we do not believe in the Christmas trips home, and we hope to see the custom become smaller every year, and more “ beautifully less.”
However, if the boys do go home, we hope they will enjoy all the pleasure they anticipate in their wildest dreams. We put ourselves in their place, and wish for them what we would wish for ourselves, namely, plenty ■	of fun and enjoy.t ent. The Scholastic wishes to each
j	and all who go home a merry Christmas, with plenty of
1	plum-pudding and turky, and everything that goes to-
|	wards making the day merry. May the sweet and Chris-
i	tian festival renew in the grown-up young men who are
t	entering upon the years when weighty cares and responsi-
|	bilities begin to make themselves felt, the gaiety which
|	they experienced in those halcyon days of childhood,
I	when their hearts bounded with joy at the very mention
;	of Christmas, and when they hung their stockings in the
i	chimney in anticipation of the visit of Santa Claus. May
no trouble, nor care, nor sickness cast a damper upon their joy, nor cause them to lose a panicle of the pleasure they believe to be in store for them. May they enjoy a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, and when the moment for returning bids them leave home, may they do it cheerfully, and promptly fill up the College halls where they will receive a hearty welcome. And further, may their return to College be so punctual that none may have to say that he has lost any of the classes- which shall be held after the holidays are over.
To those who choose the better part, and remain in the College during the holidays, we wish all happiness. May they also spend a merry Christmas and a happy New Year. There are many ways of doing this, and we expect to see them show their talent, and give us plenty of fun during these days of joy. For the benefit of all, we would state that everybody is expected back by the third day of January, 1876, from which lime classes will proceed as usual. The parents of the students will render the College authorities a great favor by seeing that their sons return in time for the opening—January 3,1876. It will be a favor not only to tne College, but als > to the students, as it will prevent the disarrangement of classes.
The Exhibition.
One of the most agreeable entertainments at which we have as yet had the pleasure of attending • was given on Wednesday evening by the Columbians. Rt. Rev Bishop Kain, of Wheeling, then on his first visit io Notre Dame, presided. Quite a large number of visitors from • South Bend and vicinity were present, and all whom we	1
had the pleasure of interviewing testifiedtheir satisfaction in the most unequivocal terms. The grand opening March by the band, and the overture by the Orchestra were executed in a manner which rdL-cis as much credit on our youthful artists as does the selection of the pieces on the director of the Band or the leader of the Orchestra. The addresses to the Bishop by Messrs. Ball and Schmidt, representing respectively the Senior and Junior Departments were both in excellent taste, and though we know that comparisons are always odious, we are yetstrongly tempted to add that the reading left us much better satisfied than we generally feel on similar occasions. The rapt attention of the whole audience dm ing the rendering of “ The Roses” by the Amphion Quartette, and the repeated bursts of applause with which it was followed, are, perhaps, the most	!
conclusive testimony we can bring forth as to its excellence. We must certainly offer our congratulations to the	J
young gentlemen, as also to the Director, whose good taste displayed in the choice of the song and the careful training evinced in the execution, have once more procuted us a rich musical treat. Speaking for ourselves, we must say we felt thoroughly dispo-ed for an encore; but the majority of the audience being perhaps a little impatient for the drama, we made the sacrifice of our personal inclinations.
The high order of the music discoursed by the Baud and Orchestra at the opening of the entertainment may have rendered us fastidious, but if our memory do not deceive us, we found ourselves during the execution of “ Banish, O Maiden,” expressing the opinion that the Arion Quartette Club has not yet reached the standard of excellence to which we know that it aspires, and which we hope one day to see it attain.
A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
249
- All allow that the play of the evening—“The Corsica^ Brothers”—was one of the best which has appeired for some time past on the stage of Notre Dime. Of course It had been remodelled for the occasion by Prof. J. F. Edwards, but as presented by the Columbians it still retained most of the good points without any of the objectionable features which one is accustomed to associate with the idea of the Freich drama. All dramas, it is slid, should aim at presenting some moral truth; and if so, no fault can be found with the “Corsicm Brothers” for it certainly did bring into strong light the evils arising from the passion of gambling. The first act, which introduced us into the interior of a Corsican household, presented in an original and forcible manner mmy of the strange ch iracteristics of that strangest of people. The second and third acts brought to view some peculiar phases of society life in Paris The role of “Fabrian dei Franchi,’’ the stern, superstitious, vindictive Corsican—implacable as fate when the “osndgW i” urges on, was filled with unquestionable ability by Sir. T. Logan; while “Chateau Rmiud,’’ the gambler and bravo, found an equally able representative in Mr. J. Campbell. The roles of “Louis dei French! ” and “Jules de Lasptrre ” were taken by Messrs. L Murphy and J. McHugh with much feeling and sentiment; and Mr. W. P. Breen, as “ Menard,” A. Hertzog as “ Montgiron,’’ R. Maas as “ An tonio Sanola.’’ 1. Dryfoos as “Thomis” the guide, J. H Coonev and W. Fogerty as “ Pierre” and “ Griffo,” and G McNulty as the aged father, showed themselves able to enter into the spirit of their respective parts, and their efforts were thoroughly appreciated. The other chiracters were likewise very ably sustained; but “ when all do well distinctions are invidious.” “Orlando” and “ C donna” are strange characters for an Americm audience, and Messrs. C. Myers and L. Pilliod deserve great credit for the manner in which the reconciliation scene was performed.
The scenery was fine. We cannot too highly praise the taste displayed by Prof. Edwards. We scarcely thought that Washington Hall could show us anything like the parlor and park scenes in the second ac\ Some of the stage effects too were quite striking. If the duellists in the third act did not call up in our mind thoughts of Cassag-nac and Rane, or Macbeth and Macduff, or any other—allaccomplished swordsmen—we will admit that the apparition tableau at the end of the first act did remind us in more than one particular of the tent scene in “Richard III.”	.
The closing remarks by Right Rev. Bishop Kane were in the happiest taste. He thanked the students for the enjoyment they had afforded him in common with the rest of the ‘audience during the course of the evening, assured them he would long remember his first visit to Notre Dame with feelings of the deepest pleasure, and concluded by paying both students and faculty a compliment which was at once well-timed and delicate. Let us add in passing that the boys seemed so pleased with the little speech of Bishop Kain that they all (or at least ninty-nine hundredths of them) manifested the resolution to call on him early next morning—we fear with interested motives. Another Grand March by the Band, and all retired to rest, highly satisfied with the Colmbians, and wishing them all kinds of success.
—The best thing out—an aching tooth.
—A new name for tight boots—a corn crib.
Personal.
—J. H. Ward, of’73. is travelling in Europe.
—E. J. Nugent, of’72, re-ides in Louisville, Ky.
—Joseph Ztmmer, of ’72, is in Columbus, Ohio. -
—George Gardner, of’61, is living in Hillsdale, Mich. ■
—Joseph Winterbotham, of ’69, is in Michigan City, Ind.
—Duke Weldon, of ’71, is living in Covington, Indiana.
—Edward 0<he, of ’67, is in business in Zanesville, Ohio.
—	Daniel E. Maloney, of ’74, is reading law in Elgin, Ill.
—	H. P. Morancy, of’69, is in business in Memphis, Tenn.
—	Eugene Clifford, of ’65, is practising law in Elgin, Ill.
—	Rev. Henry Reinbold, of ’61, is stationed at Nauvoo. Ill.
—	J. J. McGrath, of ’66, is in business with his brother in Chicago.
—	Julius Labarthe, of ’60, is doing an excellent business in Peoria, III.
—	Thomas Flanagan, of ’54, is practising law in Shreveport, Louisiana.
—	J. B. Comer, of '73, is in a wholesale establishment in St. Paul, Minn.
—	Austin Cable, of ’69, is with Spink, Cable & Co., Washington, Lid.
—	Rev. Thomas H. Corry, of ’59, is the Catholic pastor in Brookfield, Wis.
—	J. Henry Flynn, of’58, is with Sontag & Co., 160 State Street, Chicago, Ill.
—	Frederick Edswortb, of’66, is in the drygoods trade in South Bend, Ind.
—	C. H ligenfriiz, of ’71, is living, and by all accounts well, in Clarksville, Ill.
—P. Sullivan, of ’64, is teaching the young idea how to' shoot in Valparaiso, Ind.	.
—Thomas W. Flynn, of’57, is cashier in the honse of A. T. Stewart, of New York.
—William Walsh, of’59, is connected with the Post-Office Department in Chicago. '
—H. B. Keeler, of ’69. is in the real estate and insurance business in St. Mary’s, Kansas.
—Robert Chatierton, of ’71, has an extensive jewelry establishment in Sprinafield, III.	•	.
—Wm. Waldo, of’70, has no reason to complain of hard times in Independence, Missouri.
—Frank Pierce, of’60, is still in the employ of the L. S. & M. S. R R . and resides in Elkhart.	.
—William Tavlor, of ’67, is Sunerintendent of the Northern Illinois Coal Company, La Salle, Ill.	.
—Alexander Coqui Hard, of South Bend, Ind., was the first s udent ever entc red ar Notre Dame.
—Charles Taylor, of ’59. is proprietor of the Passenger House, Mendota, Ill. He makes an excellent Boniface.
—John E Shannahan, of ’72, James McGlynn, of ’74, an l Thomas M. O’Leary, of ’75, are teaching in Watertown, Wis.
—E. C. McShane, of ’67, after having served a term as Trea-urer of Douglas County, Nebraska, is living in Omaha.
—Orne, George, Wallace, and Henrv V. Templeton, o ’68, are all prospering in Fowler, Ind. They are in business and attend to it well.
—Dr. T. A Daly, of ’66, is city physician of Rochester, N. Y. We frequently meet T. A. Dailey, of ’74, who is-now residing in South Bend.
—George Halborn, of ’63, is residing in Philadelphia, where be will be pleased to see all his old friends at the coming Centennial Exposition.
—Michael Carr, of ’72, finding the subscription list of the Toledo lieview increasing, now issues a Sunday edition of his paper. He is, we understand, extending daily the circulation bf the Review, which he pushes ahead with great energy,	.	_
250
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Iiocal Items.
—How about the alibi?
—The 23d is the starting day.
—Conference on Wednesday last.
—A pretty cold wind last Monday.
—Ho! for the Scholastic Almanac !
—Who was it that broke the gate near the Post-Office?
—What will there be to amuse us during the Holidays ?
—Everyone is expected to be back by the 3d of January.
—Prof. Gregori is engaged in painting a beautiful design in the new Church.
—A number of volumes were added to the College Library during the week just past.
—On the return, after the Holidays, who will bring us the largest number of subscribers?
—The boys in Sorinville treated themselves to the pie at Bro. Thomas’ expense a few days ago.
—Quite a number of German works were purchased lately for the students studying German.
—All going home for the Holidays will be expected back for class on the third day of January.
—Quire a number of volumes were presented to the Le-monnier Circulating Library this last week.
—Mr. F. Bears® received very high praise for his gentlemanly manner of ushering at the Exhibition.
—If you wish the Scholastic sent home next week, leave orders at the Students’ Offl :e before starting.
—Henry Cay “would rather be right than be President,” but Gen'l Grant “ would rather be President than be right.
■ —All persons going to Chicago by way of Niles should give the B md House a call. The proprietor, Mr. McKay, will treat them well.
—There was an alarm of fire given last Monday in one of the out-buildings, but it amounted to nothing. A little salt soon set tied the affair.
____The “old man” broke a shaft at Muskegon, Mich., last week, causing a delay of s-veral days. It was repaired by the Tivoli Manufacturing Company, of Jackson, Mich.
—The Catechism Lectures are now given in the studyhalls instead of the church. Rev. Father Golovin delivers the lectures in the Senior hall, and Rev. Mr. Walsh those in the Junior.
—We are informed that the instruments for the Laboratory, etc., will soon be here,—in fact they are on the way, and we may soon expect to see them placed in the Science Hall. Is that the name?
—The person who took an umbrella from the room at the northeast corner of the second story of the Infirmary will confer a favor by returning the same to the room, or by leaving it at this office.
—We learn that there is to be an Exhibition—rich, rare and racy—during the holidays. As we understand that it is to come off on the evening of the 31st, we wouldn’t be a bit surprised to see many come back for it.
—Hereaft-r there will be a Mass said every Sunday morning at 8 o’clock," in the basement chapel, for the accommodation of the Catholics living in the neighborhood who cannot attend the six o’clock or half-past six Masses.
—The Scholastic Almanac is to be issued to-day. It will be for sale here at, Notre Dame about Tuesday. No nicer Christmas present could be given to your friends than this Almanac. The price is only twenty-five cents. Procure one.
—The inventor of the admirable automatic gate on the main avenue has loade 1 the cannon with nitro-glycerine and poems about the “ Statue on the Dome,” to fire at the next person who drives through the aforesaid gate faster than a walk.
—The 3rd regular monthly meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held on Sunday, Dec. 121 h. Rev. T. D. Collins, C. S. C., in the chair. Master G. H.
Van Pelt was unanimously elected to membership. The Society numbers one hundred and twenty-five members.
—Right Rev. Bishop Kain, of Wheeling, W. Va., paid Notre Dame a passing visit on Wednesday, the 15th inst. We hope the Bishop’s visitwas as pleasant to him as it was agreeable to the inmates of Notre Dame, and that at no distant day we may have the pleasure of seeing him again with us. An extra recreation day obtained through the Bishop’s intercession put the students in the b st of spirits, especially as the day was very fine for this time of the year, and the out-door exercises quite renovating after a long run of hard study.	'
—We have seen the advanced sheets of the Scholastic Almanac and can say that it will be an excellent affair. The contents we will publish next week, and our readers can then judge whether they will not get more than twenty-five cents’ worth when they invest their money. The selections are well chosen, being a mixture of grave and gay, serious and witty. All will, we are sure, be delighted with the Almanac. It will be particularly interesting to the old students and friends of Notre Dame, as the calendar is made with particular reference to the events that transpired at the College.
—The Columbian banquet, Tuesday evening, was a grand affair. The tables fairly groaned under the weight of the many good things prepared for the occasion. Stewed and fried oysters, chicken, fruit, etc. We have attended several banquets at Notre Dame, but never one where we enjoyed ourselves s > well. Professor Edwards has reason to be proud of his Society. The members are about the jol-liest and best natured boys in the Senior Department. They seem to have the knack of making everyone happy with whom they come in contact. Several of the members are good in vocal and instrumental music, and they amused their guests during the evening by their merry songs, besides playing several select pieces on violin and piano. Our friend John made a c tll by accident, but ow-ingto the lateness of the hour declined to partake of the delicacies. He remarked, however, that the Columbians were good fellows, and we think he uttered the sentiments of all present. The members claim none of the credit forthemselves, but give all to Prof. Edwards, their President, who, they say, never does things by halves.
—Few persons doubtless are aware of the fact that the original inventor of steels pens is still living. Sir Josiah Mason, now the great pen manufacturer of Birmingham, England, enjoys that distinction. He is now very old, being above eighty. It is in his great factory that several of the most popular of the widely famed Spencerian Double Elastic Steel Pens are made, the models being supplied by the proprietors of the Pen-, Messrs Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., the Educational Publishers of New York, the Spencerian Pens have attained their great popularity from a variety of reasons, all of which will, be apparent to any one who may try them. Of one number alone more than six millions were sold last year. We use them in our office, and are so well pleased with them that we have no hesitation in saying that they are, in our opinion, superior to any other article of the kind with which weare acquainted. Their chief characteristics seem to be flexibility, elasticity, durability and evenness of point, and a nearer approximation to the real quill action than has been heretofore attained in a steel pen. The Spencerian are comprised in fifteen numbers, all differing in flexibility and fineness of point, and for the convenience of those who wish to try them, Messrs. Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor &Co., 138 and 140 Grand Street, New York, will send by mail a sample card, securely enclosed, containing one each of the different numbers, on receipt of Twenty-five cents.
t-
4
—Old Perhapsibilities say that for some States there-may possibly be probabilities of certain snowballs within a few days; but the unscientific boy of the period need have no hopes of soakers yet.
—The Indianapolis Herald says: “The man who designed our State seal is dead. In the language of the Dutch poet, ‘It is well.’ Any man who would try to make people belive a full-grown buffalo bull would deliberately rush up to a granger who was chopping down a tree at surise ought to die.”	- -	-
THE NOTRE DJAME SCHOLASTIC.	251
.	Roll of Honor.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DEC. 9,1875.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown. V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, J. Buckles, F. Bearss, W. Ball, M. Blackburn, P. Cooney, J. Cooney, F. Claffey, D. Connors, J. Connolly R. Calkins, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, P. Corbett, F. Di'Voto, H. Dehner, J. Dwyer, J. Dempsey, E. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, C. Ely, B. Euans, P. Flanigen, W. Fosarty, E. Graves, T. Gallagher. J. Gillen, J. Golsen, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Handley, T. Hansard, 8. Kennedy, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Kretnzer, W. Keily, E. Monohan, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, D. Murphy, H. Maguire, L. Murphy. R. Maas. P. McCauley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum. R. McGrath. J. McE-riry, P. Neil. J. Neidnart. H O’Brien. Carl Otto, J. C O’Rmrk. J. M. O’Rourk, J. Perea, T. Quinn, J. Retz, M. Regan, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Sehweighardt, G. Sullivan, F. Vandervannet, T. Wendell, C. Weber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold. T. Byrnes. A. Burger, E. Collins, J. J. Davis. W. Davis. E. C. Davenport. F. Ewing. J. T. Folev. J. French, F. J. Flanagan, E Gleason, W. F. Hake, 8. B. Goldsbeny, B. Heeb, E. Hall, G. Huck, M. Kautzauer, F. Klaner. J. Kinney. J. E. Knight. M Kauffman. O. Ludwig, J. Mosal, M. McAuliffe, W. Morris. G. Nester. D. P. Nelson. C. Orsinger, J. A. O’Meara, F. Rosa. J. P. Reynolds, E Raymond. H. Scott, T. Scbwuchow, W. A. Sheehan. G. Sugg, W. Taulby, N. Vanamee, C. Whipple, H. F. Henkel, T. Summers.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
• C. Faxon. C. Campau. T. Hooley. J. A. Duffield, O- Lindberg, F. P’eins, R. Plains. J. Nelson, P. Nelson. G. Lowrey, P. Haney, J Hanev. G. Rhodius. G. Lambin, J. Seeger, J. Stanton, W. McDevitt. H McDonald. W. Coolbaugh, W. Smith, C. Bushey, C. Long, A. Bushey, A. Campau.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DEC. 16,1S75.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E At.field, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen. A. Byrnes, F. Bearss, W Ball. M. Blackburn. J. Campbell, P. Cooney, 3. Cooney. F. Claffev. D. Connors. J. Connolly, R. Calkins. T. Carroll, P. Corbett H. Dehner, •!- Dwyer, W. Dechant. J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Ev<»rs. C. Ely. B. Euans, W. Fogarty, E. Graves T. Gallagher, J Gillen. J. Harkin, J. Handlev, S. Kennedy, F. Keller, H. Kin-son J Krentz»>r. W. R^ily. P. J. Mattimore, P. Mattimore. D. Mnrnhv. H Maguire. C Meyers, L. Murphy, F. Maas, P. Mc-Caviv'G. McNnltv, L. McCollum, T. McGrath, R. McGrath, J. MeEniry.P. McCullough, P. Neil, J. Neidhardt. H. O’Brien, A. O'Brien -T M. O’Rourke, J Perea, T. Quinn, C. Robertson, F. Retti®. 3. Retz. M. Regan, W. Smith, C. Saylor. G. Sehweighardt, G. Sullivan, F. Vandervannet, R. White, T. Wendell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E F Arnold. W. J. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. Bergck. A. J. Bn-e’er J Carrer. J. Davis. W. Davis, J. Cavanaugh, H. Faxon, j Folev, .1. French. J. Fox. F. Flanagan. P. Frane, C. Gustine. F Goldsberrv, P. Hagan W. Hake, F. Hoffman. A. Holmes. S. Goldsberrv. B. Heeb. E. Hall, A. Hamilton. M. Kautzauer. J.P. Kinnev J. Knight, E Lanb. O. Ludwig. G. J. Longstorf. R. P. Maver A McIntosh. M. McAuliffe. D. Nelson. C Orsinge.r, J. A. O’Meara. 3. Perea, F. Rosa, 3. Reynolds, A. Ryan. 8. Ryan, H. Scott W. Sheehan. A. Schmidt, P. Schnurrer, G. Sugg, J. P. McClorV, W. Taulby, P. Tumble, N. Vanamee, C. Walsh. E. G. Woodward. M. Hallv, W.Roelie, H. Henkel, F. Phelan, T. Summers, E. Smith, R. Golsen, C. Clarke.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C Faxon, P. Nelson, G. W. Lowrey, G. Rhodius, L. Frazee, J. Hanev C. Campau, O. W. Lindberg, F. McGrath, A. Bushev, J. F Pleins. P. Heron, J. Seeger. G. Lambin, M. McDevitt, R. Coolbaugh, B. Morris, C. Bushey, E. Oatman, P. Haney.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DEC. 9,1875.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Seniors—H. Maguire, L. Evers, T. Quinn, A. McBriar. D. Byrnes, D. Connors, J. HamFn. P. W. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore. F. Vandervannet, P. Niel, G. Sehweighardt, C. Ely, R. Calkins, Jos. Connolly. Jos. Perea, J. Harkin. C. Robertson, F. Maas. T. Carroll, J. Dempsey, T. J. Wendell, W. Kiely, J. B. Gheen. P. Corbett.
Juniors—F. Schwuchow, F. Ewing, H. Faxon, W. Heeb, C. Ham D. Nelson, W. Tanlby, S. Goldsberry, F. Goldsberry, E. Raymond, F. McGrath, J. O’Meara, C. Larkin, P. Tumble, F. Flanigan, L. Lacy, T. Byrnes, G. Huck, C. Orsinger, C. Peltier,
H. Sickle, M. McAuliffe, F. Hoffman, J. Kinney, C. C’arke, R. Golsen, E, Laub. W. Davis, W. Morris, E. Smith, W. Connolly, O. Myers, H. Henkel, F. Phelan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	'
J. Duffield. C. Faxon, L. J. Frazee. C. Campau, A. Bushey, G» Lowrey, J N<lson, P. Nelson, F. Pleins, R.Pleins, G.Rhodius, F. Campau.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DEC. 16,1875.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
P. J. Moran. W. D. Smith, P. McCawly, A. Hoag, D. Murphy, S. Kennedy, C. Saylor. H. O’Brien, F. Keller, L. McCullum, W. Byrnes P. Flanigan, F Bearss, J. Hagerty, J. Foley, M. Kantz-auer. M. Kauffman, J. Golsen. J. McEniry, W. Fogarty, P. McCullough, M. Blackbum, L. Busch, J. Kreutzer.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
M. Gustine, G. Lambin, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, J. O. Stanton, B. Morris, J. Seeger, J. Haney, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, W.Cash, A. Campau, W. Van Pelt, H. McDonald, W. Smith.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY DEC. 9, 1875.
collegiate course.
Senior Year—T. F. Gallagher, H. Dehner, F. Devoto.
Junior Year—J. H. Cooney. J. A. Brown. H. Cassidy.
Sophomore Year—J. F. Ewing, W. P. Breen, W. Ball, C. Otto.
Freshman Year—A. Hertzog, T. McGrath, G. Sullivan, A. O’Brian.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DEC. 16,1875.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—C. Robertson, 3. Connolly, A. O’Brian, James O’Rourke, D. Byrnes, P. Tumble W. Roelle.
French—A. Hertzog, G. Gross, O. Ludwig, W. Morris.

—The Second Seniors edited this week’s “Rosa Mystica.” The paper was a pretty fair specimen of what Second Seniors can do in the literary line.
—It is pleasing to note that the anticipation of the festivities of Christmas has not lessened the steady application to studies for which the pupils have been so justly praised during the present term.	.	.
—The pupils are enjoying the most exhilarating recreations in the form of sledding and wagon rides. The amount of fun and laughter that attend these impromptu rustic excursions is proof that girls do not depend for merriment on spring carriages and stylish sleighs.
—In the Art Department many fine specimens of panel work from original designs attract the admiration of visitors. ■ There is not only talent and study exhibited in this department, but it is evident that cultivated genius presides, and directs incipient genius in the way it should go.
—The past week has been an eventful one for the “ Children of Mary." Their grand Patronal Festival occurring on the 8th—the election of officers—their annual pilgrimage to Loreto—the reception of new members and many aspirants, have each been occasions of pious joy.
—The Minims beingin possession of a pair of rabbits, generously ordered a suitable residence to be constructed fortheir young pets. Two rival architects are competing for the job. One has already erected a very cozy dwelling, which the other architect intends to surpass in style and comfort. Meanwhile the Bunnies and the Minims exchange visits, and enjoy each other’s company very much. The young folk await with great curiosity the erection of the rival establishment. The rabbit house Number Two will no doubt become as famous around here as the “house that Jack built.”	'
252n	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Fonte, AL Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A St Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie. A. Walsh, A. O'Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon F. Dilger, M, Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady, B. Wade, M. Walsh, L. Kelley, C. Woodward, L. Henrotin, E. Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, 8. Hole, C. Morris. M. Cravens, J. Pierce, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Culliton, AL Spier, E. O’Neil, R. Casey, 8. Henneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, A Prettyman, M Murray, R. Neteler, C. Monran. H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson, S.'Moran, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, B, Siler, I. Maas, U. Goodell, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, M. Hutchinson. K. Casey. G. Youell, L. Gustine, E. Pierce, T. O’Brien, S. Swalley. M. Parker. L. Moran, N Kimr, E. Cannon, M. Siler, E. Edes. G- Wells. M Hooper, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe, A. Spang-ler, M- Usselman. D. Locke, M. Marky, A. Sievers, M. Thelan, L. Sehwass, A. Miller, L. Leppig, F Gurney, L- Brownbridge, (y Morrill, C. Fawcett, J. Darcy, M. Telford, N. O’Meara, M. Rail ton, C. Whitmore, R. Filbeck, L. Weber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	‘ -
Misses N. McGrath. A. McGrath. M. Hogan. N. Mann. A. Koch, M. Derby, A. Kirchner, J. Holladay, H. Dryfoos, I. Fisk, E. Lange. M. Redfield. N. Johnson, A. Morgan. L. Chilton, J. Morris, A. Kirchner, L. Kinsella, I. Mann, D. Gordon, M. McGrath, AI. Mulligan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Smith, R. Goldsberry, A. Ewing. C. Hughes, AL Hughes, E. Mulligan, E. Simpson, M. Lambin, M. Feehan, J. Duffield, M. McFadden, A. Morris, L. and A. Schnurrer.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH LESSONS. _
Graduating Class—Misses A. Clarke, H.Foote. M.Rtley.E. Dennehey. K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Rey nolds, K. McNamara.	__
‘ 1st Sr. Class—Misses L. Riteliie. A. Wa’sh. A. O Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nmining, M- Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, AI. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady, B. Wade.
2d Sr. Class—Misses M. Walsh, -L. Kelley, C. Woodward, L. Henrotin. E Mann, A. Byrne. A. Dunean. 8. Hole, C. Morris. M.Cravens, J. Pierce, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Culliton, M. Spier. E. O'Neil, R. Casey, S. Henneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, A Prettyman, M. Murray, R Neteler.
3d Sr. Class—Misses C- Morgan, H. Russell, M. and E-Thompson. 8. Moran, M. Gaynor. B.}8iler, 1^ Maas. U Goodell-S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, M. Hutchinson, K. Casey, E. Connor-
1ST Prep. Class—Misses G. Youell. L. Gustine. E. Pierce. T. O'Brien. S. Swalley. M. Parker, L. Moran, N. King, E. Cannon, M. Siler, E. Edes, G. Wells, M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe, A. Spangler. ....	...
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselman, D. Locke, A. Sievers, L. Schwass, A. Miller, L. L-ppig, F. Gurney, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, J. Darcy, N. O’Meara.
3d Prep. Class—Misses M. Railton, C. Whitmore, R. Filbeck, L. Weber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr. Class—Misses I. Fisk, A. Harns.
’ 3d Sr. Class—Misses A. Cullen, H. Dry f >os, L. Lang.
1st Prep. Class—Misses N. McGrath, J. Holladay, L. Kirchner.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Hogan, M. Derby, N. Mann, A. Ewing.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses A. Morgan, L. Chilton, L. Merritt, A. Kirchner, A. McGrath.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Smith, M. Feehan, R. Goldsberry, J. Duffield, A. and L. Schnurrer.
FRENCH.
1=t Class—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, N. McGrath, B. Wilson E. Harris.
2d Class—A. Clarke, M. Riley, A. St. Clair, H. Russel, P. Gaynor. K. Hutchinson, K. Morris, C- Woodward.
3rd Class—Misses I. Reynolds, J. Bennett. M. Hutchinson, M. Walsh, T. Walsh, J. Holladay, A. McGrath..
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses AL Thelan, A. Sievers, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, N. Tuttle, M. Schultheis, L. Kirchner, H. Dryfoos, A. O’Connor, A. Harris.
2d Class—Misses AL Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Kelley, A. Kirchner, A. Koch, R. Neteler, B. Wade. 2d Div.—Afisses H. Julius, L. Leppig, M. Usselmann. L. Walsh, D Gordon.
3rd Cuss—Misses L. Johnson, M. Spiers, L. O'Neil, S. Henneberry, E. Lange, M. Lambin.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
INSTRUMENTAL music.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote. Harp—Miss E. O’Connor. 2d Div.—Misses E. O’Connor, H. Julius, G. Kreigh.
2d Class—Misses J. Nunning, K. Hutchinson. Harp—E. Dennehey. 2d Div.—M. Julius. A. Dennehey. AL Culli'on. :
3d Class—M Cravens, A. Harris, B. Wilson, L Kirchner,-L. Henrotin. E. Dennehey, A. Byrnes, A. Sievers, I. Maas. A- Duncan, G. Wells, A. St. Clair. 2d Div.—A. Koch, L. O’Niel, M. Hutchinson, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, M. Usselmann, C. Mor- ’ gan.
4th Class—F- Dilger, H. Russel, AL Roberts, A. T. Clarke,' K. Joyce, M. Redfield, J. Bennett, F. Gurney, D. Locke.' 2d" Div.—L. Johnson, E. and M. Thompson, A. O’Connor, A. Gordon, A. Prettyman, AL Reily, N- Tuttle.
5th Class—J. Holladay, M. Thelan. L-’Kinsella, E. Lange, A. Cullen, A. Kirchner, M. Schultheis. 2d Div.—A. Spangler, U. Goodell, L. Moran, A. AfcGrath, L. Merritt, P. Gaynor, N. McGrath, L. Leppig, L. Gustine. I. Reynolds, M. Gaynor, S. Hole,-. L. Walsh, C. Woodward, B. Siler, A. Walsh, M. Siler, Af. Walsh,
6th Class—M. O'Connor, H. Dryfoos, M. Alulligan, L. Weber, L. Sehwass, AL McGrath, T. O’Brien, H. O’Meara. A. Alorgan, AI. Hooper. E. Simpson, J. Alorris, M. Brady, S. Edes, A. Miller, I. Ejes. 2d Div.- E. Pierce, I. Fisk, L. Brownbridge, J. Mitchell, L. Faulkner. E. Edes,.R. Casey, M. Parker, S. Swalley, K Casey, A. Ewing, K. Morris, N. Johnson, M. Derby.
7th Class—E York. R. Filbeck, J.Pierce, E.Cannon, S. Cash, . J. Darcy, C. Morrill, AL Alarky, M. Ewing, L. Kelley,C. Fawcett, L Tighe, L. Fawcett.
8 rn Class—R. Goldsberry, C. and M. Hughes.
9th Class—A. Peak. AL Davis.
10th Class—J. Duffield, L. Lambin, E. Alulligan, J. Smith.
Organ—C. Whitmore.
Guitar—R. Devoto, B. Wade.
Harmony—Aliss Arrington, Afiss Devoto.
Theoretical Classes—A. T. Clarke, J. Nunning, Al.Craven, A. Prettyman. L. Kirchner. E. Dennehey, I Alaas, A. Sievers, G. Wells, E. O’Connor, AI. Julius, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Niel, H.. Julius, A. Henneberry, G. Kreigh, B. Wilson, A. Harris, A. Byrnes, AL Usselman, L. Weber, A. Duncan, C. Morgan, F. Dilger, M. Reily, A. O'Conner, S. Hole, S. Swalley, N. Tuttle, S. • Edes, AI. Brady, M. Gaynor. AI. Spier, L. Johnson, M. O’Connor, L. Aferritt, C Woodward, M. Hutchinson, F. Gurney, L. Moran, J. Bennet—No reports fiom the other classes.
FANCY ‘WORK.
Alisses 8. Swalley, L. Schwas-s, L. Brownbridge, D. Lock, M.. Cravens, J. Pierce, T. O’Brien, N.Kmg, J. Benneit, AI. Usselman, L. Leppig. 8. Ede.-, I. Edes, A. Duncan, A. Hennebury, Al. O’Neil, M. Spier, M. Parket. M Biady, E. Mann, R. Filbeck, A. Sievers. N. O’AIeara, AI. Faxon, AI. Reily, R. Neteler, S. Hole, C. vlorgan, L. Riichie. I. Alaas, M. Thelan, N. Foote, T. Burns, M. Pretiyman, A. AIcGrath, H. Dryfoos, E. Lang. A. Koch, M. Hogan, E. Simpson, D. Gordon, B. Wilson, J. Smith, AL Derby.
Tuesday Next! Tuesday Next!
December 21, ISTiS.
The Scholastic Almanac
WILL BE ISSUED.
It will contain many choice Essays, Poems, etc., which have at times appeared in THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, together with a record of events relating to Notre Dame. It will be beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in glazed cover.
Single Copies, 25 Cents.
For Sale at the Students’ Office, Notre Dame, and in Chicago by Jansen, McClurg & Co., 117 and 119 State St., and by the Western News Co., 42 and 44 Randolph St.
—You should never tell a man that he lies. Simply remark that he is guilty of heterophemy, and drop the subject —if he 11 let you.
Old lace is.the object of the latest fashionable mania, and the factories are running double, time to supply the demand.-—Alabama State Journal.
.... THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
253
M. Livingston & Co.,
'	’ -A-ZRZS THE
Leading Hsrciant Tailors in South Bend.
They navethe Best Cutter inthe City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. The'r stock
Clothing, Cloths, Cassinieres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is heplargest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satis action guaranteed on all goods.
- RBMEMBEB THE PEACE.
94 MICHIGAN St, SOUTH BEND, IND.
McDonald,
THE FHOTOGRAEHEB,
Is still at his	•
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
CANDY! CANDY! CANDY!
.	- The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
• 100 Van Buren St.,	.
CHICAGO, ILL.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy...................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy...............................25c
■Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels.....................................  35c
Molasses and Cream Candy.......................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to Wh.ole- ‘ sale Cash. Buyers. ’
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOG-BAPHEL
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH 2BHDNTJD, ITTZOTJATSTJA.
" Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholas Tic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the Uni versity, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly at ended to.
ti_____________________•	_____
. O. H. SHEEHEH,
.'Hats, Caps and Furs,
TJRTTNKS,
.JCravsling Bags, Gloves, ani Gents’‘Furnishing Goods, Etc., ' HO Michigan Street, -
"A’ .	’ SOTTTZEC ZESZEDSTZD IJSTZD ‘
For Holidays! For All Days!
No Gifts Better Appreciated.
Just Ont.-Now, Frcsli and Handsome X 2
GEMS OF ENGLISH SONG
. »
A perfect collection of songs, with piano accompani men' comprising over 75 of the choicest Songs, Ballads, Duets, Qu a tets known, selected with great care, and with especial regard to quality and popularity; 232 pages, full music size.
'Hie N Y. Evening Mail says: “ A most extraordinary collection of really fine songs One could hardly imagine so many veritable gems could he contained in a S’ng’e volume ”	-
Price, §2.50 plain; §3 Ui in muslin; §4.00 full gilt..'
Of the sam° form and price, full music size, are
. Gems of Strauss. A new edition, comprising over 100 best Strauss Waltzes, etc., etc.	-.
Organ at Home
Musical Treasure. • Gems of German Song.
Pianoforte Gems.
Gems of Scottish. Song. Moore’s Irish Melodies.
DITSON & GO’S MU. IC BOOKS
For Catholic Churches.
Books containing Morning and Evening Service. -
THE OFFERTORIUM...................Fiske.	2.50
The newest work. Plenty of easy as well as more difficult music.
THE CANTATA. No. 1 Morning Service. .Werner. 2.25
THE CANTATA. No. 2. Evening Service.. “	2 25
THE MEMORARE.......................... 275
THE CATHOLIC CHOIR BOOK..........Garbert. 2.50 LYRA CATHOLlCA...................Wilcox & Southard. 2.50
STABAT MATER................................. .Rossini.	45
MASSES.
By Beethoven, in C.... 65 Haydn, 1st, 2d & 4th ea. 80 Haydn, 6th..........1.00
Havdn, 7th & Sth, each. 65 Haydn, 3d...........1.00
Rossini Messe Sol’nelle 1.60 Bordese, in F.........65
De Mont', B flat......65
Guignard............1.00
Southard in F.........50
“ D................50
Weber, in E flat......65
“ G................50
Mozart, 2d, 7th & 9th, ea 65
“ 1st Mass.........65
“ 12th............. 80
'• 15th............65
Gounod, Messe Sol’nelle 80
Concone, mF...........65
Farmer, B flat........80
Eambillotte, Pascale.. .2.50
Niedermeyer.........1-25
Stearns, in A........1.50	.
Thayer, No.. 1......2-.00
Zimmer...............2.00
Any of the above books mailed, postpaid, for the retail price.
OLIVER DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. BITSON & CO., .
Boston.	711 Bioaiway, BEff YQBK
" . LYON HEALY, Chicago.
254	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
MEYER LTWinSTG-STOHST,
60 Washington St^,
Three Boors West of Blom’s Cigar store, SOUTH BEND, IND
f^Kaens on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods All the Students should give him a call.
; THE OLD RLLIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts oi home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, I Pronriptors CAbTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend al follows:
GOING EAST.
8 40 a m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30: 1’leveland3 p m; Buffalo M 15.
1 O 13 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m; < leveland 10 15.
II 55 aw, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 lo; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40: Cleveland. 7 <5; Buffalo, 1 lOp n .	,
7 53 pm, Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m.. Buffalo 7 pm.
4 40 p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4-0 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 415 p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5 3 Oa m, Pacific Ei press. Arrives at LaporteS 45; Chicago
820 a m	' ■
3 p m. Evening Express. Arrives at Lap<rte355; Chicago, 6 30
5 4,3 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45. Chicago. 8 20.
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
11 3” a. m.	.
9 19 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
HDHESTTIST,
109	street,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IK
Watches, Clocks, JEWELRY.
PHILADELPHIA BAZAR.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
:ZEZ.
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancv Goods, White Goods Embroideries, Laces. Ribbons, Artificials Parasals, Sun Umbrellas, etc. Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Gants’ Furnishing Goods A Specialty.
SHICKEY,
PB >PBIETOB OP THE
NOTRE DAME AAD ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Ma-y’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purcnased SEVERAL Nt-'W CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
jVttiiclicdL to tile ZVn tioiial Hotel, and Ad-
jacent to 1 Jie Bake Shore and Aticliitsmi Southern Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made between Noire Damn and mv office, through the Michigan aouthern Depot, J sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to'mee" all trains.
For my attention to rhe pa'rons of Notre Dame and St. Mery's, 1 refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions. '
.	P. SHICKEY.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Novcmber 31, 1875.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express	•Kal Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNigh Expres
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. .. “ Jackson. .. Ar. Oetp'it		5 00 a.m 7 32 9 02 “ 2 12 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 01 “ 12 15 p.m 4 05 “ t 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 30 *• 7 00 a.m 10 15 “	5 15 p m 7 43 “ 8 55 “ 12 47 am 3 50 “	9 00 p.m 11 15 . “ ; 12 45 4 55 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m >0 37 •• 3 40 p,m 5 15 “ 7 35	9 50 a m 12 30 p.m 4 19 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p in 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	5 40 p it 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 (.5 “ 6 30	9 50 “ 12 45 a.m 4»J “ 5 45 “ 8 0" *•
Niles and South Bend Ui vision.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 15 p m. 7 23 “	$9 OG a.m. 9 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 00 “	9 40 “
§7 oo p.m
7 07 “ 7 40 *•
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00 a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56 “	8 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05 •»	8 40
§5 00 p.m 5 32 ••
5 40 “
•Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.-
JSunaay only.
G. L. Elliott. -	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt.,Notre Dame.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
255
THE WEEKLY SUN.
1776.NEW YOHg.1876.
Eighteen hundred and seventy-six is the Centennial year. It is also the year in which an Opposition House of Representatives, the first since the war, will be in power at Washington ; and the year of the twenty-third election of a President of the United States. All of these events are sure to be of great .nter-est and importance, especially the two latter; and all of them and everything connected with them will be fully and freshly reported and expounded in The Sun.
The Opposition House of Representatives, taking up the line of inquiry opened years ago by The Sun, will sternly and diligently investigate the corruptions and misdeeds of Grant’s ad ministration ; and will, it is to be hoped, lay the foundation for a new and better period in our national history. Of all this The Sun will contain complete and accurate accounts, furnishing its readers with early and trustworthy information upon these absorbing topics.
The twenty-third Presidential election, with the preparations for it, will be memorable as deciding upon Grant’s aspirations for a third term of power and plunder, and still more as deciding who shall be the candidate of the party of Reform, and as e ecting that candidate. Concerning all these subjects, those who read The Sun will have the constant means of being t horoughly well informed. '	.
The Weekly Sun, which has attained a circulation of over e’g ity thousand copies, already has its readers in every State and Territory, and we trust that the year 1876 will see their numbers doubled. It will continue to be a thorough newspaper. All the general news of the day will be found in it, condensed when unimportant, at full length when of moment; and always, we trust, treated in a clear, interesting and instructive manner.
It is our aim to make the Weekly Sun the best family news paper in the world, and we shall continue to give in its columns a large amount of miscellaneous reading, such as stories, tales, poems, scientific intelligence and agricultural information, for which we are not able to make room in our daily edition. The agricultural department especially is one of its prominent features. The fashions are also regularly reported in its columns ; and so are the markets of every kind.
The Weekly Sun, eight pages, with fifty-six broad columns, is only §1.20 a year, postage prepaid. As this price barely repays the cost of the paper, no discount can be made from this rate to clubs, agents, postmasters, or anyone.
The Daily Sun, a large four-page newspaper of twentyeight columns, gives all the news for two cents a copy. Subscription, postage prepaid, 55c. a month or §6.50 a year. Sunday edition extra, §1.10 per year. We have no travelling agents.
'	Address, THE SUN, New York City.
St, Academy.
(One Nile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BV THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All 'he branches of a solid and complete ecucation are taught here. Mesic, both vocal and instrumental. and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to th* educational required ntsof-the day, and furnished with all modern im prove men t s Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their eons and daughters.	.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the I'wentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Nary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address
.	.	St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
~ FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a stood twj story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriige shed, coal-house, young tree-, grapes, shrubbery, e c., will be sold at reasonable figures of-a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EXERCISE FOB COLLEGE STUDENTS.
Dr. Jolin son’s Portable Parlor
Health Lift & Lift Exercise.
ELASTIC, REACTIONARY AND CUMULATIVE.
A complete Gymnasium for Men, Women and Children. It yields all the Developing, Curative and Hygienic Effects of the Bulky, Three Hundred Dollar Machines— Doubles the Strength in a few months—Weighs but 18lbs.; packs in a space 4x13x20 inches; affords a dead weight lift of from 50 to 1.000 lbs, with on’y 4 lbs. dead weight— Nickel Plated and Ornamental—Poice, $25 and $30.— Send for full Circular.
J. W. SCHERMERHORN & CO.,
14 Bond S’., New York.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
FEBHUAHV, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side)
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.			
Q Trains with Through 'ars to	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex Sund'y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex hx Sa & >u
° NEW YORK.			
			
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m. 5 20 a.m
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	
“ Lima		4 35 “	1 25 a.m.	8 00 “
“ Forest		5 34 “	3 01 “	9 17 “
“ Crestline		7 00 “	440 “	11 10 “ -
“ Mansfield		7 50 “	5 20 “	11 50 “
“ Orrville		9 42 “	7 13 “	1 46 p.m. 3 19 “
“ Massillon		10 15 «	7 45 “	
“ Canton 		10 33 “	8 00 “	3 38 “
“ Alliance		11 15 “	8 40 “	3 20 “
“ Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		2 20 “	12 15 p m.	7 05 “
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar. Cresson		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 «
“ Altoona		7 30 “	5 55 “	13 10 a.m;
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 «	4 13 “
“ Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 «
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia.		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
“ New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m. 5 55 “
“ Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	
“ Springfield..'.		1 35 u	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
“ Providence.^		4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
“ Boston			5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That ru* s tne celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change, t hrough tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	___
F. H. MYEHS, G. P. & T. A
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and southern Missouri. Thia is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:	,
Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 ajn. 4 (Opm Pern accommodation .............. 5 00 p m. 9 30 a m"
Nght Express.......................10 00 p.m. - 6 15 a.m."
M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
256
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Central
SOUTH BE NTD, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS-HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
D. W. RUSS & CO. “
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS >-or Meals, Oysters,
ICE CREAM, EIES, ETC-
MEALS A.T AUC. HOURS.
FEAUKMAYB
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AUD JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGRAVING-^ SPECIALTY Repairing Done in tbe Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,, SOUTH ZEZHNTZD.
. LUCIUS G. TONG, ’
A-TTOZELZN’ZEY'-^T-ZLTY'W,
AND NOTABY PUBLIC,
Ko. 9 Ofli Fellows’ Block, south bend, Indiana.
The Nine Cent Store!
Ill Michigan Street,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A Full Line Of New Holiday Goods on Band.
FURNISHING GOODS A SPECIALTY.
GIVE US A CALL.
ESTABLISHED 1852.
JBL M, Baler & Bra.,
Dealers in
• BOOTS AND SHOES.
The Largest Retailing House in the State
Conur ol WasMngtoii ail Hicliiiian. Sts., SOUTH BEND.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of ihe Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special Attention Given to Depositions.
A. C. SHIRE, '
WHOLES A X.E
Dealer in Havana Cigars,
1O1 Main Street,
Two Boors South Of Efl. Gillen’S,	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. “Madison, Chicago.]
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
HEHBY SZHZETZHZ, Corner Washington and Miclilgan Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store) SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
117 AND 119 STATE STEZET,
CHICAGO, TumsroTS. u BUZ BY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS Clothiers and Dealers in	'
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 Michigan SSt., SOUTH HETTTD, TJSTZDTJATTJA. • The Mand
A. McKay, Drop., ZNZEZLZES, ZMHCZHZIG-JYZISr. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House7-The Students’ Office,
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc No. 51 Washington St., soutth bJEiw, izltzd. -