The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 6, 1875.
Number 20.
JNO.HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
Cur Judge.	Notarf Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG, ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Dines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS, _ , . ,	Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., . o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
J) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
'	—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS . IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St.. • SOUTH BEND IND., o21-tf.
E. CUMMINS,	.
*	DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
EN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STABLES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets,
South Bend, Indiana. o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles, -	-	-	-	- Michigan."^
A. McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, Jor guests of the house •	DOT 2844 tf.
NICAR & Co.,
’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIAN^.
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc.,
o84-tf
y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St„ - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. .
o24-tf
A. J. STAGE,
' COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to
Office with M. Stover, Room 22, over Wills & Stems, Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-14 tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
Soutli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Kailway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
. AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
nov 7-8m	.
Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. XI1 MICHIGAN STBEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND.
(Up Staiis.)	J4o24~tf
M. A. Smith.	E. P- Hollowat.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, ’»
Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Tors
and Musical Instruments.
No. 77, Washington St., -	-	- ^SOUTH BEND, IND
dec 544 8a
S74
THE SCHOLASTIC.
riiilade] pliia, J?a.
THE
AMERICAN ELOCUTIONIST
AND
(Third Edition—Revised and Enlarged.)
For the Use of Colleges; Academies and Schools.
By JOSEPH Ac. LYONS, A. AT,
WITH AN
Elaborate Introduction on Elocution aud Vocal Culture ■	BY THE
Rev. M.'B. BROWN, A. M.
This work, we are confident, will commend itself to Educators. It affords examples of every variety and style of declamation, so that persons of different tastes and abilities may all find something to suit the peculiarities of each. The engravings, illustrative of every gesture in use, will be found specially instructive to those studying without a teacher. It is bound in cloth, and contains a splendid steel engraving of Webster.
Loxa, III., February 19, 1872.
Lyons’ Elocution is singularly adapted to my classes, and I shall put it in the hands of my next class in elocution, as the text-book of the Academy in that specialty. I very much approve of the plan. The diagrams have long been needed, for they depict to the eye what words must always fail to do—the additional force of expression given to language by attitude [and gesture. Without some such accurate;pictures to stimulate a class to emulation, what ought to be a pleasing study, both in imparting instruction and the receiving of it. becomes otherwise a dry and insipid branch in theory and practice. T. J. LEE.
St. Mary’s Mission, Kan., February 13,1872.
Lyons’ American Elocutionist is, in my opinion, one of the best that has yet appeared. I shall endeavor to introduce it into our school next scholastic year. P. I. WAKD, S. J.
From the Vice-President of St. Ignatius College, Chicago, III.
I have examined Prof. Lyons’ American Elocutionist, and am highly pleased with it. No one can read Prof. Brown’s elaborate introduction on Vocal Culture without feeling grateful to the learned author for the boon he confers upon the youthful aspirant to public speaking. The selections are chosen with discrimination and good taste. As a book of oratory, the American Elocutionist will take the first place.
The best work on Elocution published.—Prof. Ponham.
From Allen A. Griffith, A. 21., Prof, of Elocution.
I welcome the American Elocutionist to the field where so much help is needed. The introductory matter is good, the illustrations truthful and artistic, the selections new, varied and valuable. I shall take pleasure in using it in my classes.
.	’ GEOGRAPHIES.
MITCHELL’S NEW FIRST LESSONS IN GEOGRAPHY,... MITCHELL’S NEW PRIMARY GEOGRAPHY, 4to,....... MITCHELL’S NEW INTERMEDIATE GEOGRAPHY, 4to,.. MITCHELL’S NEW SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY AND ATLAS, MITCHELL’S NEW PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY,........... MITCHELL’S NEW ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY, 12mo,...... MITCHELL’S NEW OUTLINE MAPS AND KEY,* Small
Series. In Portfolio or on Rollers. Net,..
MITCHELL’S NEW OUTLINE MAPS AND KEY* Large Series. On Rollers, Net,...................... . HAND-BOOK OF MAP-DRAWING,...................
*Colored Physically and,-Politically, or Politically only.
HISTORIES.
GOODRICH’S AMERICAN CHILD’S PICTORIAL HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES,..........................
GOODRICH’S PICTORIAL HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES,........................................
GOODRICH’S PICTORIAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND,........ GOODRICH’S PICTORIAL HISTORY OF ROME............ GOODRICH’S PICTORIAL HIS TORY OF GREECE......... GOODRICH’S PICTORIAL HISTORY OF FRANCE.......... GOODRICH’S PARLEY’S COMMON-SCHOOL HISTORY OF
THE WORLD....................................
GOODRICH’S PICTORIAL NATURAL HISTORY............
From Eis Grace the Host Eev. Archbishop of Few York.
New York, July 11, 1872.
We cheerfully concur in the excellent recommendations, already given by many in favor of Mitchell’s Geographies, as revised and corrected by Mr. M. R. Keegan, of Chicago.
<I« John McCloskey,
Abp. of New York.
From Eis Grace the Host Etv. Archbishop of Cincinnati, 0.
Cincinnati, Ohio, July 22,1871.
As Mitchell’s Geographies are so highly approved of by the most eminent Catholic educators of the country, and have been cleansed from everything offensive to Catholic children by M. R. Keegan, of Chicago, we recommend their use in all our schools in preference to any other text-books on the subject.
4«John B. Purcell, Archbishop of Cincinnati.
■ Pittsburgh, Pa., March 27, 1872.
After a careful examination, I believe that Mitchell’s Series of Geographies is one of the best before the public, and as such ought to be adopted by our teachers and school authorities.
John Hickey, V. G.
MITCHEL’S NEW GEOGRAPHIES
ARE’ USED IN THE FOLLOWING SCHOOLS :
In Chicago—Cathedral Parochial Shools,for boys and girls; St. Mary’s Schools ; St. Patrick’s Schools, for boys ; in all the Schools of the Holy Family, male and female; in all the .Schools of the Franciscan Sisters ; in all the Schools of St. Michael’s ; in all the Select and Parochial Schools of the Sisters of Charity, Ladies of the Sacred Heart, School Sisters of Notre Dame, and the Christian Brothers. They have been selected by the Faculty of St. Ignatius, under the Jesuit Fathers, and are already in nearly all the Schools, Colleges, and Universities of these Fathers throughout the country.	-
They are used in the Schools and Colleges of the Christian Brothers throughout the United States and Canadas. They are used in the Schools of the Redemptorists throughout the country. They are used, approved, and recommended by the Mother House of the Sisters of Charity, at Emmittsburg, Md.; by the Mother House of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, of Milwaukee, Wis.; by the Sisters of Mercy, Sisters of St. Joseph, Sisters of the Visitation ; by the School Sisters of Notre Dame of Ohio; and by nearly all Catholic Institutions throughout the country.
From the Catholic Eirror.
Baltimore, Saturday, June 4,1870.
This series is worthy of all praise. It is full, clear, and perhaps the most reliable of all text-books on the subject at present before the public. The New Intermediate is a most valuable book in the school-room, the library, and business office, for its exclusive and reliable information of the countries of the world ; giving their extent, population, products, physical features, railroads (if any), government, religion, etc., correctly and impartially. For the first time a geography is offered to the public which speaks out openly of Catholic countries without prejudice or suppression of the truth.
Address, also, for introductory Terms,
M. R. Keegan,
-45 V 12tli Street^ Chicago, 111.
1
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
of the Students.
Disee quasi semper 'victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 6, 1875.	Number 20.
Archbishop Leahy.
BY J. M. J. G.
I.
0 Cashel of the Kings, thy harp is still: Its soul of melody forever fled,
For he whose genius ’woke the patriot thrill, Now rests with Erin’s pure, immortal dead!
■ ii.
What hand shall touch that harp’s mute chord again With kindly magic of the tear and smile, To the proud theme of Freedom’s holy reign, When saints and heroes graced the Sacred Isle ?
m.
Weep, Innisfail, for Leahy, thy pure son ;	■
Had he the power, thou hadst been great and free:
Of all thy cherished priests and heroes, none
- Hath better kept the faith of old than he!
IV.
Hear ye the death-wail moaning on the blast,— The bitter weeping of the sons of Ir ?
Deep is the sorrow of the poor downcast,— Deeper than thine, 0 lonely child of Lir!
v.
Behold, the awful shades of ages fled
Give forth the spirits of king, saint and seer;
They place the victor’s crown upon his head, And watch beside him dead, who lived their peer.
vi.	.
Where’er one honest bosom throbs with life,— Where’er one heart hath felt the patriot flame,—
The heartfelt prayer of mingled love and grief, Shall raise from earth to Heav’n loved Leahy’s name.
Spiders.
“ What can there be interesting in that commonplace, repulsive little creature, which infests our houses, annoys us by its presence, and shocks our sense of decency with its filthy webs;—in that cruel little monster, whose whole life is employed in weaving snares to entrap unwary flies, murdering them remorselessly, when they are caught in its toils, and then sucking their life’s blood ? ” It is true, spiders are not very lovable creatures, but this is a prejudiced statement; spiders are repulsive only as long as we are ignorant of them. If we will only stop to examine their wonderful structure and their ingenious ways, we will get rid of these foolish notions and find that the crea-j ture will richly repay us for the time and pains of studying | it.	’
i There are many kinds of spiders, and they vary in size T from a grain of sand to several inches in diameter. Some f kinds are met with in all parts of the world, and some are
limited to special localities; some live in the fields, others on the water; some dwell habitually in houses, others are driven in by the cold weather; each kind, however, has its special adaptations and modes of life. Let us take the small house spider, and examine it under a magnifying-glass. The body consists of the thorax and abdomen; there is no separate head, the head and thorax being fused together under the name of cephalathorax. They are provided with eight legs and eight eyes; the latter are arranged in two rows on the top of the cephalathorax; they are simple in construction and incapable of motion, but nevertheless they enable the spider to perceive its prey, no matter in what direction it may approach. Below the eyes we perceive the large points of the jaws, or mandables, as they are termed, with which they do their small work of butchery. These mandables consist of a sharp-pointed blade, whose edge is serrated with a row of fine teeth; this works back and forth on another jaw which is provided with fine, lance-like teeth. Besides this, the spider possesses another and smaller pair of jaws, called “ maxillar,” which have also finely-toothed edges, and operate against each other to enlarge the wound made by the - mandables. This looks formidable enough, but it is not the worst. At the points of the mandables there is a receptacle filled with deadly venom, which is conveyed through a tube to the pointed extremity of the blade. The moment it pierces the body of the prey, the poison is emitted, and, entering the wound, renders it fatal at the same time, probably benumbing the sensibility of the victim. If we direct our glass to the surface of the abdomen we perceive a number of projections, studded over with microscopic tubes: these are contrivances for spinning the web. From these minute tubes there exudes a glutinous substance, which solidifies into a fine strong filament, as soon as it is exposed to the air. The microscope has proved that each one of these almost invisible fibres' is composed of hundreds of finer ones, just as a ship’s cable is formed of minute hempen fibres, while the main strand is spun far more rapidly than the eye can follow the process. The strength thus secured is not only very great, but the line is also elastic. Lewenhoek, the renowned microscopist, who studied this subject carefully, makes some extraordinary statements in regard to the minuteness of these threads. Some spiders, he says, that are not larger than a grain of sand, spin complex cords of which it would take millions to equal in thickness one of the hairs of his beard.
We have all watched the spider constructing its web, with most wonderful rapidity and instinct. We cannot but wonder at this little creature as it wanders from place to place, weaving its threads into a perfect net to entrap its prey, constructing its net upon accurate geometrical principles, and, what is most remarkable of all, performing
276	THE SCHOLASTIC.

this task in what to us would be total darkness. Let us examine how the spiders accomplish their work. The first thing to be done is to enclose a space with strong lines as a kind of frame for the net. It is immaterial what the shape of this enclosed area, but the lines must be very strong; so they are constructed of several threads glued together, and attached to various objects of support. From these principal lines the spider draws other threads, the spaces between which she fills up by running from one to the other and connecting them by new lines, until the gauze-like texture is formed. The creature then hides itself in a sort of curtain, at some distance from the net; this is connected with the web by several threads, which serve to warn the spider, by its vibrations, of the approach of an insect, and also as a railroad over which the spider can glide and seize her victim. Morally, the spider has a bad reputation, and is the subject of many vile epithets; but when compared with its accusers it presents by no means a bad case. The spider practices the virtues of industry, patience and perseverance under difficulties. The female is a very affectionate parent, and is very fond of her young. The spider is a very skilful hunter and an ingenious trapper, but it has never been known to indulge its fierce prac-z tices for mere wanton sport. It is merciless and cruel, but it is moved in its actions by self-interest, the alleged basis of all political economy. The spider “ must live,” you know, and it is a maxim with it, like with its human neighbor, to “look out for No. 1.” Besides, the spider contributes its share to the general comfort. What would this world be, if flies could have their way without let or hindrance? Killing flies is a necessity, and a righteous thing, as it is jointly undertaken by men, women, children, and spiders; for purpose of- common beneficence each should receive his rightful share of the honor.
T. F. G.
The Starting of Segringen^
.	FROM THE GERMAN.
If it be useful even to a starling for learn something, how much more useful must it be to man 1 A barber in the town of Segringen had a starling which his apprentice taught to speak. The starling not only learned'all the words which his teacher proposed to him, but at last imitated also what he heard from his master; for example: “ Ich bin der Barbier ton Segringen"—“ I am the barber of Segringen.”
- The master had, besides, some other phrases which he made use ofon many occasions; asforexample: “Parcom-pagnie:"—“ As God wills it”; or, “ You blockhead.” This last was the expression he used to his apprentice when the latter smeared half the plaster on the table instead of on the cloth (for the barber, as is customary in European countries, also bled people as well as shaved them), or when he sharpened the razor on the back instead of the edge. As there were often a number of persons chatting in the room, the starling gave cause for many a laugh when he threw in his exclamations, which suited the par-■ ticular turn of the conversation as well as if he understood the subject.
One beautiful day, when his clipped wings had grown ' again, the window being open he thought that he had now already learned enough to get along in the world, and away he went through the window! His first flight was
into the field, where he fell in with a number of other birds; and when they flew up into the air he followed them, thinking they understood the business of this outside part of the world better than he. But unhappily they all flew together into a trap. Shortly after, the trap-setter came, and saw what a catch he had made; he took carefully one bird after another out of the net, twisted his head off, and threw him on the ground. As he streched his murderous hand after another bird, the prisoner screeched: “Ich bin der Barbier ton Segringen." The trap-setter at this strange exclamation got frightened, thinking that things were not as they should be; but after he had recovered from his fright, he could scarcely breathe from laughter, and said: “Eh, Polly: are you here? How did you get into my trap ? ” The bird answered: “ Par compagnie." The man then brought the bird back to its owner and received a good reward.
Moral.—Such a thing may happen but seldom to a starling, but it happens very often that a young man following bad company wherever it may lead him, falls into a trap and never gets out again.	. P.
Essays on Divers Matters.
BY J. M. S. G.
No. HL—Elocution.
The great danger of pushing the manner of speaking too far is obvious to anyone of ordinary intelligence. In that case the matter suffers. Gesture, when artificial, is an utter abomination. To affect, it must be spontaneous,—a physical expression, as far as possible, of the.thought which moves the whole man. What is more disgusting than to see gestures, which might be appropriate in the heroic degree of oratory, that is, with thought at its grandest, most powerful tension, accompanying a wishy-washy ebullition of rhetorical, ginger-beer froth ? A gesture that is not perfectly natural may suit an artificial declaimer on the stage, where nothing is real, not even the virtue or beauty, but a true orator never indulges in such meretricious pretenses; millions may be influenced by a speaker who has never learned to make windmills of his arms. The rhetorical shillelah may suit stump oratory and stump audiences, but the intelligent mind will only acknowledge the influence of mind.
Some people think it is easy to be an orator. It is just as easy to paintRuben’sDe«ce«# from the Grose, to write a play like Shakspere, or a poem like Dryden, as to produce a real oration. But though one cannot be a great orator one can most assuredly acquit himself creditably, as occasion chances, according to his gifts. To do this, it is not necessary to enact a sorry pantomime. A grave, decent, appropriate gesture is sufficient. It is not oratory, nor common sense—which is the same thing—to wriggle the body when speaking of snakes, to shake in one's boots to represent a shudder, to spring six feet high to illustrate an explosion, or to frantically pound the air with the fists when describing the doughty deeds of Tom Wiggins or some other hero of equal renown. Don Quixote, armed tap-a-pie, chargin the flock of sheep, presents a spectacle less ludicrous than he who springs backward and forward, up and down, hither and thither, flourishing his arms like a Jump-Jack, now bawling as if he had fallen overboard in mid ocean, now growling with a long, rolling, emphatic, panting snarl like a sour-tempered cur disturbed at his bone,looking with
THE SCHOLASTIC.
277
Straining eyes at nothing in particular and saying a great deal less. How profoundly such a one moves and convinces is obvious, especially when, at short intervals, he casts a critical glance at his uplifted bands to see that thecurve, the shake, the sweeping thunderbolts are properly accompanying the laboringsentences that are struggling for a gnat’sex-istence at the tip of his tongue. tali auxtlio orator eget.
Most certainly a speaker should not stand before his audience with hands and feet motionless. The rostrum is not a gallows. Neither is it a platform for a marionette nor pupazzi show. Let us never lose sight of the truth that people go chiefly to hear a speaker, not to see him. Though a good appearance and graceful gesture add immensely to a real thinker’s oratory, the gold is none the less sterling if he possess neither the one nor the other. Bourdaloue rarely gesticulated, Felix has an insignificant appearance—yet oratory never had nobler exponents. Websters gesture was, like his form and language, grave and massive; McGee, who was, by all odds, the finest lecturer that ever stood upon a platform, indulged but slightly in gesticulation; Phillips, who is a charming radical, enunciates his silvery villainy with infrequent gesture. In fact when a real orator speaks he has too much to say to be troubling his head about the specious prettiness of a twist or a curve. If a man think correctly, he is naturally possessed of taste; and if he have taste, his gesture will always play faithful valet to the thought.
.The Snow-Bird.
BY J. M. 3. G.
I.
Pair little merry bird!
drifting on snow-storms and the wintry blast;
When the bright summer days are dead and past, Thy song alone is heard I
IE.
Warm, little faithful heart, Why do you linger through the weary time ? Why not fly off to some more pleasant clime, When other birds depart ?
nr.
Where is the bright-plumed race, Which chanted among the shady forest trees, Their simple, joyous, thrilling melodies
With such enchanting grace ¥
iv.
Snow-bird, why should we praise Those gaudy songsters of our happy hours,— Which only come and sing when blue May flowers
Herald the summer days?
V.
Your song is never done,—
Your eye of brightness never doleful grows, When sturdy Winter spreads his fleecy snows
To carpet the cold sun.
VI.
No dainty, pampered hand
Shelters you, Snow-bird, when the storm-winds rage, But freedom’s yours, my friend,—you never page
A tyrant’s mean command!
vn.
Be wise, Snow-bird, he wise I Trust to the pitiless winds and hurtling storm, But trust not man. His words have truthful form,— Snow-bird, beware I—they’re lies!—
vm.
Sport in your snow-clad grange, And sing your song of happiness to those Whose smile ne’er masks the deadly guile of foes
When Fortune’s favors change.
IX.
Fashion your peaceful nest
Beneath the branches of the faithful tree, And give to solitude the melody
Which thrills within your breast-
x.
Snow-bird, you’ll never rue Thejoy which wakes the silent grove with song, Where are no envious foes to set you wrong
With echoes all untrue,
XI.
Better, my little bird—
Better a thousand times, thy lay unheard
Than that false friends thy trusting heart should gird.
With evil, viperous word I
XII,
But go on, trusting still, For though your simple faith be oft deceived, The vain illusion of a smile believed,
May comfort one life ill.
Usurious Contracts.
It is a matter of grave surprise that so many of the contracts we make in life are usurious. We do not recognise the fact at the time—perhaps not at all—but it exists, and we must pay the interest and principal, an amount for which we received but a trifling consideration. Throughout the whole world the term usury is an epithet of reproach, and justly too; for its motive has its origin in a sordid, dispicable nature. Men despise that which is small and mean, as naturally as they are constrained to admire that which is brave and noble and generous, and hence the man who will take advantage of the distress of his fellowman and extort from him a rate of interest which nothing but the direst necessity could compel him to pay, is regarded as a leech upon society, and is visited with the odium his baseness deserves.
But we contract for pleasures which are evanescent, and after a long season of reckless dissipation awake to the fact, the stern, undeniable reality, that we have made a usurious contract, and must pay in-years of bitter suffering the enormous rate of interest specified in the contract. There is no appeal; no relief; no bankrupt act: we must begin at once, and continue till the last farthing is paid, even though Death should attempt to interfere; for this is one of the few contracts which reach beyond the shores of time, and are cancelled somewhere in eternity.
We contract with hope in the bright golden dawn of youth, and she shows us in long glittering perspective the halo-crowned peaks of the jasper mountains of future usefulness and future honor; but she tells us not of the heart-sickening disappointments, the wretched failures, and bitter experiences of defeat, which we must pay as interest on our borrowed capital.
We contract with ambition in the full certainty that we are to receive the prizes in the race for preferment. We laugh to scorn the monitions of conscience, which, from time to time, warn us we are overdrawing our account; that our contract was a false and dangerous one; and that we should retire with the laurels we have already won, and ndeavor to pay back the balance we have accumulated
2?8	TSE SCHOLASTIC.
■--------------------------------------—--------t
against us. Such warnings we never heed: such advice is thrown away; we simply push forward with increased animation, and toil onward up the irregular ascents which ambition has pointed out, pressing from crag to crag, and resting only when completely exhausted, or crushed by the unexpected burden of some great disappointment. In such a moment as this we may, perhaps, realize the rash folly of our contract, but we cannot retreat now; and with a cold, fierce determination we renew the struggle, winning a few brief triumphs, but overwhelmed at last by continued defeat, and tortured beyond endurance by the knowledge of the sacrifice we have made, death comes to claim his share in the contract, and relieves us of the now useless burden of life.
We contract with the demon of intemperance for an occasional glass of spirits with which to indulge our appetite/ but the demon exacts a dreadful rate of interest, and at last escorts the ruined soul to its final home among the legions of the reprobate. There is something hideous about such a contract as this—something unreal. The consideration Is so trifling—only the privilege of drinking a few glasses —that the temptation must be very great. The sacrifice is all on one side—and the result shame, and poverty, and death. There is Something unspeakably sad in the record of a life thus ruined: it tells such a grievous tale of noble manhood tempted; of honor trusted, and of trust betrayed; of vows and resolves which were as ropes of sand—broken as soon as made,—of a path which now led but one way, and directly down; of moments of hope and glimpses of a higher life; of new temptation and fall; and lastly of the most wretched of deaths, mania a potu. Can anything tell a more sorrowful story than the brief panorama of such a weak and utterly wretched failure? Well might such men wish, with the poet, that their names might be written in water instead of on the tablets of the lost, and their lives recorded in the book of infamy. But such choice is not for them; they have made their contract, and must abide by its provisions. Is it not strange that we are so eager to make contracts of this kind ? One would think the experience of the thousand generations which have gone before might prove a warning to those who follow; but such does not seem to be the case. Experience is worthless as a teacher in this respect at least; for so long as the heart has courage, and the brain capacity to scheme and speculate, just so long will men continue to run great risks, and give their assent to the most usurious contracts.	T. A. D.
The Chams cf Music.
CHAPTER II.—[Continued ]
' These being the leading features of the situation, the boy that was driving the wagon—did I forget to inform the gentle reader that there was a wagon ?—a wagon in which the most conspicuous object was that which Mrs. Periwinkle had mistaken for a sewing-machine, at the outset— the boy that was driving this wagon began to endeavor to recall the attention of the mysterious man in the mousecolored suit to sublunary things by a series of varied shouts, bawls, yells, growls and hisses, all of which failing, he finally flicked off the man’s hat with the horsewhip. The hat and the man’s mind descended to the earth together. “ Boss,” said the boy, “ air yeu aware that this yere crick is a little tew much of a good thing?”
It was even so; the creek, swollen by the late rains, had
become impassable. They could proceed no further oil their journey. The mysterious man, having thoroughly awakened to practicalities, became zealous in endeavoring to provide a shelter for the night. “Madam,” said he to Mrs. Periwinkle, “ I trust you are not altogether insensible to the charms of music.”
“ By no means,” replied the lady; “ I have always had an accordeon in the house, and when James sits on the stoop and plays of a fine summer’s night, the cats do come in so harmonious.”
“ Then,” said the mouse-colored man; “ you can doubtless appreciate the dulcimer.”
“ What’s that, sir ? ”
“ That’s it,” said the mysterious hero of our tale, pointing to the article of furniture which bore a slight resemblance, on cursory inspection, to a sewing machine— , “that’s it; and if you will give supper aud a night’s lodging, including breakfast to-morrow, with an express stipu-	a
lation for buckwheat cakes, to me and my young assist-	g
ant, and if you can likewise stable my horse and have his | trifling wants attended to, I shall be happy to treat you to I a splendid specimen of operatic vocalization, accompanying the mellifluous strains of my rich baritone with the ethereal tintinnabulations of the dulcimer,”
“ Dear me I ” said Mrs. Periwinkle, “ I should so like to hear it, but I am afraid we haven’t any buckwheat flour in the house.” -
“ Then,” said the Professor, loftily, “ despatch your attendant to the nearest village and order some immediately.” And he lifted out the instrument and told his | boy to drive the wagon around into the barnyard,	;
CHAPTER III and last.	I
“ The performance will now commence.”—Lyons.	I
Mrs. Periwinkle, of course, submitting to her fete, pro-	I
vided the Professor with a mixture of gin and honey,	|
which the latter avowed to be the only possible beverage	j
to give elasticity to the voice. He then opened the instru-	j
ment, and turned back his shirt-cuffs,	1
“ De you sing by ear ?” asked Mrs. P., observing that j he had no music. “No, madam; by month exclusively.”
Petrified by the reply, the lady relapsed into hopeless silence, and the Professor launched into the “Barber of Seville,” with brilliant original variations.
Here the old reliable clerk, who had lately arrived from across the plains, poked his nose in at the back door, and inquired whether this infernal howling was to continue, and if so, for how long.
“Mr. Probity, do suppress your emotions,” said poor Mrs. Periwinkle.
As for the Professor, he took no notice of the interruption, further than to glare furiously at the intruder, while he sustained his voice for several minutes upon the highest note within its compass.
Mr. Probity shook his head sadly and departed with the intention of seeking shelter in the hay-loft, when the feeble voice of poor Mrs. Periwinkle recalled him.
Mr. Probity, don’t you remember that old music that my dear lost husband was so fond of? Cannot, you find it for us, and perhaps this gentleman would play it.” -
“No use, madam—no use!” said old Probity, moving off.
“I can find it, mother,” said James, starting up from the low stool where he had been sitting in rapt astonishment

THE SCHOLASTIC.

&t the stranger’s feet. “It’s up in the old bureau in the garret! ” And he rushed from the apartment.
.Ite soon returned with an old music book, which he-placed in his mother’s hands. As the Professor”had at tacked “ Martha” after completely finishing Up the "Barber,” it was impossible to call his immediate attention to the book or its contents, but Mrs. Periwinkle opened it with a view to providing a suitable successor to “Martha.”
Scarcely had she opened the volume, than she swooned and fell down from her chair.
James flew to assist her, but his attentiou was arrested by the cause of her swoon. He was not naturally what is called a smart boy, but he knew a hundred-dollar greenback when he saw it. Every page of the old music book, on being turned, revealed a treasure.
Yes: here had the deceased Periwinkle chosen to deposit his superfluous funds,—-here was the ample provision left for the widow and the orphan.
Mrs. Periwinkle recovered from her swoon, but not in time to prevent the man in the mouse-colored suit from being kicked out by old Probity, who rushed in just in time. Flinging the dulcimer after him, and warning the boy with the wagon off the premises, he betook himself to restoring the lady’s shattered nerves, and subsequently to counting' the cash so opportunely recovered. Finding that there was sufficient to keep them both comfortably for the natural term of their existence, he married Mrs. Periwinkle, and sent James off to a boarding-school to complete his education.
As to the mysterious man in the mouse-colored suit, he is never seen in the neighborhood by daylight any more. He moons around disconsolately at night, and peers in at the windows, occasionally uttering a frantic howl.
THE end.	.
That Inscription!
Mr. Editor.-—I have given a long and patient study to your singular inscription “Foras Sssto RuB0N,”and am as much in the dark as ever. The authorities you quote are too respectable to be lightly contemned, nevertheless I am of opinion that the interpretations given are rather far-fetched, though sufficiently plausible to attract attention. Perhaps a real explanation of the difficulty may be obtained if we consider “Foras” as a man prominent among his fellow-citieens, and champion of their rights against the oppression of the Roman Satraps or viceroys, whose iniquitous government is well known to all students of classical times. “ Ferae, be then to us a Rubicon,"—id est, a boundary, a bulwark, a defence, beyond which the tyrant dare not pass. I flatter myself I have found the true solution, although I intend to examine the puzzle more fully when leisure permits.	A.
£ “ A." has not found the true solution, and we beg of him not to give himself a headache over the matter. His erudition is laudable, but vain. The “ puzzle” arises from our devil misplacing the “spaces.” “Foras Sesto Ruion" is reether cloudy, but “For Asses to Rub on,” is eminently satisfactory, as an exhaustive interpretation of both the words and the usage to which the post was put. We erected a philological post, and are much grieved to find that anyone rubbed his brains at it. But such exercise is good for the measles. Tide Walker, Hoakey, etc. W-o-n-d-e-r-
_____,
Musical Notes.
—Another Soiree is on the tapis.
—The Vocal Class is well attended.
—The Choir have a new Mass in rehearsal.
—Bro. Ferdinand is to play the Oboe in the Orchestra.
—UhurcKs Musical Visitor for Feburary is very entertaining. It has a good selection of reading matter, light and sprightly; plenty of gossip for musicians to enjoy, and. some Very sensible original articles for students to digest. The music in the number is fair.
—A writer in Appleton's Journal advocates a more general and thorough musical education. He says: “ The fte-quently-adopted plan of waiting to see whether children ‘ have any taste ’ or ‘ show any love ’ for music, is a wrong one. No child would prefer practising scales to playing ball; and few boys, if the cultivation of their tastes depended upon the whims of their ever-flying fancies, would turn into educated men. First give them the opportunity of forming a taste, and for its development trust to the esthetic element of their nature.”
Society Notes.
—The 22nd regular meeting of the St Cecilia Philo-meathean Association was held January 30th. The principal exercise of this meeting consisted in a dramatic reading, given by Prof. A. J. Stace. There were present, besides the St. Cccilians, the Thespians, the Columbians, the Philopatrians, several members of the faculty and visitors from abroad. The Professor’s voice was in good trim, and he riveted the attention of his audience for over an hour and twenty minutes. When the Professor had finished, and the applauses with which he was greeted had subsided, an unanimous vote of thanks was tendered the Professor.
—The 23rd regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Phioma-thean Association came off February the 2nd, at which the election of the officers took place for the ensuing term, the result of which is as follows: Director, Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. S. C.; President, J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Dramatic Reader and Instructor, A. J. Stace, A. M.; Judge of the Moot Court, L. G. Tong, LL. B.; General Critic, Lecturer on Political Economy, T. E. Howard, A. M., LL. B.; Promoter, J. F. Edwards; First Vice-President, J. Beegan; Second Vice-President, D. J. O’Connell; Historian, J. Solon; Representative Orpheonic Branch, F. E. Foxen; Recorder Sec’y, R. Downey; Corresponding Sec’y, J. P. McHugh; Treasurer, J. E. Wood; Librarian, J. Dore; First Monitor, T. McNamara; Second Monitor,L. P. Best. First Censor, J. Minton; Second Censor, J. L. Perea; Third Censor, F. J. Wisenburger; Promoter, J. S. McIntyre; Charges d’Affaires, H. Faxon, C. Hake and R. Walker; Clerk of the Moot Court, A. K. Schmidt; Sergeant at-Arms, M. J. Murphy; Marshall, E. Riopelle. The Society now numbers thirty-four members, and is abler now to hold its own than it has ever been. The President closed the exercises, by paying a well deserved tribute to the energy, ability, and uprightness of three of the members who were transferred to the Classical Department.
—The first regular meeting of the second session of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association was held last Tuesday evening. The term of office having expired in all except the officers of Directior and President. The Society after having reports from some outstanding commitees proceeded to the election of officers for the present Session,— with the following results: Rev. J. Zahm, Director; Prof. T. A. Daly, President; T. Grier, Vice-President; J. J. Gillen, Recording Sec’y; John Ney, Cor. Sec’y; E. G. Graves, Treasurer; J. Caren, 1st Censor; P. Skahill, 2nd Censor; J. Mathews, 1st Librarian; E. S. Monahan 2nd Librarian. After selecting a question for debate of next Tuesday evening, and discussing the necessity of revising the old constitution, and appointing the following Com. for that purpose: T. Grier, Chairman, J. J. Gillen, E. G. Graves, J. Ney, M. Foley. The meeting on motion adjourned.
SSO	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic,
Published every Week during Term Time at NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic
Ifotre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year.......................................>1 00
Single copies (&cts.) can be obtained at the Students'1 Office.
Tiie Seiicdastic for' ths Snd Session.
.The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fiftycents; besides wnich all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents lor postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
must do this or that.” Now it is all well enough to talk about the excellencies of education, but if you admit that the State has the right to interfere in the education of children, then you must admit that it has the right to train these children up for just such professions as the rulers see fit,and,having thus trained them up,to force them to adopt such trade or calling for life. If the State has the power < to do the one, it has the power to do the other. The same arguments which favor the interference in edueation will apply to this interference in other matters, and what is this but communion, which holds that the State should make all, rich and poor, work for the common good of the State ? It is argued that ignorance is the parent of crime.
That this argument is false, all statistics prove. The poorer members of society do not send as many criminals So our jails, in proportion to their number, as do the wealthy. The rogues and rascals who swindle the Government and the people are not from the ranks of the ignorant, but are from the ranks of—well, we can’t say from the ranks o* the learned, for the swindlers received a mere secular education at the public schools. Crime is increased by the poor, heathen, demoralizing education given at public schools, from which religion and moral training have been banished.
There can be no doubt but that these laws are unconstitutional, and we hope that they will be brought into the courts. All men in the Republic are guaranteed by the Constitution the possession of their life, liberty and property. Is not the liberty of the parents of families abridged by these laws ? What of a man’s possessions does he value higher than bis children ? Does not the ownership of ths " child belong to him that begot it? and may the stats dispossess him of his property ?	'
The example of Prussia is, very inconsistently, adduced by the friends of these laws in their favor. What despotism is there upon earth comparable to that of Prussia, where no man is free, but is tbe mere property of the king, who may, and who does, send him to tbe army for so many	;
years; of Prussia, where the press is gagged, and freedom . of speech is unknown, and where there are thousands , / placed in confinement for conscience’ sake?	|
But we believe that most of the supporters of these laws	, I
are really in favor of them because they are to be used for proselytizing purposes. It is their hope,and it will happen^ that many Catholic youths will, by the enforcement of these laws,lose their faith. But let these proselytizers reflect lest the result here will not be tbe same as their efforts in Italy. The Italian converts bare ceased to be Catholic, but only to become infidels. Having no ieli-gious instruction or moral teaching, may not the result . of this educational dodge of American proselytizers be to • make infidels not only of Catholics but of their own sons? '
—Of the many replies to the Expostulation of Mr. Gladstone, the ablest undoubtedly is that of Dr. Newman, just published by the Catholic Publication Society. Mr. Gladstone, having been driven from power by the Catholic vote of Ireland, sought to make it appear that the Irish Bishops were influenced by the Court of Rome to oppose him and to control tbe Irish vote. He does not confine himself to this charge alone, but attacks the Papacy on many points • principally however on that of infallibility.
Dr. Newman takes up the charges of Mr. Gladstone, and in a masterly manner overcomes them. After a few introductory remarks, he begins with Mr. Gladstone’s assertions	"
—Men boast a great deal about liberty, bnt it is doubtful whether the majority of them rightly understand the meaning of the word. Years ago, Madame Roland exclaimed: “O Liberty! how many crimes are committed in thy name! ” In our day we might with as much reason say: “O Liberty! what despotism is practiced in thy name!’' For when we take a glance at Governments claiming to be free and constitutional, and see the tyranny of the majority, we cannot but be astonished. When we examine the theories of men who boast of the advances towards freedom made by the people of the world, of men who are the great leaders in the “’progress” of the world, we are forced to wonder at their inconsistency.
It is within the recollection of every young man when the glory of our people was that the State in nowise interfered with the rights of the family. The great duty of the State was simply to preserve the peace and order of society, leaving to each individual to act as he saw fit, so long as what he did interfered in nowise with the rights of other citizens. From the General Government down to the family circle, the rights of all were protected; and as the General Government did not interfere with the State Governments, and as the latter left the people of each county and city and township to regulate the local affairs of their precincts, so also none of these Governments ever dared to meddle with the rights of the family. It was then supposed that that State was freest in which the rights of the rulers were more circumscribed and individual liberty was least interfered with. But our great freedom-shriekers have changed all this. The doctrine of the Red Republicans have gained ground here. This doctrine consists in this, that the State is the ruler of the family, and that the child does not belong to the parent but to the State, which is bound for his conduct, good or bad. This is the doctrine of the Reds, provided they are the Stat e. Some of the present rulers of Europe have adopted the doctrine of the Reds, and to it they in turn will stick, so long as they are the State. But neither the one party nor the other will accept the doctrine so long as they have not the control of the country.
As we said above, this theory of the State being responsible for the child’s education has gained ground in the tfnited States, and it shows itself in the compulsory schoollaws which have been adopted by the Legislatures of many States and the endeavor made by men in the remainder of. the States of the Union to have them adopted. These laws interfere directly with the rights of parents and families. It no longer leaves them free to act as they wish with their children; but it says to them “You
TSE SCHOLASTIC.
291
that the Catholic Church of to-day has “ repudiated ancient history.” In a short chapter he shows the falsity of the statement, and proves to all unprejudiced minds that the claims now made by the Papacy were those which were made by it from the earliest ages, and that the powers and rights which she then exercised were recognized and guaranteed to her by the civil rulers. Having overcome this charge, that the Church has repudiated ancient history, Dr. Newman then speaks of the rights, prerogatives, privileges and duties of the ancient Church, and of which the Pope is heir. And first he shows that the Pope is heir to these by default, as he terms it. The ancient Church -had privileges, etc. What has become of them ? Have they ceased to exist? This cannot be. There must be an heir to them. Who then is this heir? Not the schismatical churches of Canterbury or Constantinople, for they make no claim to them. No church makes claim to them but the Church of Rome, and we are bound to acknowledge this right until a better claimant appears. He then goes on to show the great good which the concentration of ecclesiastical power in the See of Rome did for the civilization of Europe, and this he does from the statements of non-Catholics themselves. Further on, he speaks of the exercise of civil power by the popes, and points out the benefits mankind received from this exercise.
Having disposed of these, the learned Doctor then proceeds to speak of the allegiance which Catholics owe to the Pope. “As God has Sovereignty on earth, though He may be obeyed or disobeyed, so has His Vicar upon earth; and further than this, since Catholic populations are found everywhere, he ever will be, in fact, lord,of a vast empire.” But practically, the allegiance which we owe to the Vicar of Christ never interferes with our civil allegiance. Though the Pope be infallible in matters of morals, yet as we are governed in our ordinary duties by the books of moral theology, which are drawn up by theologians of authority and experience, and so little does the Pope come into this whole system of moral theology by which our lives are regulated, that the weight of his hand upon us, as private men, is absolutely inappreciable. The absurdity of the charge that we are the slaves of the Pope because he claims to himself so wide a domain in morals is admirably shown to be false. Then he takes up the case of the Pope commanding one thing and the State requiring another. Either the Pope commands what is right, or the State is in the wrong or vice versa. We obey the one which is in the right, be it Pope or be it State.
In the fifth part of the letter he gives an excellent treatise on “Conscience,” and he goes on to tell how the Popes have been misunderstood by English people, when they charged them with speaking against conscience in the true sense of the word. Such they never did. What they did was to speak against it in the various false senses, philosophical or popular, which, in our day, are put upon the word. Then he demonstrates that no collision can take place between the Pope’s authority and conscience in its true sense.
The Encyclical of 1864 is next treated in all its bearings, showing what it really means and what it does not mean. After showing this, he passes to the Syllabus of “Errors” which has been so much exclaimed against. He shows what the Syllabus is—a collection of propositions pronounced by the Pope to be erroneous. Then he takes up singly most of the errors condemned in the Syllabus and in few words disposes of all objections to them.
The Vatican Council is then taken, up and the objections usually made that it was not an Ecumenical Council reviewed and overcome. His own conduct about that time, and bis letter to his Bishop, are explained in a satisfactory manner. Having treated of the Council, he then gives his attention to the Vatican Definition, or the doctrine of Infallibility. He states in clear and succinct terms what is understood by Papal Infallibility as defined by the Vatican Council. He tells what is meant by it; when the Pope in his writings is infallible, and when not. Then with a few remarks of a general nature he concludes.
We honestly believe that an hundred years from now the Gladstone pamphlet will be known only through the pages of the many able refutations written by the learned men of our day. Of these, the Letter of Dr. Newman will hold the first place. There is no living author who han such a command of the English language as has the learned Oratorian. He has never treated any subject which he has not adorned with the beauty of his style and the force of his logic. We heartily recommend this letter to the young men in the higher classes in the College, for it will give them correct ideasjof the most important question of our day.	 -
Latest Hews 11!
A horrible outrage has been perpetrated at Philadelphia! The particulars are not to hand, but we shall give our readers the fullest information in our next issue! A boy,—a blooming, curly-headed, angel boy—has been----- but tears choke our inkstand. Wait for the next issue ! ■
P. S.—His name was Charley Ross!
——	, -------------
Personal.	'
[We will give each week a great number of Personals, for the purpose of letting the old students know the whereabouts of their former comrades.]
—J. W. Staley, of’72, is in business in St. Loui«, Mo.
—M. A. J. Baasen, of ’64, is now living in Milwaukee, Wis.
—Rev. Father Toohey has been appointed Vice-Pres-dent.
—Bro. Eugene will hereafter take charge of the Apprentices.
—Alphonse Boisramme, of ‘63, is now living in Paris, France.
—Rev. E. M. O’Callaghan, of ’52, is stationed in Cleveland, Ohio.
—Very Rev. Father Granger has entirely recovered from his sickness.
—Dr. J. Cassidy, of ’66, is the attending Physician at Notre Dame.
—Letters from Galveston state that Rev. Father Carrier’s health is good.	•
—Bro. Alexander, who was suffering from neuralgia, is now recovered.
—Bro. Ferdinand keeps things pretty comfortable, with “lots” of steam.	•
—J. B. Runnion, of ’60, is one of the Editors of the Chicago Tribune.	-	‘
—T. F. Heery, of ’69, is doing a prosperous business in Clarksville, Iowa.
—Rev. Father Letourneau went to Detroit, last week, on a visit to his relatives.
—Henry Beckman, of’—, is doing a large clothing business in Cleveland, Ohio.
2§2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—Jas. Noonan, of’71, is connected with the L. S. & M. S. R. R., in Cleveland, Ohio.
—L. B. Logan, of’—, is now practising law at No. 171, Superior Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
—Mr. N. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, was here on a visit, this last week. He is in good health.
—J. F. Studebaker, of '64, is secretary of the famous Studebaker Works, in South Bend, Ind.
—John W. Buehler, of ’70, is reading law with Theodore Schintz, No. 78 Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.
—Lew. Hibben, of ’71, is doing a large business in the tobacco line, at No. 15 Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.
—Wm. W. Taylor, of ’70, was married on the 2nd of February to Miss Jeannie E. Mills, iu Chicago, Ill.
—M. B. Collins, of ’63, is one of the livest men in the United States Express Company, Cleveland, Ohio.
—Wm. T. Ball, of '73, now of Fruitport, Mich., will return to Notre Dame to enter the Scientific Course.
—Vincent J. Hackmann, of’71, we understand is doing Very well in business with his father, in St. Louis, Mo.
—Mr. McCormack and his sister-in-law, Mrs. McCormack, of Nashville, Tenn., have been at the College for the past few days.	•
—Wm. S. Meyer has entered the Senior Department. At a regular meeting of the Columbians he was unanimously elected a member.
—E. M. Brown, of ’65, has a very large practice in Cleveland, Ohio. He is one of the most prominent of the young lawyers of Northern Ohio.
—We had the pleasure of meeting last week our friend Thos. Nelson, of Chicago, who was "here on a visit to his son. Mr. Nelson is always welcome to Notre Dame, where he has a large circle of friends.
—Jno. McMahon and family, especially Louis L., are in excellent health, in Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. McMahon is well remembered by a host of friends at Notre Dame. Mrs. McMahon is as liberal as ever. She lately donated to Very Rev. Father Granger $200 for his new church.
Local Items.
—My eye!
—“Don’t tell.”
—“Didn’t we?"
—Some new students.
—“ Suppose we let her drop.”
—Next Tuesday is Mardi Gras.
—The skating is not very good.
—The Examinations ended last Saturday.
—“lam very much obliged to you, Tom.”
'—Most of the examinations were satisfactory.
—97 is the average of the Minim Department.
—S'x graduates in the Commercial Department.
—The Class of Elocution is numerously attended.
■—We hear many reports of lectures to take place.
—It is a poor thing to get sulky at an examination.
—The Senior Class of Calisthenics closed on the 1st.
•—We understand there will be no public debate this year.
—Quite a number of persons went up-stairs this session.
—Extra rec. last Tuesday afternoon. The boys enjoyed It.
—The most sought after prefect is he who distributes the letters.
—The folks on the 3rd floor enjoy themselves. Nothing like it!
—They are talking of building a new kitchen next Spring.
—Rev. Father Colovin was kept busy last Monday and Tuesday.
• —A sharp look-out for the ground-hog was made last Tuesday.	-
—Quite a number of Commercial graduates wefe “tabled.”	.
—The Minims without exception passed magnificent ex* aminations.
—Ash-Wednesday comes next week. Fasting then for forty days.	*
—If you want your communications printed, let us know your name.
—Mr-?. Dorsey contributes a beautiful serial story to the “ Ave Maria.n
—The high wind last Wednesday carried off our friend John’s spectacles.
—A number of Juniors went into the Senior Department this session.
—What about the 22nd ? We have heard of nothing in the way of an Exhibition.
t^-Mr. John Piashway, at one time chief of the Miamis, was buried here last Wednesday.
—Last Tuesday was Candlemas Day. The procession in the church was made as usual.
—Bro. August is never happier than when engaged in showing people about the College.
—Our philosopher is willing to argue the “incompossl-bility of matter ” any day in the year.
—Great improvements are to be made on the north side of the upper Lake when the Spring comes.
—It is rather slippery walking down the hill from the Church, on the way to the Professed House.
—A game of base-ball was played last Saturday. The admirers of the game can’t wait until the Spring.
—Two years ago there wrcre only 400 volumes in the Circulating Library. Now there are 1,809 volumes.
—The ground-hog didn’t see his shadow last Tuesday. Hurrah for the six weeks of fine weather ahead of us!
—The Chemistry Class will be taught hereafter in the College building. The Laboratory Will remain where it is.
—The wind makes something of a noise these days. Never mind; as long as there is plenty of steam, let it whistle.
—A beautiful oil painting, some three hundred years old, was lately received from Italy. Prof. Gregori will touch it up.
—Very nearly one hundred volumes will be added to the Circulating Library in the course of a few weeks. Subscribe to it.	-
—All persons piously inclined would do well to make as much use of their time as possible by calling on Bro. Thomas before next Wednesday, and asking for the article.
—See the advertisement of the Catholic Publication Society in another column. We hope most of the students will send for Dr. Newman’s book. The price is only fifty cents.
—This is now the time to renew your subscription to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. Only one dollar for the next five months’ reading. You couldn’t invest your money to a better advantage.
—Our friend John says that if such weather as last Wednesday’s is a sample of the good weather the groundhog is to bring us, he wishes the ’tarnal critter ’ud just see his shadow on Candlemas Day after this.
—The wind last Wednesday blew a couple of young fellows clear over the woodpile near the Sacristy. It was a good thing for one of them that the church wall was on the other side of the pile; were it not for its stopping him he would have been landed the other side of the lake.
—Our friend John says that if anybody tells him that the printing-office doesn’t contribute some help to the musical world he’ll tell them that they—dont know what they’re talking about. Why, it has turned out Band Leaders, flute players, singers, etc., and now it is getting ready to turn out an “ oboe” player.
—The astronomical articles which appear in the Watertown Republican are, from the facile pen of Bro. Peter. These articles show great thought and study on the part
aHaawHU
THE SCHOLASTIC*
289
of the learned and accomplished author, and are copied • with highly complimentary notices by many of the weekly papers in the great Northwest.
—One of the cases of books in the Lemonnier Circulating Library has been named the Ewing Case, in honor of Hon. P. B. Ewing. The Directors of the Library are under many obligations to the honorable gentleman for his large donations of books, and take this manner of testifying their thanks to him for them.
—A magnificent portrait of the Holy Father was lately received from Rome. It was painted by'Signor Gregor i, to whom his Holiness gave three sittings. This portrait is equal, if not superior, to the famous portrait of the Pope painted by Healy, and it will be the greatest attraction in the grand parlor of the University.
—Persons going to Chicago would do well to call for Frank Parmelee’s Omnibus Line and Baggage Express Office, No. 156 Dearborn street. Passengers are carried to and from railroads and hotels, and baggage is delivered to and from the depots to any part of the city. Mr. Parmelee is an excellent and accommodating gentleman, and all persons patronizing his line cannot help being satisfied.
—Our friend John says that he saw two persons driving over from St. Mary’s the other day. One person held the 1‘eins and the other used the whip. He says it must certainly have taken them two hours and a half to make the trip over, and the number of times the whip was used was enormous. Three hundred and twenty-five blows by actual count were administered between the Post-Office and the College. “Now why,” asks our friend John, “was the horse they drove like a game chicken?” And when you give it up he chuckles and says, “Because it Would sooner die than run.”
—The Semi-annual report of the Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library shows that during the past five months 2,153 volumes have been taken out; 227 persons availed themselves of the privilege of taking books. The Librarian has received §160 00 from regular members. 181 volumes were purchased for §120.45, besides Zell’s Encyclopedia (2 vols.), §33.75. Total amount paid for books, §154.20, leaving a balance in the treasury of §1.80. At the commencement of the session there were in the Library 1,590 vols.; since then there have been 183 vols. purchased, and 36 vols. donated, making the total number of volumes in the Library 1,809. Thanks are returned to Rev. Father Golovin for two pictures.
Literature.
A Letter Addressed to Uis Grace the Duke of Norfolk on Occasion of Mr. Gladstone’s Recent Expostulation. By John Henry Newman, D. D., of the Oratory. New York: The Catholic Publication Society. 1875.
An extended notice of this able volume will be found in our editorial pages to which we call attention. The price of the volume is fifty cents. See also the advertisement in the regular columns.
—The Lamp—The January number of this magazine has the usual amount of varied and interesting matter.
—The Messenger of the Sacred Heart, a Monthly Bulletin of the Apostleship of Prayer.
—The contents of the Messenger for February are: I, The Year 1875. II, St. Eudoxia. Ill, The Acolyte. (Continued). IV, The Popes in Exile. V, The Last Hours of a Princess. VI, The School of Christ. VII, General Intention. VIII, Graces Obtained.
—The Young Crusader.—The February number of this children’s monthly is very entertaining. Among the contributors we notice the names of Mrs. A. H. Dorsey and Eliza Allen Starr.
The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader. By . Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., of the University of Notre Dame., Third edition. Philadelphia: J. H. Butler & Co. 1874.
As we look over this handsome volume, with its beautiful binding, its tinted paper, its pleasant printed page, its instructive engravings, and its excellent directions and selections for reading and speaking, we say to ourselves, “It otlght to be a success; surely it is the finest reader or speaker published in America.” And when w’e look at its title page, and see there the name of one of the first publishing houses of Philadelphia, and then reflect that this is a copy of the Third Edition within less than two years, then we say to ourselves, “It is a success; and we are proud that a Hoosier Schoolmaster ’ has gone and done it.”
Indeed Professor Lyons is to be complimented on the beauty of the book, and to be congratulated that it has met with the success which it so well deserves. If “A thing of beauty is a joy forever,” it must be a delight to. learn to read out of this book; and, as we recollect the dingy leather-covered reader of our reading-days, we envy the youths who carry this handsome volume to class. They know not how much they owe to Prof. Lyons and his enterprising publishers.
Like every good reader, this book contains many old selections,—pieces composed by the master-minds of the language. What Webster, Shakespeare, Irving, Sheridan, O’Connell, and their peers, have done, cannot be improved, and a selection for reading or speaking would be defective without them. But it is a praise in Prof. Lyons’ case that many of his new selections have become exceedingly popular. “ The Recognition,” by the lamented Father Lemonnier, has been publicly acted in several schools and colleges ; and many of the other original selections have been extensively copied. The present Edition has been thoroughly revised, and contains many new features of merit. The three prize Declamations of C. A. Berdel, C. J. Dodge, and O. Waterman, we are glad to see given in full. Attn, gether, the American Elocutionist is so hansome a book and so excellent a work on reading and elocution, that we feel confident it must come into general use in the schools of the United States.
—Mr. Geo. W. Childs, the Editor, has sent us a copy of the “Public Ledges''1 of Philadelphia. Though we see many complimentary notices of its editorials published in the paper, yet we are more pleased with the originality of the writers of the obituaries. Witness the three following notices, clipped from the copy before us. The first-is:
THOMAS.—Suddenly, on the 18th Inst., Elmer, youngest son of Thomas P. and Martha Thomas, and grandson of Ann and the late Ivin Thomas, aged 2 years, 6 months.
Dearest Elmer, thou hast left us;
We can see thee here no more ;
Thou hast left this world of sorrow For that bright and shining shore.
Thou hast left us and we miss thee, Sadly miss thee I Elmer dear;
In vain we listen for thy footstep, Still we’re thinking thou art near.
Gone, but not forgotten.	'
The second rises to loftier heights, and reads :
SOWER.—On the 18th inst., after a short and severe illnesg, John Andrew Sower, in the 46 th year of his age.
Dearest husband, thou hast left me, I can see thee here no more;
Thou hast left this world of sorrow
For that bright and shining shore. ■
Thou hast left us and we miss thee, Sadly miss thee I father dear;
284	THE SCHOLASTIC.
In vain we listen for thy footsteps; Still we’re thinking thou art near.
The third becomes still more tender and pathetic. Witness the beauty of the verses:
McHENRY.—On the 17th inst., Joseph, son of William and Elizabeth McHenry, in the 34th year of his age.
Dearest Joseph, thou bast left us, We can see thee here no more;
Thou hast left this world of sorrow
'	For that bright and shining shore.
Thou hast left us and we miss thee, Sadly miss thee I Joseph dear;
'	In vain we listen for thy footsteps,
Still we’re thinking thou art near. Gone, but not forgotten.
Semi-Anaual Ezaminatioa.
students’ average.
in the following list of averages, three classes of students are omitted: Istly, a few who were unwell during the time of the examination and who either missed it entirely or partially; 2ndly, a certain number who were unavoidably absent during Examination week; and lastly, those whose percentage was so low that we spare them the dishonor of publishing their names. Probably by this day week we will be able to publish the average percentage of each class in the University. This will give the public an idea of the general prosperity of the institution.
Arnold E,57; Arnold W., 52; Allen M., 69; AyersE 8, 81; Armstrong W., 55; Beegan J., 78; Bergck A., 57; Buecker A., 63; Belcher A., 55; Burger A, 82; Budd G. C., 72; Buckman F.. —; Best L. 77: Byrne W, 69 Baca V., 61: Brady F., 83; Brown J., 93; Berringer J.,; 65; Burge M., 84; Bearss F„ 53; Barrett R, 69; Carlin F —; Connolly J., 82; Crummey J., 60; Clarke C., ■—;’ Colton J., 81; Courtney E, 61; ClaffvD., 60; Carrer J., 60; Culliton T. J., 86; Corcoran 0.. 59; Caren J., 87; Cochrane T., 50; Cassidy FL, 91; Campbell J , 63; Cruni-mey G., 69; Claffey Jno., 71; Caldwell M., 82; Chamberlain L, 91; Chalfant E,—; Crelly T„ 55; Cullen J, 87; Carroll T., 77; Clarke M, 74; Delvecchio J.. 78; Downey R, 59; Dore J., 74; Dryfoos N, 49; Davis W. J , 68; Dryfoos J. M., 54; Devolo F., 88; Darst W„ 66; Dill F., —; Doherty W., 82; Dailey T., 95; Ewing F., 72; Evers L., 76; Edwards W., 45; Egbert W., —; Egan M, 81; Euans B. L , 82; Ewing J. G., 83; Egan P., 74; Fitzpatrick P., 66; FoxenF., 68; French J., 58; Frazee F., 79; FrauenknechtG ,66; Faxon II.,80; Foley J., 84; Fawcett W., 46; Farrell F., 78; Foley AL, 75; Forbes W.. 67; Favey C.,—; Flaherty J , 65; Fullerton W., 96; Green J., 71; Griffith J., 76; Gleason Ed., 55; Golsen J., 61; Greenleaf C., 78; Garrity J., —; Gro«s G., 89; Gramling E., 58; Goben R-,—; Goldsberry F., 65; Girard J.. 88; Graves E.. 81; Grier T., 92; Grace John, 81; Gallagher, T. F , 83; Gillen J. J., 83; Guilloz P., 77; Gheen J. B.. —; Gault E S , 73; Hayes J., 67; Hansatd W„ 46; Hoffman F., 58; Hake C., 69; Hitchcock C.. 63: Hamlin J., J.,—; Harvey H.,59; HaffeyJ.60; HoytG.,90; Hansard T., 70; HessC-,65; HuntH. H.,87; Handley J., 81; Hogan J.,_ 70; Hoffman H ,61; Hebard F., 67; Johnson A., 56; Jewell C.,68; Jones J., 66; Jenk'ns W.,80; Kelly P., 51; Kleiner F., 72; Korty H., 87; Kinson H., 45; Kreigh W., 58; Kramer M., 86; Keeler M.. 87; Kramer A.. 42; Kennedy S., 67; Kennedy J., 69; Kopf J., 83: Kelley J. E., 56; Kelley G. M., 73; Katziuer M., 59; Kurtz J., 46; Lonstorf G., 75; Larkin C., 70; Lambin J., 64; Leitelt J., 68; Leitelt A., 82; Leonhardt C., 61; Lynch J., 68; Larkin J., Lawrence P., 76; Logan T. C., 65; Lonstorf A., 72; Lyons J., 81; Logsdon J., 73; Monohan E. S., 81; McGuire H., 80; Monohan T., 68; McLaughlin E. J., 88; Maas E., 65;
. McBride P., 66; McKinnon V.. 36; McNamara T., 76; Mitchell A.. 66; McIntyre J., 55; McHugh J., 78; McGrath R., 86; Meyer W., 70; Mosser A., 45l; Minton J., 70; Murphy M., 91; McGrath F., 67; Montgomery F., 87; Mooney N., 74; McPharlin E., 79; McNulty G, 81; McDonald P., 70; Maas R., 93; Marks J., 80; Murphy T., 81; McManus J., 68; Mattimore P. J., 60; Moran L., 59;
Mohan A., 76; Mathews J, 71; Nelson J.. 56; Nelson D., 48; Nelson W., 77; Nester G., 58; Norris R., 65; Newman H.. 67; Ney J., 82; Nicholas W, 54; O’Connell D., 47; O’Meara J.,—; O’Hara J., 15; O’Mahony T., 51; O’Leary T.,82; Obert J., 88; O’Brien F., 35; Otto C., 87; O’Brien A., 90; Ottaway C., 53; Pilliod L., 77; Pugh Thos., 75; Post C., 55; Palmer F., 58; Peltier C., 67; 'Perea J., 67; Proudhomme L, 68; Proctor C. M., 94; Petrie H. W., 57; QuinnT.,—; Raymond F..67; Riopelle Ed., 61; Rosa F., 45; Reinke A., 50; Roelie W., 83; Rice Henry, 63; Roul* hac Geo., 91; Retz J., 5?; Ryan W. J., 85; Ratigan E. S., 81; Rudge F. J.. 85; Rudge Geo., 94; Robertson C., 80; Reagan M., 65; SuggE., 56; Schnurrer P., 91; Smith L., 61; Smith J., 59; Stichtenoth E, 54; Schmidt A., 73; Summers D.—; Sugg G., 56; Soule J., 77; SickelH., 73; Stichtenoth W., 64; Stout W., 68; Smith Wd, 68; Smith F., —; Shaul P, 89; Schultheis W., 78; Solon T., 75; Skahill P., 76; Schlink F., 54; Summers G., —; Scrafford F., 55; Siebert E., 79; Swygart E. S., 43; Studebaker S., 74; Schwabacher N., 41; Staley R., 94; Tobias S., 38; Thomas A., —; Treanor C., 84; Talbot T., 56; Thornton J., 85; Walker R., 76; Willis J., 59; Whipple C., 82; Woo 1 J., 86 ; Walsh C.. 63; Weisenburge- F., 84; Washburn Ed., 61; Webber H., 80; Welty W.. 86; Woodward G., 64; Wilhelm F., 71; Walter C., 81; White R., 52; Whalen Jer.. 58; Wisner C., 53 ; Wisner A., 44; Vanamee N., 63; Verment J., 71; Zeitler L., —; Me* Gavin W., 63; Mattimore Peter, 55.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Bushey Albert, 93; Bushey Sylvester, 100; Bushey Charlie, 100; Bell Oscar, 95; Clarke Colly, 96; Carr°r Joseph, 90; Carlin Francis. 95; Campau Colly, 100; Cam-nau Francis, 98; Colton Hugh, 98; Duffield John, 99; Dubois Eddie, —; Frazee Lee, 98; Goldsberry Samuel, 92; Goldsmith Louis, 100; Golsen Ralph, 98; Haley Robert, 98; Hooley Tommie, 96; Lindberg Otto, 98; Lindsey Willie, 100; McAuliffe Michael, 98; McGrath Francis. 99; Moody Clement, 95; Nelson Peter Daniel, 96; O’Meara John, 93; Ordway Harry, 97; Raymond Eddie, 98; Van Pelt Willie, 100.
Average of whole Minim Department, 97.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT,
W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, L. Busch, J. Caren, G Crummey, H. Cassidv, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W. Canavan, F. Devoto, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, F. Hebard, J. Kennedy. J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, F. Keeler, A. Lonstorf, J. Larkin, P, Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. MeGaVin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E, Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. .McManus, Patrick Mattimore, Peter Mattimore, L. Moran. A. Mohan, W. Meyer, M. McCormack, J. Ney, A. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, F. O’Brien, C. Proctor, T. Pugh, H. Petrie, G. Roulhac, J. Rudge, M. Reagan, P. Skahill. F. Schlink, W. Schultheis, P. Shaul, F. Scrafford, W. Stout, J. Verment, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, J. F. Soule.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold. A. Buecker, A. Betcher, J. Beegan, L. Best, W. Byrne, A. Bergck, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, D. Claffey, J. Crummey, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, N. Dryfoos, R. Downey, W. Davis, L. Evers, P. Fitzpatrick, G. J. Frauenknecht, J. French, J. Egbert, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross. F. X. Goldsberry, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, W. Hansard, C. Hake, C. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, M. Katzaner. H. Korty, F. Kleiner, C. V. Larkin, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, G. J. Lonstorf, J. Lynch, P. McBride, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, T. Monahan, M. J. Murphy, W. Nicholas, G. Nester, J. Nelson, C. Ottoway, C. Peltier, C. R. Post, J. L. Perea, H. W. Quan, E. F. Riopelle, W. J. Roelle, F. Raymond, L. Smith. J. A. Smith, F. Smyth, G. Sugg, T. J. Solon, T. Summers, P. Schnurrer, H. Sickle, C. W. Welty, C. Walsh, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. R. Willis, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, E. Washburn, F. Rosa, W. Fawcett, T. Quinn, F. Rollin, J. Buckley.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Eddie Raymond, Ralph Golsen, Samuel Goldsberry, Colly Clarke, Francis Carlin, Francis McGrath, John O’Meara, Clement Moody, Albert Bushey, Michael McAuliffe, Francis Campau,
THE SCHOLASTIC,
285
Eddie Joice Dubois, Willie Lindsey, Peter Nelson, Harry Ordway, Louis Goldsmith, Charles Bushey, Sylvester Bushey.
Class Honors-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
FOR THE W1EK ENDING THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
Michael McAuliffe, Ralph Golsen, Eddie Raymond, Colly Clarke, Joseph Carrer, Francis Carlin, Francis McGrath, Clement, Moody, Lee Frazee, John Duffield, Otto Lindberg, Francis Campau, John O’Meara, Samuel Goldsberry, Robert Haley, Hugh Colton, Willie Lindsey, Oscar Bell, Albert Bushey, Willie Van Pelt.
List of Excellence.
[Tlie Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director of Studies.]
Civil Engineering—C. M. Proctor. First Sr. Arithmetic —Gep, Rudge. First Sr. Grammar—R. J. Alaas. Second Sr. Grammar—C. Robertson. Composition—J. F. Rudge.
Additional Arrivals.
Thomas H. Quinn,.........Philadelphia, Penn.
Frank Kelly,.............Norwalk, Ohio.
William H. Canavan,......Susquehanna Depot, Penn.
Edward Stark,............Elkhart, Ind.
Fred Rollin,.............Elkhart, Ind.
William Hughes,..........Peoria, Ill.
R. P. Doherty,...........Philadelphia, Penn.
William S. Ball,.........Fruitport, Mich.
Isaac J. Buckley,........Battle Creek, Mich.
Harley C. McDonald,......Chicago, III.
Walter B. Cunningham,....Salt Lake City, Utah.
Anthony Hess,............Wheeling, West Va.
Chand of Our Lady of Lourdes.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY OF REV. A. LEMONNIER, C. S. C.
W. J. Quan, E-q., Chicago, Ill.,...........  .$25	00
Thos. Nelson, Esq., Chicago, Ill.............. 25	00
H. F. Fitzgibbon, Esq., Chicago, Ill.,........ 15	00
Knoblock & Lechner, South Bend, Ind.,......... 10	00
James Caren, Columbus, Ohio,................... 5	00
Master A. Kramer, Detroit, Michigan.,.......... 3	00
“ Colly Clarke, Chicago, Ill................ 2	00
“ F. W. Montgomery, Montgomery, Ind.,.... 2	00
“ H. A. Hoffman,............................ 1	00
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
।	—The Entertainment at the close of the Examination in
* - Music was highly satisfactory to both visitors and exam-l iners. In the Instrumental Department several distin-i guisbed themselves by their remarkable grace, force and :	purity of execution. We understand that two, are candi-
i	dates for Musical Graduation; where all were above par.,
1	it would be invidious to particularize. The standard of
i	music is very high at St. Mary’s, and those who aspire to
j graduate must reach that standard. The Misses Ella O’-■ Connor, Helen Foote, Emily Haggerty and Blanche Spen-i cer were highly commended in their vocal performance. Indeed, the entire Vocal Class deserve the highest praises.
i As the last instrumental piece was delighting the listeners, an agreeable surprise was given in the announcement of the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Detroit, who kindly consented to remain for two days to attend the regular Semi-Annual Examination. The Bishop, at his departure, on Friday morning, expressed himself in admiration of the manner in which the young ladies had acquitted themselves. The excellent singing of the previous evening’s Examination must not be forgotten. The Misses Julia Kearney, Julia Riopelle, Mary Riley and Blanche Spencer sang admirably well; the two last mentioned had never sung publicly before, but their modest self-possession did not betray
them into the slightest embarrassment. The exceeding purity and distinctness of Miss Spencer’s pronunciation gave beauty to her singing, as rare at the present day as it is charming at all times. In the Instrumental Examination of Monday evening, Miss Julia Nnnning performed beautifully. Prominently displayed before the assembled guests were some beautiful hot-house flowers, sent as a token of affection to the Directress of the Music Department by Miss Nellie McEwen of Chicago.
—Some very pretty vases were presented last Christmas to the Chapel of Loreto by Miss Mary Carlin. A pair of exquisite gold-mounted altar-cruets and tray were donated to the same Chapel by Mr. and Mrs. Alexander O’Sullivan, of Chicago, and the donors shall cordially be remembered in the place so eloquently indicated by the gifts.
—Some time last summer, a friend from the Western Metropolis, while at Sr. Mary’s, and contemplating the miniature Grotto of Lourdes, received a volume of “Our Lady of Lourdes.” At the approach of Candlemas, St. Mary’s had the pleasure of acknowledging the reception of a box of fine candles, from Mr. E. Schneider, 1122 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, Ill. The little gift of last summer he has returned with usury, for which the recipients beg to tender him their profound thanks.
—At the Examination, among the Classes most praised by visitors, the Geometry, Geology, Logic and Literature of the Graduating Class merited particular notice. The charts of Geology were remarkably interesting, as no two were alike in arrangement, and yet all conveyed a remarkably clear and definite, though succinct, idea of the science. The diversity of rendering shows that the young ladies have incorporated, and fully mastered, the ground they have passed over. Indeed this was evident in all the classes. The First Senior Class underwent the most rigid Examination in Rhetoric, History, Physiology',and particularly in Algebra, their examiners being those to whom they were quite unaccustomed, and who were keenly critical withal. The Rhetoric; Algebra, Arithmetic, Chemistry and History of the Second Senior Class bore the test greatly to the credit of the Class, as did also the Grammar, Arithmetic, Ancient History and Philosophy of the Third Senior Class. The 3rd Preparatory Class also gave the most prompt and satisfactory replies in all the branches of their course, showing that they are acquiring a thorough knowledge of Grammar, Arithmetic, etc., and a good general knowledge of United States History. The Examination in languages—Latin, French and German—complete the list, and from their success crown the Semi-annual Examination of the session just past, as one of the very best at St. Mary’s.
—Selections from the Examination compositions of the higher classes were read on Sunday evening, and all were of a high order. They are as follows: “A Visit to Rhetoric Hall,” Miss Julia Nunning; “Rhetorical Dream.” Miss Lizzie* * Ritchie, of the Second Senior Class; “The Human Voice,” a poem, Miss Lizzie Bradford; “ Form and Spirit,” Miss Genevive Walton, of the First Senior Class; “Propriety,” Miss Julia Kearney; “ Opening Chestnut Burrs,” a poem, Miss Loreto Ritchie, “ Can the Mind be Cultivated Independently of the Heart?” Miss Anna Curtin: “A Pearl in the Casket.” Miss Margaret Walker; “Balthasar’s Feast,” a poem, Miss Emily Haggerty, of the Graduating Class. On Sunday next other selections from the Examination Compositions will be read in the Study Hall.
—Mr. Foote of Burlington, Iowa, has visited St. Mary’s frequently during the past week. Mrs. Patterson, of Indianapolis, the esteemed mother of ihe late Mrs. Eudora Swift, a pupil of St. Mary’s, from 1861 to 1864, was present at the Examination. Little Dora Patterson will be re? membered by all. The personification of personal graces, amiability, content and affection—
“ None knew her but to love her. None named her but to pra]se.”
She died at Indianapolis, wt four years ago, but her sweet memory live? at St. jjary’s fresh as of old.
—Among other esteemed visitors at the Examit ation, were Professor Ivers and lady, Mr. Edes of San Jose, III. ; Miss Starr, Mrs. Redman, Mrs. Hill, of South Bend, an^ Miss Higgins, of Monroe, Connecticut,
986
THE SCHOLASTIC.
ART NOTES.
—On Tuesday morning 10 o’clock, the bureau appointed to examine the Art Department of St. Mary’s Academy proceeded to St. Luke’s Studio—Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, Very. Rev. Father General, the Assistant Superior at St. Mary’s, and the Directress of Studies, leading the way. Nor was the occasion unworthy of so dignified an assemblage. For the first time St. Luke could say, for the exhibition of his Art department at St. Mary’s Academy, that not one copy from a flat model was presented for inspection or approval. All the studies had been made from objects, still life, or nature—had been made since the opening of the session; and no better testimony could be asked either for the diligence of the pupils or the fidelity of the teachers in this department It was, indeed, a proud day for St. Luke, who, after having presided over schools of Art that could claim Duccio, Simone di Martino, Ansano of Siena, Giotto, Taddeo Gaddi, Orgagna, Bellini, Masaccio, Fra Angelico, Verrochio, Perugiuo, Leonardo da Vinci, Michael Angelo, Raphael, finds himself chosen as the patron of an Art school in a convent of America 1 It was a proud day, also, for St. Mary’s, to find herself treading in such illustrious footsteps, at however great a distance; to know that she has fairly entered upon the path of study, which has, in all ages, produced “ good fruit of its kind."
Among£o many studies of genuine excellence, but most of them, necessarily, among the rudiments, it is almost im possible to select a few to be given with the names of the pupil. We prefer, for this time at least, to treat of the exhibition as a whole. The books of the pupils in the general classes, in all the departments, were on exhibition, and displayed a thorough course of study and a decided improvement in the same. By the Studio-pupils, there were one hundred and eighty (ISO) studies in pencil, including studies from the superficial blocks, cones, spheres, eggs, nuts, berries, shells, sprays of leaves and vines, landscapes, and from casts of hands, feet, and small figures. In the water-color department, there were seventy-two (72) studies in India-ink from the solid blocks, cones, spheres, eggs, and casts; twenty (20) studies in color, of shells, flowers, berries, autumn leaves and fruit. Besides these studies, all in tile regular course, there were five illuminations from original designs, and two original designs in water-colors on religious subjects. In actual merit, many of these studies, in all the classifications given, would do credit to any school of Art or of Design for pupils of the same age and the same experience.
Large as the number of studies on exhibition may seem, they by no means include all which has been done during the past session, those only being exhibited that would do honor to the department. It is with no ordinary pleasure that we have written this brief testimonial to the success of the pupils in the several Art departments at St. Mary’s.
E. A. S.
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Coonley's Drug Store,
South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o'clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
'	o24-tf
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTBE DAME, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PIUS IX,
;And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians. but solely to such as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to the .various pious Associations in honor of Our’Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benent of Mass once a month.
Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space of one year.	.
Tei’juas :
One Year,..............................................$3	00
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 00
Five Years, -	- -	-	-	-	-	-	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc , should be addressed to
'	Editor of “AVE NARTA,”
Notre Dame,'Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
J<OTf^E pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy v ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and“two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to he applied, and* had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study. ’
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana
CARPENTER ™ HATTER.!
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
- P. L. GARRITY’S
O-A-3STZDY FACTORY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago. -Broken Candy -	-	_	_	i5C-
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	_	_ 25c*
Choice Mixed Candy -	- * _	350'
Caramels -	-	-	- . _	_ 35e’
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.'
L*roj>oi'tionately Low Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o84-tf-

THE SCHOLASTIC
28?>
pALMER & Vanwinkle,
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, magazines, Etc.
^“Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER, 71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A. M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
pR. 0. H. MIDDLETON,'
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
’ o24-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE,	-
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. JJ-tf
A HANAUER,
* Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o21-tf
'	BURKE’S
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE Proprietor.
JRELAND & SON, proprietors op
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54 MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(.Opposite the Dwight House). ----------o---
ECA.CK JLENE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	%o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
-----------o- - DROP IN AT “THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND	•
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-lf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furuisbed it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accomn odation.-
Ladies and Gentlemen vi.-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hon e during their stay,	'
JERRYKNiGUT,) CAPTAIN MILLS, [Proprietors.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
-----------o--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
94 MIcliigfan St., Sontli Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
’ —AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything yon want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but ClotlililK is Oileap. If yon don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis. Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
140 and 142 Madison Street.
[Between Clark and LaSalle,)
CHICAGO, -	-	- IT/L.
f6 3m.
E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
-	.	decl-Jitf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
■	For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STREET, - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
&o24-tf
288
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Now Ready.
VERY BEV. DR. NEWMAN’S
REPLY TO GLADSTONE,
ENTITLED
A LETTER ADDRESSED TO .
His Grace the Duke of Norfolk
ON OCCASION OF
MR. GLADSTONE’S RECENT EXPOSTULATION.
BY
JOHN HENRY NEWMAN, D.D.,
Of the Oratory.
AUTHORIZED EDITION.
Paper cover,.........................................50	cents.
New York:
. THE CATHOLIC PUBLICATION SOCIETY,
LAWRENCE KEHOE, Gen. Agent,
9 Warren Street, New York, feb
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains -will leave South Bend
as follows:
GOING EAS.T.
2-35 a- (So- 8>, Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at ’ Toledo, 10 2J; Cleveland, 2.45 r. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.12 a. m (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line;-Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. st.; Cleveland, 9.50
11 57 a m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m. ; Buffalo 4 20 a m.
q H p x.(No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. M.
8.00 p-	10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at
Toledo,'2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a m., Buffalo 1T0 p. m.
5.44 p m. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.18 A- M- (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. m.
5.24 a- m (No 5). Pacific Express. ’Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. m.
6.31 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 730; Chicago, 10. p. m.
5,44 p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte
6.35; Chicago, 9
8.00 a. m. (No. 9). Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a st, Chicago 11.10.
9.15 a. M. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers
upon Through Freight Trains. .
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J H PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent. South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
Cliicago, Rock Island and Pacillc K. IC.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, '	Grand Pacific Hotel.
Tbxixs.	leave.	abbive.
(Omaha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.39 p m
Peru Accommodatipn,	5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Slight Express’ '	10,30 p m	6.15 a m iwni.
Michigan Central Railroad.'
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1574.
	Going	' East.	
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02 a tn	5 45 p m
Day Express -	- 8 30am	11 47 am	6 30 pm
Accommodation	- 335pm	7 35 p m	8 45am
Atlantic Expiess	- 5 15 p m	8 55 p m	3 50 a m
Night Express -	- 9 pm	12 45 p m	8 GO a m
	Going	West.	
Trains	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 a m	4 05 p m	8 05pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 p m	9 00 p m -
Accommodation -	1 50 pm	6 30 a m	1035 am
Evening Express	- 540pm	2 3o am	630am
Pacific Express -	- 10 00 p m	5 00 am	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 6 30 pm, *9 am, *7 pm.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55 p m, 710 p m * 9 40 a m, * 740 p m.
Leave Niles—6 39 a m, 9 20 a m, 5 10 p m, » 8 a m, + 5 o m.'
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 a m, 5 55 p m, + 840 a m, t5 40 p m
NOTBE DAME STATION.
Going East, via Niles.
Depart—8 07 a m, 6,38 p m, + 9 07 a m, +7 07 p m.
Arrive—7 07 a m, 9 42 a m, 5 46 p m, +8 32 a m, + 5 32 p m
Going West, via Niles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	'	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
(JWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near {Ip Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Expiess (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngfield Lightning
also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ABBIVE.
*9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9: p.m.
♦8: p.m
*4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m,
♦9:40 a.m,
*4:30 .m,
17:15 a.m,
$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a. m
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex’ cept Saturday. E Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St.Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains. JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLEN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m*
3rd train	“	“	9.00.p.m.	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannefield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH,Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Pliielphia.
F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t. Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Puss. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day. .	_	’