he Scholastic.
X
PIVOTED TO THE
TUDENTS
Voluma VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DEHTEMDER •*, 1873. / - Number 10.
cept the L imb which crowns the Tabernacle, and on which the eye reMs with delight, it being made of material softer to the eye—that is of burnished silver. The figure of the Lgmb is two feet in length, and rests some twenty inches above the top of the Tabernacle.
The effect, we say once more, of this great piece of art, at any distance, is simply marvellous. We could not help telling the artist to keep it for our new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame.
Were we rich we would never have thought of dividing with anyone the merit of procuring for our Blessed’Lord such a residence among us. We know too well the conspicuous place the Tabernacle occupies in the church of God, not to value above all the honor arising from the building of a church, that of erecting a Tabernacle, the main part of the temple, to which all other parts point, as to the centre in which the living God resides as upon His throne, and from which He disp-nses His favors with bountiful hands to all who may come to adore Him in the Sac-, nunent of His Love. Indeed we would have been too happy thus to leave a tes imonyof our faith to present and fuiure generations, while strenthening, we trust, our hopes to be received one day in aierntt tdbernacula, in His everlasting dwelling.
But unfortunately, or fortunately, we are not rich, and we have to provide for a large family. Our means were all ex-h insbd last year at the door, forw«- desired to claim the merit of “ having opened the do >r of faith to the various nations” represented here. Hence our obligation to share with our friends a glorious deed, viz.: to raise by joint efforts, or rather a most pleasing liberality, a Tabernacle not unworthy of the living God, “whose delights are to be with the children of men.”
From what has been stated above, it will appear evident to our readers that the object we have presented to their consideration is not a ctnnmon one; and yet-the privilege we arc about to propose to them is still more 'uncommon. We now beg special attention to the following lines;
The profound respect in which our Tabernacles are held fi. ds its cause in our faith in the Real Presence they contain. We prostrate ourselves before Him who dwells there. Hence the prescription to line richly the inside of a Tabernacle destined to inclose Jesus Christ Himself. The inside of ours is to be wholly overlaid in gold, and on the golden plates all around will be engraved the names of those who shall have contributed ten dollars, at least, towards it. Thus each donor will be enabled to say with the prophet: “The Lord has hidden mein His tabernacle.” Over it will be conspicuously written the words of the angel: “Behold the tabernacle of God with men;” and insids the names of His children, who for generations will thus continue to form around our Blessed Lord a guard of honor, “aad He will dwell with them, and’they shall be His people.”
Who will deny himself such a privilege ? More than one
A How Tabernacle.
r
j	—
)Wben in Paris, last summer, we saw in one of the large church-vestment stores, near St. Sulpice, a new Tabernacle, ■	the like of which we had never seen, either here or in
Europe. It has just been sent back from Rome, where it I	li id been oa exhibition since spring, and where it had been
I	universallyadmired for the novelty of the idea, it embodied
!	and for its exqu s te artistic workmanship. We examined
i	it carefully, and the more we looked at it the more heartily
we joined in the praises bestowed upon it by the crowd of of admirers who, like ourselves, seemed to be at a lo.-s which to commend the most—the idea itself or the skill displayed in the execution. Although in itself a novelty, this new form of Tabernacle has been, to all who are in the least conversant with the Bible, known since the beginning of the Church, while for the time to come it reaches eternity. The plan did not originate in the artist’s brain, but came directly from Heaven. Ttie modest artist claims no such merit as that, of invention, but invited us to test the accuracy of the work from the Sacred Text itself. Indeed, anyone familiar with the Apocalypse could have recogmzed, at first sight, “the New Jerusal m coming down out of heaven from God,” as described by St. John, with all the beauties and perfections I he Evangelist was permitted to behold “in spirit, on the Lord’s day.”
Nothing c mid convey to the mind a more complete and comprehensive idea of “the H dy City, coming down adorned as a Bride, and having the glory of God.” There we could see in clear and bold relief “ the great wall, and the twelve gates; on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates; and in the gates twelve angels, and the names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.” There also “the twelve foundations of the wall, and in them the twelve names of the twelve Apostles of the Limb.” There also “the building of the wall of jasper stone, and the city itself of pure gold, like to
?	clear glass.” Then again the foundations of the wall of
the city adorned with all manner of precious stones, the jasper, the sapphire, chalcedony, emerald, sardoynx, sardius chrysolite, beryl, topaz, chrysophrasus, jacinth and amethyst.” There also “ the twelve pearls for the twelve gates, one to each,” and “the street of the city, pure gold, - as it were transparent glassand “the city needeth not sun nor moon to shine in it, for the glory of God enlightens it arid the L imb is the-lamp thereof.” There even was to be seen “ the river of the water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb, and on both sides of the river, the tree of life bearing twelve fruits.” The entire structure stands six feet in height and three and a half Let in breadth (the only divergence from the original, in which both are equal), all glittering with gold, ex-
74
SCHOLASTIC.
■will extend it, as a rare'favor, to those held dean st on
earth.
E. Sobin, C. S. C.
To feel that loving pure caress,
Which wait* me in tny wildwood home.
’	•	Celt.
P. S. We feel confident that many of our Rev. Clergy will desire to procure such a Tabernacle when they have seen the one we have but imperfectly described. Perhaps the same could be made in this country, but at all events we would gladly offer our services to procure it fr< m France, of any s>z ■ and cost that would be desired and to pass it free of custom duties in our seaports.
We would feel otiliged to our friends fir a prompt an swer, that we may .-end at once for the wonderful piece of art.
My Wildwood. Homs,
I’ve wandered o’er the prairies vast,
I’ve climbed the hoary Aude’s side. The precious ore of earth is mine.
But yet my heart has often sig lid ; There’s still a void within my breast,
On mountain high or ocean loam, I long to view an ivied cot,—
My ever cherished wild wood home.
What though the joys of earth are mine, And smiles e’er meet me when I stray,
Bright eyes of blue roam o’er my brow, And glances swift deep love convey 1
I care not for the beauty proud,
My truant thoughts will ever roam, To father, mother, sisters kind,
Who dwell within my wildwoi.d home.
At'eve they view the vacant chair. Where once I sat. in boj hoodfree ;
Sly mother’s thoughts are far away, From those who cluster round her knee:
She view» my features, pinched and pale, From bending o’er the massive tome,
And oh! she prays to God on high, _ To guide me to my wildwood home.
Long years mud pass, and seasons change, Ere I behold each well-known hill;
The valley fair with daisies crowned,
The rushing stream and gurgling rill,
lu dreams I see my mother lond, In dn-ams I cross the surging foam,	■
And sit beneath the spreading tree, Which shades my cherished wildwood home.
Oh then I press my mother’s brow, And brothers loved shout loud with glee, I scan each nook and arbor fair, And tread once more, the fragrant lea ;
My father’s eyes fill up with tears, And o’er my well-known features roam, With outstretched hand and bursting heart, He greets me to my wild wood home.
At morning bright and evening pale, 1’11 kneel and pray for those I love, That we may all meet here below, And in the realms so bright aboveLet those who seek the clink of gold, The torch of fame, far distant roam, Yes, take from me my wealth, my all, And leave me but my wildwood home.
And oh I’ll be so happy still, To press again the fertile loam,
How a Stulsat is Shows
If a man really lovess’udy, nothing hut sickne” will keep him from being a stu lent an<l having the means of studying. The fact is, that when pers ms complain of want of time or means to study, they only sho v that they are attached . more to some other pursuit, or t hat they have not t he spirit of students. They will praise ot hers and wonder where they acquired so much knowledge; but they will not try to study, bee inse t hey say they have not the time or means. Thev will say that they do not wish to be distinguished in that m inner, and ble>s their stars that they are not ambitious. In most of these cases a love of ease or a genuine laziness is at the bottom. If they had the same energy that some learned men have, they might become as distinguished as they. You might promise a good knowledge of Lilin and Greek to men of this sort, in three or four of the years they throw away in doing n >thing. While one man is deliberating whether he shall study a language or not, another man has acquired it. Such is the difference b< tween energetic, decisive action, and
the And that lasts
hesitating, lazy manner of pursuing knowledge, what is worst of all—if you persuade one of them they are pursuing the wrong course, the conviction " only until another fit of laziness comes over them
If o.;e of these men lives till he is sixty, he is regarded with indifference; and if he lives till seventy, the people around him wish that he was in another and a better world.
J. U.
^olitsasss,
Probably upon glancing at the heading of this article many will scarcely deign even to read it. They will very likely say to themselves: “What.—politeness again ? Ils somebody attempting to preach more about that commendable quality after having heard “Excelsior’’ read, and that splendid work entitled, “Getting on in The World ”? How absurd! why don’t he generously give us a learned dis-seitation upon that strange and novel subject the horse, or the dog, or any thing else new and interesting?” To a certain extent they are justified in protesting against the repetition of this topic. But when all that has been said concerning politeness does not seem to have had the effect of correcting many abuses—may not then a person be excused for alluding to it once more and only in general term- ? College is one of the finest places in tha world to learn to be polite. Yet as it is by years of hard persevering and. laborious study that we obtain our education, so too politeness is acquired only by constant practice and even self-sacrifice. In every action, in every word, is the true gentleman conspicuous among all others. It comes natural to some to be more graceful and more polite than others, yet politeness is a quality easily acquired by all when carefully studied. Before acting or speaking, stop and consider if what you are going to do or say may injure any person or hurtany body’s feelings. Should there be a doubt, refrain from saying or doing it. For it is characteristic of the polite and true gentleman to endeavor to act always in such a manner that he may not at a future day regret his conduct. Again, you
THE SCHOLASTIC.
will find that if you accustom yourselves to be polite and g< ntlemanly while at. college, it will not be near sod.ffieult to be easy and grac<ful when jou leave your books and enter society. Society soon discovers the truly polite man, and makes all the distinction imaginable between him and the rude and unmannerly. It is unnecessary to enter into the minute details of the rules of etiquette; at the same time it may not be improper to briefly notice one or more. Observe this: when two persons are conversing, never thrust yourself in and take up the conversation, particularly when you have every reason to. believe that you are making jonis< If very dissgn table and obnoxious by this means. Scarcely any one, unlessa little non compos xiierdis, in the least acquainted with the rules of politeness will ever act in this manner. Yet how fnquently and.grossly is this rule of etiquette abused. There are persons who are continually preaching politeness, and who themselves repeatedly violate this rule. Of course this must be attributed to their ignorance, because surely as soon as persons come to know the cu-toms of good society they would hardly presume to conduct themselves so impolitely.
Real politeness includes kindness and charity. When you leave college and enter into the busy world and have b< m<s of your own, remember this. Be kind to your fellow creatures, be charitable towards them, and do not misinterpret their words or mhcoi.s'rue their acts. This is the philosophy of politeness. In conclusion, let me call attention to one more rule of etiquette. When a friend of yours visits y< u accompanied by a s’ranger, or even if not quite a stranger but a person with whom you are slightly acquainted, it. is the height of impoliteness to treat your friend’s-ftiend unkindly or coldly, and betrays, on your part a glaring ignorance of etiquette. To get along well and likegood Christiansjn this world, and to be truly polite, bear in mind the “Golden Rule”: “Do unto otheisas you would they should do unto you.”	Delta.
A Bemonstraace.
Anti-popery tirades are getti.ig into such fashion among Protestant ministers who have neither taste nor inclination to prepare a decent Christian discourse for their fl >cks, that we have been impelled by a spirit of charity to take from the April number of the Merceuburg Review the following portions of an article wiitte.i by the Rev. John Williamson Nevin, D. D., Piesident of the Mercersburg College. Lancaster, Pennsylvania, aad minister of the Reformed Presbyterian Church. It m ty, perhaps, induce some of i he reverend orators to “moderate the rancor” of their tongms, for pure shame-sake, and to speak respectfully of the faith professed by two hundred ai.d fifty millions of mankind:
“Of all styles of upholding Pro estantism, we may say that is absolutely the worst which cau see no sense of truth whatever in Catholicism, but holds itself bound to make it at every point as bad as possible, and to fight off with tooth and nail every word that may be spoken in its praise. Such wholesale a id extreme pugnicity may be very convenient; as it calls for no discrimination, it requires of course neither learning nor thought, but can be played off under all circumstances, by almost any polemic, with about the same good effect. Its strength consists mainly in calling nick, names; in repeating outrageous charges without regard to 'any contradiction from the other side; in thrumming over thread-bare commonplaces received by tradition from the
easy credulity of times past; in huge exaggerations and vast distortions, and bold insulting insinuations thrown out at random in any and every direction. But however con’ venient all this may be, requiring little reading and less-thought, and no politeness nor charity whatever, it is high time to see that it is a system of tactics which needs, in truth, only a slight change of circumstances at any time to' work just the opposite way from that in which it is meant, to work. The vanity and impotency of it must become ap-parent in proportion precisely as men are brought to look at things with their own eyes; and then the result is, that sensible and well-bred people, not those who go by the textbook of a sect, but such as move by a wider range of thought and have some better knowledge of the world, political-and literary men, seeing how they have been imposed upon • by the current slang, are very apt to be taken with a sort of quiet disgust towards the whole interest which they find to be thus badly defended, and so to look favorably in the same measure on the other side, as being at so many points plainlyan injured and persecuted cause.
“To mike our opposition to Romauism any weight, the first condition would seem to be clearly that we should have made ourselves acquainted with it on its own ground; that we should have taken some pains to learn from the' system itself what it means and wills. But of all that army of zealots who hold themsi Ives perfectly prepared to demolish it at a blow through the stage or press, how few are । here probably who have, ever felt it necessary to get their •acts from other than the most common Protestant sources. Take, indeed, our ministers genamlly. Has one of them in fifty ever eximined seriously a Catholic work of divinity, whether didactic, practical or historical ?' An ordinary antipopery assault implies no preparation of this sort whatever; but rather a dogged purpose only, not to hear or believe a word the Catholics say for themselves, while everything contrary to this is forced upon them from other quarters, as the voice and sense of their system. The sooner all such fin-atical indecencies can be brought to an end the better. They help not Protestantism, but serve only to involve it in reproach.
“ To deal with Romanism to any purpose, we must get ridof the notion that it carries in it no truth, no grace, no principle of religious activity and life; that it is as bad as infidelity, if not a good deal worse; that it lacks all attributes of a Church, and is purely a synagogue of Satan, ora mere human confederacy, for worldlyand unhallowed ends.
“ All history laughs it to’scorn. The vitality of Romanism at this very time, and the evidently growing confusion of Protestantism, all the world over, show it to be idle as t he psauing wind. It is no time, in the crisis to which things are now coming, to think of settling the question between Proiestantism and Rome in this extravagant and fanatical way. There must be honesty enough to see and own good on the side of this hated Church, as well as a keen scent for its sores.
“ Take it simply as it appears in our own country, strug; gling finally into full organization, after years of crushing difficulty and persecution; and need we say that it has merit and respectability enough in a religious view to give it some right to the same sort of genteel respect, at least, that is felt to be proper towards almost every sect besides? Is its hierarchy at this time a whit behind that of the Episcopal Church in point of learning, piety, or official diligence and seal? Has any Church among us produced better
Id	THESCHOLASTIC.
specimens of apostolical sanctity than the first Bishop of Boston, for instance, or the first Bishop of Charleston, and others also that might easily be named; men whose virtues adorn the- history of the country, and whose parallels are not so readily offered in other communions, that we can afford for this reason to pass their memory into ungrateful oblivion. It is not easy to read the writings of Bishop England, glowing with the eloquence of noble,gentlemanly feeling as they do on almost every page, and not be filkd with indignation, as well as moved even to tears at times, with the gross and cruel wrong which has been heaped upon the Catholics among us from the beginning, in the holy name of religion. What right, we ask again, have the zealots of other Churches to lay aside here the laws of common courtesy, and to be just as rude and scurrilous as they please? What right have rabid pens, and still more rabid tongues, to make religion in this form the synonyme of impiety and unbelief, and when confronted, with clear proofs and living examples of the contrary, to resolve all into hypocrisy, or happy inconsistency, as though it were not possible for piety to go forth in any way from such a system ? Some go so far as to tell us even that no intelligent priest or layman in the Catholic Church can seriously believe. This, however, is such unmannerly rudeness as deserves no answer, come from what quarter it may.”
Honors to the Author of “Home, Sweet Home.”
Our Brooklyn neighbors have been doing honor to an author who lived and died neglected; and who, strange to say, never knew what “home” was of which he wrote so sweetly.	*
John Howard Payne, a waif of the world, was the author of the following lines, that have become famous wherever the English language is spoken:	.
’Mid pleasures and palaces, though we may roam,
Be it ever so humble, there’s no place like home !
A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there,
Which, seek through the world, is ne’er met with elsewhere!
Home, Home 1 Sweet, Sweet Home!
There’s no place like home 1 There’s no place like home !
An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain I •
O, give me my lowly thatched cottage again !
The birds, singing gaily, that tame at mj’ call—
Give me them—and the peace of mind, dearer than all I
Home, Home 1 Sweet, Sweet Home 1
.	There’s no place like home I
There’s no place like home!
At Prospect Park some people in Brooklyn have been raising a statue to the memory of this man to whom something to eat, in his lifetime, wonld have been more acceptable. The genial, off-hand John G. Saxe contributed for the occasion the followimg:
•	I
To hint who sang of “ Home, Sweet Home,” In strains so sweet the simple lay
Has thrilled a million hearts, we come A nation’s grateful debt to pay.
Yet not for him the bust we raise;
Ah, no! can lifeless lips prolong
Fame’s trumbet voice? The poet’s praise Live in the music of his song!
U
The noble dead we fondly seek
To honor with applauding breath;
Unheeded fall thewords we speak, Upon “the dull,-cold ear of death.”
Yet, not in vain the spoken word ;
Nor vain the monument we raise;
With quicker throbs our hearts are stirred To catch the nobleness we praise!
in
Columbia’s sons—we share his fame; . • ’Tis for ourselves the bust we rear,
That they who mark the graven name, May know that name to us is dear;
Dear as the home the exile sees,
The fairest spot beneath the fky, Where, first—upon a mother’s knees—
He slept, and where he yearns to die.
iv	-
But not alone the lyric fire
Was bis; the Drama’s muse can tel)
His genius could a Kean inspire;
A Kemble owned his magic spell;
Kean to “Brutus’” self so true,
(As true to Art and Nature’s laws) He seemed the man the poet drew, And shared with him the town’s applause!
. v
Kind hearts and brave, with trnth severe He drew unconcious, from his own.
O nature rare! But pilgrims here
• Will oft’nest say, in pensive tone,
With reverent lace and lifted hand, “’Twas he—by Fortune forced to roam—
Who, homeless, in a foreign land, So sweetly sang the joys of home! ”
It is important to place on record that the eminent French surgeon and man of science, Dr. Nelaton, whose death was announced last week, made a Christian end. The JJnivers gives a most edifying account of this distinguished gentleman. At his last moments, after receiving the Sacraments of the Church, he is said to have observed to the priest:—“I thank you for the excellent words you have addressed to me; they are certainly the exact expression of the truth.” The priest then assuring him that he had re-ceived-from the Pope a special benediction for eich one of his penitents, Doctor Nelaton, exclaimed, “It is most consoling.” Then turning to those aronnd him. Doctor Nelaton said: “My children, the straight road, the observance of the Commandments of God, these are they which can alone secure peace to the conscience and the heart.” And later he added these remaikable words: “J’ ai prie j’ai cherche, jai trouve.” It is due to Dr. Nelaton to bear witness that his death was a fit end to bis life. Science with him was a handmaid to religion, and in this respect be was an example to his age, affording one more signal reputation of the oft-repeated fallacy that science and religion are in antagonism to each other. .
Lx Marmora’s book, giving the secret history of the alliance between Prussia and Italy in 1866, is creating a lively sensation in Europe. .	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.

Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year............................. $1	00
Single copies (Sets.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ OiHre._______________________
Several.visitors to the Exposition returned home with bad colds.
Gravel is being put on the avenue. We ought to have the best road in the country between the College and the city. We think will have it.
Rev. Father Oechtering of Mishawaka occupied bis new house last weik. Some of his old friends weie invited to celebrate the occasion in an appropriate manner.
We trust that our good friend M. S Foote was benefited by his visit to Notre Dame;, at least the reports to that effect are agreeable.
We bad this wee k the agreeable visit of Mr. and Mrs. Squires (Clara Foote) of Burlington, Inw>. The new married couple have the best wishes of their friends here. May all their fond hopes be realized. ’
We had the pleasure of hearing “The Aurora” read last Sunday evening. "The Aurora” is a sprightly paper, edited by the young ladies of the First Senior Class. The first number gives promise of a decided success, and proof that there is a greet deal of talent in the class.
The Lecture on Political Economy deliven d by Professor Howard before the St. Cecilia Society, last Tuesday evening, was both instructive and entertaining. From beginning to end the lecture kept continually reminding us of that happy combination consisting of two elements: the right mm in the right p’ace. His practical illustrations were well adapted to rivet, the argument in the young minds for which it was prepared. The Professor did not fulfil bis own prophecy made at the beginning, that he would not be able to give us much information. He well earned the vote of thanks extended to him by the S' ciety, and we can heartily second the wish of the President that, he may shortly favor us with another on this most important topic The hall was crowded to its utmost capacity by the numbers of the other Societies who were present through the courtesy of Professor Lyons.
All Around.
Junior Exhibition in the wind.
Disagreeable recreation-days arc commencing.
What hasbecome of the Notre Dame Amusement Club?
^he College Library is open every day, excepting Sundays and Wednesdays, from 3% to 4)4 P. M.
N. S. Mitchell, B. S., of the Class of ’72, is in the real estate business in Davenport, Iowa.
The harps have been hung on the willow; we mean the jews-harps that once through Notre Dame, etc.
The weather has been very changeable of late, owing no doubt to the fact that “Old Probabilities” has been re
moved from the conspicuous place he formerly occupied on the front portico of the College.
It has been asked what luxury does the Collegiate Study-hall enjoy more than the others? Why, it has an Appleyard.
It is truly surprising what effect these frosty mornings have on the tender moustaches of some of our aspiring Seniors.
The Statue so long promised to the juniors by VeiyRer. Father General has at last arrived. It is indeed the finest representation we have ever seen. At present it is placed in the large parlor.
Prof. Howard delivered a very fine lecture on Political^ Economy before the St. Cecilia Society and a concourse of friends, on the evening of the 21st ult. This was the first lecture of the season.
The reading of Frederic Grimke’s work on the “Nature and T> ndency of Fr< e Institutions” has been commenced in the Senior refectory. It will no doubt prove interesting to all the appreciative Seniors.
The CirculatingLibrary is extensively patronized by the. Juniors. We regret exceedingly that we are not able to say as much-for the Seniors; however, it is to be hop d that they spend their spare time in reading up their text-books.
We have heard nothing more from the. party who went’ out on a hickory-nut expedition, taking with them a car* pet bag, two fl-ur sacks and a scrap-b.u-ket, and returned with four hickory nuts and a chipmunk. Won’t they try it again ?
The first of the championship games, between the Star of the East and Ex< eMor Bas<-Ball Nines, was played on the twenty-second ult. It was a fine game; the score at the enil of the ninth inning s'ood twelve to thirteen in favor of the Stars. The little Excelsiors play a good game.
The Juni 'RS have many a lively game of foot-ball, in which apples are at stake. The other day we had the pleasure of witnessing a very fine game in which we should judge there wtre at least one hundred and thirty participants. The kicking was quite brick for about an hour.
Quite a ludicrous occurrence took place in the recreation-yard the other afternoon. A number of individuals belonging to the genus sus made their way in by some means or other; they were no sooner perceived than several of our students of whole-souled and hospitable natures, who are ever willing to extend a band in welcome to their friends, rushed to th. tn and were soon clasping them with both hands. Some of the sues, however thought it was making too fimdiar with them and demanded an apology, which was accordingly offered.
Our Lady of Lourdes.—Messrs. Murphy & Co. have just published a beautiful photograph from a-fine oil painting representing Our Lady of Lourdes as she appeared to Bernadette on the 11th of February, 1858. As many of our readers will want to get this beautiful photograph we stale that they can receive it by mail by sending to Messrs. Murphy & Co., Baltimore, Md. Carte-de-visite size costs 25ci-nts; cabinet size, 50 cents; full size, $1. A description of the Apparition is given on the back of each picture.
78'
THE SCHOLASTIC.'
Arrivals.
Edward O'Brien, James Fenton Blaine, Robert Walker, Gustave Lehman, Harry W1 Long, Patrick McDonald,
Toledo, Ohio.
Helena, Montana.
Helena, Montana. Chicago, Illinois. Grand Rapids, Mich. Fort Wayne, Ind.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. Ackhoff, W. Appleyard, W. Ball, J. Berry, J. Burnham, C. Berdel, J. Browne, M. Bastarache, A. Baca, IT. Clarke, W. Clarke, G. Cutinea, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey,' J. Caller, P. Cooney,-A. Chapoton, H. Dehner, T. Dailey, E- Dunn, W. D->dge, C. Dodge, J. Devine, J. Dwyer, J. F-alvey, M. Foley, J. Fielding, J. Girard, T. Gri<-r, T. Gallaher, J. Giilen, E Grib-ling, H. Hayes, W Hughes, E. Halpin, J. Hopan, R. Hutchings, V. Hansen, T. Hansard, P. Kelly, M. Keeler, J. Lyons, T. McDonough, J. McDonough, B. McGinnis, D.- McGinnis, M. Mc-Cuniff. J.Dermott, E McSweeney, J. McManus, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, T. Murphy, J. Mnrpy, S. Marks, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, J. E. O’Brien. M. O'Day, E O’Connell. P. O’Mahony, P. O’Meara, P. O'Sullivan, C. Proctor, R. Puuh, J. Rudsie. T. Rourke, C- Reynolds. H. T. Small, H. P- Small, F. Scrafford, J. Trabbic, J. Van Duseu, W. Van’t Woud, J. Ward, J. Wolfe, U. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Kelly, G. Amann, W. Ames, B. Bava, C. Burger, J. Bennett, W. Breen, J. Buchanan, J. Campbell, J. Casella, A. Crunkiltoh, J. Crummey, P. Corbett, J. Caren, 2. Cullen, J. Dally, J. Dore, R. Downey, J. Ewing, C. Freese, W. Gross, H. Zuber, G. Gross, D. Gorman, J. Gols-en, J. Bosie, B. Kersey, (1. Hake, W. Kelly, J. McGrath, J. McHugh, W. Mooney, W. Meyer, F. Miller, J. Marks, V. Phelan, H. Quan, E Ratigan, C. Ruger, L. Smith, J. Smith, J. Soule, H. Shephard
Olass Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have iriven satisfaction in all studies of the Clars to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned eveiy fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Courses third week, those-of the Preparatory • fourth week. Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]
FRIDAY, OCTOBER. 22 1873. Senior Department.
■Preparatory.— M. Bui ch, V. Hannen, J. McManus, J. Gerard, R. C Pugh, A. Baca, C. Boman, E. Kimm, P. O'Brien, W. Fitzgerald. S. Marks. W. Hughes, H. Akoff, M. O'Day, H. Clarke. M. Jeffreys, T. McDonough, J. Eaan, M. Caldwell, D. F. McGihniss. J. A. Murphy, P. Obermiller. C. Reynolds, A. Chapoton, J. McDonough, R Hutchings, E O'Connell’ M. Spillard, L. Maran:cite, M. M-CormacK, N. J. Mooney, H. Faxon, F. Frazee. F. Thalmann, J Ewimr, W. Ames, F. Swiger, E Rat-agan, P. Daly, G. Hart F S'amm, B. H.-eney, J. McIntyre, A. Schmidt, J. Gol-en, H. Zuber, B. L. Saram, T. Monahan, A. Crunkilion, J. Buchanan, J. Rider, A. E. Hopkins, J. Marks, •C. Hale, J. M. Cruminey, G. McNulty, N. Vannemee, D. O’Donnell, C. Stncker, J. Menton, H. Hocrber, L. Hatch, W. Keenan. H. Keenan, B. LeFevre, T. Hunt, E. O’Connor, T. F. Gallagher. P. 8cliunrrer, C. O’Connor, W. Boulger, J. Doyle, J. O'Connor. W. Allen, D. Gorman, J. Cullen, J. Dore, J. P. • McHueli, C. Riser, W. Chapoton w. Gross, R. Downey, T. D; Summers, Jas. O’Connor, J. Borie, P. Kelly, C. Gove, E. Grambling, E. Koehles, J. Campbell—L. Munson. .
The Columbians.
The 10th regular meeting was held on October 14th. When the meeting was called to order, Mr. John P. Wolfe was proposed f<»r membership, aud after complying with the required conditions he was unanimously elected. Then followed the debate—Subject: “Resolved that the Study of Mathematics be Pirefered to that of Languages,” The affirmative was supported by Messrs. Van’t Woud and O’Brien ; the negative was sustained by Messrs O’Sullivan, Sanders and J. Crummey; after the criticism, by Prof. O'Mahony, the Promoter, the President gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. After appointing members for < ssaj s and declamations for the next regular meeting, the Society adjourned.
A special meeting was held on the evening of the 20th, at which-Mr. Edward Davis, after having creditably performed the required duty, was unanimously elected to membership.	Geo. W. Crummey, Cor Sec'y.
St. Cecilia. Thilomatlieans.
The 5th, 6tb, 7th, and 8th regular meetings were held respectively October the 4th, 11th, 18th, and 24th. At these meetings the following members gave recitations or read compositions: W. P. Breen, F. Egan, J. E.ving, W. M. Gross, W. Meyer, B. Le Fevre W. Kelly, J. McHugh, O. G. Tong, J. McGrath, J. Beegan, N. Mooney, C. Furer, B. Baca, J. Marks, F. S weeger, C. Ruger, A. Schmidt, J. Lawless, and J. Cullen. B. LeFevre’s address in French, B. Baca's in Spanish, and A. Schmidt’s in German, were loudly applauded by the intelligent portion of the audience. The compositions were belter written and read than those on former occasions. This exercise over, Master John Ewing represented bis branch of the Association by giving a very intei esting sketch of “The Early Settlers of Indiana.” Master Ewing will have a richer and wider field the next time, to display his descriptive powers—his subject being “ The Settlement of the Empire State.” Bro.- Francis de Sales, and that good-natured gentleman, Mr. Wilson, of Trenton, New Jersey, were present, and addressed the meeting, expressing themselves highly delighted with the exercises. Messrs. C. and W. Dodge and C. Berdel were called upon for Declamations, which they gave in their own graceful and pleasing style. Masters F. Soule and Carl Otto, after reading their Compositions, were un mimously elected.
At the 7th regular meeting. Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., LL.B., delivered a very interesting lecture on “Political Economy.” Rev. Fathers Lemonnier and T .obey, C. S. C., Father O'Brien, Father O'Sullivan of La Porte, Ind., Brother Francis de Sales and Mr. Wilson of Trenloa, together with several members of the Faculty, and all the Literary Societies of the College, were present. When the Professor had concluded his lecture, a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered him. All were well pleased, and hope to have the pleasure of hearing Prof. Howard very often on this subject. At the 8th meeting a cmnmitee of five members was appointed to draft resolutions ex-pr< ssive of sorrow on the death of two old members, both of Chicago: Frederick Butters, one of the first Pbilomatbeans of ’59. and William B. Clarke, of 1865-69. The President spoke briefly, eulogizing their exemplary conduct andyouth-t'ul virtues while they were students.
W. D. Kelly, Corresponding Secretary.
1
THE SCHOLASTIC.	79
BhUomathean Standard.
z'The first regular meetingof the St. Cecilia Philomathean Standard was held Oc1. Gih, 1873. At this meeting, officers and Editors were elected as follows:
officers :
Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C. Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, General Superintendent.
Wm. Breen, President.
Frank Egan, Vice-President.
Wm. Gross, Secretary.
Jos. Beegau, Corresponding Secretary.'
B.	Le Fevre, Ast Censor.
C.	Freese, 2nd Censor. *
EDITORS.
Leader—Wm. Breen.
2nd Leader—F. Egan.
Di amatic and Local Editor—W. Gross.
Musical Critic—Jos. Beegan.
Commercial Editor—Wm. Meyer.
Foreign Correspondent—B. Le Fevre.
- Religious Editin'—W. Lawless.
Special Reporter—J. McHugh.
Field Sport Editor—C. Freese.
General Contributors—C. Dodge, C. Berdel, W. Dodge.
.	-	J. Beegan, Cor. Secy.
Yo’vtr.g America Base-Sail Club.
A meeting of this club was held Sunday Oct. 25th for the purpose of electing officers. The following is the list of i fficers:
Dpector—Brc. Marcelenus.
President—F. Frazee.
Vice President—P. Daly.
Capt. Ast Eine—N. Vannamee.
Capt. 2nd Eine—Jas. Smith.
Secretary—Wm. Lawless.
Treasurer—H. Quan.
Field Directors—D. Glickauf and P. Corbett.
Dst Censor—J. Lambin.
2nd Censor—D. T. Glickauf.
W. N. Lawless, Secretary.
Mr. Editor;—We are sincerely glad that- your ingenious local steered clear of the batrokophic fire-alarm arrangement stocks. His prudence really manifests a remarkable degree of perspicuity. We would suggest as a further step in the way of advancement that he join the new vocal class mentioned in your last issue. Should he act on our suggestion there is some hope that in due time he may be able to distinguish between.the tones of a reed instrument and a batrokophic croak.	Musicuss.
' Editor Scholastic :—I received a letter from our highly ..esteemed friend, Mr. Lewis C. Watson, of Detroit, Mich., stating that he could not return just now on account of ill health. He regrets not being able to return now, but expects to be here in a short time. He is a member of the Columbian L. & D Club, and various other Societies, and is greatly missed bi' his old associates. He will be heartily welcomed on his return. We hope it may be soon.
A Friend. '
SAINT HAGY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary's Academy, October 2J, 1872.
ARRIVALS.
Miss E. Gosse,	Princeton, Illinois.
“ N. Lassen,	Chicago, Illinois.
On last Sunday evening the young ladies of the First Senior Class introduced the first number of their monthly organ under the graceful and suggestive title of “The Aa-rora.” The paper was well edited and reflects much credit on the good taste and talents of the young ladies who compose the editorial staff As " The Chimes” have already been kindly lauded by one whoappreciates thegood and beautiful, it will be unnecessary to say more on the subject.
Close application to study and class duties, varied with three hours’ a day lively recreation, combined with perfect regularity, makes the time pass cheerfully and rapidly. The pretty snow-storm of Saturday put the younger pupils in high spirits, for they imagine they already hear the gingle of the merry sleigh-bells.
That part of the communication from St. Mary’s relating to the celebration of St. Edward’s Day was entirely omitted. Very discouraging to the writer of said report, and but for the kind mention mide of said celebration by the appreciative and facetious P. Q. in his report of St. Edward’s Festival Day, our friends abroad might imagine that the pupils at Sc. Mary’s Academy were indulging in a Rip Van Winkle nap.
Tablet of Honor.
L. Niel, M. Kearney, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. . Spier, L. West. L. Black. M. Ward, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, A. Lloyd, J Kearney, M. Wicker, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, K. Finley, A. Curtain, S. Sweeney, S Taylor, G. Walton, J Fanning, A.Keeline, A. T. Clarke. A. St.Clair, M. Quan, G. Puillips, R. Burke, J. Stimpson, A. Maloney, 0. Nason, E. Bohan, C. Wheaton, M.Riley, M. Johnson, N. Foote, L. Pfeiffer, E. Wade, B Wade. R. Woolraan, N. Ball, M. Quill, N. McEwen, F. Moore, E. Q linlau, M. McGuire, L. Ritchie, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, A. Nichols, M. Emmons, A. Minton, L. Wyman, J. McCool, L. Keena, R. Rosesco, K. Atwood, N. Kengel, A. Sullivan, .11. Barry, C. Germain, E. Ives, D. Simons, E. Ross, F. Hoyt, A. Morrison, M. Hoover, F. Taylor, E. O’Connor, R. Klar, L. Lilly, F. Lloyd, C. Miller, L. Johnson, M. Cummings, L. Kelly, H. Miller, N. McAuliffe, E. Mann, C. Strother, J. Hatch, M. Ivins, J. Haney, M Poquette, A. Garels, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manns, F. Larkins, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, K. Patterson, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
All the young ladies of the Graduating and First Senior Classes.
Second Senior Class—Misses G.Walton, J.' Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, H. McMahon, A. St. Ciair, M. Quan, G. Philips, R. Burke, J. Stimpson, A. Maloney, C. Mason, E. Bohan, C. Wheaton, M. Johnson, A. O’Connor, H. Foote.
Third Senior Class—Misses L. Pf iffer, E. W ide, R. Woolman, N. Ball, M. Quill, N. McE-ven, F. Mnnre, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, L. Ritchie, A. Roberts. J. Bennet, M. Emmons, A. Minton. L Wvman. L Keena. R. Roscesco.
First Preparatory Class—Misses D Simons, E. Ives. A. Morrison, J. Kreigh. E. O’Connor, F. Lloyd, C. Millei, L. Johnson. M. Cummi. s.
Second Preparatory Cla«s—Misses H. Miller. N. McAuliffe, E. Mann, C. Stroethi-r, I. Ha’ch, R. McKeever, M. Ivins. E. Taylor. J. Haney. M. Paquette.
Third Prepatat>»ry Class—Misses A. Garies. F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
1
-80
THE SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
UKITERSITT OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 18-12, and Chartered in 1844.	’
On and after Sunday, August 3,1873, trains will leave Souili Ben
as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 28 a. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toie-'o. 9 05; Cleveland, l.lur. x.; Baff-ilo. 7.05 r M.
10.27 a. x (No 2), M<il, over Main and A r Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 11.05; Toledo, 5 05 P x
12.25 r M. (No. 4). -<pecbil New Y«-rk Express, over Air Line: Arrives at Toledo, 5 40; Cleveland. 10 00 p. m. : Buffalo 4 05 a st.
8.02 p. st. (No. 10). Accommodation. Buns only to ElkharN arriving at 845 p. x.
9.12 p st. (No 6 . Atlantic Expre=s, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 P. sr.
4,3 6 p. st, (No 50), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2.49 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Lnportc, 3 50; Chicago |>.5J a. st.
5 05 a. st (No. 5). Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6: Caicago, 8 -0 a, st.
6.42 a. st. (No, 9>. Accommodation, Arrives at Laporte 7 40: Salem Cros-ing. 8.07; Grand I’ro-sing, 9 37: Chicago 10.15.
5.00 p. st. (No. I), Special < hicagoExpress. Arrives at Laporte, 5.55: Chicrgo. 8 20 P st.
3.19 p. x. (No. 15), Express Accommodation, Main Line. Arrives ar Laporte, 4 20: Chicago, 715 p. si.
9.10 a x (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positun-ly forbidden, to carry passengers poo t hrongh fn ight Trains.
J 'N. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MUR5E, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PERSONS, Situ’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent. South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen'l Sup't.
Pas«cngers going to local points We«t, should take Nos. 7 9 and 15: East. Nos. 2. 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Li re points change cir- at Elknart withou del-y. Warsaw Express (connecting wi’.h No. 4) leaves Ehdtarl at 1.4JP x. running through to Wabtsh. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. x.. and 4 05p. x.. running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers f.-r Detroit must take Nos 2. 8 or lb. a? through ricke's ace not good out Air Line, 2 and 8 carry through coaches Through Tickets to all competing t> >iu s in every direction. Locil Tickets, In-urance Tick :ts. if. R. Guides, etc. wil he lu nisiied uprn »ppli-cuiou to the Ticket Agent, or R M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Demit, at tae heal of Lafayette and’Frank in streets. South Bend. No trouble to answer que.tions C. M BROOKE, Ticket Agent.
This Institution, incorporated in 1814. enlarged in 1SR6. and fitted up with all the modern improvements, aflbi ds accommodation to five hun* dred Students.	<	-	.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, t is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee. --------	$ 5 00
Boards Bed and adding, and Tuition {Latin and Greek'); Washing
and Mending of Linens per Session of five months, -	- 1*0 00
French. German Italian, Spanish. Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music,	-	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	•	- 10 Id)
U-e of Violin,	------	200
Drawing. -	-	--	-15 f'O
U>e of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee-I’onimercial $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
' charged, extra	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Kooks. Stationery, etc , at current prices
The First S-ssion begins on the first Tuesday ol September; the Second on th 1st of February.	.
For iurther particulars, address
. Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C.S.C.
President.
PE.mYLVA3 I A CENTRAL.
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
..Three dally Express Trains, with. Pullman's Palace Cars, are run, bttween Chicago. nttsbnrgh Philadelphia and New
•	York withont Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m i Arrives at New York 11 30 a. tn*
2d 'rain “	“	5.15 p. m '•	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Conneciions at Crestline with trains North and South, and ’a Mann-field with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH. Geu’l Manager. pittsl>urgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON. AssistantSuperintend *nt, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER. Gen Pass »n<l Ticket Ag’t Philadelphia.
F R. MYK-'. Gen’l Pass ind ticket Ag't Pittsburgh. ■
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.	.	■
XOVISVIZ.X.E, N. ALBANY & ।
Uu and after Auad^y. Nov. 12, 1873, train? p. Salem Cro-sing. a- follows: GOING NO NTH.
HICAGO R.H.
ts New Albany and
Pass.... Freight Freight Pass....
7 29 p 2.48 a.
x. x
.9.24 a. m.
Pass Freight Freight Pat's....
GOING S 0 UTH.
8 23 pm.
10 47 a.x.
4.45 a.x.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad Qp ison Street Bridge, as follows':
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisi-, ana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation. .
’St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and . also via Jacksonville Division -Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill,.Iil-, and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ACTIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m
•9:15 a.m. ’*4:30 p.m
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
t6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m.
J9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH. SI OO J?ER ANNUM. Premiums for-Clubs.
•	Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
" Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Ex cept Saturday. I Dail y. § Except. Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and - ~a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman. Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, .
■ :GenTPass7 and -Ticket Agent,
• CHICAGO.
J. C. McMULLIN, Gen’l Superintendent, • CHICAGO
NILES t SO UTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	•	6.50 a m.	Arrive South Bend,	-	7 30 a.m
“	9 35 a m “	“	.1015 a.m
“	•	4.5’'p.m.	“	“	-5.30	p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.4" a.m. t Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“	“	11.45 a.m. “	12 25 p-m
“	“	6 30 p.m. |	“	'	7.iu p m.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a in. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 aim ’	“	“	6.30 p.m. |	11	“	.	6.30 p.m
’	8. G, Agent, South B«nd.