Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras morlturus.
-• -- ■
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 8, 1879.	Number 10.
To the Memory of N. H. Gillespie, C. S. 0.
[The following has been sent us, and we publish it for the tribute it pays to the memory of one so dear to us, and who, as the writer says,
“------ne’er named, but to speak well of all.”
The praises of our paper, however—which is, after all, only a college paper, written for and edited amid pressing duties, and mainly the work of inexperienced school-boy writers—will, we hope, be passed over as if they were not spoken, because they are not deserved.]
The priest and scholar who earnestly wrought That wisdom might win in the struggle of thought, We honor to-day; we delight to revere,
As the champion who led our Scholastic’s career; The tree he first planted now spreads its cool shade, We reap the advantage of plans that he laid.
Far, far and near, he saw foes that possess
Toying with youth,—mocking rights of the press;
Placing crude minds at the mercy of fraud, Teaching them hatred,—contempt of their God; True to his standard sublime, of the Cross, He saw their folly; 0, he mourned their loss !
How best resist hidden foes of the race;
How burst the bars, and give entrance to grace;
Snatch from usurpers the weapons they wield, Drive their dark forces, in shame from the field ? Teach youth to think; give them sound mental food; Banish bad reading; supply them with good!
Ave jifaria! Thy sheltering care,
Came to expose, and release from the snare;
Thy own Scholastic, set out on her way, Heralding life, in a land of decay.
A dove from the Ark of the Church, bathed in light, Father Gillespie directed her flight.
Now, with the “ Olive Branch ” laden, she comes, Showing that dangers recede from our homes.
Science, Religion, each eager to bless,
Firmly united, are leading the Press:
Notre Danie students, the youth of the land
’Neath them enlisted, obey their command.
Father Gillespie! 0, joy to recall,
One who ne’er named, but to speak well of all:
Charity, greatest of virtues, was made,
Heart of his heart: it was never betrayed;
Great is our pleasure this honor to pay, Since our Scholastic he launched on her way.
—Of all vices, the most hurtful to society—of all wrongs, the most irreparable—of all crimes, the blackest is certainly calumny.
Shakespeare.
BY R. H. RUSSELL.
At a small market town in Warwickshire, England, was born in 1564 the greatest, most universal genius that the world has ever produced. Born and reared under circumstances not calculated to give free play to the talents which nature had so bounteously lavished upon him, Shakespeare demonstrated that genius under any circumstances is bound to succeed. Strange it is that the early life of one whose mind has exerted so marked an influ-such mystery, and, in fact, should be almost unknown alike ence upon succeeding generations should be clouded in to contemporary and subsequent commentators. But the genius of Shakespeare, like a fire that has been smouldering and gaining in force and volume, suddenly burst forth upon the astonished world in all the glory and magnificence of its power. One moment we find him in comparative poverty and obscurity, the next he has climbed to the highest pinnacle of fame, from which he can look down upon kings and princes. What an example do we here find of what mere force of character and native talent can accomplish in the face of all obstacles! Wealth, rank and influence may combine against them, but in the struggle of life they will have to take a secondary position.
Entering upon his career at a period when the circumstances of the times had paved the way for the results that he was destined to work in the literary world, Shakespeare found the plan of his great project spread out before him, awaiting its fulfilment. Previous authors had written in blank verse, and had but dimly and imperfectly defined the forms of the drama. To Shakespeare was reserved the immortal honor of giving to the drama those attractive features and artistic perfections that render him to all ages, and for all time,
“Th’ applause, delight, th’ wonder of the stage.”
He made the drama the “stage of life,” and his universal genius embraced the parts of all the players. Everywhere he was successful; whatever his magic wand touched, yielded a bountiful harvest—whether as the depraved professional villain, old in crime and steeped in every manner of vice, or as the innocent and confiding child, ignorant of the wickedness of the world; as the just judge, or the avaricious criminal begging for mercy at his hands; as the king rolling in riches; or as the wandering beggar upon the streets, Shakespeare enters with heart and soul into the character, and fixes the stamp of nature upon its every trait. Nature was his teacher; nature’s works were his books, and with her countless volumes stored with knowledge spread open before him, he pro
o
146
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
duced the works of a sage, of a historian, of a philosopher, and of the most sublime poet that ever lived.
Other dramatists may have been learned in the wise councils of the ancients, Shakespeare’s wisdom was the spontaneous outgrowth of the heart. Historians may have written accurate and eloquent accounts of the deeds of men, but Shakespeare immortalized history and its characters, wherever was felt the touch of his magic pen. Others may have been skilled in all the subtleties of the philosophy of Aristotle, of Plato, of Locke, or of Bacon, but Shakespeare’s philosophy was that of nature; and she, in his case, proved a profound reasoner as well as an infallible guide. Others may have soared into higher and more sublime flights of the imagination—may have written in a smoother, more rhythmical or more classical verse— may have been gifted with a more flowery and more beautiful style—but none possessed in such rounded measure the universal talents of this “ Prince of Poets.” Every nation and every age has its genius, who rises to pre-eminence in some particular sphere of life, owing to the force and concentration of his powers, but the man who becomes renowned by the versatility of his talents, and their prominent degree of excellence, is a prodigy that appears but seldom in the world’s history, and his is an immortal fame. The great secret of Shakespeare’s power lay in that excellent discrimination, that sensitive and accurate perception, and that profound knowledge of human nature that enabled him to portray so perfectly every passion and feeling of the heart, to throw himself, as it were, into the situation, nature and habits of his different characters, to speak and to think w ith a distinct and separate individuality in each. His was a most loving and gentle disposition, but still he could act the cruel and blood-thirsty tyrant to perfection. His was a generous,— open-hearted nature, but nevertheless the character of Shylock, the Jew, who insisted on the payment of his bond, the pound of flesh, is by no means the poorest effort of his genius. Who has ever read or listened to the rendition of his “Hamlet,” that has not entered heart and soul into the spirit of the piece—that has not felt the most profound pity for his misfortunes, shared his every throb of revengeful anger, brooded with him in his simulated madness, and plotted with him in his determination for revenge ? Who has ever heard “ Macbeth,” the most sublime effort of Shakespeare’s genius, rendered by a “star company,” that has not felt for months, aye, for years afterwards, that Banquo’s ghost was dogging his footsteps, and has not shuddered with inward fear and horror at the mere recollection of that sublimest scene in all tragedy, where Lady Macbeth strives in vain to cleanse her hands, stained with the blood of her murdered victims? What working of the inward passions is there! What brutality of nature! What remorse of conscience! In his “Julius Caesar,” when Mark Antony delivered his funeral oration over the dead body of Caesar, still bleeding from the wounds inflicted by the daggers of the assassins, even though we be ourselves zealous champions of the cause of liberty, and feel that the blow that levelled Caesar, levelled the tyrant that threatened the liberties of Rome, nevertheless such is the orator’s skill, that we, together with the fickle populace, raise our voices against the perpetrators of the deed, and “ pity Caesar’s wounds.”
The world to-day is apt to be too lavish in her praises of this greatest of men. For the sake of his illustrious tal-epts, she overlooks his faults. She extols his merits to the
stars, with unbounded, unmitigated praise, while at the same time she passes over in silence defects which in. another author would be ample grounds for the severest condemnation, even to the destruction of the very worth and character of the works themselves. If not licentiousness, at least a more brazen and vulgar morality was a characteristic of the times in which Shakespeare wrote. But even this fact will hardly prove a sufficient excuse for the often disgusting immorality that stains his pages. It abounds to such a degree in almost all his works that it is an impossibility to expunge from them their impurity. However, it is impossible to arrive at a just estimation of his worth from the criticism of any one man. Shakespeare’s genius was universal, and it would require a mind possessing the same universality of talents to fully comprehend and appreciate him from every standpoint. He possessed in an eminent degree that power of concentration of thought and language which has been the inestimable gift of so few writers. In one short, concise sentence he could express volumes—food for the meditation of a lifetime—great truths and principles that fairly startle you, so forcible is their expression, and so unexpected, yet so manifest, is their truth.
Shakespeare is a name that will live as long as the English language is spoken by mankind, as one of the authors of its being, and as the greatest name that adorns the pages of its history. Wherever civilization shall continue to advance, and literature to flourish, there shall the name of Shakespeare and his immortal productions be admired and cherished, for they form in themselves a library that it is the work of a lifetime to understand. So high, indeed, has ever been the estimation in which they are held, and so wonderful is their greatness, that mankind can with difficulty understand or admit them to be the works of one man, but have sought in vain for explanations that would solve the mystery. Shakespeare was a man whose intellect embraced every sphere of life, and who rose to the highest pinnacle in them all; who, possessing but an ordinary education, outstripped the world in learning and wisdom; he is a man not for one nation or for one age, but for all time.
“Triumph, my Britain, thou hast one to show To whom all scenes of Europe homage owe.
-He was not of an age, but for all time!
And all the Muses still were in their prime When, like Apollo, he came forth to warm Our ears, or like a Mercury to charm.
Sweet swan of Avon, what a sight it were To see thee in our water yet appear And make those flights upon the banks of Thames That did so take Eliza and our James.”
The Study of Flowers.
Flowers have been beautifully defined, the “ thoughts of God.” Whether considered in regard to their beauty, variety, or utility, they form an interesting study. All the energies of the plant are directed to the development of the flower, and in like manner the various parts of the flower tend to the perfection of the seed which is to reproduce the plant.
In analysing the flower, taking it part from part, we find in its completely developed condition that it consists of four distinct parts, or rather sets of parts, every one of which has its own special province.
THE NOTRE SAME SCHOLASTIC.	147
* ----------------------------------------------------------------
The corolla, like the calyx, is simply protective, or at all events only auxiliary to the main intent. In some blossoms there is but a single stamen, while in the rose of Sharon there is not less than five hundred. All the parts
/	of the flower vary considerably in size and number.
' The great diversity of flowers is a singular manifestation »	of the power and goodness of God. The endless variety,
*	which so forcibly strikes us in the floral creation, is also
* remarkable in the human race. Of all the millions now in existence, no two are exactly alike. All have .the same features, it is true, arranged in the same order, and yet there is something which gives each one an individuality.
Plants are distinguished as wild and cultivated. Regarded in a botanical point of view, wild flowers are preferable, as by cultivation many varieties of the same flower v, are produced. The classification is naturally more difficult. , Among noted curious flowers is the Venus Fly-trap.
It seemingly is possessed of a kind of intelligence, like that found in the lower orders of animal life.
' Chief among the wild flowers is the Hypatica, the . well known harbinger of spring. Chief among culti-* vated flowers is the rose. The pansy, lily of the valley, hyacinth, oleander, heliotrope, and fuschia rank among the most fragrant and admired. Every one should have a geranium, or some other hot-house plant in the window during the long winter months. The little trouble they
. give is more than repaid by the charm their presence imparts ; and also, if our definition of flowers be just, we must in them find the most excellent company. They are full of meaning, and they speak a language all can understand, f * of whatever nationality they may be. Exotics should re-1 mind of heaven, our true native land, for all things that are good and beautiful on the earth are exotics. They
. exist only when carefully protected. In the sick room, how joyfully welcome are the bright, fragrant blossoms, .. speaking with a silent eloquence that fills the invalid’s heart with hopeful longings for recovery; for have they not »	“ tales of the joyous woods to tell ” ? Even after death they
come with a more tender significance; pale flowers placed x on the loved one’s breast are love’s last gift. Beautiful indeed are flowers on the altar; there is no more fitting spot on which they could be deposited.
l	“ Bring flowers to the shrine where we kneel in prayer,
They are nature’s offering; their place is there.
* In the first pages of the Bible these charming benefactors of the earth are mentioned,—“The Lord God hath r planted a paradise of pleasure from the beginning,” and the “ plants of the field, and all manner of trees fair to behold,” are described in the first and second chapters of
. Genesis. Again, the Blessed Virgin is spoken of as the Mystical Rose.” She is also designated as “a Lily among f “Thorns.” It is also a well known fact, that after her Assumption, when the tomb was opened where her sacred * body had reposed, nothing was found but the most fragrant roses and lilies.
“ Spake full well in language quaint and olden One who lived by the castle Rhine, When he called the flowers so blue and golden, x	Stars that in earth’s firmament do shine.
Wondrous truths, and manifold as wondrous, God has written in those stars above, But not less in the bright flowrets under us, Stands the revelations of His love.”
-	Miss R. A. Ewing.
Letter from an Old Student.
Chicago, Nov., 1879.
Dear Scholastic:—As one of the first students of Notre Dame University, I ask, as a special favor, the insertion of the following reminiscences in your valuable journal. In the primitive pioneer days at our dear Alma Mater, college life was full of fun, frolic, and exhilarating adventure, and wild, but innocent amusement. In those days, several of the students were the sons of. Indian chiefs, or other distinguished braves among the tribes then occupying the northern counties of Indiana and southern portion of Michigan. These Indians lived in houses, cultivated their farms, and hunted only in the winter. They were all Catholics, and spoke some English.
Bears, wolves, deer, turkeys, coons, opossums, catamounts, and prairie-hens roamed the primeval forest undisturbed, except by an occasional incursion made on their dominions by the rising young nimrods of our neighborhood. The lakes and streams were covered with flocks of geese, ducks, and aquatic game of different kinds. One day, while listening with breathless attention to the young Indian braves narrating their hair-breadth escapes, wonderful exploits, and deeds of daring prowess on their favorite hunting grounds, we became fired with a desire to partici pate in, or at least witness (at a safe distance) some of the aforesaid thrilling encounters with the denizens of the forest. We did not have very long to wait; for, on our next weekly promenade through the woods, two of our party came running at the top of their speed, crying out that there was a hideous monster up in a hollow tree, bellowing like a wild bull, and snorting like a porpoise, etc. On the receipt of these joyful tidings, our aboriginal playmates clapped their hands with wild gesticulations, and testified their satisfaction in different ways; shouting at the same time, “A bear! a bear! he is after a bee’s nest.” My own first impulse was to fly; well knowing that prudence is the better part of valor, and
.	“That he who fights and runs away
Will live to fight another day.”
But, our Indian friends, holding me back, assured me that I would neither have to fight nor withdraw, as they intended to reserve for a future occasion the display of my valor and pugnacity.
Then my heart began to beat much easier; and when my knees ceased their vibratory motion, I blandly informed them that I never highly appreciated bear steaks, and, consequently, it would contribute very much to my personal comfort if they would monopolize my share both of the steaks and the encounter. The next lucid idea that came into my head was that they would catch his bearship by the caudal appendage, and drag him from his lurking place to terra firms, putting a speedy end to his feast. But they soon dispelled all my sage calculations by throwing in some dry leaves and grass, and then rolling heavy stones against the opening to prevent his exit.
As soon as the leaves caught fire, Mr. Bruin began to feel the inconvenience of being in narrow lodgings, forced to inhale a noxious atmosphere, highly impregnated with carbonic acid gas. He told us as much by his hideous bel-lowings. The smoke soon brought him to the ground, and smothered the bees also. As soon a he reached the bottom he revived, the few leaves having quickly burned out. Seeing there was no danger, I advanced and rolled off the

148	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
upper stone, when he immediately stuck out his fore-paws, shaking them ominously at me, as if inviting me to shake hands with him. I bowed my thanks, not wishing to be outdone in politeness by a bear, telling him I begged to be excused for the present, as such manifestations of friendship upon so slight an acquaintance were rather unprecedented in these latitudes. A ball was soon put through his head, ending all his troubles.
Our Indian guides then told us that his mate was not far off, as they seldom travel alone; and sure enough, we had not advanced more than twenty rods when we saw a monstrous bear crossing our path, and growling fiercely. An Indian boy of fifteen summers, with nothing but his long hunting-knife in his hand, eagerly claimed the honors of the encounter. Upon seeing him rush into the forest to intercept the bear, my knees began to show manifest symptoms of having the ague again. We all followed at a respectful distance to witness the bravery of the boy. The bear rose on his hind legs, advancing slowly as if sure of his victim; while the boy stood near a small tree, gesticulating and daring his antagonist to a trial of strength. He slipped behind the tree at the right time, and Bruin hugged it, thinking he had his desired prey; but it was a little too large for his paws to meet. The boy in an instant ripped him open with his knife, amid the repeated plaudits of all present.
On those excursions, we never dreamed of entering the forest without our guns and a couple of axes. The next thing on the programme was to send to a farmer’s house for a wagon and barrels, while we were felling the mighty monarch of the forest, which had braved the storms of a hundred years, and might still live, had it not, in an unlucky moment, given hospitahty to a vagabond set of tramping bees. We nearly filled two barrels with honeycomb; all of which, with the bears, we bestowed on good farmer Schneider and his worthy frau, to the great delight of all the rosy-cheeked little Schneiders.
[The following article we clip from the Indianapolis Sentinel. The big electro-magnet and other electrical apparatus alluded to were donated by friends of the institution. Rev. Father Zahm intends to use them in a course of lectures which he has been engaged to give the ensuing winter.]
Silent Forces.
An Evening with an Electrician—The Finest Magnet in the Nation.	’
LIGHTNING MADE TO ORDER, AND MAGNETS AT TWENTY CENTS A POUND—DRAWING SPARKS THROUGH SOLELEATHER.
Yesterday evening, a few minutes after 7 o’clock, a Sentinel reporter went to the workshop of Charles Reitz, the electrician, on the third floor of the Blackford block, according to appointment, to witness some experiments with the big magnet which he has constructed for Professor Zahm, of Notre Dame University. This magnet is one of the finest in the country. Its weight is about 800 pounds. It is really worth $500, but about $200 of that is donated by Mr. Reitz. Around the two “cores” are wrapped about 4,000 feet of number six (large size telegraph) copper wire, which is wound with silk. The bare cores are four inches in diameter, solid iron. The “ heel
piece ” is three and three-quarters inches thick, six and a >, half wide, and 18 inches long. The whole thing is firmly fastened to a neatly-prepared stand, which is supported by heavy double casters. Heavy iron rods pass through the entire length of the magnet and hold it firmly together. A switch board is also prepared, which furnishes 50 different effects when the electric current is turned on. The bat- 4 tery used last night was a small one, of two cups. Fifteen cups will compose the battery to be used at Notre Dame.
The first thing exhibited was an electro-motor—a wheel of iron, about a foot in diameter. When this was put in motion by the battery, it had a power sufficient to run two -sewing machines; and, with a battery of 10 cups, it is capable of running six or eight machines.
The battery was next applied to the magnet, after the watches owned by the party were disposed of, which was necessary to prevent them being thrown all out of order by the magnetic power of the instrument. The armature was then placed on the two poles of the magnet which “ fit it so quickly ” that a pull of 1,000 pounds would have been necessary to remove it, and this with but the use of one 4 wire. When both wires were used, 2,000 pounds was the power.
A rod of iron about 15 inches in length was then held three feet from the magnet, and steel screws were held by it at the other end, it being magnetized by induction. Two “pole projections,” with but one inch surface on the “ points,” were next firmly fastened to the magnet points, inward. The reporter and Mr. Reitz’s son then took a rod of soft iron and attempted to pass it by a united effort between the points of the projections, but were unable to accomplish it. The pole projections were then placed one-eighth of an inch apart, and when the current was turned on they nearly touched each other; that is, they either bent the two cones, four inches in diameter, or the heavy bolts fastening the whole together.
Permanent magnets were then made. A number of “ horse shoes,” of the best of steel, were at hand, which, by ' passing over the poles of the magnet, were magnetized in about six seconds.
“ The Bell Telephone Company claim,” said Mr. Reitz, “that a first-class magnet will carry four times its own weight. We’ll now see what power these possess.” And other horse shoes were hung to the magnet just made, to the number of nine. Another might have been added with a « little more care, showing that by the rule of the Bell Telephone Company, Mr. Reitz is able to make magnets of more than twice the standard strength. He claims that he can make these magnets at the same cost which other electricians ask for simply the steel—20 to 22 cents a pound.
A sheet of pasteboard, two by three feet, was next placed on the magnet. A large quantity of iron filings were then « sifted down, which fell into the most beautiful forms of curves and crystals, looking like a black frost work. Two -< large circles were formed, one over each pole of the magnet, and the rings and curves were formed around these, while an oval was made between them. A handful of the filings were then taken up, and these assumed the * forms of crystals, which turned complete somersaults as . the hand was passed to and fro over the poles of the mag- r net. The armature was then placed again on the magnet, y with a thin piece of board under it; and the strength of a very powerful man was required to displace it. Even when a board one inch thick intervened, a very strong current of magnetism was perceptible. A number of other experi- ■
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	149
* _______________________________________________________:______
meats were then made, but it is impracticable to make mention of them at this time. The magnet will be oh exhibition for a week at Mr. Reitz’s shop, and he extends a cordial welcome to all who wish to examine and test it. It should have been stated before, that it has a lifting capacity equal to six tons. While the wires are being changed, * streams of electricity as vivid as any ever seen during a thunder-storm are observable.
K A dielectric was next put to work. The sparks flashed and snapped so viciously that the reporter felt wonderfully relieved when Mr. Reitz “ shut her off1.” But it was really beautiful to see the production of electric chains and sparks with the instrument, the Leyden jars, and spiral < cylinders. And equally beautiful was it to see the electrician’s son submit to the process of drawing a flue large spark, big as a little cat, through the soles of his boots. During all of these experiments Mr. Reitz talked coolly and deliberately, as if he had not enough of power in his little room sufficient to tear the entire building to pieces. He seemed to take a good deal of pride in his workmanship, # . as he certainly had a right; and our reporter left, firmly impressed with the idea that there were powers in the uni-k verse the extent of which no man knows, and which are sufficient to daunt even a daily newspaper reporter, or indent the cheek of a railroad conductor.
'	Art, Music and Literature. '
*	—Johann Strauss has nearly completed his new opera,
“Le Prince Orlowski.”
h	—Hamelle is about to publish several original vocal
compositions by Chopin.
—The Philadelphia Academy of Fine Arts now has about 900 works on Exhibition.
—It is said that the publication of a Catholic magazine for children is soon to be commenced in Boston.
. —There are one hundred and thirteen Roman Catholic periodicals published in North America.
k	—Mr. Gill is writing an operetta, entitled “The Rival
Vivaudi6res.” The libretto is by Miss Kirkland, of Chicago.
—Gregori the artist has returned to Chicago from Baltimore, where he painted several fine pictures for the Cathedral.
—Mr. John G. Whittier is to read a poem at the unveiling of the statue of “Emancipation” in Park Square, *	Boston.
—As Catholics invented the art of printing, so it was r	Catholics who originated the first newspaper, the Gazette,
of Venice.
—Mother Seton, who founded the Sisters of Charity, in America, wrote that beautiful hymn, “Jerusalem, my Happy Home.”
—The London Society of Art intends awarding a gold * medal for the discovery of the best means of protecting ships from fire and from sinking.
*	—A magazine has been started at Jerusalem (Palestine).
It is to be issued quarterly, and will give special attention to archaeological researches in that region.
—A sacred opera entitled “Joseph,” the music and - libretto of which are written by Prof. Taylor of Chicago, will be given at the West-End Opera House in November, x	—Mr. Allies’s “ Per Grucem ad Lucem ” is announced as
forthcoming, it being a collection of the various treatises in which he explains the views which led him to become
’ a Catholic.
—Ruskin, the great essayist and art critic, “ is a mild-looking, washed-out sort of a person, not too well dressed —in a word, appearances are against him, or at least say nothing for him.”
—Prof. Mommsen, the great Latin scholar and historian, is staying in Turin. He has obtained two years’ dispensation from his academical duties, and will give his leisure to completing his work on Latin inscriptions, and bringing forward his “ Roman History.”
—Much interest has been felt in Florence at the discovery of over six hundred paintings belonging to the masters of the sixteenth century, laid away to rot and perish in Government buildings; the authorities intend placing them in the royal gallery of the Uffizi.
—In the early days of Christianity the chief singer was appointed under a solemn charge, of which that of the Carthaginian Council is a sample: “ See that thou believest with thy heart what thou singest with thy mouth, and that thou also dost carry out the same in thy walk and conversation.”
—Among the students invited to attend a public philosophical disputation in presence of his Holiness, Leo XIII, was Mr. James F. Talbot, of East Cambridge, Mass., a graduate of Boston College, who is now pursuing his theological studies at the North American College, Rome, for the Archdiocese of Boston.
—The Jesuits have determined to elevate their college at Beyrout, Syria, to the dignity of a university, and to include within it a gymnasium, a technical school, and a clerical seminary. Besides this institution, the Jesuits possess four other active missionary stations in Syria. The college at Beyrout was built in 1877.
—Maurice F. Egan, who is said to be the best sonnet writer of the day, has in press a volume of his productions, the proceeds of which he intends shall be devoted to the rebuilding of Notre Dame University. Cunningham of Philadelphia is the publisher. Mr. Egan is the youngest, and one of the most promising, of our American writers.
—The winter garden which the King of the Belgians has had constructed in the park at Lacken is the largest structure of the kind in Europe. The immense cupola of iron and glass is sixty metres in diameter, and thirty metres in height in the centre. It is supported by thirty-six columns of white stone, each being one metre in diameter.
—A Swiss workman, named Rapin, has exhibited at Chaux de Fonds a clock which indicates the days of the week and month, the signs of the zodiac, the moon’s phases, and the hour of sunrise and sunset. The pendulum is a barometer. The clock strikes the quarters, and at every hour it plays one of eight tunes, for any one of which it can be set.
—The death of Charles Grobe, which has occurred at Stroudsburg, Pa., will be deplored in many circles where his name was a household word, as there are few collections of music that do not contain some of his works. He has published 1,198 piano-forte transcriptions, etc. He was born in Germany, in 1815, and came to America in 1839. He died of heart-disease.
—The concert given in Chicago for the benefit of the Alexian Brothers’ Hospital was largely attended by the elite of the city. Wilhelmj played the Paganini Concerto and Brahms’s Hungarian Airs. Mme. Salvotti, who sang at the concert for the benefit of Notre Dame University last June, electrified the audience by her beautiful singing of the “ Arditi Waltz.” She was enthusiastically encored. Madam Salvotti deserves to be placed in the front rank of Chicago’s best singers.
—Miss E. A. Starr, the distinguished writer, will begin this month in Chicago a course of lectures, for ladies, on “ Art in the Roman Catacombs.” Besides the knowledge obtained during a lengthy sojourn in the Eternal City, Miss Starr has received thence a large number of photographs taken from the frescoes to be found in those subterranean chapels. These photographs were taken from the original paintings, with the aid of the magnetic light, and will serve to illustrate the lectures.
—Modern investigation is reinstating the blind old bard Homer.- Dr. Schliemann has proved that he sang of a real Troy and an actual war. Recent critics concede him to have been a true poet, and not a myth or a mere collector, as Wolf taught. And now another Wolfe, this time, a surgeon, and of Glasgow, has published a pamphlet, in which he is pretty successful in showing that the singer of
150
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
y
-the Iliad certainly had an ocular defect, not color blindness, as Mr. Gladstone thinks, but amblyopia. This evidence is gathered from the treatment of colors in the poem.
—When the famous British artist Opie was first heard of, his fame rested on a very humble foundation. He was asked what he had painted to acquire him the village reputation he enjoyed. His answer was, “I ha’ painted Duke William for the signs, and stars and sich-like for the boys’ kites.” Dr. Wolcot (Peter Pindar) told him, some time after, that he should paint portraits, as the most profitable employment. “So I ha’; 1 ha’ painted Farmer So-and-so, and neighbor Such-a-one, with their wives and their eight or ten children.” “And how much did you receive?” “ Why, Farmer So-and-so said it were but right to encourage genius, and so he ga’ me half a guinea.” “ Why, sir, you should get at least half a guinea for every head I ”
—The Municipality of Vienna has resolved to take into public care the tombs ot the great composers who repose outside the city walls. Beethoven, Schubert, Haydn, Mozart, and Gluck are among the names read by the wanderer through the cemeteries of Vienna, and not a few visitors to these memorable shrines have been pained to observe the neglected aspect of some of them. It is not long since sacrilegious hands defaced the memorial erected to Mozart by the town, which permitted him to be buried in the common fosse, and two or three years ago the tomb of Schubert, at Wahring, was fast falling into a ruinous state. Vienna will henceforth guard the monuments of the masters who in life did her so much honor, and make them bright with flowers.
Scientific Notes.
—The French Academy of Sciences has been requested by the Minister of Commerce to ascertain a practical method of detecting the adulteration of olive oil with other kinds.
—Experiments recently made on the Lake Shore Railroad prove that petroleum can be successfully used as fuel for locomotives with a great saving of money, besides doing away with smoke and cinders.
—Richard A. Proctor, the eminent astronomer, intends spending the winter lecturing in the United States, both East and West, and in April will sail for Australia, where he will spend six months in lecturing.
—Prof. John C. Draper, in a lecture in the University of New York, last week, said that he thought that electricity as a means of light would soon be general, and that among- other means of its generation, not only waterfalls but the action of the tides would be employed. It would also be used as a means of heating and cooking, and electro-magnetism would be employed for a rapid and economical 1- comotion.—JF. Y. Sun.
—Phare’s method for the treatment of colic consists in inversion—that is, simply in turning the patient upside down. Colic of several days’ duration has thus been relieved in a few minutes. The patient may take the elbowknee position, or may lie (face down) on the edge of the bed, with his head and shoulders hanging down. Complete inversion, however, is best. The mechanical aid, in giving vent to gases, is perhaps the most efficient element in the cure.—British Medical Press and Circular.
—Dr. C. Huter, a German savant, of Greifswald, has devised a simple arrangement which demonstrates the circulation of the blood in the human body by making it visible. What is known as Purkinje’s experiment previously enabled an observer to witness the circulation in his own retinal blood-vessels; but now, for the first time, can the flow of the vital fluid in one person be watched by another, and that, we are assured, with sufficient accuracy to detect anything abnormal, and to obtain invaluable assistance in the diagnosis of disease. Dr. Huter’s method is as follows: The patient being fixed in a frame, on which is a contrivance for supporting a microscope and a lamp, his lower lip is drawn out and fixed on the stage of the microscope by means of clips, the inner surface being uppermost, and having a strong light thrown upon it by a condenser. When these preparations are completed, all the
observer has to do is to bring the microscope to bear > on the surface of the lip, using a low-power objective, and focussing a small superficial vessel. At once he sees the endless procession of the blood corpuscles through the minute capillaries, the colorless ones appearing like white specks dotting the red stream. Dr. Huter asserts that from the taking careful note of variations in the blood flow and changes in the corpuscles, he has derived great advan- * tages in the treatment of medical cases.
—The scenes which are daily witnessed at the oil works < at Point Breeze, to which numbers of consumptives resort in order to inhale the vapors from the stills, and obtain crude oil for internal application, have their counterpart over in France. A Government report recently published r in the Bulletin de Therapeutique, narrates that a refiner of petroleum was prohibited by the Prefect from distributing petroleum in medical doses. Some of the sufferers ap- -* pealed, and the Government ordered Dr. Blanche, a prominent medical practitioner, to institute an investigation as to the utility of petroleum in affections of the chest. Native petroleum from Pennsylvania and Virginia was experimented with. Dr. Blanche, in his report, stated that he found that ’ in chronic bronchitis, with abundant expectoration, it	7
rapidly diminished the amount of secretion and the par-	-
oxysms of coughing, while in simple bronchitis rapid amelioration was obtained. Its employment in phthisis . ♦ was continued for too short a time to warrant any opinion regarding its efficiency, beyond its diminishing the < । •expectoration, which also lost its purulent character. Dr. Blanche says that the petroleum is popularly taken in doses of a teaspoonful before each meal, and that after the first day any nausea which it excites in most persons disappears.	'
Books and Periodicals.	4
—The Maryland Collegian, St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md., enters upon its fourth year, and has been much improved lately. Although published but once a month, it must nevertheless be a troublesome job for the students to have their printing done in Baltimore. Their perseverance deserves success.	r
—The Brunonian—from Brown University—is one of the best edited of our college exchanges. That running * commentary on the contents of an account book is a capital series of jokes. The fellow that lost the book will • feel cheap when he sees the remarks at his expense, but he deserved them, and is well repaid by the sound	I
advice thrown in. His is as pitiable a case as that of our	•
friend John.	'
—We have missed the visits of the Georgetown College	1
Journal of late, but are glad to hear that it is not to be	!
as yet a thing of the past. Nor should it be. But few • i college papers can be published without an effort on the	;
part of the students, as most of the latter have little time	£
to spare, when five or six classes a day have to be prepared for and attended, leaving but little time to devote to other matters. Why should not old Georgetown have its paper as well as other colleges ?
—Among our exchanges this week we find The Port- T folio, from the Wesleyan Female College, Hamilton, On-	'
tario,—a paper edited with much care and tastefully gotten 4 i up. The literary articles are above the ordinary run of those in college papers and reflect credit on the writers. •• The essay on “English Literature before the Norman Conquest,” and that on “The Fountain of Immortal Youth” are good. A sprightly article on “The Inhabitants of Mars ” enlivens this number of the paper. Our fair Canadian sisters of the Wesleyan Female College may feel justly proud of ’ their paper.
—We were surprised to learn that a writer in the Bow- y doin Orient, a paper that has hitherto kept its standing with the best of college papers, had so far forgotten the > dignity of his position as to indulge in low and contemptible raillery that no gentleman would use. If the writer of the scurrilous squib in the Orient had no respect for himself or regard for the feelings of others, he should at , least have a little for the college he attends and the paper
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	151

v issued from it. Such language is degrading to the writer, ■ ’ and does not by any means tend to give a high opinion of ‘' the moral tone at Bowdoin. Gentlemen everywhere must condemn such vulgarity in high places, no matter what the > provocation. It is more befitting a street Arab or a wild Oriental Bedouin than a writer for a college paper like the Bowdoin Orient. We hope the writer has before this seen the true nature of his miserable joke, and intends to redeem himself.
The Cacilia, we are glad to see, still continues its good work in favor of legitimate Church Music with unabating vigor. Prof. Singenberger, the editor, who is also Presi-■ dent of the American branch of the St. Cecilia Society, , • must find no little difficulty in editing a paper published in both German and English, and English readers would no .	doubt be glad to have the periodical altogther in English.
4-	Most Germans can read English, and but few English
. speakers can read German. Couldn’t both ends be made to meet? Each number of the CacUia is accompanied with a bulletin of music worth more than the price of ' subscription.
'	—The College Mercury, from Racine College, Wisconsin,
. ' favors us with an exchange. It is welcome. The paper is :	up to the average of college “journals,” as they are called,
<s	although why a periodical that is not a daily should be
called a “journal” is a mystery to us. The word looks '	like a misnomer, although generally used, and backed by
k	authority. The Mercury is the first of our Wisconsin
college papers with whicn we have not had to find fault; we . regretted the necessity, and almost regret the criticism, although urged by duty to give it, for one cannot see baneful influences at work without raising his voice in protest. The Mercury, however, has nothing of this sort in its columns. It is a large and handsomely printed paper of 12 pages, quarto, and contains abundance of local and personal items. It does not take stock in literary »- articles, or essays, in a college paper. Each to his liking in this respect.
<-	—The West Florida Ventilator is the title of a lively
little amateur paper published by E. W. Robinson (Commercial), of '78, at Millview, Florida, a copy of the first number of which we have received. As a rule, we are not partial to amateur papers, but this one of Mr. Robinson’s displays better judgment and more good sense than most papers of the class. In fact it is not, properly speaking, an * amateur paper at all, having none of the trash that usually fills that class of publications, but is a solid little venture < in the newspaper line, devoted mainly to local news, gossip, etc., with a literary article or two for ballast. The young editor shows talent of no mean order in this line, for one so young as he, and we could almost wish that he had deferred the starting of it for awhile longer, until age and maturity would qualify him for the editing and publishing of a first-class newspaper. He has, evidently, the r right sort of talent for the business. We wish him success.
We are glad to see that the business men of his neighborhood have given him a liberal share of patronage in advertising.
—With the present number the American Art Journal enters upon its seventeenth year, and we can safely say that never before did a volume begin with such bright auspices as the present one. Mr. Thoms may well congratulate himself on his success in bringing the paper to *■ its present high standard. Started in 1863, by the late Mr. Henry 0. Watson, the eminent art critic, whose opinion on ► art matters carried such weight as almost to amount to law, both in Europe and America, so ripe was his judgement, the Art Journal at once took a high position and became a favorite with connoisseurs. Mr. Wm. M. Thoms, _ the present editor, was for some time previous to Mr. ‘ Watson’s death associated with him in the conduct of the paper. Since then, the younger blood has told, and the < paper has gone on improving week by week. Art matters, both at home and abroad, receive special attention, and I it seems to be the manager’s intention that the improvement in the paper shall be commensurate only with its support. Such publications as the Art Journal aid materially in establishing a cultivated taste, especially in regard to the standard drama, which of late years was threatened - with complete extinction by the lengths to which a viti
ated taste had carried the American and English public.
—Worthy of Attention.—We advise all our readers, whether they own a foot of land or not, to supply themselves with that treasure of useful, practical, reliable information, the American Agriculturist, so named because started 38 years ago as a rural journal, but now enlarged to embrace a great variety of most useful reading for the household, children included, for the garden, as well as the farm—for all classes. Each volume gives some 800 original engravings, with descriptions of labor-saving and labor-helping contrivances, of plants, fruits, flowers, animals, etc., including many large and pleasing, as well as instructive, pictures for young and o!d. The constant, systematic exposures of humbugs and swindling schemes by the Agriculturist are of great value to every one, and will save to most persons many times its cost. Altogether, it is one of the most valuable, as well as cheapest, journals any where to be found. The cost is only $1.50 a year, or 4 copies for $5. Single numbers 15 cents. Subscribe at once for 1880, and receive the rest of this year free, or send 3-cent stamp for postage on a specimen copy. Address Orange Judd Company, publishers, 245 Broadway, New York.
Society Notes.
—What has become of the Scientific Association?
—The Columbians will have a public debate before ths holidays.
—The Thespians are now devoting their leisure moments to the study of Richard the Third.
—The Editorial Corps of the St. Cecilia Society publish a monthly manuscript journal known as the Philomathean Standard.	■
—The Literary Society at the Manual Labor School returns its thanks to the editor of the Catholic Columbian for a renewal of his generous donation to their library.
—The Philpdemic Literary Association held its 5th regular meeting Tuesday evening, Nov. 4th. Mr. Burger answered a question on Goethe. Mr. Russell delivered a declamation, and Mr. Berteling read an essay. The remainder of the time was spent in the discussion of rules of order.
—At the Columbian meeting, Tuesday night, the following subject was debated: “Resolved, that the so-called Reformation was an injury to Civilization.” Affirmative— Messrs. R. Keenan and J. Connolly. Negative—Messrs. F. Bloom and P. Larkin. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Reeve and Solon.
—The 6th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society took place Oct. 26th. Recitations were given by G. Castanedo, M. Vedder, H. Devitt, H. P. Dunn, Geo. Rhodius, T. P. Byrne, J- W. Start, F. J. Rettig, M. Herrick, J. Seeger, J. Larkin, O. Farrelly,P. P. Nelson, W. Coghlin, N. Nelson, E. Litmer, J. V. Cabel, J. W. Devitt.
—The 9th and 10th regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society took place Oct. 27th and Nov. 4th, respectively. At these meetings compositions were read by M. J. Burns, F. Quinn, A. Caren, J. A. Gibbons and F. Grever. Declamations were delivered by W. J. McCarthy, J. O’Neill, C. Tinley, E. Orrick, G. Orr, A. Mergentheim, C. McDermott, E. Otis, F. Phillips, J. Schoby. T. F. McGrath closed the exercises by delivering in a very graceful manner “The Moor’s Revenge.” The public readers for this week are: M. J. Burns, C. McDermott, C. Brinkman, Geo. Foster, E. Sugg, J. Guthrie, A. Burger and T. McGrath.
—Paradoxical as it may seem, people who are inclined to be fat are often the least inclined to be so.
—During the recent sessions at Wakefield a witness was asked if he was not a husbandman, when he hesitated for a moment, and then coolly replied, amid the laughter of the court, “No: I’se not married.”
152	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
___	___ ____________________________. . y

Notre Dame, November 8, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the suceess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 I’er	JPostrpaicl.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Greeting from the East Indies.
Through the courtesy of the Rev. Editor of the Ave Maria we have been favored, with a copy of a well-edited and handsomely printed weekly paper from Calcutta, E. L, entitled The Indo-European Correspondence, from which we take the following item:
“On Thursday last we received the Ave Maria, from Notre Dame, Indiana (United States), bearing date 9th of August. Turning over its pages we lighted on an engraving of “ The New Notre Dame (Main Building) ”—a really splendid pile. That is to say, thought we, it is the architect’s sketch of the University building that is to be; and we turned to the letter-press expecting, to find some details about the projected building, and possibly (for they go so fast in the New World) an account of the laying of the first stone. For in our number of June 4th we had mentioned that on the 23d of April, Notre Dame University had been destroyed by fire. What was worse, it had been insured for only a quarter of its value. Imagine our astonishment at finding that the engraving represents • the new Notre Dame as it is—not as it is to be! By this time it will have been dedicated and blessed, for Bishop Dwenger was to have performed the ceremony on the 8th of this month, the Feast of our Blessed Lady’s Nativity. In just four months and a half, a loss, which had been deemed well nigh irreparable, is repaired with interest. However, we see that the editor of the Ave Maria does not attribute this sudden resurrection of the University merely to New-World energy, but to the protection of the Queen of Heaven, under whose patronage the institution is placed —and we think he is right. Still, when the Blessed Virgin’s aid is invoked in the United States, it comes with a speed which is apt to startle us quiet people in the Old World. Well done,Notre Dame! Intends, prosper^ procede et regna''
The Ventilation of our New College Building. >
To those who value health and vigor, no argument is required to prove the necessity of having in connection with all buildings and rooms some method of imparting to them a thorough ventilation. This is well known to all from the fact that the constitution of man requires for both health and comfort, a constant supply of fresh air, and is gradually but surely undermined by any deficiency in it, or subjection to the effects of bad or poisonous air. The cause, then, of the great defect in the ventilation of most of our public halls and buildings, if not attributable to a selfish and inhuman motive of economy in their erection, is due to a careless oversight, or to complete igno-rance of the great amount of air that is consumed, and the vast amount of impurity given forth, not only from the lungs, but even from the insensible perspiration of an assemblage in a public hall. Dr. Reid recommends at least ten cubic feet per minute as a suitable average supply of j pure air for each individual, and states that his estimate is the result of an extreme variety of experiments made on ♦. hundreds of different constitutions, supplied one by one, with given amounts of air, and also in numerous assemblies 4 and meetings, where there were means of estimating the quantity of air with which they were provided.
Of the various methods of raising the temperature of large rooms or buildings, the most general are by means of steam and hot-air furnaces. Heating by steam is by far the more practical, on account of being attended with less danger. Although neither of these may be the very best, « they are nevertheless in general use, and by means of	4
proper appliances can be brought to a certain degree of * perfection.
The authorities of our University, always desirous of securing to those entrusted to their care a sound mind in a sound body, and realizing the necessity, in effecting this, of the proper heating and ventilation of the rooms they occupy, have decided that neither pains nor expense should be spared to obtain all that can be desired in this regard. 4 For this reason, they have made special arrangements with the efficient architect of the new University building, Mr.
W. J. Edbrooke, of Chicago, Ill., under whose personal supervision, we believe, it will be furnished with a system entirely satisfactory, carried out strictly in accordance with the principles and most recent investigations of science,	j
and the dictates of a long and well-founded experience	I
combined.
The execution of the work is in the hands of the worthy and competent firm of John Davis & Co. Chicago, whose reputation is well established by the im-mense amount of work, in. this line, they have charge of all through the country.	<
The system adopted is based particularly upon two principles of ventilation, which have been heretofore 4 somewhat adverse to the general opinion, but which are undoubtedly correct, and endorsed by the best scientific authorities. The first is as to the admission of fresh air, and to the effect that it should take place after the air has been tempered, as it were, and its raw chill softened by some process of heating, in order to prevent that sudden change that follows an exposure of the body in a	>
warm state to a full draught of cold air, and which we may add, by the way, is, in fact, the cause of those fatal diseases of the lungs and throat so common in our country. The second principle is concerning the discharge of impure	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;. .	153
air, maintaining that the heavy and most pernicious falls to the floor, and that this is the proper location of the aperture for its removal, in connection with some means of drawing it out. In accordance then with the principles maintained, the manner of supplying the building with fresh air is as follows:
The heating-pipes are brought together in chambers in the basement of the building. The cold air passes by conductors from the outside of the building into these various chambers, where it is warmed, and thence on by other conductors into ninety-five different apartments, each having a register, varying in size to suit the ingress of air required for it.
This may safely be pronounced one of the best methods yet devised for large halls and class-rooms, since it not only furnishes a constant supply of fresh and pure air, but secures a sufficient degree of heat for the room during damp or moderately cold weather. Of course, there is besides, in each room, a sufficient supply of pipes placed in a position to give direct radiation of heat when necessary.
The total heating surface of all the steam-pipes set up in the main building is 23,583 square feet, equivalent to 40,479 lineal feet of one-inch heating-pipe; this is exclusive of supply and return pipes.
For the purpose of removing the impure air accumulated, each appartment throughout the building is supplied with a ventilating register in the floor, which is connected by a flue with’ one of four spacious ventiducts built of brick, rising sixteen feet above the roof of the building and covered with an Emerson’s ventilating cap. These ventiducts are heated by steam, which, acting from the mechanical tendency of a column of heated air to rise, causes a vacuum, draws the foul air out through the register in the floor, into the ventiduct, and thence out into the open air.
In this manner, then, a thorough and proper ventilation is accomplished—the fresh and pure air is admitted in an equable temperature, and after it has been used and vitiated is sure to be discharged by the means employed.
Personal.
—J. Mosal, ’77, is writing poetry at Jackson, Miss.
—Wm. Hake, Jr., ’77, is studying medicine at Ann Arbor.
—J. J. Quinn, ’79, has entered a law office in New York city.
—T. A. Dailey, ’74, is teaching in a college at Golial, Texas.
—Chas. Hake (Commercial), ’75, is keeping books for his father.
—Rev. J. Ford, P. P., is enjoying good health at St. Joseph’s Farm.
—A., and J. Leitelt, ’75, are attending the Boston School of Technology.
—F. Maas, ’77, is taking a course of Pharmacy at the Ann Arbor University.
—R. L. Aiken, ’68, is flourishing at Evansville, Ind. Why doesn’t he pay us a visit ?
—R. Chatterton, ’71, has the most extensive jewelry establishment to be found in Springfield, Ill.
—Mr. Frank Vander Vannet is to occupy the district No. 5 school house of Greene township as teacher, on Nov. 10th. Frank is a thoroughly educated young man, and is second to none in his protession as a teacher. He is a graduate of Notre Dame, and in 1877 took some of the highest premiums at the University.—South-Bend Tribune.
—Wm. D. Bunbury, who Jreceived the premium of honor here in 1864, was discovered floating in Muskegon lake, Saturday, 25th ult. A large wound was found over his left eye, his pockets were rifled, and a large sum of money and several articles of valuable jewelry which he carried were missing. After leaving Notre Dame, Mr. Bunburry held several important offices in Muskegon County. He was possessed of considerable property, and was a general favorite with all who knew him.
—A gentleman writing from Fort Wayne says that Mr. W. P. Breen, ’77, who was admitted to the bar there a few months ago will, it is thought, prove an honor to his profession. Will has the talent, we know, for when here he was one of Notre Dame’s best students in class, and also one of the best conducted young men at the College, as his premiums and medals abundantly testify. As is well known, the medals given at Notre Dame, both for studies and conduct, are well earned, and of these Mr. Breen was awarded six, including the Quan gold medal for the senior year in the Classical Course. With such trophies, one need not be surprised that a young man should attain eminence in any protession. Notre Dame has as good reason to feel proud of such students as Mr. Breen, as he of the premiums he has gained in her college halls.
—In its notice of the installment of the lately elected County officers, the South-Bend Baily Tribune pays our worthy and highly esteemed Prof. T. E. Howard a strong and well-merited compliment, from which we clip the following: “It is not necessary for the Tribune to say anything by way of introducing him to the public. Prof. Howard is too well known for that. His ability is unquestioned, his integrity is beyond suspicion, and he is courteousness itself. We have not a doubt but he will make a popular and efficient officer.” Well said, and well deserved ; to which we would add, besides his abilities, his claims upon the public gratitude, the most just and solid, gained by the steadfast life of a true and virtuous citizen, and proved by the noble scars that he bears, and which he received in the faithful defence of his country during its dark trials and troubles.
Local Items.
—Who stole that Soph’s gloves?
—He comes from the East, you know.
—Dancing is all the go with the Seniors.
—Autograph albums are again in circulation.
—Can any one tell us who or what “ Saltie ” is ?
—Small beginnings lead to great ends—wax ends.
—The Preps made good use of the snow last week.
—Twelve hundred Scholastics printed every week.
—Mr., please keep that dog away. Does he bi-hite ?
—Mergy is fast becoming a proficient French scholar.
—He hasn’t committed matrimony, and doesn’t intend to.
—The bath-rooms at the steam-house are well patronized.
—The Quartette have enthusiastic rehearsals every week.
' —Some of the Freshies are decidedly fresh for Eastern boys.
—Patronize the Lemonnier Library if you want good reading.
—“Saltie” says he will soon put his boat into winter quarters.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid his nephew a flying visit on Tuesday.
—The Moot Court of the Law Classes will be held every Saturday.
—The Seniors return thanks to Mr. J. B. McGrath for favors received.
—Father Zahm will soon begin his course of lectures on scientific subjects.
—The Philosophers are very undignified when others are not looking on.
—Jones’ table is determined to get that cake decorated with pickled eels’ feet.
I
154	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
__________________________________________________________)
—The Medics are making rapid progress under their Professor, Dr. Neyron.
/ —The College Library has been put in order by the hard-working Librarian.
—That Prep returns a unanimous vote of thanks to Prof. Lyons for that harp.
—When writing for the Scholastic, always write on one side only of the paper.
—The boys of the second German Class speak that language in all its native purity.
—The Juniors are preparing a musical soiree. We should have one at least twice a month.
—The lectures by Prof. Howard on English Literature are entertaining and instructive.
—The Professor of Physics delivered several lectures lately in Indianapolis and vicinity.
—The Penmanship department is in a flourishing condition under its present management.
—When you catch a white cat, shave him; when you catch a black cat, shave him to the tail.
—A Freshy asks, “ Who is Falstaff, anyhow ? ” We refer him to our travelling friend for information.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin will reach France to-day or to-morrow, wind and weather being propitious.
—We advise that upper classman to rub them well with cream, and then get the cat to finish the operation.
—Prof Lyons’s Annual for 1880 bids fair to surpass anything in that line ever before attempted on any stage.
—Master Elmer Olis, of the Junior department, is a great-grandson of Daniel Boone, the first settler of Kentucky.
—Why doesn’t the chime master arrange the bells so that they will play every hour, as was the custom in days of yore?
—The Squaw Winter has set in with its usual skerries of snow. Soon will Indian Summer now commence his balmy reign.
—Bro. Albert has just finished a life-like painting in oil of the aged Bro. Vincent. Connoisseurs pronounce it a good portrait.
—Father Hudson, we are glad to see, has recovered from his fall, and is able to make his accustomed visits to the printing-office.
—Commodore Coleman informs us that navigation has closed tor the season; consequently, the navy has been put into winter quarters.
—Father Superior has several fine pictures which he intends to give to those who have the best competitions in Christian Doctrine next month.
—Aquatic men have deserted the lake regions. They now devote their attention to discussing the best substance for accelerating the speed of boats.
—Improvements have been made in the Telegraphy room. The boys show advancement, and are now able to write with considerable rapidity.
—The plan for the dome can be seen in President Corby’s office. Mr. Edbrooke, the architect, deserves great praise for the beauties it represents.
/ —Members of the Library Association are not allowed to exchange books with each other. When they want a book they must apply to the librarian.
—The Prof, of Astronomy performs regularly on the parallel bars after the boys have gone to bed. His development of muscle is something not to be sneezed at
—Doctor Neyron shot several wild ducks on St. Mary’s Lake last Wednesday. He avers that it was not he who shot the tame duck, but one of the young theologs.
—We have several complete sets of last year’s Scholastic which we will sell at $2.50 per volume bound, or $1.50 unbound. Address Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
—There are some people who imagine that the whole world would go to pieces unless they were about, to keep things in order. Don’t wear the shoe unless it fits you.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Patronage of the Blessed
Virgin, Alissa de Angelis, p. 42 of the Kyriale, will be sung. Vespers, of the Common of the Blessed Virgin, p. 36 of the Vesperal.
—B. Bernard lately received a fine terrier from one of his friends. Nep and Sancho are not pleased with the new arrival, and are jealous of any mark of favor shown to the stranger.
—A grand glass eye-ball shoot took place last Wednesday. Mr. Snifter came out victorious, successfully shooting both his eyes into his adversary’s coffee-bowl across the table, by a mere excitation of the trigeminal nerve.
—The Cleveland Catholic Universe, edited by that staunch defender of the faith, Mr. Manly Tello, is one of the very best papers received by the students. One can judge of its popularity by the rush made for it every Saturday eveniug.
—On the twelfth inst., five years ago, Rev. N. H. Gillespie, ’49, departed this life. He was the first student regularly graduated by Notre Dame, and was for many years editor of this paper. Of your charity oray for the repose of his soul.	'
—Our local artist is engaged making a life-sized portrait, in crayon, of the late Brother Benoit, who was prefect of the Senior department for over twenty years. When the picture is finished it will be placed in the Columbian Society hall.
—The chief reason for the unsatisfactory character of our vocalization at present, lies in the wide gulf which separates our theory from our practice. If our theorists were a little less classic and cultivated, or if our practitioners were a great deal more assiduous in training, we might make both ends meet.
—The Bulletins for the month of October were unusually good. High notes were very few, and far between. The best Bulletin in the Junior Department was that of Master A. 8. Rock, of the Collegiate Course. Frank Phillips was second best, and M. Burns and R. Le Bourgeois, ex cequo, third. More than eighty per cent, of the students received excellent notes.
rX-The directors of the Lemonnier Library Association have received from Rev. Father Louage a third donation of books, consisting of a complete set of Hendrik Conscience’s Works in ten volumes. The interest taken by this Rev. benefactor in the students library is truly praiseworthy, and for this he has the thanks of the association and all connected with the Library.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Mr. Thomas, of Phenix Mine, Mich., for a donation of beautiful specimens of native silver, copper, cole spar, amethyst, quartz, etc. Mr. Thomas has always on hand a large collection of Lake Superior specimens for sale, and those who contemplate purchasing anything in this line, will consult their interests by giving him their patronage.
—The retreat must have been well attended to, as the students are studying harder than before. From all quarters comes the report that never before were the students so zealous in their studies. This is encouraging. There is nothing that gives a teacher such pleasure as the knowledge that those under his charge are doing all that is possible to make his instructions available. It is, in fact, his only pleasure.
—The Senior Laws are hard at work on several cases for the Moot Court. Judge Spalding will call the grand jury together aoout the middle of the month, when we may expect to hear some lively speeches from Simms, Devoto & Co. Prof. Tong’s lectures on criminal law are more interesting this year than ever before. We understand that several lawyers from neighboring cities will lecture before the class during the winter term.
—We knew that it would hit him squarely, and he shows that it has done so, by rushing into print to vindicate himself from what he claims to regard as the slanderous imputations oflast week’s Scholastic. It will be noticed that he defends himself entirely on the “ You’re another” system of tactics, but all his insinuations are powerless to effect in any way the reputation of such well-known votaries of early rising as those at present connected with the management of our local, and editorial columns.


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	1^5
Just listen—if you can keep serious meanwhile—to his tirade:
The Professor of Mathematics, with his best bow salutes the editor, and returns thanks for the splendid notice of last week. The selection was very appropriate, expressing in chaste and refined language the sentiments of the above named individual. The quotation was so Apropos that it certainly must have coincided with the thoughts uppermost in the mind of the selecter. Tele-phonicaliy, it has been reported that the editor-in-chief considers this habit of early rising as outrageous and abominable. Practically, the ‘Local’ shows that he detests the same disagreeable custom. The ‘ Subs ’ coincide with their chief, and the sentiments ascribed to the Prof, of Mathematics to direct the attention of the public from editors to one whose actions are sufficient proof that he is innocent of the charge implied. Try again, gentlemen’ Fire off your little pop-guns, whirl your boomerangs, but take care that your own heads be not struck.”
j/ —Among the books purchased for the Lemonnier Library z during the past week are the following: Scott’s Complete
Works, 13 \vols.; Early English Poets, 9 vol; Giraldus Cambrensis; Suetonius’s Lives of the Cassars; Vicar of Wakefield; tlncle Tom’s Cabin; Dickens’s Works, 12 vols.; Lady Bird and Ellen Middleton, 2 vols.; Hendrik Conscience’s Works, 3 vols.; Camping Out Series, 6 vols.; Art Maguire; Rome and the Abbey; Tne Miner’s Daughter; Sick Calls; The Devil—Does he Exist? The Notary’s Daughter; lerne of Armorica; Witch of Melton Hill; The Vestal, De la Grange; Newman’s Lectures on Anglican Difficulties; Life of St. Francis Xavier; Irish on the Prairies; Father Eudes; Apostleship of Prayer; Paradise of the Earth; History of Paraguay, Charlevoix; Rocky Mountain Series, 3 vols.; Gun Boat Series, 6 vols; Tattered Tom Series, 4 vols.; Dickens’s Little Folks, 12 vols.; Jack Harzard Series, 6 vols.; Swiss Family Robinson, Hunters Series, 3 vols.; Twenty thousand leagues under the Sea, Jules Vernes; American Family, Robinson; Life of Webster, Lyman; Marie Antoinette, Campau; Life of Daniel Boone; Life of Henry Clay, Schmucker; Thomas Jefferson,Schmucker; Life of Alexander Hamilton; Empress Josephine; Holmes’ Poetical Works; Jean Ingelow’s Poetical Works; Bret Harte’s Poetical Works; Whettier’s Poetical Works; Halpine’s Poetical Works; The Mysteries of Astrology and the Wonders of Magic, Robaki; Chambers’ English Literature, 8 vols.; Sportsmen Club, 3 vols.; Lake Braze Series, 4 vols.
i/ —The Lemonnier Library acknowledge with thanks the ^following donation from W. H. and E. F. Arnold, of Washington, D. C. This is the second donation from these gentlemen since September. Xenophon (completed), by Astley Cooper, Fielding & Smith; Poetical Works of Thos. Moore, and Memoir; Poetical Works of Tennyson; Poetical Works of Cowper, and Life; Poetical Works of Felicia Hernans; Poetical Works of H. Kirk White, with “Melancholy Hours and Life”; Poetical Works of Eleanor C. Donnelly; Poetical Works of Sir Walter Scott; Gulliver’s Travels—Illustrated; The Martyrs, Chateaubriand; Lectures on the Eucharist, Wiseman; Amicable Discussion on the Church of England and Reformation, translated from the French; Milner’s Letters; Life ot Louis IX; Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus; Biography of Archbishop Carroll, J. Carroll Brent; Life of Rev. Gallitzin, Prince and Priest; Life of John M. Costello; Life of St. Francis Xavier, Bartoli & Maffei; Life of St. Frances of Rome, etc., Lady Georgiana Fullerton; Life of St. Vincent de Paul; Our Lady of Litanies; House of Yorke, Historical Romance; “Are you My Wife?” Life of P. T. Barnum; Life in the Cloister; Catholic Anecdotes, from the French, translated by Mrs. Sadlier; Con O’Regan, Mrs. J. Sadler; Grace O'Halloran, or Ireland and Its Peasantry, Agnes M. M. Stewart; Rural Tales, Hannah More; Juvenile Gem, Mrs. Hofland; Sir Humphrey's Trial; Three Months Under the Snow—from the French, by J. J. Porchal; Lady Mary, C. B. Taylor; Simon Peter and Simon Magus; Beauties of the Sanctuary, from the French of Lebon; The House of Gold and the Saint of Nazarelh—Poems by Marie Josephine; The Catholic World—three volumes—12, 13 and 14; Descriptive Guide to the Mass, Rev. J J. Laing, D. D.; Methode Courte el Facile, Bossuet, Fenelon et Bullet ; Elements of Logic, Lectures, by Rt. Rev. Whately, D. D.
Boll of Honor.
. [The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, H. Ashe, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, W. Boulger, J. P. Brice, F. Brennon, J. G. Brady, F. Bell, F. W. Bloom, J. Carrer, B. Casey, J. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R. 8. Campbell, D. Donohue, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, G. Donnelly, L. H. Duginger, H. Deehan, M. English, £ Fogarty, I. J. Gittings, E. Gooley, P. J. Hagan, C. L Hagan, F. Humbert, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hinderling, J. Jordan, J. P. Kinney, R. E. Keenan, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, J. Kurz, T. Kavanagh, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, P. McCormick, L. Marantette, E. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. J. McErlain, M. McEniry, J. R. Marlette, Ed. Molitor, P. H. McGuire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, W. N. Megee, J. F. Mug, L. Mathera, J. Norfleet^ J. Noonan, R. C. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, Geo. Pike, L. N. Proctor, R. E. Russell, J. Ryan, J. Rogers, F. Reeve, 3. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms, T. Summers, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, 8. J. Smith, P. F. Shea, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, W. Schol-field, J. Solon, J. Strawn, L. Stitzel, 8. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. EL Vogel, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, H. Wathan, G. Witwer, A. Zahm, T. Zeien, C. H. Zarley, A W. Stockwell, J. A. McIntyre, F. Weisert, W. Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A A Burmeister, Frank Becker, M. J. Burns, G. C. Castanedo, A A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, A Coghlin, L. Coghlin, J. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, S. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, T. F. Devitt, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, F. H, Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, E. H. Gaines, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Herrmann, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleine, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, A B. Mergentheim, F. X. McPhillips, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. A. Larkin, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, 8. E. Meredith, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, E. A Otis, G. A Orr, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, Alex Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, F. J. Kettig, G. J. Rhodius, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A 8. Rock, R. J. Bemmes, J. K Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, C. H. Thiele, M. A Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weney, W. M. Thompson, T. F. McGrath.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, J. R. Bender, J. 8. Courtney, J. N. Courtney, L. J. Young, F. 8. Garrity, W. R. Coolbaugh, G. P. Van Mourick, A. Van Mourick, L. W. Spaulding, C. E. Droste, J. St Chaves, H. A. Kitz, W. J. Wright, J. C. Garrick, F. J. Leach, G. J. Woodson, J. A Kelly, E. E. O’Donnell, H. C. Snee, E. A Howard, C. J. Welty, W. H. Hanavin, F. B. Farrelly, C. V. O’Malley, A F. Schmuckle J. Dwenger, J. J. Johnson, W. M. Olds, A Molander.___________
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. TayloJ, J. Courtney, J. N. Courtney, F. 8. Garrity, W. R. Coolbaugh, G. P. Van Mourick, A. Van Mourick, L. W. Spaulding, C. E. Droste, H. A Ki'z, J. C. Garrick, F. J. Leach, G. J. Woodson, J. A Kelly, E. O’Donnell, fi. Snee, E. Howard, C. Welty, W. Hanavin, C. O’Mally, J. Dwenger, J. Johnson, W. M. Olds, A Molander.
last of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—T. Devitt, M. A Vedder, E. Gaines, J. B. Wilder, J. Devitt, P. Shea, F. Bell, W. Mathers; Grammar—J. Devitt, M. A. Vedder, R. E. O’Connor, J. F. Rettig, E. Croarken, J. Seeger, T. Devitt, P. Nelson, P. Rasche, J. B. Wilder, R. Fleming, J. McCarthy, J. Booee, E. McGorrisk, J. Solon, T. Hinderling; Geography and United States History —E. Croarken, O. Farrelly, C. Perry, P. Rasche, F. Beecher, EL Dunn, C. Roberts, T. Byrne, H. Guynn, H. Bachmann, J. Malone, W. McAtee; Arithmetic—W. Start, A. Payto, H. Dunn, A Hierb, J. Gordon, R. Le Bourgeons, P. Rasche, E. Meredith, E. Croarken, F. McPhillips, F. Humbert, J. Delaney, M. Maloney, C. Adams; Algebra—B. Pollock, P. B. Larkin, T. Conlan, C. B. Van Deusen, R. Anderson; Latin—J. Homan, M. J Burns, R. Campbell, N. Weney; Greek—J. Norfleet, A Zahm J. Kurz, W. Arnold.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
________________________________________—	f
156
• <■
One Mile West of Notre Dame University,
—President of St. Gertrude’s Literary Society, Miss Usselman; Vice-President, Miss Kirchner.
—On Friday, the Stations of the Cross in the Infirmary Chapel •were set up by the Rev. Chaplain, assisted by Rev. Father Maher.
—The Vocal Class have learned a beautiful chorus from Mendelssohn’s Hymn of Praise. The complete rendering ■was given, for the first time, on Thursday.
—On the Feast of All Saints, solemn High Mass was celebrated in the Convent Chapel. Celebrant, Rev. Father Shortis; Rev. Father Saulnier, deacon, Rev. Father Maher, sub-deacon. At the Offertory, the choir sang a motett “ 0 Je&u, moi I"
—At the regular meeting of the St. Agnes Literary Society: Reading—“Fernando,” by an Italian priest,—from the .Jos Maria; Reader—Miss C. Campbell. The Misses French and Wells deserve mention for their excellent account of the reading.
—At the regular meeting of St. Angela’s Literary Society, characteristic anecdotes of Gen. Washington, Thomas Jefferson, W. H. Harrison, John Randolph and other American historical celebrities were read. “The Star-Spangled Banner,” read by Miss Hackley. The origin of the famous national song from “ Court Circles of the Republic ” by Mrs. E. F. Ellet; read Miss Solomon.
—Visitors: Rev. Father Kampman, Winamac, Ind.; Rev. Father Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss Russell, graduate, Class ’79. Oshkosh, Wis.; Mr. Legnard, Miss Scott, Miss White, Mrs. Start, Mrs. Bassett, Chicago; Mrs. and Miss Coghlin, Toledo, O.; Mrs. Yerkind, St. Joseph, Mich.; Mrs. Carter, Mrs. Mitchell, Mr. Hoadley, Mr. Cooper, Mr. R. Hoadley, Master Julius, Mrs. Julius, Niles.
—At the regular meeting of St. Catharine’s Literary Society: Reading—“ Holiday Conversations ” by the author of “ Tyborne ”; Readers—Misses Gall and Dallas. Short poems and interesting items followed. “A Name in the Sand,” by George D. Prentice, is noteworthy. Misses Claffey, Bruser, O’Neil, Joyce and Herrick distinguished themselves for their readiness and intelligence in responding to questions.
—At the regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society, four, among the selections presented when the names of members are called at the reading of the roll, are worthy ofparticular mention. The three first from Thomas Moore ; “The Song of O’Rourke,” Miss McGrath; “Rich and Rare the Gems she wore,” Miss Keenan; “ Thou Art, 0 God,” Miss Killilea; and the fourth from Mrs. Hernans, “ The Adopted Child,” by Miss Neteler. They were given with appreciation and feeling. Criticism on the English Language, prepared by the First Senior Class, read by Miss Gordon. Principal Reading: “The National Music of Ireland,” Father Burke, 0. P.
—The Graduating and First Senior Classes have been constituted a soliciting committee, to aid “The Association of Post-Graduates,” in procuring for Notre Dame an appropriate statue of the Blessed Virgin, for the dome of the College. This Association took its rise last June. The committee desire to give a fresh impulse to the enterprise. The warmest hearts and the clearest heads seem best to understand the importance of active efforts. Mary, the model, the protectress, the rehabilitator of woman, is also the guardian by excellence of Christian education. A more fitting tribute of gratitude for the graces she has bestowed, than a noble statue in her honor, made to crown the fine new edifice erected under her patronage, and for the Christian education of youth, could not be found.
—At the regular Academic reunion the Rev. Chaplain, according to the beautiful custom of Catholic countries on the Feast of All Saints, distributed the Beatitudes. He explained the nature of the eight Poverty of spirit, according to his explanation, may belong to those* who possess
wealth; and the reverse may be said of those who are without the means of obtaining their daily bread. Poverty of spirit is detachment from things of earth. One who, has them not, may love them inordinately. One possessed of thousands may prize his wealth only in proportion to the power they place in his hands of doing good. This is to be poor in spirit. So of all the Beatitudes, the clear meaning was given. Readings: “Revivimus,”—T. A. Dailey, Miss Keenan; “Les paroles.d’une bonne Mdre,”—Chateaubriand, Miss Rosing; “Church Bells,”—author not given, Miss Reinhardt; “The Monk Felix,”—Longfellow, Miss Soloman.
Roll of Honor.
4;
4
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Hambleton, R. Ewing, Keenan, Neteler, Woodin, Maloney. 1st Senior Class—Misses Sullivan, Rosing, Galen, Gordon, Hackett, Quinn, Kirchner, Cavenor, Cortright, A Ewing, Ward, Buck, Danaher, Farrell, Ryan. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Dillon, Herrick, J. McGrath, Jones, Geiser, O’Neill, Smith, Claffey, Lloyd, Winston, Neu, Joyce. 3d Sr. Class—Misses Roys, Julius, Dallas, Wells, A. Dillon, Gall, Fitzgerald, English, 8. Wathan, Feehan, Fox, Bannister, Bischoff, De Lapp, Bruser. Preparatory Class—Misses Lancaster, Taylor, C. Campbell, Zahm, Piersol, Keyes, Murphy, Wall, Van Namee, Callinan, Populorum, O’Connor, French, Butts, Orr, Hackley, Semmes, Hamilton, Stitzel, McKinnis, .Gavin, Baroux, Price. 2d Pbep. Class—Misses Reinhardt, Fishburne, Horner, Thompson, S. Semmes, Rasche, Solomon, McFadden, Hammond, Halloran, Lemontey. 3d Pbep. Class—Misses Garrity, J. Wells, Watson, E. Dallas.
FRENCH CONVERSATIONS.
1st Class—Misses McGrath, Keenan, Bilverthorn, Rosing, A McGrath, Lemontey, Dallas, O’Neill, Cavenor, Geiser, A. Ewing, I. Semmes, Cortright. 3d Class—Misses Feehan, Lancaster, 8. Semmes, Populorum, A. Ryan, Williams, Fox, Baroux, French, Kinzie. 2d Div.—Misses Keyes, Herrick, C. Lancaster, Jones, English, Clarke, De Lapp, Winston, E. Populorum, E. Hackett. 4th Class—Misses A. Taylor, G. Taylor, Simms, Barlow, Lloyd, Wells, Hammond, Gavin, E. Papin, Paquette, McMahon, Legnard, E. Dallas, L. English, Moxon, Smith, Donnelly.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Usselman, Gall, Horner, Reinhardt, Salomon, Julius. 2d Class—Misses Claffey, C. Hackett, McMahon, Loeber, Bischoff, Van Namee. 3d Class—Misses Smith, Fitzgerald, Ward, Joyce, Hamilton, Butts. 4th Class—Misses Hoadley, Quinn, Bruser, Stitzel, A Dillon, Reutlinger, Gibbons, Chirhart, Duncan, Ginz, Flemming, Campbell, Harrison, Considine, Carter, S. Semmes, Zemmerman, Moll, Hutchinson.
Tablet of Honor
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
4
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Ewing, Neteler, Maloney, Hambleton, Cavenor, Ward, Sullivan, Ryan, A Ewing, Cortright, Rosing, Quinn, Galen, L Semmes, Dane-her, Gordon, Hoadley, Dillon, Joyce, A McGrath, Neu, Herrick, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, Smith, O’Neill, Loeber, M. Fitzgerald, Donnelly, Julius, Dallas, Roys, Wells, Bischoff, Zahm, McMahon, S. Wathan, Keyes, Campbell, O’Connor, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Kinzie, Stitzel, Taylor, Gillen, Keeua, Dessaint, Wall, Gavin, Baroux, Wright, Price, Horner, Purdy, Rasche, Solomon, Reindhardt, Halloran, Moxon, Ed-elen, Reynolds, Atwood, Cox, par excellence. Misses Keenan, Hackett, Farrell, Lloyd, Jones, Bannister, Gall, De Lapp, Bruser, Geiser, English, C. Wathan, Callinan, Piersol, Hackley, M. Hamilton, Thompson, McKinnis, Hammond, Tailman, McFadden, M. Mitchell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Orr, French, Populorum, Van Namee, Lemontey, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Leyden, Fishburne, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Flemming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, L. English, Ginz, Paquette, Hale, Hutcheson, Harrison, Robinson, Orr, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Feehan, Garrity, Watson, Joseph, Clarke, E. Papin, Considine, B- Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, Wilkins. Junior Prep. Class—Misses Duncan, Legnard, Gibbons, Reutlinger, Barlow, C. Lancaster, Chirhart, Gintz, C. Ryan, E. Populorum. 1st Jr. Class—Misses Hale, Hutcheson, Harrison, Clarke, Fisk, E. Papin, Considine. 2d Jb. Class— Misses M. Fitzgerald, B. Garrity, V. Orr.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	1ST
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Hile TFest of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduatiug Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following coursesGerman, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing aud Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
INMAN LINE.
Three Great Cities of the West
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 i CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York. Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octB-tf ZLa E*ortc, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
1 1 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
19 16 p. m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 19 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 9 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Ito, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Can in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Une to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and, South, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the Uuited States and Canada, or to
James Charlton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Horne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Manager.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
___________________________________________r
158
The Best Paper! Try It!!
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED,
3 5 tlx YEAB.
The Scientific American is a large First-Class Weekly Newspaper of Sixteen Pages, printed in the most beautiful style, profusely illustrated with splendid engravings, representing the newest inventions and the most recent Advances in the Arts and Sciences; including New and interesting Facts in Agriculture, Horticulture, the Home, Health, Medical Progress, Social Science, Natural History, Geology, Astronomy. The most valuable practical papers, by eminent writers in all departments of Science, will be found in the Scientific American.
Terms, $3.20 per year, $1.60 half year, which includes postage. Discount to Agents. Single copies, ten cents. Sold by all Newsdealers. Remit by Postal order to MUNN & CO., Publishers, 37 Park Row, New York.
T) A T'TPNT'T'Q In connection with the Scientific -L -LA. I JjuLN A O. American; Messrs. Munn & Co are Solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, have had 35 years’ experience, and now have the largest establishment in the world. Patents are obtained on the best terms. A special notice is made in the Scientific American of all Inventions patented through this Agency, with the name and residence of the Patentee. By the immense circulation thus given, public attention is directed to the merits of the new patent, and sales or introduction often easily effected.
Any person who has made a new discovery or invention, can ascertain, free of charge, whether a patent can probably be ob-obtained, by writing to Munn & Co. We also send free our Hand Book about the Patent Laws, Patents, Caveats, TradeMarks, their costs, and how procured, with hints for procuring advances on inventions. Address for the Paper, or concerning Patents,
MUNN & CO., 37 Park Row, New York.
Branch Office, cor. F & 7th Sts., Washington, D. C.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ 1 ingineer of City and County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. ST A.CE [of ’64], County Surveyor for j!a St Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILRO AD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots.	>
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger....*7:25	a.m. * 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express.....* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express...*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express.*10:00 a.m. * 3:20 p.m Pacific Fast Express...........*10:30	a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express.....*10:30	a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation....* 8:25 a.m.	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger...............*3:15	p.m. *7:55a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express......* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger................* 5:30 p.m. * 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation...* 6:15 p.m. * 7:15 a.m Freeport and Dubuque Express...* 9:30 pm.* 6:35 a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha.+ 9:05 p.m. J 6:55 a.m
Texas Fast Express.............*9:05	p.m. J 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express..+ 9:05 p.m. f 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
♦Sundays excepted. fSaturday excepted.. ^Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago,
J". MISH	>
Keeps tlxe Best Line of
CIGARS, TOBACCO and
SMOKERS’ ARTICLES	*
In the City.	i
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON
HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK,	-♦
Soutli Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Talxle, Nov- IO, 1878.	4
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3. Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,...... Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 P.M. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	540 p.m. 7.35 “ 9 .00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 •« 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	• • ••• ••••
GOING EAST.				
No. 4, Night Ex		No. 2, Fast Ex	No. 6, AtlanJJx.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m. Plymouth,	 2.46 a.m. Ft. Wayne,	 6 55 “ Lima,	 8.55	“ Forest,	10.10 “ Crestline,	Arrive 11.45 “		8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m. Mansfield,	12.35	“ Orrville,	 2.26	“ Alliance,	 4	00 “ Rochester,	 6.22	“ Pittsburgh,....Arrive 7.30	“		7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 a.m. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m 3.30 “
4.
-J

Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Paiaob Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. Mi EBB, G. F. & T, A,
v
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	159
I

The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872/or the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. EDWARDS.
Notbe Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
H	2
*4	g	H 5 a
&	£
«e fa •
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST !
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Bock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City. Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap. Centreville. Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney. Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure - of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by thia line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs. Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE AKE AS FOLLOWS :
At CHICAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.	■
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne 4 Chicago K.Kds.
At Washington HEIGHTS, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At PEOBIA, with P., P. 4 J.; P„ L. 4 D.; LB.4 W.; Ill. Midland; and T.. P. 4 W. Kailroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R.R. and Rock Island 4 Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport 4 NorthWestern R.R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids 4 Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. 4 Ft. DodgeR. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. 4 Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar
Rapids 4 Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa: St. Louis. Kan.City4Northern andC..B. 40-R-Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk 4 N.-W. R- Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City. St. J. 4 C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka 4 Santa Fe; Atchison 4 Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.	„ „
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUffl, ATCHISON and LEAVE.VWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “ Great Rock Island Route,’* are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your heme ticket offlee, address, jk. KJMD ^T.T,.	E. ST. JOHN.	.
G«tfl8aperinteodeati	QartTkt.audPtm’lKrAgt,
‘	-	•.	'	Chicago, IB.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDING^ _____ _____ *
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very^Rev. E. Sorin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming’region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the.first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.	.,
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms,'Dining-Rooms,^Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course 1 of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may'.desire to enter4the world	-<
having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion.	j
The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the	y |
officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that	i
no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.	>.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.