The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
“ Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.
NOTBE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 16, 1872.
Number 10.
i i
►
.	E&en.
BY CHARLES W. BABCOCK.
There is a name -whose mention brings Enraptured thoughts to child or sage, While fancy plumes its radiant wings In flight to earth’s soft-dawning age.
It is of that bright paradise
Then seen in Eden’s garden fair, '	•
Where angels watched with loving eyes The first and happy bridal pair.
The name of Eden to the youth
Unveils a land of light and flowers, Where all is happiness and truth,
And mortals bask in fragrant bowers, And visions of his future come, That borrow their enchanting hue From his perspective of man’s home, When he was to his Maker true.
To manhood it recalls a time, Unlike the present scenes of life— A golden age without a crime, Where love prevails o’er hate and strife.
It bids him win with anxious care
An Eden for his future years, As if true pleasure ever were To pilgrims in this vale of tears.
It wakens in the aged mind
A hope this world could never fill, That in another he may find
A life of good without an ill.
All earthly aims forever past
He turns his eye to death’s dark wave, And Eden gives a faint forecast
Of halcyon climes beyond the grave.
Tims reveries of Eden gleam
Amid the ills that life deform, As rainbow-tints in lustre beam
Before the breaking of a storm.
But soon is dimmed the rainbow’s hue, And transient is the vision’s birth;
For ever fading and untrue
Are all elysian scenes on earth.
Though happy be man’s earthly lot The golden present still he spurns, And for some brighter, blissful spot His restless mind forever yearns. .
But, ah ! there is no paradise
Upon this earth that will not fade, Since that which charmed the angels’ eyes
In primal Eden, has decayed.
—Lancaster Gazette.
Hotre Dams Geographic Expedition.
The Visit to .Iceland—Its People, Climate and .	Aspect—The Gulf Stream. .	•
On Board the “Hiawatha,” Oct. 15,1872.
Editor Scholastic: We parted yesterday with our Junior comrades and do not expect to meet them again until we shall have returned to Notre Dame, for henceforward our routes are quite different. They will bid adieu to Halifax to-morrow, -and braving Atlantic’s stormy waters, proceed to the Bermudas, whence to Europe and Asia, whilst we, going South, double cape Hom and visit Pacific’s savage isles, Southern Asia and Africa. A correspondent has been provided for the Junor division, who will inform you of its whereabouts as frequently as opportunity will permit, so their friends may rest assured..of receiving some interesting accounts of their travels, and your humble servant will continue as heretofore. ;
We are aboard the same steamer in which we left Chicago, so should you decipher with difficulty our fantastic hieroglyphics, we trust you will charge it to the uncertain motion of the vessel upon a rough sea.
The Gulf Stream, flowing slowly along beneath us, gives every opportunity for us to study its many peculiarities. Messrs. Spitlv, Bartlett, McDermott and Comer we will detail, therefore, to make observations on this the most wonderful and important of ocean-currents. But whilst they are thus engaged, we will conclude, as we promised, the description of the voyage from Greenland to Iceland, and impressions of the latter island upon the members of Junior Division.	-
From Greenland, after rounding cape Farewell, .they steered directly for Reikiavik, the capital city of Iceland, and in eight days after setting out from Godthaab touched at their point of destination. Reikiavik—steam-town—is a neat little village, we may call it, of about 600 inhabitants. Although the largest city, and Iceland containing 64,000 people, still the deficiency is made up in the numerous hamlets of the isle, containing twenty or thirty houses each, it forms a striking contrast with the town last visited, and immediately impresses the enlightened . visitor very favorably, for he feels at home amongst friends who welcome him to the civilization and Christianity of the polar climes.	.
It is difficult to understand why this island.should become the abode of intelligence; why it should become celebrated for its literature and literary men, and why ft should be the safe-keeper of the interesting and important records of the northern nations. Its inhabitants are indeed conscious of the important part they took during the
74
THE SCHOLASTIC.
so called Dark Ages, in the struggle of virtue aud learning ■with vice and ignorance, and feel justly proud of the fact that their land was in that memorable period, a repository of the arts and sciences. Though Scandinavian in their origin, they have few of the manners and customs of their" ancestors; they are peculiarly themselves. Their refinement is particularly observable as is also their friendliness and delight in making strangers happy. These qualities were strikingly displayed to the tourists when they were received by the Stiftsamtman, the chief magistrate, at his residence. He manifested great pleasure upon seeing them and desired that his friends, as he terned them, dine with him and his councilors on the following day. The invitation was accepted, much to his delight, but it is unnecessary to stop and describe the ceremonies of the table, suffice it to say however, that the same generosity and refinement of character was remarked throughout.
The geysers of the vicinity were visited, and elicited much admiration, especially the Great Geyser which has been known to throw its jet of boiling water to a height of 360 feet.	~
On the evening of the departure of the company a beautiful and sublime spectacle greeted their vision. It was a brilliant display of the aurora borealis, not of unfrequent occurence here. The auroral curtain hung in graceful folds from an arc about 65 degrees above the illumined horizone, and over which bright rays shot up towards the zenith, gradually fading away in the deep azure of the sky. The sight will long be remembered as one not frequently witnessed in the lifetime of many.
Moving off from Iceland—the couniry of boiling springs and icy mountains, of volcanic fire and frigid clime, of civilized life and savage aspect—they headed homeward, rather Halifaxward.	.
We will now hear the report of our observers upon the properties of the Gulf Stream. They have ascertained its mean temperature here to be 80°, Fahrenheit, higher than that of the surrounding ■water, aud that it flows with an average velocity of two miles an hour. Its width varies from twenty-five to one hundred and fifty miles, and with its color presents the appearance of a stream of indigo water, in noted contrast with the green of the adjacent water.
In the dead of winter, when the cold northwest winds spend their force upon vessels near the treacherous banks of Newfoundland, and send their destructive, icy agents from the northern regions, the mariner delights then to pass through the dense, foggy walls of the Gulf Stream, and find shelter on its warm waters. It is a pleasant transition from winter to summer. Again, the verdant fields and rich pastures of Ireland, and the bountiful crops of the high latitudes of Scandinavia, owe their existence to the grateful influence of this mighty current.
We have now passed beyond the space alloted us, and when we arrive at Charleston, South Carolina, will mail this letter. Havana is our next important station. -
-	Yours, etc.,	Viatob.
The Whip-Pennant.—The Minims have defeated the ^Seniors, who are victorious over the Juniors; and championship belongs to that department which defeats the others; ergo, the Minims are champions of Notre Dame. “ Victoiy is not to the strong alone.” The Minims shoulc have a champion flag. -
. Origin of Newspapers,
BY W. J. C.
It is supposed that this all-important branch of literature soon followed in the train of the art of printing. The gazettes of Venice seem to have been the first printed news sheets, which were issued in 1563. The gazettes took their name from that of a small coin for the value of which the sheets were sold.	. .
The origin of the first English newspaper is ascribed to the prudence of Queen Elizabeth when the Spanish Armada was threatening the English coasts. The English Mercury, for this was the name of the paper, was intended to communicate information, and prevent, during a period of general and intense anxiety, the danger of flying and false reports. The first number of that paper bears the date of July 23,1658.
The first newspaper in the United States was printed at Boston in 1704; the second in 1719, which was the size of about half a sheet of foolscap.
Although these seem to have been the first news sheets scattered among the people to communicate the news, a ’ method somewhat approximate was in use in the time of the Egyptians, the Greeks and Romans, and perhaps in all ages in which written language was employed and where the population was dense, as in cities, such as we now not unfrequently see at our news offices,—slips posted up to show the latest intelligence.
“ Mention is often made by clasic writers of the ludibria rentes, or flying records, written daily by the Roman priests;” but the real spirit of the modem newspaper arrived in Rome with Caesar. His whole mind being divided between ambition and gloiy, he considered glory as too short-lived if his deeds were not recorded, and having a natural talent for writing, he composed his renowned Commentaries. As the form of the record did not allow of its being disseminated among the people, he therefore instituted newspapers, and at the same time it was decreed that the daily acts of the people as well as of the Senate should be published. Scribes performed the work that the press now performs.
When the idea and uses of such a publication became appreciated by the people, a multitude of these sheets sprang up; and there were Acta Populi, Acta Urbis and Acta Ruris, as we see hundreds of journals in our day.
The publisher by authority was Chrcestus, and he had an interview with Ctesar ever}’ morning after he had received the reports of his civil and military officers. Thence Chrcestus repaired to his writing-room, where his scribes were in waiting, and the news was made up; important news, victories, etc., figured in large characters, while untoward events, defeats, etc., were in marvellous confusion and obscurity, and could scarcely be made out. Thus were the glorious acta of Caesar magnified before the world, and his defects and misfortunes and the errors of his government slurred over, and few knew of them.
Nothing seems to have been wanting of those improvements in procuring information which we now have, except mails and telegraphs. Beneath the rostrum the reporters were posted, to report for their journals the speeches whether long or short, with praise or satire as one or the other should be most palatable to those in authority. The debates, acts and resolutions were all chronicled, and in
. /

THE SCHOLASTIC.
75
f ict all the current events of the day were recorded as in our newspapers of the present day. The humorous department, it is said, was made at the request of Csesar, and he gave directions that Cicero’s witty sayings should he added to the other current matter.
Thus have we briefly given the origin of that branch of literature which has of late become so popular. Yes, newspapers of a political, religious or agricultural character ; journals of science and art; magazines both quarterly and monthly, scatter knowledge broadcast over the land; so that he that runs may almost see and know the news of the day, the general progress of events, the advancement in the sciences and arts.—Literary Gem.
Saake-ChaTming1 in London.
The eminent English zoologist, Mr. Frank Buckland, editor of Land and Water, tells the following story in his newspaper: “ Snakes are regarded with horror and repugnance by the generality of mankind and womankind, and for this reason their habits and instincts have not been sufficiently studied. Snakes may be, broadly divided into poisonous and not poisonous. As a rule, poisonous snakes will get out of a man’s way if not attacked or insulted. I do not recommend people trying to tame poisonous snakes, nor do I advise them to charm them after the fashion of Indian jugglers, though, as has been often shown, these poisonous snakes are generally ‘doctored’as regards their fangs, before the exhibition takes place. There is now a gentleman in London who has a charming family of pet snakes—harmless, of course. This gentleman’s name is Mann. He is a professor of music, and lives in Cheyne Walk, Chelsea. Mr. Mann called on me a day or two since at my office, and requested me to give him assistance, as he had got into a bother with his neighbors about keeping his snakes.
“ Anxious to be of service to this gentleman, I called at the house, in order to examine his snakery. He placed in the middle of the room a large box, which was carefully locked. He told me the box was always locked, unless he or his wife took out the snakes to feed or examine them. The first he produced from the box was a very fine common British snake (Coluber natrix.) His snakes have all got names, and this one’s name was Julia. Julia had long ago laidthirty-six eggs, which were hatched’ out successfully. The next was also a common British snake. The ring around the neck was very bright in this snake. She rejoices in the name of Sylvia. Sylvia is very good at frogs: lately she ate nine frogs, seven large frogs and two small, at one meal, one after the other. Mr. Mann has also two other common snakes, whose names are Proteus and Beatrice, or she of the golden hair. This modern snake-charmer then dived his hand into the box, and brought out an exceedingly lively brown-colored snake. The head is remarkably pretty and lizard-like, and it has the power of moving the head very quickly from side to side; the eye is also remarkably brilliant. This snake was brought from Jamrach; it is called a Lacertine, and comes from the coast of Mogador, Northern Africa; it is perfectly harmless. Mr. Mann has had the Lacertine about twenty months. It is a pretty, elegant creature. It feeds on white mice.
“ Mr. Mann then showed me the gem of his collection. It is a remarkably handsome Brazilian boa, measuring be
tween five and six feet long, and weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds. The name of this snake is ‘ Cleo,’ short for Cleopatra. Continual handling and petting has caused this snake to become most remarkably tame, and I think there can be no doubt she knows individuals. When placed on the table, Cleo would not come to me at all, but glided away to her master, who was sitting af the opposite side of the table, and stretching her body from the table to the chair, gradually pulled her long length on to him. She then glided up his right side, and folded her coils round his neck, placed her head close to her master’s face, and there she lay for some minutes, quivering her black forked tongue with evident pleasure. Mr. Mann’s two little children, aged five and six respectively, then came into the room. They immediately ran to the snake and began playing with it, kissing it and pulling it, calling it ‘ Cleo; dear Cleo.” Cleo was then made to glide on the floor; the children ran after her and picked her up, and the little girl, picking her up, put her round her neck like a boa. (I wonder if this was the origin of the word boa ?) Cleo evidently enjoyed the fun as much as the children. It was very curious to see these two children encircled in Cleo’s ponderous folds, reminding me much of the celebrated statue of the Laocoon, and, if I recollect right, the marble children in the statue are represented as about the same age and size as Mr. Mann’s two children. Cleo is a particular favorite of Mrs. Mann’s, and I saw a very nice photograph of her, with Cleo coiled around her neck. I subsequently saw Mrs. Mann in this attitude with her pet snake. Cleo has shed her skin several times, and it is curious to remark that she shed her skin ten times in two years. Mr. Mann has the last skin shed. It is quite per- -feet, and as thin as tissue-paper, and I should think would make a good pattern for fancy lace-work.
“ Cleo feeds principally on pigeons. If a pigeon is put into her cage, and she is not hungry, she seems to make friends with the pigeon, and will never attempt to eat it. Should, however, a fresh pigeon be put into her cage, she will devour it instantly. She feeds once a fortnight, and two pigeons will last her for that time. Mr. Mann has observed that, when let loose, Cleo always tries to climb upward, whereas the Lacertine always seeks the ground. Cleo most certainly knows her master and mistress. Once when they went out of town, Cleo was left behind. She pined and would not feed during their absence. When. Mr. and Mrs. Mann returned, after six weeks’ absence, Cleo on hearing her mistress’ voice, instantly rushed out of her box, coiled herself round her, and kissed her face. She evidently recognized her kind friend and protector.
“ Mr. Mann has also another large Indian python, but this snake is not very well, and has private apartments to itself in a leathern carpet-bag. The snake will feed out of Mr. Mann’s hand. The common snake eats frogs only; the Lacertine eats white mice; the python delights in guinea-pigs. Altogether, I was exceedingly pleased with Mr. Mann’s collection of snakes. By his very successful snake-taming he has opened up quite a new chapter in natural history, and has shown what persevering kindness will do in taming' snakes, poor creatures, which have hitherto been thought to have little or no intelligence.”— Appleton's Journal.
The clock in the Seniors’ study-hall in silence (actions speak louder than words) says “ No tick here.”

76
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic.
Published every Week during Tenn Time, at . notre Dame university.
Rev. M- B. Brown, C. S. C., ----- - Editor.
AU communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year.....................................  $2	00
One session (5 months)........................3 25
Single copies (10c) of the pnblication can he obtained aS the Sin dents’ Oftke.
Church. of Our Lady of ths Sacred Heart,
The Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart which is now in course of erection here will undoubtedly be one of the finest church edifices in the United States. Its total length will be two hundred and forty-five feet; its interior breadth sixty-five feet, with three naves. The transept will present an extension of one hundred and twenty-five feet, and will occupy about the middle of the church. Beyond the transept will be the Sanctuary, with a total length, from Communion-railing to the end of the chapel of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, of one hundred and ten feet. It will have also three parallel naves, and will be surrounded by seven beautiful chapels, each dedicated in honor of some special mystery of our Blessed Lady’s life. Each chapel will have an altar, where Mass will be said, and will be richly decorated ; but the gem of the church will be the chapel of. Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, which will be thirty feet long by as many wide, and will be rendered as beautiful as possible.
The style of the church is the gothic, with a clear story. The walls for the lower roof are finished on that portion of the church which will be completed first. These walls stand forty-two feet above ground. It may be judged easily by this how lofty the church is to be. The roof of the clear story will stand ninty feet above ground, and the ceiling of the interior nave seventy-eight feet above pavement. The ceiling of the lower naves will be over fifty feet high. The huge tower is the object of special attention just now. The work on it goes on slowly, owing to the thickness of the walls, which are now over sixty feet high and are yet to rise sixty feet higher. The total height of the spire will be near two hundred, and twenty feet.
It is expected that this splendid monument to God’s glory will be finished within two years. '
Kbtes by the Way.
Business men should remember that “ Commercial paper ” is not negotiable unless a “ consideration ” has been given. . Caveat Emptor.
Wb received a very pointed communication, this week, judging from the number of pins stuck into it. Please spare us; our pin-case is full.	.	'
The St. Cecilians, under the direction of Prof J. -A. Lyons, AM., will give their Annual Entertainment on the eye of St. Cecilia’s Day, November 21st,
Though we have seen nothing from the Philos, all reports say that they are in a flourishing condition and are in no way behind the Society of former years. ,
There will be a course of ten lectures given during the winter season by competent persons. The first lecture of the course will be given during the present month.
Large building-stones have been hauled back of the college, prepared for the sone-cutters; this would seem to indicate that more improvements are to be made at Notre Dame.
The General Classes of Drawing are largely attended, and all seem pleased with the thorough and energetic maimer in which Prof, von Weller unfolds the principles of that delightful art.
Brother Edward has procured of Mr. Buyse of South Bend a splendid regulator, which is placed in the Steward’s office. If all at Notre Dame do not keep good time henceforth, it will not be the fault of the clock.
A party of Nimrods from this office set out in high glee one day last week in search of game and exercise. They returned in the evening minus some powder and shot and very tired—“ only this and nothing more.”
The Annalist says:
“ All the professors and instructors in the College subscribe for the Annalist, except one.” We would be glad to see their example followed in every college in which a paper is published.
Cun students do not appear to be so musically inclined this year as in former times, although a good number still appreciate the advantages of that fruitful source of enjoyment. We would be glad to see more spirit in this department,, as there is nothing, in our estimation, better calculated to cultivate.and refine one’s taste than a knowledge of music.
Persona,!.
Prof. Lyons did not go to Chicago last Wednesday. What does it mean ? Something is surely going to happen.
We had the pleasure of spending an hour with Messrs. Quinlan and Lucas, of Cleveland, Ohio, on the occasion of their visit to Notre Dame during the week.
His Lordship the Right Rev. Doctor Hogan, Bishop of St. Joseph, Mo., paid us a short visit during the week. All were most happy to welcome the Bight Rev. Prelate to Notre Dame, and regretted that important business elsewhere deprived us of the pleasure of a longer visit.
Rev. Father O’Brien, of St. Michael’s Church, Si. Louis, Missouri, spent a short time with ns this week. He was accompanied by three young gentlemen from Ireland, who remain with us. Father O’Brien is one of the oldest priests doing missionary duty in the United States, yet notwithstanding his advanced age he is still hearty and active.-
Rev. Fatheb Riordan, of Chicago, visited at Notre Dame this week. The many who have the pleasure of being personally acquainted with Father Riordan were delighted to see him, and all glad to welcome him. We hope he will frequently favor us with his presence, and thus afford us an opportunity of knowing better the excellent qualities of mind and heart which his open, genia countenance clearly manifest,	'
		THE SCHOLASTIC		•	7^	
	l	Roll of Honor.		Class Honors. .		
► t	j 1 1 I 1	[Under this head are given each week the names of those student^ whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.] . . -FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1872. Senior Department. F-. H. Buter,	W. Briant,	C. Berdel, H. Beckman,	M. Bastorache, R. Boyle, L. Burridge,	V. Baca,	W. Bartlett, M. Browne,	J. Brogan,	J.	Browne, P. Cooney,	W. Clarke,	A. Blong, J. Comer,	A.	Chapoton,	A.	Costello, F. Devoto,	F.	Donnelly,	B.	Dorsey, W. Dodge,	J.	Drake,	C.	Dodge, J. Eisenman,	T.	Flanigen,	T.	Dundon, J. Flynn,	B.	Gorman,	M.	Foote, E. Graves,	J.	Gillespie,	E.	Gambee, D. J. Hogan,	E.	Halpin,	J. E. Hogan, J. Ireland,	P.	Jacobs,	F. Hamilton, J. Kelly,	W. Lucas,	T. Keenan, P. Lilly,	J.	McGlynn,	F.	Leffingwell, D.	Maloney,	T.	Murphy,	E. Moraucy, J. McCormick,	E. McSweeney,	A. Mooney, E.	McLaughlin,	E. Monohan,	E. Mullen, J. Murphy,	J.	Noonan,	J. Miller, P. O’Connell,	J.	Rofinot,	.	P.	O’Meara, H. Saylor,	E.	Spitley,	B.	Roberts, J. Shiel,	F.	Scrafford,	G.	Stack, P. Trudeau,	S.	Valdez,	A.	Taggart, A.	Voorhees,	L.	Watson,	W. Van’t Woud, C. Walter,	H.	Walker,	T.	White, W. Wallace,	T.	Watson,	J. Wolfe, •J. Ward. Junior Department. B.	Baca,	L.	Busch,	C.	Black, W. Breen,	W. Ball,	C.	Burger, J. Campbell,	J. Caren,	P.	Corbett, J. Dore,	W. Dexter,	F.	Dowe, J. Dunn,	J.	Daly,	G.	Fliehmann, W. Fletcher,	G.	Gross,	G. Gerew, H. Hunt,	E.	Holt,	V. Hansen, C.	Hake,	L.	Hibben,	W. Haney, M. Hilliard,	W. Kinzie,	J.	Langenderfer, R. Lewis,	S.	Marks,	J.	Marks, W. Morgan,	E. Mohl,	F.	Miller, E. Milburn,	V. McKinnon,	J.	McDermott, A. McIntosh,	T.	McGee,	J. McGinnis, L. Munn,	J.	Nevin,	J.	O’Connell, D.	O’Connell,	W.	Pollard,	A. Ried, C. Ruger,	D.	Salazar,	A. Schmidt, F. Sweger,	W. Shephard,	J. Stubbs, W. Schulthies, J. Skalla,	0.	Waterman, S. Wise,	J. Wanbaugh,	J. Wilson, P. Daly,	J. Willliams. J. F. Edwards, Secretary.,	[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following-arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modem Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.] FRIDAY,- NOV. 8. GERMAN. W. Ball,	L. Best,	P. Brosseau, H. Beckman,	J. Crummey,	G. Crummey, J. Carmody,	P. Cooney, .	T. Culleton, J. Dore,	M. Davidson,	J. Devine, H. Enneking,	H. Faxon,	G;	Fliehman, J. Golsen,	J. Graham,	G. Gerew, W. Green,	W. Gavitt,	R. Golsen. E.	Graves,	J. Hoeveler,	V.	Hansen. C. Hake,	W. Hake,	A.	Kleine, W. Kinzie,	E. Knowles,	C. Karst, J. Lambin,	R. Lewis,	J. Langenderfer, F.	Miller, ' J. McHugh,-	H. Mathews, J. Marks,	S. Marks,	Francis Miller, A. Mooney,	C. Nirdlinger,	H. Nirdlinger, P. O’Meara,	W. Pollard,	C. Reid, W. Rumely,	H. Randolph,	A. Reid, H. Rinderer,	C. Ruger,	E. W. Schmidt, A. Schmidt,	W. A. Schulthies,	F. Scrafford, L. Van’t Woud, W. Van’t Woud,	0. Waterman, , J. Wanbaugh,	T. Walsh,	S. Wise, H. Walker,.	H. Zuber. FRENCH. G. Gross,	E. Mohl,	T. Noel, J. Rofinot,	A. Schiffer,.	L. C. Watson. OIL PAINTING. F. Devoto,	W. Campbell. DRAWING. F. Bauer,	J.	Dunne,	W. Gaar, J. Graham,	D. Glickauf,	C. Hodgson, W. Lucas,	T. Culleton,	J. Lynch, E. S. Monahan,	J- McIntyre,	H. Nirdlinger, E. Ohmer,	E. Ohlen,	J. E. Porter, W. Rumely,	B. Roberts,	a. Schmidt, W. Schulthies,	A. Schiffer,	J. Schmidt, W. Vestal,	W. Van’t Woud, L. Van’t Woud, 0. Waterman. PIANO. J. Boyle,	W. Breen,	W. Ball, L. Best,	A. Costello,	J. Crummey, Jos. Campbell, C. Campeau,	W. Campbell, L. Campeau,	L. Danz,	J. Eisenman, J. Gillen,	J. Golsen,	R. Hutchings,			
f ti r		The books of the. Circulating Library have all been nicely covered with paper—it is a good idea. It appears that there is more whistling to be done than the winds can comfortably attend to; so a few absentminded persons have been so charitable as to volunteer their assistance.	•	I	J. Ireland, J. McGinnis, J. E. Porter, F. Smyth, A. Schmidt, L. C. Watson,	A. Kleine, C. Nirdlinger, E. Raymond; A. Schaaler, W. Schulthies, 0. Waterman,	T. Mullin, D. O’Connell,. C. Reid, E. W. Schmidt, C. Walter, H. Zuber.	
76	-	THESCHOLASTIC.
VIOLIN.
H. Beckman, 4	J. Brennan,	W. Kinzie,
T. Keenan,	W. Lucas,	«T. Lynch,
L. Loser,	Fred. Miller,	J. McHugh,
j. McGrath,	T. Noel.	J. Noonan,
J. O’Connell,	W. Rumely,	B. Roberts,
J. Rourke,"	J. Schmidt, CLARIONET. G. Brown. FLUTE.	L. Van’t Woud.
J. Hoeveler, VOCAL.		E. Ohmer.
J. Campbell,	J. Lynch,	T. Mullin,
Al. McIntosh,	J. Minogue,	D. O’Connell.
Society Reports.
saint Edward’s literary association.
Hr. Editor: You remarked, in a previous number of your paper, “ that the Band was the only Society in the house which was making any noise.” We think if you would honor us with your presence at some of our literary meetings you would be forced to change your opinion and say, although our noise is not of the same kind as that of the Band, yet to the literary ear it is equally pleasant. We would inform you, and your many readers, that we are still prospering, and at every meeting we have literary exercises, consisting of debates, essays, etc.
We have renewed the publication of “The Literary Gem,” Mr. J. D. McCormick being editor-in-chief, and the members of the Society contributing as assistant editors. The first number was read November 5th, Messrs. J. D. McCormick, J. M. Rourke, W. J. Clarke and J. Eisenmann being editors. We were glad to notice such good taste displayed by these gentlemen in the selection as well as the treatment of their subjects. The editors of number two are: T. Murphy, J. E. Hogan, C. Donnelly and T. Watson.
The literary exercises of our last meeting were opened by Mr. J. E. Hogan, who read an essay on “ Study,” and from the tenor of his composition we could not but observe the care this gentleman had taken in preparation, for it certainly was a well-written and well-read essay. The next gentleman, Mr. D. J. Hogan, read an essay entitled, “The Literature and Literary Men of the Seventeenth Century.” One would think that this subject would require many pages to be treated of properly; but Mr. Hogan has proven that the principal features may be inclosed in quite a small space and still be very interesting. This gentleman well deserves the merit of being a good biographer. “ The Beauties of Nature,” by J. D. McCormick, was the best production of the evening. He portrayed in a truly beautiful and appreciative manner, the manifold beauties of the visible creation. Everywhere he found something beautiful, something capable of exalting the admiration of a rational being. His language was excellent and flowing with that smoothness which is characteristic of a good writer.	'	,
With this we close, for fear of wearying your patience, promising, Mr. Editor, to make more noise in the future. .	T. Watson, Secretary.
Steam is at present a comfortable necessity. ,	;
American Boys.
Our country was created on a large scale, and we grow faster than any other nation. With us, everything goes by steam; we have no time for theories and speculations; we live in a progressive age, and we are a progressive and practical people. In this country everything matures rapidly. Our boys become young men so early as to leave no period of boyhood. We have only infancy and manhood ; and if there is any period between them, it is, to say the least, very brief. After having acquired an ordinary education, boys are hurried into business or professions, where they are to learn the more practical lessons of life.	.
Many who are not able to make a regular college course, educate themselves, and are called self-made men, of whom we have many illustrious examples in all professions. At the age of ten the American boy delights in reading the newspapers, in trading with his companions, and other kindred amusements, and, as the old folks say, knows more than they did at twenty.
At a later age’his conversation is on politics, railroads, stocks, bonds, the state of commerce, the financial condition of the country, the public debt, etc., or he discusses the latest European news. Every inducement is held out to him to become a merchant, a doctor, an editor, or lawyer, at an early age. The great West is a broad field for all kinds of enterprise, where wealth and fame are easily acquired; there cities spring up like mushrooms, by immigration and migration, affording unparalleled opportunities and advantages to business and professional men.
In our large cities, boys transact the most important business, requiring the greatest judgment and experience, for large firms at the bank, custom-house, etc., and are entrusted with the accounts of extensive foreign and domestic trade.
They fill important positions in banks, lawyers’ officers, and in the courts, and are represented in every branch of trade and in every profession. Millions of dollars pass through their hands, as well as valuable public and private documents of all descriptions.
Foreigners are surprised to see offices of trust ably filled-by youths that in other countries would hardly dare to remain away from home over night.
In the late war many of our bravest and most distinguished officers were young men, and many, in reward for their bravery and patriotism, now hold commissions in the regular army.
Our national independence, customs, manner of life, climate, and broad system of education, have a powerful influence in forming our young men. America is proud of them. Scions of a noble race, they love their country and will give it yet a greater name among the nations of the world.	Americus.
The winter style of caps is appearing.
Dancing is now quite generally indulged in on recrea-. tion days.	.
Since the institution of the Circulating Library, story papers, etc., have become scarce.
A lively game of liand-'baQ. was played not long since with the /oot-ball, which, by the way has not a minnte^ rest except during study hours.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
79
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules the following young ladies are enrolled on the	-
Tablet of Honor (Sr. Dep’t) Nov: 10,1872.
Miss A. Mast, A. Shea, M. -Cochrane, B. Crowley, L. King, M. Lange, A. Todd, L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. Clarke, N. Gross, V. Ball, L Beynolds, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spiers, G. Crapser, M. Comer, Miss L. Black, Nellie Langdon M. Ward, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, M. Prince, S. Wilder, M. Quan, B. Reyonlds, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, L. Daly, B. Grace, J. Tucker, K. Finley, M. Letourneau, Agnes Church, C. Creveling, N. Ball, J. Fanning; A. T. Clarke, L. Weinreich, M. Riley, J. Noonan, E. Boyce, H. Foote, A. O’Connor, A. Hamilton, B. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, K. Miller,’F. Rush, L. Ritchie, L. Beckman, M. E. Roberts, E. Quinlan, A. Conahan, M. Pinney, C. Germain, E. Burney, A. Eby, J. Connors, A. Stockton, S. Chenoweth, L. Forrester, R. Marr, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. McMahon, A. Monroe, R. McKeaver, L. Schiber, L. Lilly, F. Snouffer, M. Gregg, E. Hinkston, A. Tucker, M. Lyons, H. Miller, C. Rishling.
Honorably Mentioned in English Studies.
Graduating Class—Miss K. Zell, M. Cochrane, Mamie Lassen, A. Shea, B. Crowley, Lizzie King, M. Lange, A. Todd.	»
First Senior Class—Miss L. Niel, M. Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, N. Gross, Ida-Reynolds, R. Devoto, D. Green, G. Crapser, M. Comer, Libbie Black.
Second Senior Class—Miss A. Lloyd, M. Prince, Julia Kearney, Minnie Quan, Bay Reynolds, L. Ritchie, K. Finley, M. Letourneau, A. Church. •
Third Senior Class—C. Creveling, J. Walton, A. T. Clarke, L. Weinreich, A. St. Clair, E. Boyce, H. McMahon, M. Layfield, A. O’Connor.
, First Preparatory Class—A. Hambleton, E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, K. Miller, L. Ritchie, Lou Beckman; A. Reid, M. McGuire, A. Conahan.
Second Preparatory Class—C. Germain, M. Dillofa, S. Chenoweth, I. Hatch, L. Forrester, E. Drake, E. White.
Third Preparatory Class—J. Valdez, R. Manzanares,- N. McMahon, A. Monroe, Henrietta Miller, Miss R. McKeaver, L. Scheiber, L. Lilly, F. Snouffer, M. Gregg, E. Hinkston.	.
FRENCH.
First Class—Misses Minnie Quan, Nellie Gross, Lillie West, Maggie Letourneau, Annie Clarke, Katie Haymond, M. Kearney, M. Cochrane, M. Lange.
Second Class—Mary Comer, Annie Rieed, Lula Tinsley, M. E. Roberts, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, Alice Lynch.
GERMAN.
First Class—Misses M. Black, N. Miller, K. Schmidt, M. Comer, K. Miller.
Second Class—Misses C. Creveling, V. Ball, N. Ball, L. Hull.
Third Class—Misses E. Richardson, E. Thompson, M. Thompson, L. Daley, M. Martin. ,	■	.
.	LATIN.
Miss L. King, Miss G. Crapser, Miss J. Tucker.
.	DRAWING.
' First Class—Misses K. Toung, R. Devoto, L. Black.
Second Division—Misses E. Wade, B. Wade, L. Harrison, L. Weinrich.	’
Second Class—Misses A. Keeline, L. Pfeiffer, R. Woolman, S. Shipley, E. Howell, L. Hull, D. Simonds, S. Chenoweth.
. Second Division—Misses R. Klar, L. Forrester, N. McMahon, N. McAuliffe.
Third Class—Misses S. Smith, C. Smith, M. Booth, N. O’Meara.
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Carrie Creveling, Nellie Ball, Amelia Keeline, Esther Boyce, Helena Foote, Addie Hambleton, M. A. Roberts, Bell Wade, Lizzie Ritchie, Loue Beckman, Annie Rieed, M. E. Roberts, M. White, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, M. Lyons, S. Chenoweth.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—Miss Young, G. Crapser, K. McMahon, E. Plamondon.
Second Division—R.‘Spiers, H. Niel.	'
Second Class—E. Quinlan, L. Black, A. Goldhardt, A. Todd, M. Prince.
Second Division—B. Grace, L. West, D. Green.
Third Class—Miss Holcomb, M. Lassen, J. Noonan, M. Ward, S._Shipley, A. Smith.
Second Division—M. Lange, M. Comer, I. Wilder, L. Beckman, A. St. Clair, J. Layfield.	-
Fourth Class—L. Daly, A. Reid, N. Gross, A. Shea, A. Keeline.
Second Division—M. Corcoran, M. McGuire, L. Hull, H. Foote, J. Kearney, E. Ives.
Fifth Class—E. Haggerty, K. Haymond, B. Johnson, A. Stockton, E. Boyce, K. Finley, K. Schmidt, D. Simonds a M. Hepp.
Sixth Class—J. Walsh, F. Lloyd, A. Lloyd, E. Jackson, A. Conahan, C. Creveling, L. Pfeiffer.
Second Division—M. Brown, B. Wade, E. Wade, M. Reily, A. Rose, B. Hassler, A. Church, N. Ball, F. Rush, N. McAuliffe, A. Paulson.
Seventh Class—F. Butters, S. Chenoweth, A. Monroe, J. Conners, A. O’Conner, C. Reichling, E. Marr.
Eighth Class—L. Harrison, M. Walsh, L. Walsh.
Ninth Class—B. Pfeiffer, M. Gall.	-
Tenth Class—K. Bolton, M. DeLong, M. Gall, E. Lappin, M. Farnum, T. Cronin, E. Hassler, L. Schurle. '
Harp—E. Plamondon.
Guitar—L. Shipley, L. Harrison.
x	VOCAL MUSIC.
First Class—Lillie West.
Second Division—Kate McMahon, M. Ward, Rose Devoto, Libbie Black, Mamie Prince. '
Second Class—M. Wicker, Alice Shea, M. Quan, E. Haggerty.
Second Division—A. Rose, M. Langdon, L. Jannes, R. Spiers, S. Shipley, M. Letourneau.
Third Class—M. Kearney, J. Kearney, E. Howel, L. Hull, L. Beckman, J. Noonan, M. McGuire, N. Fool, A. Roberts.
Second Division—A. Reid, M. Faxon, C. Finley, S. Smith, C. Smith, S. Chenoweth, R. Marr.
General Class—Alice Lynch, Sarah Lynch, Ada Walsh, Minnie Walsh, Lizzie Walsh, ’ Mary Carlin, A. Goldhart, Mary Gall, M. Gall, M. Booth, E. Jackson, M. Hepp, E. Boyce, N. O’Meara.. -
80
THE S CHOLAST IO*
New Publications.
Glimpses of Pleasant Homes. A Few Tales for Youth. By a Member of the Order of Mercy. New York:.The Catholic Publication Society.
We have seen a copy of this beautiful little book of 236 pages, and heartily commend it to the attention both of children and parents. Its object is to show the influences ■which should surround the child at home, and the effects •which home influences have upon the after-lives of children. It is a sad fact that home education is wofully neglected in our age, and anything which tends to call the attention of parent* and guardians to the importance of the duties which devolve upon them is a step in the right direction. The book before us is calculated to do this, and we should be glad to see it in every family library.
The Family Paper for the Coining Tear. ONLY FOUR DOLLARS A YEAR IN ADVANCE. Liberally Conducted. Ably Edited, without Politics or Sect, it is Journal for Everybody, a Welcome Visitor in LEISURE HOURS.
a
Four Elegant Chromos and 52 full-Fage Engravings
Given to Each Subscriber, and no Agent authorized to collect until Chromos are delivered.
The New Weekly Will retain all the prominent features of the Present Monthly form, and combine with them the best of other journals, making it emphatically The Family Paper of America. Its contents will be varied, and our aim is to secure the best efforts of Home writers, uniting with them the gems of other countries. It will give more reading matter in a year than any Four Dollar Magazine or Paper.
Each Number will contain an Elegant Full-Page Engraving on heavy toned paper, exceeding in value anyChromos or Lithographs ever offered as premiums-,—but we place ourselves beyond competition, for. in addition, Nour Elegant Chromos will be given to Each ’ Subscriber. No cheap Lithographs, or worn-out plates, but full Chromos, made expressly, and can only be obtained by subscription. No Agent is authorized to collect subscriptions until the Chromos are delivered, so that auh subscriber gets tohal is paid for. They can be framed, or bound in the Volumes, thus removing the objection raised by many; for no one objects to the elegance of a bound volume merely because others may have it.
No. 1- The French Canadian.—A Character sketch, from an original painting by Kriegliotf, the eminent artist, whose “Lumbering in Canada” elicited universal admiration at the Paris Exposition, and was finally purchased by Emperor Louis Napoleon for Fifty Thousand francs. -	'	\
No. 2. Daisy.—We do not claim this Design as original, but ours is the first Chromo. The original painting is by Knaus, of Berlin, and the steel representation has become the most popular and commands the highest price of any of its size ever imported. The coloring for our Chromo is by the eminent artist Fabronius, whose Crayon Portraits and Color Sketches are so well known in all the large cities. In adopting this as one of our Series, we only adhere to our rule of selecting the best wherever found.
No. 3. The First Commissioner of Excise.—This is a Companion piece to Number 1, and by the same artist (Krieghoff). The two form the finest pair of Dining Room Chromos ever published.
No. 4 The Dip.—From a Photograph from life, and colored in Oil. It will speak for itself, and every heart will warm toward the little Brunette of seven summers, whose sweet face and graceful “pose"’ form the subject. As a Companion for No. 2, they form a pair of Parlor Chromos “ too sweet for anything."
Title-Paces —Two elegant Engraved Title-Pages will be furnished each year, tor our interest is greatly advanced by the certainty that our paper will be preserved and bound.
Onr Price.—Other Publishers said we could not afford a paper like our present Monthly for Two Dollars a Year, but our subscribers know that we have done so; and inspite of prediction that we certainly cannot retain its expensive features and furnish more than four times as many numbers for only twice the price, we say we will do it, and the presentation of the Chromos in advance is evidence that we mean what we say,
Four Dollars a Tear. Fay able in Advance.
Send Three-Cent Stamp for Sample Copy.
IIEXHI H. SWE,
WOOD’S HOUSEHOLD MAGAZINE.
AGENTS may learn something greatly to their, advantage and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing Wood’s Litbbaby and Abt Agency, Newburgh, New York.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line;
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-I ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joiiet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ABBTVB.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m.
t6:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30
p'.m.
±9:00 p.m.
07:15
a.m.
±9:00 p.m. §7:15
a.m.
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. ± Except Saturday. ]1 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, GenTPass. and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
J. C. McMULLIN, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.
PE.VySTLVAMA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TBAOK SAILBOAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
'Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m*
2d train “	“	5.15p.m '
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m
6 41 a. m*
11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag't, Philadelphia.
P. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Pittsburgh.
* Second day.
L. S. & M. SERAIL WAY
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
FJpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a.	m.
“	“	12.25 p	m.
“	“	9.20 p.	m.
“	"	12 37 a	m.
“	“	8.20	p.m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53	p.	m.
“	“	2 55	a.	m.
“	“	5.00	a.	m.
“	“	5 55	p	m.
EAST.
Arrive
WEST.
at Buffalo 4.05 a. m “	4 05 a. m
“	1 35 p. m
“	5 30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m
“	“	6.50 a. m
8.20 a. m
9.40 p. m
Making connection with al! trains West and North.	-30 a. m
4S* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
6.37 a. m.
_	are run Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than
South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland
J. W. Caby, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchabd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
anTvr. w	ette Louisville.
Passenger,.6.09-p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Jbreignts, b.oU a. m.; 8.0b p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9 25 n m
Freights,T.OO a.m.; 4.48a.m.	’ H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
t
i
