The Scholastic.
.	JDeVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE JStUDENTS. _
•	“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 8, 1873.	Number 26.
Government and Laws.
AN ADDRESS DELIVERED BY EDWARD Jl’SWEENEY, NOTRE DAME, IND.
I respectfully solicit your attention for a few minutes upon a subject of the most essential importance to us as' citizens and members of this great commonwealth. And, more particularly, I ask the attention of those among you who as students have not yet entered into the ac Le duties of life. The subject of my discourse, Government and Laws, is one of so much difficulty and importance, that it will be impossible for me to do it justice; but if I can entertain you for a few moments with some general ideas on government and laws, and especially if I can say anything of the government and laws of the United States that will prove either useful or interesting to you, I will have fully satisfied the object I have in view. First, I will speak of government in general, and afterwards of our own form of government.
Men were designed for society. God designed that men should fulfil the important trust which He confided to them when He said: Increase and multiply; fill the.earth and subdue it, andf^ile over the fishes of the sea and the fowls of the air. But in order to the existence of society, men must have some rules for their guidance.
From experience, we see that men are disposed to do wrong, and hence the necessity of governments and laws to check those enormities and to restrain those passions which would otherwise be unbridled in their consequences. The necessary intercourse between in lividuals, the exigencies of society,—in a word, the progress of civil iz ition,—requires the existence of government and laws. But when we reflect on the d fficulty of uniting such discordant ele~ ments, so many jarring systems, and of forming a structure at once simple and comprehensive, capable of affording relief to all classes, and of binding the varied interests of men together by one common bor d of union, we must confess that man alone would be incapable of the task. We must acknowledge that without the aid of Divine Wisdom it would bejmpossible for us to maintain those systems that were established after so many centuries of toil and oppression; and that if the protecting hand of Divine Providence were withdrawn, these systems would crumble.
It is evident from what we read in Scripture that God took an active part in moulding the original forms of government, and that He directed the affairs of men more particularly at this early period of human history. I need only mention one or two circumstances to prove this. The earlieskauthentic laws of which we have any knowledge, the Ten Commandments, were promulgated in thunder and
lightning. These commandments or laws, containing the principles of universal justice, were given to Moses, on Mount Sinai, by God Himself, amidst the grandeur of His power and majesty. Again, after Israel had been ruled for more than three hundred years by the Judges, Saul was miraculously chosen king, having been previously anointed by Samuel, the prophet. Samnel also wrote laws for the Jews, aud placed them in a book, which he laid before the Lord. If we accept the testimony of the Scriptures, it is ob-vio is that God directed the affairs of His chosen in a special manner, aud we gather from various passages of the prophets, that the mighty kings of Babylon, Assyria, and Persia, were but the instruments of His power. St. Paul says, in his Epistle to the Romans: The powers that be, are ordained of God; and he that resisteth the law, resisteth the ordinance of God. Hence we may draw this conclusion, that government had its origin in the necessities of human society, and its support from God.
Now, a few words concerning the general principle of good government. There are three principles which should enter into every form of government: 1st, Government should be suitable to the character and disposition of its people; 2dly, It should aim to promote the happiness and welfare of that people; and lastly, it should guarantee some fixed and permanent means of liberty, regulated by a charter or constitution defining the privileges of the people and the powers of the government. .
In every government there are three distinct powers.: the executive, legislative, and judicial. These departments are separate and distinct. They shouldnpt encroach on each other. The legislative is the law-making power. It should pass no laws contrary to the Constitution, or to the interests of the people. The Executive carries the laws in’o effect. This department represents the strength and energy of the government. Unity is requisite; for experience roves that a plural executive lacks that decision, that promptness and vigor so necessary in times of danger and public disorder. The Cabinet are the immediate assist-tants of our Executive, as the Privy Council are of the English Executive. The President, our executive, requires the consent of the Senate to make treaties, to appoint ambassadors and other public ministers. Thus the apointing power is vested in the Executive.	=
The judicial department expounds and applies the laws. Wisdom, a knowledge of the laws, and,a love of justice, are the essential qualifications of those whose peculiar province it is to guard the Constitution against dangerous innovation, and to preserve inviolate those rights and privileges reserved to the people. When these three powers of government are controlled by one individual, we have despotism; when lodged in the hands of a few men, aristae-
202
THE SCHOLASTIC
racy; and when exercised by the people, we may call it democracy.
Ours is a representative democracy. The people choose representatives from the different sections to attend to their local interests, to levy taxes, and to make appropriations for the National Government. There are also two Senators from each State, who are the advisers of the President, and the guardians of State rights. The Constitution determines the boundaries of national and State rights. These boundaries should be carefully observed. One of the most important political questions that has agitated the country, is the question of State rights. The Constitution grants to the States and to the people those powers not expressly delegated to the National Government. Whether these State rights (an be preserved, whether the National Government will not centralize, is a question that I leave before your minds. I will not undertake to discuss it.
Having taken a brief survey of government in general, I will conclude with a few words on our own government.
There are a few peculiar privileges conferred by the Constitution, and enjoyed by the citizens of the United States. Among these are civil and religious toleration, the trial by grand jury, and the presentment of a grand jury in all criminal prosecutions. Congress cannot pass ex post facto laws, or laws impairing the obligations of contract. In all criminal prosecutions, the accused'enjoys the right of a speedy and public trial, by a jury of his fellow-citizens. If condemned, no bill of attainder can work corruption of blood and deprive his innocent offspring of their rightful inheritance. There are many other privileges enjoyed by our citizens, but time will not permit me to mention them. It is sufficient for me to say that in theory our government is excellent; that rights secured by the Constitution are ample, and capable of affording the blessings of liberty to all. But every government rests on the stability of popular character; and especially is this the case with our government, in which the officers are chosen by the people. For the preservation of this government it is necessary that the people should be temperate, patriotic, and honest in their political convictions; that they should consider, attentively, the affairs of the nation; and that they should not be revolutionary in their character. They should not be blinded to their own interests by party factions, nor led by demagogues. Reforms should be effected gradually, not like the sweep of the whirlwind. There should be no prejudice. The Constitution grants liberty of conscience. All classes are equally admitted to the privileges of citizenship.	•
Fellow-students, we have a glorious Constitution. We have the best birthright of men—we have liberty. We have ample territory,—fertile, prairies, extensive forests, and rich mineral wealth. Lying between two great oceans, with large navigable rivers draining every part of our extensive territory, and with the Great Lakes on the north, we have every facility for domestic and foreign commerce. But the most glorious privilege, that of entire Independence which was obtain, d for us by the Fathers of the Revolution at the expense of so much blood^is the one which we should most dearly prize. Bleeding at Lexington and Bunker Hill, enduring suffering and privations at Valley Forge, those heroic men sent forth to the world that sublime instrument which, with a statement of our wrongs and oppressions, concluded with a solemn declaration of Independence, and an appeal to the God of battles to aid us,
and bring us triumphantly through the terrible struggle in which we were then engaged.
Let it not be said that we lost this glorious privilege. Let not that blood be shed in vain. When you assume the duties of citizenship do not be deceived by the delusions of party success. There is no party when the Union is in danger, when the thread of liberty is about to be severed.
But I will make no further appeal to your feelings, for I know that you love justice and equal rights, that you love and revere the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the glorious flag of the Union, and that you will be ready to go forth to battle for them and to die in their defence if need be.
The Three Wishes.
Three youths m a fine old orchard Sat wishing, and each would see What wish from the field of Fancy, Could the best of all wishes be.
“ I wish,” said the blue-eyed Harry, “ That of shipping, and silver and gold, And of splendid Arabian horses,
I had all that the land could hold.
“ I would drive the handsomest ‘ turn-out ’
• Of any gent, in the town,
And 0 ! how the people would envy
My wealth for its great renown!”	'
“ O nonsense!” cried out the second, “ Tour horses and all your stuff Would profit you, sir, very little, / Should the conflict of life turn rough.
“ I wish for a mind more brilliant, ;
Than the minds of the best in the State,— Then, no matter how turns my fortune, I shall always be honored and great''’
“ But,” the third said: “ For me, I wish simply To live as my God has designed ;
For this purpose I freely give Him My being, my heart, my mind !
“ I wish but to do my duty,
Wherever that duty may lead,
With a cheerful and earnest devotion: I then shall be happy indeed.
“ Let me cherish the talents imparted,
/	But never, O never I pray,
Let me rouse in another heart envy, Be my fortune whatever it may.”
Ah ! The Blessed Virgin had heard them, The words that each stripling had said, And the last one knelt for her blessing, Which fell on his beautiful head.
The others, alas ! chased phantoms: ■Vexations and pains and fears
Were the only fruit of their wishes,	-
And the end of their fruitless years.
<
There is a striking difference between the sound of a french horn and the human voice.
John Hancock has the credit of first introducing music upon tbe Boston Common, for the benefit of the people. He had a band to play in front of his dwelling, and paid for it himself.	f
THE SCHOLASTIC.
203
St. Joseph’s Academy,
269 & 271 Eighth St., Cincinnati, Ohio, February 25,1873.
Editor Scholastic :—I suppose you will have no objection to a few lines from St. Joseph’s. Less than two years ago, the Congregation of the Holy Cioss resolved to open an Academy iu Cincinnati. Some were under the impression that the field was already occupied, and that a new school could hope for nothing better than a sickly existence and a final death; but notwithstanding the predictions of the indifferent and the fears of its friends, a large stone-front mansion situated on Eighth Street was purchased. A more favorable location both in respect to centrality and surroundings could not be selected, it being Yeadily accessible by street-cars from all parts of the city, and located in one of the most elegant, quiet and healthy portions of it.
For the first six months it received but a meagre patronage; but at length the number commenced to increase, and so steadily did the increase continue, that Notre Dame was obliged to increase the corps of teachers. Still the ranks of the pupils continued to swell to such an extent that there was but one of two alternatives to choose: either to refuse all further applications for admission, or enlarge the building. The latter course was adopted, and accordingly a few weeks ago negotiations were commenced to secure the adjoining property, which resulted shortly afterwards in its purchase. On the 13th inst. formal possession was obtained. This late acquisition, like the'Academy building, is a large three-story stone-front mansion, substantially built, containing all the modern improvements, gas, water, hot-air furnaces, etc. During the past week a number of workmen have been busily engaged in refitting the Academy, and to day we do not think there is a neater, more comfortable, or better arranged school in the city.
On Sunday morning, 23d inst., a large number assembled at the Academy to witness the blessing of the new house. His Grace the Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell read Mass, assisted by one of the Rev. Franciscan Fathers and Rev. Jacob F. Lauth, C. S. 0. After the first Gospel, the Most Rev. Prelate addressed the assembled multitude on the benefits of an early religious education. He pointed out the duties of parents, teachers and children, and expressed the great pleasure he felt in beholding the success of the Academy; he attributed no small share of it to St. Joseph, in whom he recommended the pupils and their parents to repose unbounded confidence. He assured the Brothers that if they continued to labor as zealously in the future as in the past, the day would not be far distant when the Catholics of the city would look on St. Joseph’s Academy as a monument to which they could point with pride and pleasure. After Mass he proceeded to bless the house according to the prescribed form. His Grace had no sooner finished his breakfast, than he was waited on by a number of the pupils, who read a short address, in which they gave expression to their filial affection. It is needless to add that he replied in the familiar and good-natured style which endears him in a particular manner to youth.
. In the evening the students’ orchestra, assisted by a number of amateurs and professional musicians of the city, all under the direction of Prof. J. Schweers, of the Academy, gave a grand musical soiree, which was attended by a number of the patrons and friends of the institution. In response to the calls of the company, the Rev. Franciscan Father delivered an address, which-was received with ap
plause. About eleven o’clock the company separated, well pleased with the evening’s entertainment, and with heartfelt wishes for the continued success of the Academy.
A Visitor.
Obituasy.
It is with -feelings of unfeigned sorrow that we chronicle this week the death of Mr. John M. Flanigen, a worthy student of our University, who departed this life at his home in Nashville, on the 7th ultimo. The life of Mr Flanigen, at least while at Notre Dame, requires no eulogy from us. His sterling virtues were known and appreciated by all. Entering the University at an early age, he soon won the esteem of his fellow-students by the innate goodness of his heart and the indefatigable and uniform cheerfulness of his disposition, which contributed so largely to their enjoyments; while his professors remember with pleasure the amiable spirit of respectful obedience and diligence which he ever evinced in class. Poor John was first in the various games and sports of the playground, among the first in his classes, and certainly the' first in the hearts of his fellows; and when he took his departure from the University, in 18G8, with a diploma from the Commercial Department, he left behind him an honorable record in the annals of his ALma .Hater. Requiescat in pace.	M. M. F.
At the 26th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-mathean Association a committee was appointed to draft resolutions of regret and sorrow at the death of their former Vice-President, Mr. John M. Flanigen, who departed this life, January 7th, at his home in Nashville, Tennessee. The committee presented the following resolutions :
Whereas, It has pleased Almighty God to remove from thi* earth our former dear friend and companion, John M. Flanigen, and take him unto Himself; and, whereas, Mr. Flanigen was for many years a devoted member of our Association, both as a private member and an officer, be it
Resolved, That while submitting to the will of Divine Providence, we deeply deplore the loss as one of a generous and noble friend, an energetic member and a faithful officer.
Resolved, That we hereby extend our heartfelt sympathy to the parents of the deceased, believing that although they are separated for a time from a dear and devoted son, yet it is his greater gain.
Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded upon the books of the Association, that a copy of them be sent to the parents, and that they be published in The Scholastic.	v”
Lewis O. Hibben,
Frank L. McOsker, Virgil F. McKinnon, W. J. Fletcher,
Committee.
Life.—With spring comes renewed life. This is especially so here at present. All the old Associations are zealously active, and new ones are forming which are of course still more zealous; never did we see here so many organizations as at present. It is true the Amalgamated Society, which will long live in story at Notre Dame, has not organized, yet the Association exists in spirit; and we think was never stronger than at present. The far-famed Association of yore had no headquarters—the present one has, and is in good practical running order.
Mark M. Foote, Chas. J. Dodge, Dennis J. Hogan, W. Breen,
204
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic,
Publislted every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY..
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEKMS:
One year.........................................Z....	J2 CO
One session (5 months)................................. 1	25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Office.
Fly-Catches.
It has been remarked that several mince their piety.
Prof. Stace delivered a Lecture on Wednesday, the , 5th inst.
y Some new scenery is about to be painted for the stage of Washington Hall.
His Honor the Mayor of South Bend attended Washington’s Birthday Exhibition.
i • The resident Alumni of Notre Dame are requested to 1 meet in the large parlor of the University, Wednesday, 12th inst., at 9 o’clock, a. m.
The Exhibition on the 18th of March, eve of St. Joseph, will consist of speeches, essays, declamations and music. Thespis graciously waives his sway for a little while.
/ Exhibition.—It appears we were not well informed / concerning the appearance of the Thespians on the 17th inst. The Exhibition will take place on the evening of the 18th, and will consist of Musical and Literary selections.
• Band.—This organization is flourishing, and always willing to greet our entrance into and exit from the Hall ; yet we would be pleased with a serenade, as would almost ' every other person about the College. No doubt warm weather will bring them out.
Boating.—The lake is closely watched; still the ict a id snow hold firm and indisputed sway in this locality. The lake is far from “ having the blues” at present. Navigation is open, however — not that of the lake, but from here to the lake; hence even though everything is frozen, still navigation being open, there is a chance to take a pulL We hear that a yacht is to be added in the spring.
\ Lectures.—Rev. Father J. C. Carrier, C.S.C., has com-xAnenced his course of lectures on Natural Sciences. The lectures are simple, scientific, and comprehensive, and such as to attract the undivided attention of the Class. The. first lecture was delivered from 514-6J4, p. m., on Thursday of last week, on the Principles of Physical Sciencd and paved the way for the lectures which are to come afA ter. -It was an introduction.
The Field.—Not unfrequently nowadays do we see the \ field in use. Every one is watching a chance to take the open air and a walk in the field. One feels, these times, like getting out and expanding himself. The ball is occasionally’ tossed, and the life,of the playgrounds seems about to begin, but suddenly a cold spell comes around and drives us back
to the fire or the steam-pipes. Nevertheless, hope never deserts us, though it may be long in accomplishment.
Botanical Garden—This scientific resort has been within the past two years so much improved that it is now one of the many objects that delight the eye at-Notre Dame. Though it is some months yet before it will put on its vestment of floral beauty, still there is some-* thing more stable arising here than the flower which the sun’s heat calls forth in early springtime, and the northern blast causes again to sink into oblivion. A summer-house is being built here, though it looks very wintry at present.
Lunch, or bather Banquet.—Not long since, the old members of the Su Cecilia Philomathean Association were invited by the worthy President of the Association to what he termed a lunch, but what every one else called something far superior. Many of these old members are now big Seniors, and leading members of the Senior Societies. Thus is the present linked with the past: members old and young sit down at a social table together, and renew their friendship not only with one another but with the Society itself; and thus we pass on from session to session, and hear those former members of the St. Cecilians always speak as if they were members at present.
Chit-Chat.—The order of business which the clerk of the weather is now bringing before the house seems to pertain to squalls, and hence we conclude that we may expect pretty squally times, though it is not generally believed tbit ghosts are subject themselves to squalls, but sometimes they make others feel squally. A new discov- . ery has lately been made with regard to those beings; it would appear that they sometimes go in crowds even of four or five, but we verily don’t believe that twenty of them would scare Bro. Augustus’ dog. Now those who_ tell “ ghost stories ” in this locality might remember that a skeleton may appear, and hence we may see the “ forthcoming” boat-house, as it now exists, “ ghostified” and moving about But political subjects of this kind should be lightly touched upon. The ghost often plays a very important part in a tragedy, and frequently reveals a secret which would otherwise remain concealed; but they do not necessarily appear upon the stage.
Captain at the Table.—This is one of those phrases which has a double meaning, or rather the word table has this double signification. Is it a dining-room table or a billiard table that is thus honored with a captain? It must be the latter, because in some cases, were it other- , wise, some ten or twelve candidates ivould present themselves equally worthy of the offi :e in a practical point of view, and I should add equally long-winded. Besides, it would be very difficult and embarrassing for a captain to be outdone by a subordinate, as would frequently be the case were this the state of the matter. But happily for beef, bread and butter, coffee and tea, pies and cakes, etc., it is not. After hearing the above title we took pains to look into the matter, and find that each of the billiard tables has a presiding officer, known as “ Captain of the tablehence all surmises to the contrary were superfluous and falsebesides, “ right reason ” would bring one to conclude that it could not be otherwise than it is, and hence must be so.
A great composer—Sleep.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Oixr Music Soz.
Does Blind Tom play at sight?
“Broken Time—as the musician said when his watch was smashed.”
The, Cincinnati Musical Festival.—Cincinnati is preparing for a grand Musical Festival next May,—not in the noisy Gilmore “ Jubilee ” style, but a genuine artistic festivals It will consist of six performances, beginning on Tuesday, the 6cb, and ending on Friday, the 9th of May. Saturday the 10-h will be devoted to a grand open air concert. The conductorship has been confided to Theodore Thomas, whose orchestra will, of course, render admirable service. The chorus, enlarged by delegations from all the societies of that part of the country, will be large enough 'for the effective production of great choral music. Among the works to be given are Handel’s “Dettingen Te Deum" Mozart’s very short but perfect “ Ave verum,” Beethoven’s “ Ninth Symphony,” Schubert’s Twenty-third Psalm, Schumann’s “ Gipsey Chorus,” Choruses from Tannhausser, etc.	.
Azchcoafraternity.
Me. Editor :—I am not aware of your having received any communications this year from the Arcbeonfraternity. But even though reporting in our society has been neglected for a long time, I presume our friends during that time knew we were still in existence. The object of our society being religious, with the Mother of God for our Patroness, we are consequently many in number. Still our number could and should be increased. Every Catholic student in the Senior Department should be a member of our society; for the duties imposed on each member by the rules of the Association are nothing in comparison to the benefits they may expect from a faithful discharge of those duties. •
The officers'of the Society at present are as follows:	.
Director—Very Rev. A. Granger.
President—James McGlynn.
Recording Secretary—J. D. McCormick.
Librarian—M. Bastarache.
At present there are thirty-four members in the Society.
Respectfully yours, J. D. McCormick.
Recording Secy.

.	Ths Thilodemics.
•Hitherto the Philodemics have been silent; they have not noised their works abroad. But although silent, they have been busy. Every Tuesday evening they have assembled and argued subjects of importance with warmth and animation, and so- attentively have the members performed their duties that in every field of dispute victory was dearly-purchased. Ender the energetic administration of Rev. Mr. Zahm, the members of the Society are keenly alive to the importance of the work in which they are engaged, and are prompt, active and faithful in the discharge of their duties. The noble work in which they are engaged certainly deserves commendation, and it is not in a boastful spirit that they justly claim for themselves that their libors of the past five months were crowned with complete success. But prosperous as they were dur- !
ing the past session, there are many indications which^go to prove that their success will be even greater in the future. With an increasing library, with an accession of several members, there cm be no doubt of continued ’ prosperity. The election of officers resulted as follows:
Director—Rev. J. C. Carrier, C.S.C.
President—Rev. J. A. Zahm, C.S.C. Vice-President—P. J. O'Connell. Corretponding Secretary—E. McSweeny. Recording Secretary—T. P. White. Treasurer—P. O’Meara.
Librarian—T. Dundon.1-
Assistant Librarian—E. Morancy. First Censor—J. B. Crummey.
Second Censor—E. J. Graves.
'	 ' E. McS.
. The St. Ceciliaas. .
The 26th regular meeting was held on February 16th. \ At this meeting the President spoke at some length on an old and valued member, Mr. John M. Flanigen, of Nashville, Tennessee, lately deceased. He then appointed the following members to draft resolutions on his death: M. M. Foote, C. J. Dodge, D. J. Hogan, L. O. Hibben, W. Fletcher, V. McKinnon, F. McOsker, and W. Breen. After this, Mr. Dougherty read a very good composition, and Mr. McOsker delivered a declamation.	-
The 27th regular meeting was held on February 22nd, * at which the President introduced Mr. Howard, of Logansport, who entertained the Society for some time with the reminiscences of his college career. The debate:
“Resolved, That Julius Cassar was a Benefit to Humanity,” ' -then began. Those on the affirmative were Masters E.
Ohmer, W. Fletcher, 0. Waterman, E. Dougherty, J. Dunn, J. Ewing, W. Green, and V. McKinnon. Negative: W. Ball, W. Breen, J.-Quill, F. McOsker, H. Hunt, D. O’Connell, W. Meyers, and J. McGrath. The President gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. Mr. Ohmer opened the debate in an elegant manner, and his elocution was fine. Mr. Ball, though his elocution was inferior to that of Mr. Ohmer, produced many fine statements in favor of his side. Father Cooney, C.S.C, Superior of Missions, and formerly Chaplain in the Army nf the Cumberland, being present, was called, upon to speak. He arose and riveted the attention of the members for /■ver an hour. Being requested to say something of the “Late War,” he related several pleasant reminiscences. The Society were much pleased with Father Cooney’s literary treat, and hope to have the pleasure of hearing him frequently.
At a special business meeting, held on February 25th, before the exercises were concluded, Rev.’Father Condon came in and spoke for some time, congratulating the members on their good conduct and progress.
One Tuesday, Februaiy 25th, the Editors of the “Standard ” gave their semi-annual lunch, in which numerous guests participated.
W. Breen, Car. See.
London, England, has a population of nearly four millions, and of this number it is stated that only about five hundred thousand attend public worship on Sunday.
206
THE SCHOLASTIC.
.	Youth’s Vision.
BY T. O. M.
Every boy of an ardent temperament and a lively imagination is set ablaze at an early period with gorgeous dreams and brilliant hopes of-his future. These great questions: What will I become when I grow up to be a man? How shall I outstrip all others, and command their admiration, and secure lasting renown? are ever to have a foremost place in the youth’s fancy.
The broad field of life laid open to him makes the choice of his vocation exceedingly perplexing, while the amount at stake requires and challenges his best efforts to determine with precision. We all know that we arebetter adapted for one station in life than for another, but to ascertain what that one is is no easy matter. The world with its twofold appearance is very ready to deceive us, and will undoubtedly do so unless we fully understand its ways. It presents to the youth’s eye an outward apparel so plausible and alluring that it entrances him, and leaves him ignorant of its intrinsic nature. He knows little of its actual doings, and therefore can no more estimate its real merit than a person can that of a book when he has scrutinized only its gilt edges and neat binding.
As we have said, the youth’s aspirations naturally fill his soul with a desire to win laurels, and he hopefully looks forward to the time when he shall reach that station in which fame is most abundantly attained. Consequently the soldier’s calling is apt to receive his earliest attention; for the soldier, by his heroism, acquires in a short time the assurance of an undying memory. The next field wherein tne youth sees laurels blooming, is held by lawyers and statesmen. Everything there is just pat to his wishes— the gay and fashionable world is there centred, and learning and eloquence, virtues so much admired, are there fostered. Furthermore, the occupants of-this field take a prominent part in the conduct of worldly affairs, and thereby rise conspicuous to the eyes of men and have placed within their grasp the attainment of immortal glory.
Each position in life has more or less allurement accompanying it; but all inducements, however tempting, must be made to give way to his judgment, and leave it free to select from among the many offers the one most suitable-to him. It would be impolitic for a youth to choose more than one profession, for no person can become proficient in many of them. “It is far better to be master of one trade than a j ick of all.”	•
Man is a defective creature, and is prone to many vices. Perversity, which springs from his own pride, is not to be classed among the least of his blemishes—but on the contrary it ranks among the prime blurs of his nature, and is the one constantly generating the utmost discord between him and his fellow-man. If every one would, when he sees his error, relinquish it and be helmed by reason, should it not redress many of the grievances that afflict humanity? Hight, or justice, never creates disturbances. On the contrary' it soothes outraged nature and reconciles man to man.
What the youth lacks above all things is forethought. He seldom ever deliberates on the propriety of his actions, and is therefore as liable to do wrong as right. He is guided more by instinct than by reason; allured rather by appearances than by realities. He would fain hold stations in life as. they award distinction, never questioning his own
competency to do so. He forgets the' truth that every rose has its thorn, every calling its trials and difficulties to meet. He lacks also firmness, energy, and perseverance, aud is therefore unarmed and discomfited by obstacles he might well surmount. If once prostrated, he loses hope and courage, aud is too much intimidated to rally and try again.
The young man who is to begin life’s journey without knowing at what he will e: rn his bread is surely in a peculiar plight. However, his condition is not so perplexing if he be decisive, knows his own abilities and is aware of his. own inclinations. His vocation is then distinctly pointed out to him, and his success and happiness are secure.	•	.	-
These, then, are the qualities a man must possess to enable him to surmount every obstacle—the ability, and the will; no difficulties, however fomidable, can cope with their joint efforts.	.
Soli of Eenor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given dated
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1873.
Senior Department.
A. Allen, F. H. Buter, W. T. Briaut, C. Berdel, J. Burnham, M. Bastarache, V. Baca, W. Bartlett, G. Brown, M. Brown, J. Brown, V. Baca, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. J. Clarke, J. Comer, J. B. Crummey, G. Crummey, J. Claf-fey, B. Dorsey, J. Devine, J. Donnelly, F. Donnelly, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dundon, T. Flannigan, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, J. Ferry, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, J. Harrington, J. Hand, A. Horne, G. Hale, A. Hess, J. Hamilton, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, J. Kelley, P. Lilly, J. McGlynn, E. Moraney, J. McDermott, D. Maloney, J. Murphy, J. McAlister, T. Murphy, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, J. Noonan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, J. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, F. Phelan, C. Proctor,. G. Ruger, E. Spitley, G. Stack, R. Sti'ley, F. Scrafford, G. Summers, C. Spears, J. Scherer, M. To’-bett, S. Valdez, W. Van'fcWoud, C. Vinson, C. Walter, H. Walker, J. Wolfe, H. Zeitler, A. Mooney.
Junior Department.
F. Austin, G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, F. Butters, C. Black, C. Burger, H. Bennett, J. Carmody, J. Campbell, J. Caren, J. Dore, W. Dexter, Jas. J. Dunn, J. Ewing, F. Ewing, C. Furer, G. Gross, J. Graham, J. Golsen, C. Hake, W. Haney, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, M. Hilliard, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, W. Kinzie, J. Lynch, L. Loser, R. Lewis, F. McOsker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, W. McMahon, J. McNally, S. Marks, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, N. Mooney, A. Mitchell, L. Munn, D. McAndrews, J. Nevin, E. Obmer, W. Pollard, J. Quill, A. Ried, C. Ried, C. Ruger, W. Rumely, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F. Smyth, H. Schaller, W. Schulthies, P. Tansey, J. Tobin; L. Vah’t Woud. N. Vannampe, S. Wise, J. Williams, F. Wittels-perger, S. McMahon, H. Zuber.
Mtnim Department.
J. Cooney, C. Faxon, F. Carlin, A. Wetherbee, E. Cleary, B. Haley, T. Hooley, W. O’Hara.
‘	‘ J. F.‘Edwards, Secretary.'
“If there is anybody under the canister of heaven that I have in utter excrescence,” says Mrs. Partington, “it is the slander going about like a boy-constrictor, circulating x his calomel upon honest folks?’ ' '
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.	20T
SAINT RASY’S ACADEIST.
St. Mary’s Academy, March 5, 1873.
Beautiful Spring comes tripping in, clad in furs and overshoes, with her head wrapped in a nubia and her veil sleeted with ice. She certainly must be masquerading, for no one could identify her as one of the Spring sisters if she had not been introduced as “ Miss March.” Spring as she is, and Spring as the poets make her, are two very different creations. It would be well for those who revel in the poetry .of life to take a long excursion at this poetic season in search of violets, and try if the ardor of their imagination can render the excursion charming.
The celebration of Washington’s Birthday was conducted with great patriotic vivacity. A primitive “ Calico Ball ” was inaugurated to honor the simplicity of our Revolutionary great-grandmothers. All seemed to enjoy the novelty of the affair.
The reading of the rival papers, “Gossip” and “Chimes,” and essays from the different Classes after the weekly distribution of rewards, renders the Sunday evening exercises very interesting. “ The Gossip ” made appropriate mention of the absence of Very Rev. Bather General; whose presence and approval on such occasions is always desired by our aspirants for literary distinction.
The Literary Societies are flourishing. Tlie works of the best authors are read and commented upon, and thus a taste for good standard literature is cultivated.
Bor Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t.), March. 2,1873.
Mary Lassen, Alice Shea, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Aline Todd, L. Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Mary Spier, Mary Comer, Lib-bie Black, Nettie Langdon, E. Haggarty, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida Wilder, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, B. Grace, M. Letourneau, Agnes Church, J. Locke, L. Dragoo, Esther Boyce, S. Shipley, Genevieve Walton, Leila James, Julia Banning, A. Keeline, L. Weinreich, J. Noonan, Addie Hambleton, Nellie Boote, Nellie Heedy, Mary A. Roberts, E. Wade, R. Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Rose Rosesco, Ella Quinlan, Mary McGuire, Nellie McEwen, Agnes Con-ahan, Maria Pinney, Ella Howell, S. Chenoweth, A. Stock-ton, Dora Simonds, Katie Wickham, J. Valdez, Romualda Manzanares, Lizzie Schieber, Eannie Snouffer, T. Heckman, Katie M. Lyons, Henrietta Miller, Nellie Hinkston, Mary E. Black, Louisa Lilly, M. Kane, Bell Turnbull, Cora Lee.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
music.
Birst Class—E. Plamondon, K. Young.
Second Division—R. Spiers, L. Black.
Second Class—E. .Quinlan, A. Gollhardt, A. Todd.
Second Division—B. Grace, L. West, J. Noonan, N. McEwen, M. Heckman, M. Lassen.
Third Class—M. Ward, N. Boote, L. Beckman, A. Clarke, H. McMahon, N; Gross, I. Wilder.
Second Division—R. Devoto, M. Koch, A. Ried.
Eourth Class—M. Kearney, D. Simonds, L. King, A. Keeline, A. Shea, E. Ives, M. McGuire.
Second Division—E. Howell, G. Kelly.
Fifth Class—K. Haymond, F. Snouffer, K. Finley, A. T.
Clarke, A. Stockton, L. Pfeiffer, M. Hepp, A. Mast, K. Schmidt, R. Rosesco.
Second Division—M. Eaxon, C. Walker.	s'
Sixth Class—M. Brown, M. Black, A. Allen, A. Cona-han, L. Penniman, J. Locke.
Second Division—M. E. Roberts, N. McAuliffe, R. Marr, B. Hassler, A. Noel, E. Richardson, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, M. Kaeseberg, A. Monroe, M. Roberts, A. O’Conner.
Seventh Class—L. Niel, C. Smith, K. Casey, E. Jackson, S. Chenoweth, S. Smith..
Eighth Class—E. Lange, L. Walsh, B. Quan, K. Eoll-mer, E. Hassler, N. O’Meara.
Ninth Class—E. Lappin, T. Cronin, K. Bolten.
Tenth Class—M. DeLong, J. Tallman.
Exercises—Misses Spiers, McEwen, Heckman, Plamondon. No reports from other Classes, but we presume the young ladies do not neglect this important part of their musical education.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t), March 4,1873.
Ella Richardson, A. Smith, K. Joyce, L. Tinsley, M. Eaxon, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, E. Orton, M. Brown, M. Walsh, K. Schmidt, J. and M. Thomson, R. Hooley, C. Smith, B. Hassler L. Schn-erle, M. Reynolds, M. Carlin, K. Lloyd, M. Ewing, M. -Hildreth, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Follmer, A. Paulsen, E. Lappin, E. Lang, A. Ewing, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, E. Jackson, S. Lynch, G. Hooley, D. Allen.
Honorably Mentioned in the
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—K. Joyce.
Eirst Preparatory Class—L. Tinsley, M. Eaxon, A. Walsh.
Second Preparatory~Class—L. McKinnon, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, B. Quan.
Third Preparatory Class—N. Vigil, E. Orton, S. Lilly.
Eirst Junior Class—N. O’Meara, M. Brown, M. Walsh, K. Schmidt, J. and M. Thompson, R. Hooley,' C. Smith, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, A. Burney, M. Booth, M. Carlin, K. Lloyd, M. Ewing, M. Hildreth, M. DeLong, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Eollmer.
Second Junior Class—K. Hector, E. Lappin, E Lang, A. Ewing, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, E. Jackson, G. Hooley, D. Allen, M. Kaeseburg.
Third Junior Class—A. Green, J. Tailman, A. Green, N. Lloyd, M. Green.
The Archbishop of Quebec and the Bishop of Three Rivers, accompanied by the Very Rev. Rector of the Laval University, have gone to Rome to learn the decision of the Holy See on certain questions of discipline which are under consideration in the archdiocese. The cause of disagreement is substantially as follows: It has been the intention of the Jesuits for some time past to found a Catholic University in the city of Montreal, in which they were chiefly encouraged by Mgr. Bourget, the Bishop r.f that city; but it appears that at the period of the establishment of the Laval University in the city of Quebec, in the early days of French rule, the then reigning Pontiff granted to the founder the exclusive right of having a Catholic University in the country. The decree by which this grant was made is still unrevoked, and the authorities of the Laval University insist upon their ancient, right, and are supported by all the Catholic Bishops with the exception of the Bishops of Montreal and of Three Rivers.—Ax.
208
THE SCHOLASTIC.
©lie “JUe Ipm,”
A CathoUC Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University’, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
'	*	TERMS:
Life subscription, $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
Tor 5 years, $10. in advance.
for 2 years $5, in advance.	*
Tor 1 year, $3, in advance.	'
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave M* ma for $25, in advance. ■	-
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $15, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Avb Mveia for $50, in advance.	-
The postage of the Ave Marta is bnt five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA, '
Notre Dame, Indiana. -
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THiHTr-TWO pages EVERT BaONTH. $1.00 kejr annum. Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.	.
Volume V begins wish January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SO UTH BEND RR
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, -	7 30 a m
“	-	9 35 a.m “	“	10.15 a.m
“	4A'p.in. “	“	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.4U a.m. | Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
*•	“	11.45 a.m. “	12 25 pm
“	“	6 30 p.m. |	“	7.10 p m
. SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.39 a m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. |	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1S14, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
T-ERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board Be 1 and Jedding, and Tuition fLatin and Greek!; Washing
and’Mending of Linens, per Session of five mouths, -	- 1*0 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew gnd Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, .	.....................................10 <10
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, -	*	“	*	"	“	"	“	“	•	- . • 15 CO
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee— Commercial. $5; Scientific, §8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Sommer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	...................... 35 00
Pigments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Bonks. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on tl le 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. LEMONNIEB, C.S.C.,
President.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
f | DRAINS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m. “	“	12.25 p.	m. “	“	9.15 p.	m. “	“	12 35 a. m. “	“	8.2u p.	m. “	“	4.35 p.	m.	Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. m “	“	4.05 a. m “	“	135 p. m “	“	5.30 p. m Runs to Elkhart.
GOING Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m. -“	”	2 55 a. m. “	“	5 00 a. m. “	“	6.05 p m. “	“	6.37 a. m. “	“	8.20 a. m.	WEST. Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m “	6.50 a. m “	“	8.2U a. m “	“	9.40 p.	m “	10.30 a. m “	“	12.30 p.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
USz* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot aud other public places. '
OST- trains are ruu by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.	,	.
J. 11 DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland,1 Ohio. CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland, F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent. J W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. J S.Nellis, t icket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CBOSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North -Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a. m.
Freights,'6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.
Freights. 1.00 a.m ; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
RA INS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Hp ison Street Bridge, as follows: ’
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
♦9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
t6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 37:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. 5 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PENNSYLVANIA C^ATRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago. Pittsburgh Philadelphia and New	.
York without Change.	.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m I Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d train ’’	. “	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41a. m*
3rd train “ ’l 9.00 p m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline'with trains North, and South, and at Manns-field with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N MCCULLOUGH, Geu’l Manager, Pittsburgh.'
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh. ' H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t Philadelphia.
F R. MYE’**. Gen’l Pass and Ticket 4g’t Pittsburgh
W. C. GLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.	.	-