
BeraM ta th# interests nt the students.
'•L<VHOB OMNIA VINCIT.”
VOLUME IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DANE, INDIANA, APRIL 22, 1871.
Number 1®.
The Angelus.
Heard in the Mission Dolores, 1868.
Bells of the Past, whose long forgotten music Still fills the wide expanse.
Tinging the sober twilight of the Present With color of romance.
I hear you call, and see the sun descending On rock, and wave, and sand.
As down the coast the Mission voices blending Girdle the heathen hind.
Within the circle of your incantation No blight or initdew falls ;
Nor fierce unrest, nor lust, nor low ambition, Passes those airy walls.
Borne on the swell of your long waves receding, I touch the farther Post— .
I see the dying glow of Spanish glory, The sunset dream and last.
Before me rise the dome-shaped Mission towers, The white Presidio,
The swart commander in his leathern jerkin, The priest in stole of snow.
Once more I see Portala’s cross up-lifting, Above the setting sun ;
And past the headland, Northward, slowly drifting The freighted galleon.
.	O
o solemn bells 1 whose consecrated Masses Recall the faith of old—
O tinkling bells ! that lulled with twilight music The spiritual fold 1
Your voices break and falter in the darkness— Break, falter and are still;
And veiled and mystic, like the Host descending, The sun sinks from the hill!
—Bret Harte.
Woman.
We publish, “by request,” the speech of Judge O'Connor in reply to a toast at a Banquet in San Francisco. It is taken from the Monitor:
Mr. President, and the gentlemen left of the Saint Patrick Society—that is to say, all the gentlemen that remain and have not left—I thank you very sincerely for the privilege conferred on me to represent, or misrepresent, woman on this occasion. I thank you also for the attentive vigilance you have exercised iu standing by me until two o’clock in the morning to see the duty performed. I will frankly own to you, however, that, sensible as 1 am of the advantage I enjoy over all the speakers that have preceded me, in having the field now entirely to myself, I am not at all disposed to take advantage of it, when
•• The guests are fled and the garlands dead,”
And echo comes back to me as I speak, as distinctly as that of Paddy Blake’s, and says, "Enough said—now go to bed ”—I do assure you I have not the heart to go on. [Cries of “Yes, yes, go on.”] Well, if you insist upon it, I shall do so; but I can assure you, that when now—although I have seen no veiled figure, no skeleton of the feast, I can see | nothing but a skeleton of a feast, a break-up and
debris of scattered fragments and deserted seats, it requires an electricity not current now, a courage more than Irish, and more champagne than is left in the bottles, to inspire me.
Mr. President, as the champion of women’s rights on this occasion, I protest against the practice of making woman the last toast given at a banquet. Instead of being the last named on such occasions, woman should be the first. And then, ns the ancients hung garlands of flowers above their heads on similar occasions, the name of woman thus invoked would, under the rose, give to all subsequent transactions a lustre and a charm they would not otherwise receive. Englishmen pay this respect to their sovereign Queen, and why should we not pay this respect to woman, the sovereign Queen of our United State, if married, or of our United States, whether married or not. [Loud applause.] At no time more earnestly than at the present has woman made her demands for a fellowship and equal participation with man in all the liberal arts and sciences, in all the mercantile, trading and political departments of life. She claims this fellowship as man’s equal in every respect, knowing no inferiority. She formerly possessed this fellowship; once excelled in all intellectual and physical exercises—until man, jealous of her> ascendancy, usurpid and wrested it from her. Now this state of things won’t do, you know; for woman, instead of being left with little else to do in the world than to nurse the childn n, claims from man an equal division of all the spoils of cfiice and of power. Adam and Eve, she contends, were driven from Paradise, not from Eve’s weakness, but through Adam’s gluttony. The small bite that Eve took of the forbidden fiuit was as nothing compared whA the swallow that Adam made of it. [Loud Iaugh\ ter.] And this fruit, the apple, like Macbeth’s “Amcii," stuck in Adam’s throat; and the swelling it caused was transmitted to his descendants, and is visible in the protuberance in the throat of every son of Adam to this day. That Eve had little or nothii.g to do with the swallowing of the fruit, i evidenced by the fact that from this protuberance, commonly known as Adam’s apple, every daughter of Eve is ixempt. [Laughter.] Driven from Paradise, and with their descendants obliged to maintain tlumselves in the world, was it not by hunting and fishing and cultivating the soil they lived 'i AVere they who thus hunted and fished and cultivated known as hunt-Aim#, Ush-hims or eulti-vnte-hims? By no means; they were known as hunt-Aers, fish-Am and cuItivate-Aer*,- thus showing it was w< man and not man that excelled in those pursuits. When the Egyptians and Chaldeans, to whom Mr. Henry Toomey has so ably alluded, first taught mankind a knowledge of the stars, were they, let me ask him, called star-gaze-Aims or as-tronom-Aims ? Not at all, but were known as star-gaze-hers and astronom-A«r«. [Cheers.] The letter II in spelling, as a mere aspiration, in course of time being avoided.
In music, painting and sculptuary, law and medicine, the same judgment applied, and the proficient was known as the compose-Aer, paint-Aer, sculpt-Aer, plead-Aer, and doct-Aer. Shakspeare, conscious of woman’s address as a plead-Aer and
counsel-Aer, drew the character of Portia, that he might display this address; and Shy lock, with all his astute euninng, was triumphantly defeated by a woman. Galen, to whom the world is so much indebted for the knowledge of medicine, was a woman, and is familiarly known to the profession as “ Old GaL” Esculapius, it is true, was a male, but then it is evident, according to Darwin, he was some old ape, with a remarkably thick skull; hence his name, Es-Skull-ape-ius. [Renewed laughter.]
As an instance of the intellectual display of woman in the past, we should not forget the Muses —that famous Sorosis of antiquity—the whole Nina were femi-nine, and only one married—Polly-Him-nia; and there is no doubt that Polly married Hymen, who presides over marriage. Hence the saying of many women, when they get married at the present day, “ How is that for Hy
Need I allude to the Philosop-Aer as the exponent of ancient Philosophy; and need I to call to mind the fact that if Socrates was great, his wife Xan-tippe was greater; for she snubbed him and boxed his ears with impunity ? And if Diogenese took to a tub, was it not because his wife, Mrs. Diogenese, required of him to do the washing for the family ?
So much for woman’s ascendancy in the past. And now let me ask, while so much has been done in extending the privilege of American citizenship, and the elective franchise has been conferred on every form and figure of man, is woman not to become a vote-Aer? Is she, who has always found a devoting love everywhere on the surface of the globe, to be condemned to wander wiihout a loving vote from poll to poll ? Is she who has so long relied on the stuffing of the canvas, not to be permitted to canvass the stuffing—the stuffing of the iballot-boxes? Is she who so cleverly pirouettes on her toes in the ballet to be cut off from the ballot in to-to? [Loud and prolonged laughter.]
We are assured that women must succeed, when we consider what remarkable women there have been and there are in the world; what infinite good they have done; aye, and what infinite mischief, too, from Helen of Troy, down to the widow Cliquot, with her brilliant eyes and her sparkling champagne:
Uniting with grace such beauty of face, No feature nor charm can be slighted;
She an instance imparts of the breaking of heart* With the breaking of bottles united.
Woman is the arbitress of the destiny of the world and that of every individual man in it. All that man is, and all that he owns, is due to the love and genius of woman; to the mother, the sister, the wife; and let us live as long as we may, we have ever distinctly before us the undying remembrances of “the day. the hour, the sunshine and the shade,” and of all things pertaining to that “greenest spot on memory’s waste,” ever sacred to the afiections and to “Love’s young dream.”
The Judge was warmly applauded aa he resumed his seat
The tool with which editors hew out their fortunes—the “ ads."
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ad Romanos.
Mr. Editor: Both in purpose and in execution I think this ode, ad Romanos^ is the finest among all the admirable produciions of the immortal Horace. It was written in the Year of the City 722, when two ambitious political leaders, Octavius and Antony, were collecting and arming their respective adherents, ostensibly to save the tottering republic, but in reality to give the finishing blow to republican liberty. The design of the great poet, in this short ode, is to deter both parties from their fratricidal purposes, by showing them that civil war destroys instead of maintaining freedom, and that they are more unreasoning than the brutes of the forest,—for these, though guided only by instinct, do not feast on the blood of their kind. I venture a translation of this beautiful little ode for the Scholastic :
Unhappy Borne I the sword, once used to smite the foe,
By sons degen’rate seeks thy life;
With Latin blood thy soil is soaked, thy streams o’er-flow i
Thy freedom sinks in civil strife 1
For what ? To teach proud Dido’s haughty walls Our victor legions’ conqu’ring sway ?
Or see some captured Briton in our banquet halls, Or march, in chains, the Sacred Way ?
No 1 Crassus, thou wast rash, but we have lost our mind;
Borne’s franchise falls by Borne’s right hand! instinctive bears and lions spare their kind,
But men with blood their reason brand 1
Bomans 1 is madness, crime, or lust of power the cause ? Can freemen change so fast to slaves ?
Speak, silent guilt I restore to Bome her world-wide • laws:
Our fathers ask it from their graves !	'
Perhaps avenging fates have, in our day, decreed , To load us with onr earn’d disgrace, And now repay our founder’s fratricidal deed
By making all a murd’rous race 1 .	J.
'	Brief Sayings.
NUMBER TWO.
.. Bajazet, after his capture, observing his conqueror laugh at him, said: “ Tamerlane, do not laugh at my misfortunes; it is not you, but God, who has subdued me. He is able to reverse our situations, and undo to-morrow what He has done to-day.” “I was not laughing at you,” said Tamerlane, “ but it really amuses me to think what a low opinion they must have in heaven of kings, since a squint-eyed man like you, and a limping, bow-legged one like me, are permitted to wear crowns.”
Philosophy in the mind of an atheist, is like a diamond in the nose of a pig. The latter exhibits as much reason as the former, in the use which it makes of its possession. Knowledge, when properly applied, carries us to truth; but when wrongly directed, it bears us, with equal force, to destruction.	‘
After the battle of Aetium, Mark Antony challenged Augustus to fight a duel, and the latter replied : “ If Antony is weary of life, there are other ways of getting rid of it; but Augustus will not be his executioner.”
Politics, like tar, defile all who come within their smearing influence.
- As smoke ascends from the burning embers, so the soul rises heavenward when the body returns to the earth.
Athens, the capital of Attica, ica» a celebrated city.of Greece.. Its distinction arose from a singular medley of qualities possessed by its inhabitants, to wit, a refined taste in some respects, a lively disposition, levity, ingratitude, talent and vices of every kind and proportion.	.
oEschines, who, without the credit, was as great an prator as Demosthenes, once publicly accused the latter of aspiring to a crown in Greece. The emphatic, but not very classical reply was: “zEs-chines, it is not true; no, by the gods that never die, it is not true! even if you should burst yourself lying!”—Vide the oration Peri Stephanou.
The chair of Moses must have had an enormous seating capacity, since the Pharisees were able to sit in it. Two modern chairs and a circus-tent couldn’t accommodate one per cent of the race, in these days. An ordinary church-pew is able to hold from one to three of them.
Stump preaching and opera screeching are now the chief elements in the moral and musical features of “progressive” Christianity. Both are a nuisance, and ought to be cleaned out. They need cleaning.
The prevailing fashion among sensational preachers, is to go around, after a hebdomadal splurge, and ask the pretty young ladies of the parish: “How did you like mj’ sermon to-day?” If such men could but see themselves as others see them!
The analysis of a hair must be a truly interesting operation to a chemist. Vauquelin discovered that a black hair contains the following constituents : 1, a large quantity of animal matter; 2, a small portion of white, thick oil; 3, a greater port-on of a greenish-colored oil; 4, iron; 5, a few particles of oxide of manganese; G, phosphate of lime; 7, a small quantity of carbonate of lime; 8, a large quantity of silex; and 9, a considerable amount of sulphur.
An Apostolic Brief is a letter addressed by the Sovereign Pontiff to individuals, or to communities, for the purpose of granting dispensations or indulgences; or it may be to show some mark of est< em.
Who is the “ the spirit of the age ” ? Isn’t it strange that while Everybody professes to be acquainted with that omnipresent being, yet Nobody was the only man who ever saw him! I would give one of my two shirts for a look at such a genius.
I have heard enough about the “wickedest man,” the “ meanest man,” and so on, who ever lived; but the laziest one I know of is the student who won’t close his eyes at night, for fear he might have the trouble of opening them in the morning.
Irishmen are famous for their generous readiness to give information to strangers; but occasionally they employ more words than clearness and necessity require. A short time ago a traveller inquired of a good-natured Hibernian the distance and the way to the house of a farmer residing about five miles from where the dialogue took place. The answer was: “ It’s a good mile an’ a bit, but it’s not far unless yer in a huriy. The first house ye come to is a tavern, but don’t mind that, because it’s two miles in from the road an’ ye wont see it. Before ye come there ye’ll meet two other shanties; ye’ll lave them on yer back, take the first tree ye meet on yer left hand, an’ the next stone fence on yer right one, an’ then don’t stop till ye come to the place ye want to go to.”
The glass that a woman loves is the one in which she sees herself.. The glass a man loves is the one in which he sees his spirit.
A cat with a paw is not the same thing as a paw with a cat. This proposition is proved by trial.
A philsopher once set a mouse-trap to catch an elephant; by-and-by the expected prey came along, and passed over the trap without even noticing it. “ I can’t account for the failure on any scientific ground,” said the philosopher, and thereupon he sat down to ponder over the mystery. “ What is the cause of your mental agony?” said a peasant who was passing along. “Truly,” said the Philosopher, “ I am in a scientific dilemma, for by that trap I hoped to catch yonder elephant, but he would not be caught bi’ it, and now I am trying to solve the greatest scientific problem of the age.
namely, whether the failure is due to the hypothesis that the trap was too sm-il], or the elephant too large.” “Good sir,” replied the peas mt, “I doubt me not but all you say is very learned and wise, if I could only understand you; but since we can’t change the laws of nature, it were easier for us to obey them, and as you can't make the elo-ph-mt smaller, you had better make the trap larger.”	J.
Confusion.
Born before the beginning of earthly time, Chaos was my n-ime; by the will of the Mighty One the earth hiving been created. I became knovna, Con-fusim. When the darts of terror strike the h.-art unexpectedly and su Idenly—consternation agitating the mind with strange p -rturbitions, smiting the senses, till powerlessness aud insensibility prostrate every human ficulty,—then it is that I am in deepest delight, while thus busily eng iged in di-turbi.ig humin happiness.
Disorder and p >pul-ir tumult arc fit vehicles in which to execute mj’ desig ;s.
When the gates of heiven were open-d, old father Noe being safe in the ark, I stalked the the plain-, the hills and vail -ys, crossed the rivers a.id climbed the mountains; nowhere was I absent; as wide as the earth is, I travelled over it, and by my tnin-cend int, magnet-like influence I confused all nations. When the tower of Bable—the work of the pride of men, the safeguard against a future flood, was rising towards the skies, the human mind glorying in the anticipated success, the God of the universe authorized me to change the tongues of the builders, thus disconcerting their plans, widely separating them by the want of a common language to convey to one another their ideas. As, on a golden throne overlooking the battle field, Xerxes, “by whose thousand ships the sea was dark,” dreaming of the conquest of Greece, the annihilation of the handful of heroes that came against his legions, numberless as the sands of the desert, I’agiin by the decree of the “Unknown God” scattered in wild confusion the countless host threatening to overwhelm Greece anl to deprive her of the suprem icy of the seas and the sacred glory of antiquity. Long anterior to this event, when the u igodly Senn icherib cherished in his profane bosom the desire of revenging himself upon Judah, “ then the angel of the Lord went forth and smote in the camp of the Assyrian a hundred and fore score and five thousand men,” giving to me to spread a panic among the surviving. Herodotus will tell you, in liis way of nirration, that the mice . having eaten the arms of the enemy during the night, the latter awoke to find themselves under my sway and to be cut down by thousands. But -my career was not yet ended. For when the Julian star, the first of the constellation-of Cassars, wasshining withits greatestbriUiaucy, patriotisminspiring Brutus and Cassius, with others, they extinguished the flaming star, then indeed did I thrill the bosom of Rome’s people. At Philippi, famous for the victory of the triumviis over Brutus and Cassius, and rendered still more interesting to Christianity as being the first place where St. Paul preached the Gospel and addressed an epistle to the Philippians, there too I was present, striking the men, patriots of liberty, “ terror dumb.” Afterwards, Christianity having begun to spread over the earth, the multitude of Pagans and barbarians fiercely opposing, but persecution with all its tortures did not retard the progress of Christ’s preaching; soon wars	"
were carried on with every variety of success, again I was ordered to perform my ta-k—all were defeated,, confounded by the marvellous deliveries, the. glorious victories and endless triumphs of Christianity.
My life is yet young; still shall I exist, and as ever-Lxert my influence on the human kind, until that-.
NOTRE D A 11 E SCHOLASTIC.
final consummatii n of human afi’airs, the bursting asunder of tv orlds, the coining of the Judge of the destinies of men, then, yc a, then exultant in my glory shall I go to niy grave.
The Four Fictmes,
Last summer I had the pleasure of visiting a gentknian at whose house I saw four pictures, which I shall endeavor to describe to you.
The first one represented a br< ad savanna at the right, which was dotted here and there with the beautiful and rare flowers of the South, and luxuriant grass of such a lovely gre< n that one who once si es it will never forget. Towards the center rose the lento.:, orange, and ba..ana, together with the magnolia, the queen of the South, while in the distance and to the left we could see the snow capped mountains, the only grim thing in the picture, and which seemed to enhance the beauty of the foreground; through this beautiful scene a dreamy little brook, which appeared hardly large enough to cirri’ the small boat which rested upon its surface, slipped gurgling over smooth p.bbles, caressing the pure hli.s which rested their heads on its bosom. The boat was gaily painted, and seemed to be conscious of the burden it carried, which was a little child h ing in the bow, and its guardian angil in the stern guiding the boat down the stream of life. On tiny float, d, the stream becoming broader and deepi r, and the child meanwhile content to let himself be guided by hi< good angel, never thinki. g that he could do better.
The second picture was much like the first, only the brook had become a river and the child a young man.
- But how changed the next one! The spirit of evil had taken possession of the man. No longer docs the angel have control of the boat,—the river has become a rushing torrent,—the black waves lash the sides of the frail bark. The sunlight is shut out by a dark pall spread between it and the earth. The wind fiends have come from their caves in the distant north, and blow their chilling blasts upon the doomed man; the wild waves dash over him; he isneari. g those dreadful falls; terror strikes him; the 1 udder drops from his nerveless hands; another moment and he will be gone; he drops on his knees and closes his eyes, an “ Our Father’1 comes from bis trembling lips, ai.d he is taved—for his guardian angel takes him out of danger. This scene melts from our sight, and the fourth, and last, comes^to our view—a scene in which the light comes wading through the amber vapors, a>.d soft and silver white outspreads the the broad river, without a tiny ripple upon its smooth surface or a mark to till of its ever-moving current. A grey-haired man sits in the bow with clasped hands and streaming eyes as he looks upwards to that mansion not made by hands, and floating in the shimmering light are angel forms, and through the space come those blissed words. “This my son was dead and is come to life again,
J. A. F.
•was lost and is found.”
“Drajnzrar.”
The editorof the Galaxy, in one of his “Nebul®” at tides, notices the English misuse of the letter H. He says:
“In this connection we may remark that there is an English letter worse used than H, much as its • sound threatens to disappear from the language on both sides of the Atlantic. As a midial and a final, R is almost silent—"
. We catch him right there. Mistake, sir! • You’ve never been South, sir; or else you don’t consider that we speak English. We are taking good care of your final R.
Take a little bit of somebody’s (we don’t mean I
some nobody’s) speich: “The bloody drama of war affords sufficient data upon which—" This is the way he will say it: “The bloody drammur of war affords sufficient dattur upon which—”
Tiie fault down here is th.it we take such extra good care of R us to use it where it do s not be long; and there is hardly a Southern bom public speaker either in the pulpit, at the bar, or on the stump, who does not use a final II to make a liaison. b.tween a word ending with A aud on<- commencing with any vowi 1. We note particularly two or three of the most learned and act ompii-bed divi-es of ourciiy, who, when the wind following begins with a vowel, never fail to call manna mannur, Hezekiah Iltskiur, Ribccca Rebiccur, Alabama Alabamur, and so throughout.
It is n. vertln less our pleasure to add that for a total absence of those affectio. s of accent that have played such havoc with the fi..al R’s in the North and in England, the Southern people stu. d foremost a..d alone. The Western man’s R is n. xt best and for fuh.ess and richness certainly ought to satisfy the Galaxy, for it souns more than any-thi.ig else like tumbling rucks into a c.iv< m. But perhaps we have gone fur enough.—New Orleans Picayune.
St. Jarlath’s College. Tuam. 1 Feast ok St. Patrick, Apostle of the J-Irish Nation, 1871.	)
To the Editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic:
Dear Sir.—I lake it as a sign of success of the cause in which I am engaged that on this great feast of our national patron, it becomes my duty to acknowledge—which I do with miny thanks—the sum of eight pounds coll cted by a few Tuam men in New York for the new buildings which are now being completed at St. Jarlatb’s College.
St. Patrick presents to the Irishmen a twofold character—zeal for the conversion and salvation of men, and an ardent love for h anting. He was i.ot satisfied with erecting churihes in every village and cantred in Ireland, and establishing a hierarchy, with a numerous clergy, to perpetuate the faith which he had pleached, but he moreover founded schools and scats of learning in each province, nay, in every place through the provinces in which there were people to be taught. And, after his happy diath, tho>esiatsof human and spiritual science—at Aimagb and Ardagh, at Bangor and Clones, at Clo. ard and Clonmacnois, at Cork and Cloyne.at Lbmoreat.d Limerick,at Mayo and Monaghan, at Galway and Glendalougb, and in the islands and i-iets by the s< a and lakes, from Bi.fiin to B< are and from Inniskilh n in the Erne, to Innis Siattery in the Shannon—were so many hivis from which myriad mL-sionaiy bees issued forth through Europe in the days of Pepin and Charlemagne, ccnvcying in honeyed accents the glad tidings < f the Gospel of Christ to the children of the Frank and the Teuton, the Goth and Sclave, the Vandal and Visigoth, or the still unconverted Pagans of the old Boman Empire.
The e>.d for which St. Jarlatb’s College was first established was to train youths for the sacred ministry. Priests to be efficient, in their calling must be men of piety and of learnii g. In an establishment like this college, a knowledge of the modern and the ancic nt languages, along with a thorough knowledge of science and philosophy must necessarily be taught. It becomes the duty of the superiors to see that learning and science, on a scale commensurate with the re quiremeuts of the times in whit h we live, be cultivated and acquired by the students. To render this necessary traii.ingas efficient asqiossible the enlargement of the college became a duty. That enlargement has been effected within the past twelve months at the expense, when all will have been completed, say of two thousand pounds. One-half that sum has not yet been realized. Through the Irish-American jour-
nals in New York, Boston, Baltimore, Chicago, San Francisco, a..d Quebec, and in other towna throughout the States and throughout the Dominion, I a.-k every Tuam man, or Ballinrobe or Galway or Castlebar man, to do for St. Jarlath’s, and f >r the cause which it represents, what Mr. Patrick Cradock, of 96 Cherry street, New York, has just do~e. The annexed is his letter:	,
“New York. March3,1871.
“ Very Reo. Sir.—I perceive by the Irish papers that yon are endeavoring to enlarge * Old St. Junalh’s College,’ and thereby to enlarge and extend its usefulness.
“To help you, I have called on a few Tuam folk in this city who have contributed the following sums: Mr.Patrick Cradock, ten dollars and < igbry cents; Mr. Francis Burke, ten dollars; Mr. John Terenane, five dollars; Mrs. Sarah Terenane, five dollars; Mr. John Roache, five dollars; Mr. Hugh Fn-il, five dollars; Miss Kate Parsonty, one dollar; Mr. Michael Farree, one dollar; Mr. Michael Murphy, one dollar; Mr. Michael Cradock, one dollar. Total, tifty-four dollars and eighty cents, or eight pounds.
“ The scarcity of money in this wintry season prevents many from sending their contributions, who otherwise would be glad to have the opportunity of doing so. Wishing you success, I am, Very Rev. Sir, your obcdl-
ent servant,
P. Cradock.’’
I trust the example of 3Ir. Cradock will be followed by other Irishmen from this piovi ce a ho are full of zeal for the cause of Catholic education for the growing youth of the island of saints and learned men. I am, your fiithful sen ant, Click J. Bourke, President.
The Necessity for Correi tly and Plainly Dating Letters—Says a writer in L ndon Notes and Queries: “Some people have a bad habit, when writing letters, of never adding the year to the day of the month; so th it, after awhile, it is impos-ible to tell the exact d.iy, which at limes may be very important Another practice, almost as bad, is the slovenly way of omitting the first two figures < f a date and putting ’69 or ’70 for 1869 and 1870. Even this is very objectio..able. I am old enough to recollect many letters a id papers, at the end of the last century, thus carelessly dated, and I remember wondering then if they b.lo..ged to 1698, for instance, or to 1793. So now one might be puzzled on meeting o..e of these half dates, whether its abbreviation ( ?) stood f.,r 17 or 18. I also strongly object to another bad habit, that of writing figures to represent months, as 4 | 15 for April 15. The evil of such a practice is, that there is no uniform method observed. Thus one person will put 4 | 5, meaning April 5; and another by the very same figures will mean May 4, as some put the month first, and others the day first. It would be far batter—aud really so little trouble aa not to be worth calculating—if every one would, on every occasion, write dates fully and unmistakably.”
A wag was requested by an old lady to read the newspaper for her. He took it up a .d read as fol' lows: “ Last night, yesterday morning, about one" o’clock in the afternoon, before breakfast, a hungry boy about forty years oil bought a big custard for a levy, and threw it through a brick wall nine feet thick, and jumped over it, broke his right ankle off above his left knee and fell into a dry mill-pond and was drowned. About forty years after that; on the same day, an old cat had nine turkey gobblers; a’higb wind blew Yankee Doodle on a frying pan, and killed a sow and two dead pigs at Boston, where a deaf and dumb man was talking to his Aunt Peter.” Whereupon the old lady, taking a long breath, exclaimed, “Du tell.”	.
“Have you ‘Blasted Hopes?’” asked a lady of a green librarian, «.ne side of whose face was much swollen. “No, ma’am," he replied, “but I’ve a blasted toothache.”	'

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
§Jotre Scholastic.
PUBLISHED AT
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Seno-kastic, Notre Dame P. OM Indiana.
TERMS:
♦ne year................... ................ $1 00
Copies of the publication ata be obtained nt Che Student^ ♦ffice.
A Letter from the South.
Mississppi River. 1 On Board the Susie Silver, f
April 3,1811. )
These are our second greetings, in globo. Our first we sent from Vicksl.urg, on our way south, and these we'll se^d j ou from the same place, perhaps, on our return north. By short letters we sent you at different intervals, you have some idea of our journeyings and sojournmgs; yet it is a pleasure for us to write you all, at greater length, | gome of the happy impressions and beautiful tableaux of nature that we have felt and seen since we bid you all “good-bye” on the feast of St. Gertrude, March 9th.
If the penmanship of these writings is of the rig-zag, wavy style, something like the signature of the venerable Sti-phen Hopkins to the Declaration of Independence, you must attribute it to the unruly movements of the Susie Silver, who to-day goes ploughing up the Mississippi more like a warrior steed, breathing fire and smoke from his nostrils, than a graceful young lady gliding smoothly along, as one would suppose Susie Silver ought to do. So much for our bad’ writing, and Susie Silver’s unruly motion. Now of our travels: we’ll not burthen you to read a regular itinerary, but a few pen and i..k views; and if it gives you half as much pleasure to read them as it gives us to recall them, we shall not regret the extra postage we pay on them, nor the extra time you spend in recreation reading them. As we promised you detached sketches, we’ll commence with one that interests us.
On the morning of the 22d of March we left New Orleans ma the Galveston Steamers and New Orleans Railway.- At Brashear’s landing, a distance of about a hundred miles, we embarked, with a large number of passengers, on the fine steamer Josephine, and in a few hours were out in the bosom of the Gulf of Mexico. But before reaching it, we passed down the cape which leads to it from Brashear, for another hundred miles. The shores were embellished with snow-white villas embowered in flowering shrubs and forest trees in foliage. These shores of beautiful residences gave place to the uncultivated wildness of nature, and from the deck we gazed over a vast savanna of unfading green, which imperceptibly changed into the widening waters of the gulf, where waves, bounded by the horizon, replaced the rich beauty of southern vegetation, and we launched out on its waters amid the glories of a spring evening, as mild and as balmy as our early June nights; and such a night at sea will ever rest as one of natures chef-dlauores in memory’s gallery of fine arts. Myriads of bright stars were reflected and duplicated in the deep waters. In the South, Sirius flashed with, a brilliancy that he never deigns to bestow upon the denizens of the •North. Orion marched down the west, swordarmed and belted; and Aldabaran shed his mystic rays, as in the far-off, olden time, when astrologers read in their gleaming the future destiny of kings and the fate of empires; above hung the Pleiades, like a cluster of golden grapes, scintillating with eelestial splendor. Never before did we ever see
stars shine so brightly. Arcturus in the north, seemed to rival Sirius in the South, and arouud the solitary north p >lar star, in these latitudes low down in the horizon, walked the Great Bear with majestic strides continuing his sentinel round of six thousand years. Truly there is nothing iu this world more sublime “ than a starry night at sea.” Heaven above, heaven around, and heaven mirrored in the waters beneath. Every thought with such fresh surroundings, dwells on heaven and God and the great eternity of which the skies and the ocean are such vivid emblems.
The next morning found usia Galveston, warmly welcomed by Brother Boniface and his devoted colaborers in St. Mary’s college, which was opened by them last September. This institution is in a most flourishing condition. It is pleasantly situat-eil, and well filled with bright, intelligent students. We were honored with' a call from the Right R ‘V. Bishop Dubuis and his Vicar General, during the afternoon, and the next day we visited him at his episcopal residence, where Monseig>.eur—when he is at home from his vast missionary labors over a diocese five times the size of the state of New York—lives enfamillc with a noble band of French priests and Seminarians. We saw seven of them I as th y entered and passed out of the room where the Bi-hop, his Vicar-General, Father General and Father Villandre were conversing on the business that brought ourSuperior General to Texas. In our hearts we do reverence to the faith and piety of the country that sent such zealous missionaries to propagate the Gospel in foreign lands; for these eleven priests and seminarians are all from the bright shores of France; and so long as her archives, from the discovery of America to our times, can show on every one of its pages the names of brave cohorts of priests and levites, who devoted their lives to the c-iuse of religion in our New World, there is no fear for the fate of that nation, now so vanquished by a foreign foe, so fearfully, terribly scourged by a faction of false, degenerate sons; it is but the besom of Providence sweeping off the filth that has collected upon her fair fields; the Hand of Omnipotence that will probe to its core and finally destroy the hideous ulcer of pride and infidelity that had commenced to eat away her Catholic heart. But she has yet in her midst, as well as in foreign lands, holy souls whose prayers around the throne of God will be her salvation! Ail these reflections, and more, too, passed through our mind as we sat in the Bishop’s modest episcopal residence, aud while li-tening to them and even joining in the conversation, our thoughts kept up a running accompaniment, whose notes, if printed, and played on the harp or piano by C—, would rehearse the saintly deeds of LeBoeuf, Hennepin, Marquette, and their brave companions from tair France, who formed the vanguard of faith ever in advance of material civilization—who, while the Spaniard’s first deed was to build a fort, and the Englishman’s to build a trading house, first built the log church or bamboo chapel wherein to worship God and open the gates of heaven by baptism to the red men of our forests. Those cohorts of the faith have never diminished—fresh athletes have ever passed forward to take the place of the veterans who died on the field; the place of honor of the greater part has ever been the advanced posts of civilization; and here in Texas we find to-day Bishop Dubuis living over the lives of those early Frenph pioneers, who planted the Cross upon the shores of our great chain of northern lakes, and ! dedicated the mighty waters of the Missisippi to God under the name of the Immaculate Conception. He had just returned from an episcopal visitation of twelve hundred miles, accomplished on horseback, among the Camanches, in the extreme southwestern part of Texas.
Bishop Dubuis is anxious to have our Superior General establish the Order of Holy Cross throughout Texas, and in connection with the great atten
tion that has recently been directed to different parts of the South by many parties for the purpose of establishing a sanitarium for those invalids who seek the South for the restoration of health, his Lordship donated six hundred acres of land in the close vicinity of the city of San Antonio. Even before the late war, he had thought of such an institution and expended ten thousand dollars in the erection of a building for this purpose. The reverses of the war obliged him to stop before finishing it His Lordship gave us much interesting and valuable information with regard to San Antonio. Throughout the South the superior salubrity of its climate is acknowledged, and every season Galveston and New Orleans send from five hundred to a thousand invalids to seek its healing air.
From all that we have seen in different parts of the South, and from all the persons well versed on the subject whom Father General has consulted, there seems to be no doubt that San Antonio de Bexar, or its vicinity, has superior advantages in every respect over every other site for such an institution. It has the same latitude as the most salubrious parts of Florida, without the humidity of their winter months. The dry bracing air of San Antonio gives it an immense sanitary advantage; here the year round, we are informed, fresh killed meat dries untainted by corruption, in the open air and under the warmest sun. The great lines of railway now making through every part of Texas,—many of which radiate from San Antonio, and all of which connect with it, will make it in a very short time of easy access from every part of the Union.
San Antonio has a population of some eighteen thousand,—so we were informed,—a mixture of Mexicans, Spaniards, Germans and Americans. The traditional monuments of its olden times would in themselves be sources of interest to persons making here a sojourn for health. Battlemented Spanish walls, some—so says Monseigneur—nine feet in thickness, attest a date coeval with the first years of S'. Augustine, Florida. Their ruins mark an antiquity recalling the fact that San Antonio is the first and oldest of a new class of conquered cities, into whose decaying streets an energetic race has infused a new life,—and here, too^ the ruins of the xklamno recall the memory of the heavy price and desperate fighting with which the gallant Davy Crockett and his brave handful of followers helped to purchase the freedom of Texas. These remnants of an olden time are enlivened by the modem improvements of gas-lit streetsand ice manufactories— five newspapers, three of them dailies, giving the sojourners iu San Antonio all the probable and improbable, true and false telegraphic items of the world, pretty nearly at the same hour that he would get them in New York or Chicago.
We are told that through all these regions spring commences about the first of February; but the year round there is a continued supply of fresh vegetables iu the gardens, as the winter resembles the pleasant parts of the month of October in our Northern States; and although the summers are long, they are far less oppressive than in our high latitudes; the sun shines with great force, yet the J air is always cool, owing to a constant gentle I breeze; and a stdtry night is said by the inhabitants to be unknown in Texas. In Houston and Galveston, green peas, new potatoes, and cabbage, were all growing in the garden, ready to be eaten. The grounds around the private residences were redolent with the perfume of the orange trees and roses of many hues in full bloom. Here the oleander grows to such a size that is is used as a shade, and the sidewalks of whole squares arc embowered in its foliage; in a few weeks it will be in full bloom, and so continue until December. San Antonio has the same latitude as these two cities, and to all the advantages they possess it joins the priceless one of unsurpassed salubrity and healthiness.
Now, in a country where a beneficent Provi-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
deuce has lavished the choicest blessings of soil, climate a.id productions, imagine what surroundings of elysian beauty could, with a little labor, adorn a house established there for those in search of health. Orchards of plums, peaches, pomegranites, figs, and oranges, surrounded by evergreen hedges of the cherokee roses and oleander, parterres of violets and ever-blooming roses ad libitum. Gardens filled the year round with eveiy vegetable; strawberries and raspberries ripening in March and April; fields of grazing herds, yielding the richest cream and sweetest butter; groves and avenues of pines, live oak and magnolia, from whose branches hang in festoons the native vine and grey Spanish roses, the first offering its ge.ierou-> juice as a rich beverage to the invali 1, and from the latter furnishing the comfortable moss mattresses in general use throughout the North.
His lordship has given a splendid square for an academy, in Austin, immediately opposite the Capitol building.
To the Fathers of the Holy Cross he has donated the fine old .Mission of San Jose, near San Antonio, with the spacious grounds attached to it; four thousand five hundred acres, in the vicinity of Brown-ville, and a suitable building, lately erected, in that city, which will be opened as a college next September.
We were certainly not prepared to find the immense resources of this gigantic infant State of the South developed to the extent they are, and from the great emigration so steadily a.,d rapidly flowing into it, these resources will be developed far more than a hu.idred-fold during the next ten years.
We'll have much to tell you on our return, so we’ll limit the number of these pages; but we must not forget, for the benefit of our bright Minims at St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, to speak of the long railroad bridge—almost three miles in length—that connects the island on which Galveston is built with the main-land of Texas; we crossed it in the cars, going to Houston. All the distance from Galveston to Houston the railroad passes through rich savannas dotted over with magnificent groves of live oak and magnolia. One can distinguish among the largest trees those still in the fresh vigor of their prime, from those that have passed their grand climacteric, by the long, grey, Spanish moss hanging in dense festoons from the latter. Southern poets have written very pretty things about this moss; but with all the aids of imagination we could bring to bear upon the subject, we could not make it beautiful. Very Rev. Father General pronounced it downright ugly (ditto, ditto, all our company)—to be tolerated only for the pleasant mattresses it makes. It is, after all, nothing but a huge parasite, partly concealing, if not destroying, the noble tree’s grand foliage, and as a parasite it kills the only poetical figure it suggests—i. e., adorning the great patriarchs of the forest with silver locks; for even this figure of speech would not be exact, since patriarchs always wear their own silver locks, and never borrow grey wigs. We are particular in describing this one shade to the landscape, for fear that as we enumerated all its points of beauty you might think the sketch altogether too a la Claude Lorraine in its colorings, and accuse us of using a certain style peculiar to travellers’ tales.	. .
Now, if you please, after this little digression, we’ll go back to our landscape, where, under the shade of the noble forest trees we have just enumerated, and covering the entire surface of the broad prairies, grows the luxuriant evergreen mesuetgrass. This grass is peculiar to Texas, and forms, the year round, the rich, nutritious food for the myriad herds of cattle that graze upon it. Everywhere it seems of the same luxuriance, aud of the same soft, velvety texture. No growth of underbrush meets the eye, but a deep-bright greensward, as smooth
and even as a well-kept lawn around an English baronial residence, and all this wide expanse made still brighter by flowers of every hue and shade. Hundreds of the wide-horned Texan cattle are seen in droves, lazily cropping the luxuriant hedges, standing idly in the cooling stream, or reposing comfortably under the delightful shade.
Now, fill up this picture with flocks of wild game, such as prairie-chickens, scudding across the green, the mockingbird and oriole flitting from tree to tree, and surround all with a delicious, balmy atmosphere, which must be breathed before it could ever be imagined by anyone from the North (or even from many parts of the South),and you have a picture of blended beauty, salubrity and grandeur of which words fail to give any adequate idea. And such is a March diy in Texas!
You may think that the word grandeur is out of place in this tableau, but we beg your pardon, we have carefully chosen our descriptive nauns, and grandeur expresses the truth just as forcibly as does salubrity. And what could be more salubrious, more suggestive of health than the genial clime and all its surroundings which we have described? in like manner grandeur is an equally appropriate expression for scenes in Texas.
Oace we thought mighty mountains essential to the grand inland views, but even the fervent Rhetoric class at St Mary’s will remi..d us that vastness is one of the most essential points of grandeur. So then we will maintain that there is woudrous grandeur in this vast ocean-like level stretching to the utmost limits of the horizon, and greatly enhanced by its deep shades of groves of gigantic magnolias and live oaks, that do not obstruct, but bring out in bold relief the miles upon miles, leagues upon leagues, as ships in full sail upon the ocean do but add. to the beauty of the world of waters.
In these badly written pages we do not pretend to give anything like a detailed account of our Southern trip—but merely to present you with detached sketches, and the blank space we’ll fill up (D. V.) in some of our hours of recreation when we return, but as there must be some sort of method, or system in the order in which we present those views, and as we commenced by our sea or gulf view, and then an early spring day in Texas, we must, in chronological style, give you scenes from New Orleans and the Mississippi on our homeward route.
Bobsrt Southwell.
It is a pleasant thing to find a poet animated with the fire of divine love as well as with the fire of poesy. With both of these Southwell was filled to an eminent degree, and he has left us proofs of it. That he possessed the fire of poesy is evident from those beautiful lyrics which are read with such delight by all lovers of the old Elizabethan poets. That his heart burned with divine love is proved by his glorious death.
Robert Southwell was born at Horsham, St. Faith’s, in the County of Norfolk, about the year 1562. He was the third son of Richard Southwell, the ancestor of the present Viscount Southwell. It is related that when he was yet an infant, a gipsy or vagrant stole him from the cradle, substituting for him her own child. The theft, however, was soon discovered, and the vagrant was arrested a short distance from his father’s house. In after years, when speaking of this circumstance, Southwell said, “What if I had remained with the vagrant? How abject! how destitute of the knowledge or reverence of God! In what debasement of vice, in what great peril of crimes, in what indubitable risk of a miserable death and eternal punishment I should have been 1” It is pleasing to know that when, in his manhood, he entered upon his missionary career, one of his first acts ;was to
convert to the church the woman who had detected the theft.
When fifteen years old, Southwell was sent -to Paris to be educated. His religious training was superintended by Father Thomas Darbyshire, who was one of the first persons of English parentage that joined the Society of Jesus. It was, no doubt, from this holy priest that he derived that ardent desire to enter the distinguished company, founded by St. Ignatius. Bishop Chaloner, in his “Memoirs of Missionary Priests,” says that “ Southwell was for some time a i alumnus of the English College at Donny;” but Turnbull in his memoir, prefixed to an edition of our poet’s works, says that “ he could not, however, have long studied there, since he went to Rome, and was received into the Society on the Vigil of St. Luke, (October 17) 1578, ere he had completed his seventeeuth year.”
Fearing lest his great zeal and the influence of the climate of Italy, to which he was unaccustomed, might affect his health, he was sent to Tournay, in Belgium, to make his novitiate. When this was completed he was sent to Rome, where he entered upon his course of philosophy and theology. He acquitted himself there in such a brilliant manner that when his course of studies were finished, he was made Prefect of the English College in that city.
In the year 1584 Southwell was ordained priest. On the 20th of February of the following year he addressed a letter to the General of the company, in which he expressed a desire to devote his life to-the cure of souls in England. In this letter he seems, says Turnbull, rather to have anticipated his future martyrdom than merely to have referred to it as a simple possibility. On the 8th of May, 1586, our poet, i.i company with Father Henry Garnet (who afterwards obtained the crown of martyrdom), left Rome by command of the General of the Company, and arrived in England on the 7th of July of the same year.
These two zealous missionaries arrived in England at a time when the Catholic community of the island was filled with terror. Many priests had been banished. All priests friendly to the unfortunate Queen of Scotts were in danger of their lives, and it was high treason for any priest to perform the ordinary duties of religion. We can, then, well imagine the danger which these men incurred by landing. They escaped for some time the officers of the law, and were welcomed by Lord Vaux, of Harro wden. It chanced that shortly after this the confessor of the Countess’ Arundel died, and Father Southwell was appointed domestic chaplain and confessor to her ladyship. It was while in her family that he composed for the use of the Earl of Arundel (who was confined in the Tower) the “ Consolation for Catholics." One of the first things which occupied his attention, however, on his arrival in England, was to cause his father to return to his religious duties. His father was a person of considerable wealth, and married a lady who, as Father More in his history says, had formerly been the instructor of Queen Elizabeth in the Latin language. Both of these circumstances made him a time-server, and though he never doubted any of the articles of his old Catholic faith, yet they caused him to absent himself from his religious duties. The poet-missionary strove to bring his parent to a practice of his religion, and in this he happily succeeded.
For six years Southwell resided with Lady Arundel, ministering to the wants of the Catholic neighbors, and following the objects of his mission with great success. It was during these years that he wrote his poems—“St. Peter’s Complaint,’’ “ Mary Magdalen’s Tears,” “ Mieonfce,” and others. His career as a missionary was brought to a- dose in the year 1592. In that year he was most basely betrayed into the hands of his enemies. The circumstances of his betrayal are thus related by Turnbull:	■
e
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“ There was resident at Uxenden, near Harrow on the Hill, in Middlesex, a Catholic family of the name of Bellamy, whom Southwell was in the habit of visiting ai.d providing with religious instruction when he exchanged his ordinary close confinement for a purer atmosphere. Oue of the daughters, Ann, had in her early youth exhibited marks of the most vivid and unmistakable piety; but having been committed to the Gatehouse of Westminster, her faith gradually departed, -and along with it her virtue. For having formed an intrigue with the keeper of the prison, she subsequently marri. d him, and by this step forfeited all claim which she had by law or favor upon her father. In order, therefore, to obtain some fortune, she resolved to take advantage of the Act of 27 Elizabeth, which made the harboring of a priest treason, with confiscation of the offender’s goods. Acc ndingly she sent a messenger to Southwell, urgi..g him to meet her on a certain day at her father’s home, whither he, either in ignorance of what had happe ed, or under the impression that she sought his spiritual assistance, went at the appoint d tima In the meantime, she apprised her husband of this, as al-o of the place of con-cealmint in her father’s house, and of the mode of access, and he conveyed the information to Topcliff-, an implacable persecutor and denouncer of the Catholic-, who, with a band of his satellites surrounded the premises broke open the house, arre-ted his i cverence, a d carried him off in open day, exposed to the gaze of the populace. He was taken, in the first insta..ce, to Topcliffe’s house, where, during a few weeks, he was put to the torture ten times with such dreadful severity that Southwell, complaining of it to his judg<s, declared in the name of God that death would have been more preferable.”
The manner in which he was tormented may be seen in full in Tanner's “S'>cietts Jem Martyr." But all the tortures that could be inflicted on man cou’d not make him yield; he maintained a strict silence and his very persecutors affirmed that he res mbled a pn-t rather than a man.” Indeed as to his fortitude we have the testimony ot no less a person than C, cil himself, who says. “Let antiquity boast of its Roman hero.s and the patience of captives in torments; ourownage is not inf-rior to it, nor do the minds of the English cede to the Romans. There is at present confined one Southwell, a Jesuit, who, thirteen times most cruelly tortured, cannot be induced to confess anything not even the color of the horse whereon on a certain day he rode, lest from such indication his adversaries might conjecture in what house, or in company of what catholics, he that day was.”
Afterwards he was transferred to the gatehouse which was under the charge of the husband of the person who had delivered him up to the enemies of his faith. There he was kept in close confinement fl t two monthsand was then taken to the Tower, where he was thrown into a most filthy dungeon—so filthy that when he was taken out at the end of a month he was covered with vermin. This caused hi< father to petition Elizabeth that “ if his son had committed anything for which by the laws he had deserved it, he might suffer death; if not, as he was * gentleman, he hoped her majesty would be pleased to order that he should be treated as such, and not he confined in that filthy hole.” After this petit ion was sent to the Qu en, the missionary was treated in a better manner, was given better quarters and books, and clot hing were allowed to be given him by his father. The only books for which he asked were the Bible and the works of St. Bi-r..ard. With all who wi re oci-asionly admitted to see him during his confinement in the Tower, he conversed only on religious matters.
For three years our poet-priest was confined in the Tower. Towards the end of this time, he wrote to th: Lord Treasurer, Cecil, begging that he might be brought to trial. It is said that Cecil, in
answer, said that “ if he were in so much haste to be hinged he should have his desire.” On the 18th of February, 1595, he was removed from the Tower to Newgate, where he was placed in an underground dungeon, called Limbo from its darkness, where he remained for three days, after which he was taken for trial to Westminister. On. the 21st he was placed at the bar, before the Chief Justice, answer to the charge of treason. Father Southwell pleaded not guilty, but stated distinctly that he. was a Catholic priest, and that he had returned to his own country simply to administer the sacraments to his fellow-Catholics and to perform the usual duties of a Catholic pria-t. The Chief Justice and Sir Edward Coke, having addressed the jury in their usual manner, a verdict of guilty was leturned. A report of this trial maybe found in the “Memoirs,” eta, of Bishop Chaloner, and in the history of Father More.
When, on the morning of the 22nd, the Jailor announced to him that he was to die that very morning, the poet-priest embraced him warmly, saying “You could not bring me more joyful tidings. I regret that I have nothing left of greater value, but accept this night-cap as an evidence of my gratitude.” Nothing could ever induce the Jailor to part with this night-cap which he esteemed as a most precious relic.
He was placed on a hurdle, and drawn to Tyburn. Arriving there he wiped from his face, with a neckerchief, the mud which the jolting had cast upon it Recognizing a member of the company, he threw the neckerchief to him. It was afterwards sent to the celebrated Aquaviva, General of the Order. Then making the Sign of the Cross, he addressed the multitude, commencing with the words of the Apostle: “ Whether we live, we live unto the Lord: or whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Therefore, whether we live, or whether we die, we are the Lord’s.” The crowd testified their admiration of the man of God, by their sile co and decorum during the deliveiy of his short spec ch, which he concluded in these words :
“For I die b cause I am a Catholic priest, eketed into the Society of Jesus in my youth; nor has any other thing, during the last three years in which I have be. n imprisomd, been charged against me. This death, therefore, although it may seem ba'e a d ignomi..ious, can to no rightly-thinking peraon appear doubtful; but that it is beyond measure an eternal weight of gloiy to to be wrought in us, who look not to the things which are visible, but to those which are unsei-n.”
His speech was calmly delivered, and movi d the audience to pity, notwithstanding some interruptions from certain p^-rso.s in the crowd. These Southwill rebuked with mildness and firmna-s. The horses then started, and the car u.oved from under his feet. In a short while after, the poet exchanged the harp for the palm.
Thus died Bobert Southwell, a Catholic priest of the Society of Jesus, having to us an example of a noble poet and of a holy man.
In the tim s of the author, the poems of South-well were read and appreciated. They passed thr< ugh many editions, which is the one proof of popularity. Dr Hall, the Anglican bishop of Norwich, undertook to ridicule the sacred poetry of his time, and wrote .two years after our poet's martyrdom:
“ Paranassus is transformed to Sion-Hill And jewry-palms her steep ascents doon fill. Now good St. Peter weeps pure Helicon, And both the Marys make a music-moan.”^
But Marston came to the rescue of our saintly poet, and struck back with the following:
“ Come dance, ye stumbling satyrs, by his ride.
If he list once the Sion muse deride.
Ye Granta's white nymphs come, and with you bring. Some syllabub, whilst he doth sweetly ring 'Gainst Peter’s tears, and Mary’s moving moan,
And like a fierce enraged bear, doth foam
At sacred sonnets.”
The longest of Southwell’s works, “ St. Peter’s Complaint,” is a soli mn poem in which St. Peter bewails his denial of Christ—in which the remorse and shame, the sorrow and repentance of Piter are depicted in a graphic and n ally poetical manner, and has justly been a favorite with all lovers of religious poetry. It has all that freshness, nature and healtbfulness which belong to the writers of the reign of Elizabeth, and is, at the same time, free from that indelicacy of expression which mars the beauty of most of the writers of his age. Southwell’s mind being wholly of a religious caste, and lie being moreover a priest, his poems are all con-nectid with religious subjects but more particularly does he seem to nvel in those verses iu which sorrow for sin is expre-seil.
We would like to give many specimens of South-well but as there is not much space to spare we content ourselves with the following:
The Burning Babe.
“As I in hoary winter’s night stood shivering in the snow, ;
Surprised I was with sudden beat which made my heart to glow;
And lifting up a fearful eye to view what fire was near, A pretty babe all burning bright did in the air appear, Who scorched with exceeding heat such floods of tears did shed
As though His floods should quench His flames with' what His tears were fed;
Alas 1 quoth He, but newly born in fiery heats of fry, Yet none approach to warm their hearts or feel my fire but II
My faultless breast the furnace is, the fuel wounding thorns;
Love is the fire and sighs the smoke, the ashes shame and scorns,	, ,
Tlie fuel Justice laycth on, and mercy blows tbcl'oals, The metal in this furnace wrought arc men's defiled souls,
For which, as now on fire I am, to work them to their good,
So will I melt into a bath, to wash them in my blood; With this He vanished out of sight and swiftly shrunk away,
And straight I called unto my mind that it was Christmas day.”	V.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
April 7—J. A. Roberts, P. O'Conneli, J. McGaban,. M. Rupert, Voi.coulebiouke, R. Cunan, N. Mitchell, J. Tourneau, O. Wing, T. Du..don.
April 14—J. McCarthy, W. J. Clark, M. Keeley, J. Zahm, A. Howe, W. S. Atkins, J. B. Carroll, E. Nugent, J. Murphy, J. Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
April 7—J. Graham, F. Obert, T. Smith, H. Quan, W. FletcbeiyJI. Acklioff, S. Ashton,P.Scott,' J. Rumely, W. Willst-ich, H. Templeton.
April 14—D. McGinnis, J. McGuire, T. Foley, G. Lyons, J. Shanks. D. Hogan, J. Buehler, M. Mahony, P. Reilly, W. Ball, F. McOskar.
I M. A. J. B., Sec.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Tarble, P. Gail, T. Nelson, F. Dowe, J. O’Meara, A. McIntosh.
The following are deserving of honorable mention ia the Minim Department:
ORTHOGRAPHY AND READING.
First Class—G. Gross, W. Byrne, A. McIntosh, C. Tarble, E. DeGroot, W. Morris.
Second Class—P. Gall, L. Montedonico, E. Raymond, T. Nelson, H. O’Brien, J. Porter, W. Haney,' R. Dougherty, A. Morton, J. Cordano, F. Huck, F. Dowe.
Third Class—F. Whitney, F. Hoover, T. Gibson, C. Elison.
\ Fourth Class—J. O’Meara.



-NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Cocilia. Philoniitlioan Association.
The twenty-ninth regular meeting took place Saturday, April 1st. At this meeting, the debate: Resolved, “ Tint a Republican form of Government is better than a Mon trchical,” was discussed. The affirm V.ive was mainline 1 by M. Mihony, C. Ber-del, D. Hogan, R. Staley and J. McHugh. The negative was defended by D. Egan, P. Scott and P. Reilly.
M. M iliony deserves great credit f >r his knowledge of hist >ry, and for the manner in which he marshalled his arguments. P. Scott stood up bravely for the negative, and Scott Ashton appearing as a volunteer f>r the affirm itive was very persuasive. This debite was the best we have had this year. The President reviewed the debate and decided in favor of the affirmative.
The 39th regular meeting to >k place April 11th. At this meeting Master H. Taylor presented himself f >r membership aad was unanimously elected. Then Mr. J.. Nash rose and gave us from memory a succinct history of Gaul in the days of Julius Caesar; after which, Scott Ashtoa read an excellent criticism on the last debate. D. Brown did very well in his history of Ireland. C. Berdel appeared well in declamation. L. Hayes’ essay on Education was good, and he read it in a clear - voice. R. Staley then closed the exercises with a very laughable selection entitled, “ The Physician’s Address,” every sentence of which was received ■with roars of laughter.
J. McHugh, Cor. Sec.
Bxss-Ball.
. The Minims’ Base-Ball Club played a very exciting game <>f base-ball with the Second Nine of the Alpine Club (Junior), on Wednesday, April 19tb, o.t the Minims’ grounds. The Alpines declined playing the ninth innings. At the close of the game the score stool—Minims, 27; Alpines, 12. As this is the fourth time that the.Minims have b .-aten the smaller Junior Clubs, they are getting tired of playing with them, and will hereafter pl ty only with the Juanita or the Star of the West Clubs.
Louis Montedonico, Secretary of the 2fimm B. B. C.
Thanks.
On the 19th inst. the Excelsior base-ball club gave an excellent lunch, lemonade, et cetera lana, and invited the first nines of the Juanita and Star of the East, who take this opportunity of returning their sincere thanks to Brother Aloysius, and to the members of the Excelsior club. Sb.
The coal troubles reminded us of an old story: Scene, Boston; time, morning.
“Is it cold,Billy?”
“ Werry cold, father.”
. “Is the gutters froze, Billy?”
“ Werry hard, father.”
“ Dear, dear I Put up the coal two-pence a pail, Billy. God help the poor!”
The following words actually formed the peroration of the counsel’s plea for his client in an assault and battery case in Athens, Alabama: “ Let the humble ass crop the thistle of the valley! Let the sagacious goat browse upon the mountain’s brow, but I say, gentlemen of the jury, John Gundle is not guilty!”
Jerrold said to an ardent young gentleman, who burned with a desire to see himself in print: “ Be advised by me, young man; don’t take down the shutters before there is something in the window.”
National Population.			
Official Figures.			
The Census Bureau publishes the foliowin			g table
showing the population of several States and Ter-			
ritories as ascertained by the		late census:	
Slates.	Total.	Native.	Foreign.	
Alabama		. 996,992	987,039	9,962
Arkansas			. 483,157	478,135	5,022
California		. 560,223	350,313	209,830
Connecticut		. 537.454	423,815	113.639
Delaware		. 125,015	115,879	9,136
Florida		. 187,753	183,797	4,955
Georgia		.1,195,338	1,184.193	11,145
Indiana		.1,673,943	1,533,878	140,065
Iowa		.1,191,727	98T.6S0	204.047
Kansas		. 354.393	315,939	48.404
Kentucky		.1,321.011	1,257,613	63 398
Louisiana		. 726,915	665.094	61.821
Maine		. 626,431	577,556	48,875
Maryland		. 780,80.5	697,5(59	83.236
Massachusetts		.1,457,351	1,104,032	353.319
Michigan		.1,184.296	916,311	267,985
Minnesota		. 436,058	277.340	158,718
Missouri		.1,497,988	1,719.978	221.990
Nevada			. 42,491	23.699	18,S01
New Hampshire..	. 318 309	288.694	29,605
New Jersey		. 966 096	717.152	183,944
North Carolina...	.1,071,135	1,068.112	3,022
Rhode Island		. 217,356	161.973	55.384
Tennesee		.1,257 495	1,238.263	19.232
Vermont		. 333,552	283,559	46.993
Virginia		.1,224.961	1,211,383	13,578
West Virginia		. 442.033	434.966	17,0(h
Wisconsin			699,320	364,845
Territories. Arizona		.	9.658	3,849	5,809
Colorado		. 39.864	33267	6,597
Dakota		. 14184	9.369	4,812
District of Columbia 131.703		113 167	18.539
Idaho		.. 14.998	7.100	7.S9S
Montana		. 20,504	12.620	7,794
New Mexico		.. 91.864	86,254	5.610
Utah..		.. 86.786 0 118	56,083 5,617	30,703 3,501
			
The man who	“couldn’t find his match		” went
to bed in the dark.			
“Well, there is something in that!” as the man said when he tried to put his boot on with a kitten in it.
The Medical Gazette suggests an inquiry whether tbe common practice of chewing tobacco in lead foil may not account for some of the numerous cises of lead poisoning not traced to any recognized source.
A Prominent dry-goods merchant of Boston worked half and houroa the following proposition, and failed to give the a.;swer: “If fourteen men build a stone wall in nine days, how long will it take five men to build a like wall in six days?”
When Pilcher was haranguing about his father having been a poor man—his father was a cooper, etc., Marshall said “that the gentleman’s father was a poor man, perhaps he had been a cooper, but if he was he had put a mighty poor head to one of his whisky barrels.”
Some music teacher once wrote that the “ art of playing the violin requires the nicest perception and the most sense of any art in the known world.” Upon which an editor comments: “ The art of publishing a newspaper, and making it pay, and at the same time making it please everybody, beats fiddling higher than a kite.”
A Cincinnati man bets with a biped from somewhere else, that he can stand an egg “right on the floor, and you can’t break it with a half bushel measure.” The bet is taken, and the fiend in human shape puts the egg precisely in the comer, and if you wish to know how it is yourself, you would do well to try the experiment.
The Waverly Republican says: “We have a man in our city who was born in 1800, and has a son who was bom in the Territory of Michigan, and another one in the Territory of Wisconsin, and still another one in the Territory of Iowa, and also a daughter born in tbe State of Iowa—all in the same house! Col. J. W. Woods is the man.” -
Query—Can a man eating dates be said to consume time ?
An early spring—jumping out of bed at five o’clock in the morning.
The representatives of Satan on earth are tailors. They sew more tears than any other class of hum in beings. How does that fit ?
“ What do you do f >r a living ?” asked a firmer, near Poughkeep Je, of a sturdy vagabond who cime beggingat his house. “ Well, nothing much, except travelling around,” said the fellow. “ You look as thoughyou are good at that,” responded the farmer. “ Well, yes, I am pretty goo I at travelling.” “ Then Slid the firmer, opening the door, “let’s see you travel.”
A rich but ignormt lady of Boston, who was ambitious that her conversation sh mid be up to the tmnscendeatal style, in speaking of a friend, said: “ He is a party ram of p iliteness!” “Excuse me,” sai I a wag sitting next to h:r; “but do you not mean a p trail .dogram?” “ Of course I meant parallelogram,” replied the ambitious lady; “how could I hive made such a mistake?”
Pansies in Masses.—A correspondent of the Gardener’s Chronicle says that no one - who has not seen the effect of pansies i.i large masses, can have an id a of their beauty. He planted a border, 409 yards long and 24 feet wide, with pa .sies and cera-tiums, with a single row of pyramidal zo..ale geraniums in pots at intervals of ten feet, and it was the admiration of all who saw it.
The Conn.'cticut lawyer who wished to cross the river on the ice. was t >Id that it would be entirely safe to make the attempt if he crawled over on his han Is and knees. Anxious to go he humbled himself accordingly, and had lab iriously g >t half way across wh -n he was overtaken by a man driving along leisurely in a buggy. The rapidity-wit h which he assumed an upright position was startling to the driver.
An unfortunate Inlian missionary has had his sermon r, ported as tallows:
“The speaker was a deduction, and gave a learned description of Satan and his skill in sawing trees.”
The unhappy preacher wrote a piteous remonstrance to the editor of the paper which had published this resume, to say that he “was a Dutchman, and not a deduction, and that he had described Satan not as sawing trees, but sowing tares.”
Two ladies in New York were talking about the sparrows and their usefulness in ridding the city of the canker-worms, which used to be such a nuisance. One said that the noisy chirping of the sparrows early in the morning, when she wanted to sleep, was as great an evil as the worms. The-other disagreed. Just then a gentleman came in, and was appealed to:
“Mr. A--------, which do you think the worst— sparrows or worms?”
He immediately answered: “I don’t know; I never had sparrows.”
In a Western village a charming, well-preserved widow had been courted and won by a physician. She had children; among them a crippled boy, who had been petted, and, if not spoiled, certainly allowed great freedom in debate.
The wedding-day was approaching, and it was time the children should know they were to have, a new father. Calling the crippled boy, the mother said:
“George, I am going to do something before long that I would like to talk about with you. I am intending to marry Dr. Jones in a few days, and—”
“ Bully for you, ma! Does Dr. Jones know it ?”
Ms caught her breath, but failed to articulate a response.
*
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMY.
St. Mart's, April 18, 1861.
On Easter Sunday, after the usual services at St Mary’s, a majority of the pupils accepted the invitation given them by Very Reverend Father Provincial, to assist at the High Mass in the Church of Notre Dame du Lac. The day was bright, which rendered the walk to the church de-lighfully exhilarating. The grand ceremonies and solemn music were very impressive. The eloquent sermon, by Rev. Dr. Quinn, was listened to with deep interest
Easter Monday was a recreation day. On Tuesday classes were resumed.
Ou the 14th inst our beloved Mother Superior arrived from Cairo, where she had been detained a few days on account of indisposition. She was most affectionately welcomed by all, and'delighted the hearts of the young people by exhibiting to their admiring gaze the many beautiful presents she had brought them.
Last Sunday evening Very Rev. Father General gave the pupils their tickets for excellence in Deportment and Classes. The pupils listened with attention to an interesting and graphic description of Very Rev. Father General’s late visit South— scenes on the Gulf of Mexico, the Mississippi River, in Houston, Galveston, San Antonio, and New Orleans. Some of the tableaux were decidedly entertaining, many edifying, and all deeply in-■ teresting. The young ladies listened with the closest attention. Now and again rapturous exclamations of delight evinced their admiration of the scenes described, and hearty bursts of laughter showed that they fully appreciated the humorous descriptions of the amusing events that, in the midst of more serious duties, au affectionate heart had noted for their pleasure.
The railroad from South Betid to Niles is so nearly completed that the locomotive is seen puffing through St. Mary’s grounds, to the great delight ofthe juveniles. This intrusion on our formersolitude affords many advantages and some disadvantages. The boundaries of our east-side recreation grounds will be somewhat touched, but we have ample space on the west side of the Academy for our pupils to recreate without being exposed to danger or publicity.
The foundations for the north wing of the Academy and the new Convent are being laid. The grounds present a scene of busy activity, and we hope soon to see the old building replaced by a noble structure that will be the oruament and pride of the West and a credit to those who, by their zeal, liberality and devotedness, have aided in its construction.
We neglected to mention in the proper paragraph that Very Rev. Father General has ordered four Mexican ponies for the use of our youthful equestrians at St. Mary’s.
No points were given on Easter Sunday, therefore none of the young ladies will be mentioned more than once in the weekly report.
Yours, etc., Stylus.
arrivals.
Miss Mary Quill, Chicago, Hlinois.
“ Margaret Quill, “	“
TABLE OF HONOR—BR. DEP’T.
April 16—Misses M. Lassen, E. Finley, R. Nelson, M. Roberts, E. Sullivan, M. McIntyre, K. Boyd, C. Angle, E. Boyland, A Emmons, L. Sutherland, M. Getty, T. Finley.
TABLES OF HONOR—JR. DEP’T.
April 5—Misses M. Kearney, J. Kearney, A Clark, N. Gross, L. Neil, M. Sylvester, A Burney, L. Harrison, F. Prince, L. Wood, K. Lloyd, G. DeHaven.
April 12—M. Kreutzer, M. Quan, A Robson, C.
Stanffer, A Garrity, M. Cummings, M. Hoover, 8.
Honeymau, F. Rush, A Garrity, J. Hunt
HONORABLE MENTION— SR. DEPT.
[The figures “1” and “3” indicate that the young lady whose name precedes the figure, has received either one or two tickets for exemplary deportment during the previous two weeks.]
Graduating Class—Misses H. Niel 2, A Sturgis 2, A. Radin 2, N. Moriarty 2, M. Kirwan 2, A Locke 2, K Young 2, N. Millard 2, A. Rhinehart 2, B. O’Neill 2, C. Foote 2.
First Senior Class—Misses M. Tuberty 2, M. Shirland 2, M Dillon 2, M. Kellogg 2, L. Marshall 2, J. Hogue 2, J. Forbes 2, A Borup 2, H. Tinsley 2, A. Cornish 2, M. Shanks 2, K. McMahon 2, G. McDougal 1.
Second Senior Class—Misses K. Zell 2, M. Lassen 1, L. Hoyt 1, M. Cochrane 2, M. Lange 2, S. O’Brien 2, K. Haytrond 2, K. Brown 2, E. Finley 2, E. Ray 1, A Reynolds 2, A Todd 2, A Montgomery 2, A Mast 2.
Third Senior Class—Misses R. Fox 1, E. Shea 2, L. Duffield 2, D. Gr. en 2, L. Ogden 2, M. Ward 1, S. Hoover 2, E. Dickerltoff 1, T. Finley 2, E. Hendricks 2, M. Getty 1, J. Millis 2, R. Spiers 2, J. and R. Leoni 2, A. Woods 1, J. Langendeffer 1, M. Ford 2, C. Woods 1, M. Carney 2, L. Neil 2, N. Gross 2. A Clark 2, L. Jones 1.
First Preparatory Class—Misses M. Letourneau 2, L. McFarlane 2, I. Wilder 2, R. Nelson 2, E. Wood 1, J. Falvey 2, C. Angle 2, K. McFaggard 2, R. Devoto 2, J. McGuire 2, F. McGuire 2, A Lloyd 2, M. Prince 2, I. Bounell 2, J. Kearney 2, M. Kreutzer 2, M. Quan 5, E. Blum 2, A Robson 2, B. Frank 1.	‘
Seco..d Preparatory Class—Misses E. Greenleaf 1, M. McIntyre 2, E. Boyhind 2, A. Emmdnds 2, L. Weire 1, M. Weire 2, 8. Sutherland 2, H. McMahon 2. M. Lacy 2, C. Ray 2, N. Duggan 2, C. Creveling 2, E. Sulliva. 2, J. Shannaban 1, G. Kellogg 2, C. Stanffer 2, A. Garrity 2, M. Hoover 2, M. Cummings 2, S. Honehman 2, L. Tinsley 1, F. Rush 1.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses E. Birney 1, A. Frazer 2, M. Roberts 1, A Conalian2,E. Drake 2, J. Duffield 2, A Sweeney 2, H. Seipp 1, M. Faxon 1.
Junior Preparatory Claes—G. Darling 2, A. Borne 2, E. Horgan 2, L. Wood 2, M. Reynolds 2, L. McKinnou 1.
First Junior Class—F. Prince 2, L. Harrison 2, A Garrity 2, L. McGuire 2, H. H. Ely 2, A Burney 2, M. Sylvester 1, M. Gall 1.
Second Junior Class—I. Lehmann 2, K. Lloyd 2, M. Gall 2, W. Ely 2, G. DeHaven 1, M. M. Longl.
FRENCH.
First Class—Misses M. Shirland, H. Niel, L. Marshall, J. Forbes, Locke, B. O'Neill, N. Moriarty, G. Hurst, K. Young, R. Spiers, EL Tinsley, M. Kirwan, M. Quan.
Second Class—Misses A. Borup, M. Cochrane, L. Hoyt, N. Gross, A. Clark.
Thii d Class—Misses M. Letoueneau, M. Shanks, M. Kellogg.
Fourth Class—Misses M. Lassen, M. Wicker, K. Haymond, B. Frank.
GEBMAN.
Second Class—Misses K. Brown, J. Hogue, J. Langendeffer.
INSTUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—C. Foote, K. Young, M. Shirland.
Second Division—K. McMahon, A Borup.
Second Class—K Spiers, M. Kellogg, G. McDougall.
Second Division—C. Bay, A Todd, A Locke.
Third Class—M. Prince, M. Lasson, L. Duffield.
Second Division—K. Brown, E. Emmonds, M. Lange.
Fourth Class—T. Wider, E. Wood, G. Forbes, K. ZelL
Second Division—A Frayer, M. Cochrane, L. McFarland.
Fifth Class—K. Champion, M. Wicker, McGuire. Sixth Class—L. Wier, A Robson, M. Hoover. Second Division—S. Honeyman, E. Hendrick.
Seventh Class—J. Duffield, N. Duffield, T. Finley.	.
Eight Class—L Lehmann, F. Rush, IL Hildreth.
Ninth Class—A. DeHaven, L. Harrison, Mary Quill.
Tenth Class—F. Kendall, Margerct Quill.
Harp—M. Shirland, A. Radin, K. McMahon.
Guitar—A. Montgomery, M. Wier.
Harmony—A. Carmody.
Theoretical Class—A. Reynolds, M. Kirwan, J. Hogue, A Shea, C. Angle, A Rhinehart, L. Marshall, A Todd, A Cornish, H. Niel, S. O’Brien, A. Sturgis, M. Kreutzer, E. Finley, R. Nelson, K Haymond, L. McKinnon, L. Woode, N. Sullivan, T, Finley, F. Rush, A. Frazer, K. McFaggart.
Exercises—G. McDougall, I. Wilder, J. Kearney, J. Millis, E. Sullivan, A. Conahan. .
DRAWING.
First Class—K. Young, E. Kirwan, N. Millard, A Robson, E. Ray, E. Wood, M. Shanks, J. Hynds, A. Woods.
Second Division—D. Green, L. Hoyt, R. Spier, L. Duffield, A Radin.
Second Class—M. Lange, J. Langendeffer, R. Devoto, J. Millis, H. Tinsley, N. Duffield, A Reynolds, A. Shea, A. Emmonds, N. Duggau, H. Seipp, M. Quann, S. Honeyman, K. Champion.
Third Class—E. Burney, E. Blum, S. Hoover, J. Duffield, E. Greenleaf, L. Harrison, F. Butters.
on, PAINTING.
First Class—K. Young, N. Millard, E. Ray, A Robson, M. Shanks, J. Hynds.
Second Class—E. Wood, A Woods, A. Shea, A Radin, B. O’Neill, M. Lange, M. Quan, R.’Devoto, R. Spier.
Ii. 8. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Winter Arrangement.
RA IMS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST,
Leave South Bend	9 35 a. m.	Arrive at Buffalo 410 a. a		
•• «<	12 j7 p m.	»«		4 10 a m
M	«C	9.15 p m.	u	u	2 00 p. m
••	M	12 37 a nt.		u	5 5o p. m
Way Freight,	3.40 p m.	(I	**	6.50 p. m
GOING
Leave South Bend 5.10 p dj. -	M	3 08	a m.
“	M	5 07	a. m.
“	“	6	p. m.
Way Freight, 9.35	a m.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m *”	u *	6 50 a. m
“	“	850 a. m
”	‘ lOWp.m
“	“	9.50	p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
49* For full details, tee the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places. *
49* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes fabler than South Bend time.
CHARLES F. HATCH General Superintendent, Cleveland*
C. P. Lelakd, General Pastenger Agent, Toledo.
H. Waisom, Agent, South Bend.
CROSSING.	.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30p.
Freight. 4:05 p. m.
Goma South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m., and 6:20 P. la Freight, 4:50 a.m.
OLD, RELIABLE & POPULAR ROUTE.
CHICAGO, ALTON & ST. LOUIS LINE.
Trains leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as foUows:
Day Express, (except Sundays,)..........9:15	a.m.
Connects atBwigbt with trains on Western Division.
Joliet Accommodation, (except Sundays,).... 4:C0 p.m. Night Express,..........................5:30	p.m.
Daily, but lajs over at Bloomij gton Saturday Nights, until 1:55
,	A.M. Monday Morning.
Lightning Ex., (ex’pt Saturdays and Sundays,) 9:00 p.m.
General Ticket Office,
55 Dearborn Oliicago, Where Passage ami Heeping-Car Tickets can be purchateU and all desired in-.formation as to Boutee, Connections, etc. will Le cheerfully furnished.	J. C McMULLIN, GeuT nup'L
A. NEWMAN, GenT Ticket Agent.