getw
Bwntexl ta th® interests nt the Stuxlents.
“I.ABOB OJIMA vincit.”
Volume IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 8, 1871.
Number 15.:
plain and simple of comprehension are the nature and relations of the parts of the glorious universe when they are investigated and explained in reference to Him without whom nothing was made! It would be more feasible and much less ridiculous for philosophers to assert that the light of a lucifer match could take the place of the sun in the solar system, than it is for them to attempt, independently of God, to assign incredible causes to mysterious effects in nature, which, for the most part, are rendered more mysterious by these atheistic explanations.
All the effects of creation are beautiful and admirable, and therefore, in one respect, it is not difficult to account for the fact that the Syrians and the Arabs, forgetting the Creator, became specially addicted to the worship of the stars. Dwelling in trackless deserts, they beheld nothing, during the day but Uie arid sands and the boundless sterile wastes whereby they ■were surrounded; while, on the contrary, during the night, they had but to raise their eyes towards heaven to gaze upon the truly sublime spectacle of countless millions of luminous bodies revolving night after night, age after age, with the same order and precision, and with the same brilliancy and refulgent glory, through time and space, that they had shed upon the sinless lace of the first man in Eden. It is not wonderful then, that when the nights of these people were almost always clear and serene, the glory and magnificence of the starry heavens drew forth their highest admiration. But their error, and their crime too, lay in giving to the effect the adoration due to the Cause. At the sight of phenomena so marvelous, the transition from admiration to idolatry was not very difficult for ignorant men whose country afforded no beautiful scenery, and where they found nothing to contemplate, when God was ignored, but the firmament. From astronomy—aster and nomos, the law of the stars—came the religion which spread over all A.-ia, under various though immaterially differing forms. Throughout the East there arose a multitude of astronomical idols, representing the different phases—see your almanacs,—of the sun, the moon, the planets, and the other celestial bodies which most attracted their attention. There were also, among them, allegorical figures-of the day, the night, the morning, the evening, the equinoxes, ai.d the soltitial points. Tite “ fixed stars,” as they are called, were- divided into groups or constellations, which have received all manner of ludicrous names and shapes, according as their resemblance to some animal, real or imaginary, struck the fantastic conceptions of the ancients; and to such a comical extent did they go in this regard, one might suppose in reading a work on the beautiful science of astronomy that he was getting a sensational newspaper account of a celestial menagerie stocked with bears, bulls, horses, elephants, rams, goats, foxes, geese, snakes, dragons, whales, and all other kinds of animals whether post or antediluvian, together with a huge circus in which nothing less than “immortal ” gods and goddesses were to perform the most astounding acrobatic feats! Modern astronomers have considerably modified the menagerie feature of the show, but really the genii of
Astrology.
Editor Scholastic : A few days ago, we went, by invitation, to see a star chart, or astrological map constructed by our friend Brother Peter. We went, and left a good deal in the disposition of the man who went, on a different occasion, to scoff. We did not go to scoff, it is true; but, to be honest, we went with the intention of enjoying a smile, if not a laugh, at the expense of the ill-starred paper. On investigation, a change came over us, and we confess that the invention, or whatever else it may be called, is admirable, and really reflects a high degree of credit on the patient and intelligent labor bestowed upon it by the designer who takes a commendable pleasure in a production which possesses far more original merit than the superficial observer might be disposed to give it. We congratulate him on the completion of a task whose complex details make its excellent execution the more creditable to the perseverance and the ingeniousness of its author.
Having said so much by way of a preface, we proceed to give a brief account of a system, once greatly in fashion, called Astrology. Il arose from the worship of the stars, which was in point of fact the first idolatry, or the first instance among men when they fell away from the worship of the true God, and began to honor creatures with the adoration which alone belonged to the Creator. As soon as men fell away from the divine law, and became forgetful of the commands of the primitive revelation, they begun to imagine that the stars were living, intelligent beings, and rendered to them the latria or supreme adoration which only belonged to God, the Sovereign Cause. How is it possible, they reasoned, for these mighty bodies to move so orderly and so regularly in their vast spheres, if they be not the abodes of powerful spirits, under whose control they act and revolve? Their light, their heat, the influence which they exert through all nature,are indispensable to men; they are therefore beings whose beneficence claims our absolute homage. They frequently announce the changes of the atmosphere, and tell us when we may look for storms and sunshine; therefore they are endowed with intelligence, and know how to foretell the things that are to come. In this way the ignorant, as well as the philosophers, reasoned,—if indeed that can be called reasoning which, resting on error, leads to error. The Hebrews, and many Oriental nations, called the stars the army of heaven,—militia call. The Prophets often reproached the Jews with adoring Baal, the Sun, Astaroth, the moon, and the Army of Heaven. It is really from this idea of the militia cali that the inspired writers have been accustomed to call the true God, the God of armies; that is to say, the Creator of heaven and of the stars. The term, then, does not mean the God of war, or of bloody carnage, according to the interpretation, of those who would have the Holy One, the Prince of Peace, a heathen Mars. It is certainly true that the infinite and all-merciful God was, at times, called the God of the armies of Israel, but that was merely to show them that their victories were not the result of human valor. “ All power is from God." How 1
the starry climes must feel under obligations for the profusion of “axes” and “belts’’which their worlds have received in exchange for the menagerie. To our mind, there is not much sublimity conveyed by such names as, “Whale,” “Big Bear,” “Little Bear,” “Fox and Goose,” “Fly,” and “Bootes.” It would appear as if their inventors had been more desirous to caricature than to illus: trate the beauty of the starry firmament. “ They seem,” says Herschel, “ to have been almost purposely named and delineated to cause as much confusion as possible.” Insensible to moral, and indifferent, or rather opposed, to mental culture in-the masses, paganism found and realized its ideal greatness in brutality, or brute force. This element in the ancient character is well depicted in their most admired works, such as the zEneid of Virgil, but nowhere so inimitably as in the Diad of Homer, whose graphic description of the brutalities of his greasy savage heroes around the lofty mud walls of the Trojan wigwams, is, by transcendent excellence, if we except the productions of Cervantes and Diedrich Knickerbocker, the most elaborate and the most perfect epic burlesque that has ever been written. Viewing, as they did, all greatness and all perfection in this light, their human brutes became heroes, their heroes gods, and their gods, after death, stars. These imaginary gods, being the representatives of physical force, soon became realities, and as they had been godijied because of their strength, it was deemed the highest compliment that could be paid to them to give the star assigned for their respective residences the name of some brute which best represented the quality for which each god was most remarkable in the various grades of perfection attained by him, during his earthly career, in the “manly art of selfdefence.” In this general state of mental and moral derangement and degradation, we can readily see how easy it was for men to follow their brutal inclinations, and with what rapidity, after losing the sight of God, they were capable of falling from the adoration of His works to the still more debasing depths of adoring each other, as well as the works of their own hands.
As in the course of time, the observation of the stars seemed to mark the rural feasts, and the seasons of agriculture, it became allied with religion, and hence it followed that the “ Astronomers ” and the “Priests” were supplanted by the “Observers.” The anxiety of the people to be conversant with the recurrence of the feasts and the agricultural seasons, was one chief reason of the persevering exactitude with which observations were made; but this, in turn, became the cause of the superstitions which took root and flourished in the soil of ignorance, when reason was dethroned by the passions, and the philosophy of astronomy bad, degenerated into astrology.
The history of the creation, as recorded in the Book of Genesis, is the best safeguard which we possess against these pagan errors, as it is also against the puerilities of a demented sciolism. It teaches us that God, and not philosophers, created the stars for the benefit of man; that He directs them by His will, and that they are neither. gods nor tutelary genii, hostile and friendly, by
!
f	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
turns, to this or that nation, this or that individual. Moses tells the Jews that when they raise their eyes to heaven and behold the sun, the moon, and the stars, to be on their guard lest they fall into the sin of adoring what was made only for the benefit of all nations by the Lord their God. A false and an absurd system it was and is, then, which affects to see a necessaiy connection between the motions of the stars and the actions of men, and that judicial astrologers were able to prognosticate the condition, lot, and fortune of a child in life, by the nature and motion of whatever star happened to twinkle in the heavens at the time of its birth.
This error seems to have existed among nearly all people, and in all ages. The Chaldeans, so celebrated for their astronomical investigations, dishonored that most beautiful and sublime science by confounding it with the follies of astrology. It was the favorite study of the Emperor Julian; and, coming down still later, we find that during the regency of Maria de Medicis in France, few Frenchwomen thought of undertaking a journey without consulting their astrologer, or baron. History tells us that one monarch, at least, was surnamed the Just, because his birth took place under the sign Libra, or the Balance. It was quite fashionable in the time of Louis XIV, whose horoscope, at the time of his birth, tvas, it is said, drawn with all the gravity becoming such an important event. Its decline has been attributed to various causes: by some to the severity of the laws made and enforced against its practice, and by others to the influence of philosophy. Both theories are incorrect If religion has contributed nothing to the overthrow of this folly, why were the philosophers so strongly attached to the prejudices of the vulgar? If their knowledge had been sufficient to destroy the system which they upheld, why did they not correct, instead of confirming, the silly popular error? The Fathers of the Church were as great philosophers as any among the pagans, and they found it necessary to bring religion to the aid of philosophy. It was only then they were successful. Many another ology, no less foolish, has lived and and died since the decease of astrology. We suppose, however, that while the moon lasts, there will be lunatics in the world; and while the human race lasts, there will be a goodly supply of the system-maniacs to make scientific bedlams, and, at the same time, guarantee a full supply of inmates for the institutions. “ The sports of children satisfy the child,” and, we apprehend, the madness of philosophers satisfies the philosopher; but, ye men of sciences and of systems, no amount of philosophic tinkering can change or amend the Eternal Constitution! Be not puffed up, therefore, in this that your bodies are strong; but rather pray, for ye need it, that ye may have the gift of sound minds. J.
Eiucatioa. in Some.
An American lady writing from Rome to the Freeman's Journal says:
The schools are now the object of great attention. One would really conclude that in Rome the population had been for centuries in a state of the most groveling ignorance. Let us consult the statistics. “ Murray’s Guide-Book for Rome ” (edition of 18G9), quoting the returns given by Major (now) Cardinal Morrichini, in 1842, gives the number of children receiving education in the schools of Rome, thus:
In Infant Schools......................5,138
In Regionary (District) Schools........1,592
InRezolare Schools...................  4,030
In Parish Schools......................1,100
Total.............................11,858
And further states that in addition there are many private educational establishments, with 6,571 boys
and girls. The Abbe Postel, who visited Rome in 1864, for the purpose of studying her public institutions, gives us a series of letters, under the title, "Rome dans Sa Vie InteJectueUe, Charitable," etc., wherein he reckons 380 free schools in that city, frequented annually by 8,670 children, in an average population of 200,000 souls. In that category he does not include the parish schools, nor the various colleges with their army of students.
Margotti, in his work, "Rome et Londres" proves from the official statistics of England herself, that at Blackburn 1 child in 38 attended school in 1844! and at Boston and Manchester, only 1 in 40! Amongst 62,000 individuals imprisoned in London, in 1847, 22,000 could neither read nor write. An address of the School Union of Lancashire begins thus: “ Scarcely half the inhabitants of this great nation can either read or write, and the greater portion of the other half possess but the merest rudiments of education.” (See above work.)
Canon Blesser, in his “Romeet See Monuments" Louvain, 1866, tells us that in 1841 Rome possessed 27 establishments, and 387 schools for the instruction of the lower classes; 180 of these schools being destined for little children of both sexes; 94 solely for boys, and 113 for girls alone. The total number of children frequenting the elementary schools amounted, at that time, to 14,157. The free schools gave instruction to 7,579 children; those requiring a nominal remuneration, to 2,788 scholars. Of the 387 schools mentioned above, 26 were directed by religious communities of men, and 23 by religious women. The rest were directed by seculars. 2,213 children of both sexes received instruction in the various conservatories and hospitals. The Christian Brothers, established in Rome since 1702, have seven establishments, giving instruction to over 12,000 boys. The Fathers of the Christian Doctrine, established in Rome since 1729, have two schools, with 370 scholars.
The Brothers of Mercy established here by Pius IX, 1860, have 400 scholars, as also 320 at the respective prisons of Santa Balbina and San Michele at Termini. The Pontifical Schools for females founded by Alexander VII, in 1658, and dependent upon the Apostolic Treasury, are 19 in number, scattered throughout the various quarters of the city, and taught, at last statistics, (1868), 1760 scholars, all gratuitously. Each teacher is obliged to have at least 30 scholars. There are twenty different religious communities of women, to each of which is attached a free poor school. Some of them have several establishments, as, for instance, the Ladies of the Sacred Heart, who have three monasteries in different parts of the city, teaching in all 490 girls. There are likewise eight several communities devoted to the instruction of female children of the higher classes.	’
The Nocturnal Schools, first instituted in Rome in 1819 by a poor obscure artisan, Giacomo Caso-glio, were twelve in number in 1869, with 1700 scholars. Pius IX is the first and principal benefactor of this useful work.
The Commission of Subsidies spends annually 17,823 lire for the schools under its direction, which give instruction to 1655 scholars, 955 males, and 700 females.
The Rural Schools established by Pius IX instruct about fifty children, all under the direction of Religious.
The Conference of St. Vincent de Paul, support two schools at their own expense, number of scholars not given. Cardinal Morrichini, Bishop of Jesi, in his great work upon the “Charitable and Educational Institutions of Rome,” second edition, 1870, gives us the summary as follows: “From the statistics published the past year (1868) by the Cardinal Vicar of Rome, we find that 16,752 persons, 7,308 males, and 9,444 females, frequented the Papal schools—that out of a population of 204,678 souls, exclusive of the garrison, of the Jews, of the heterodox, and the condemned prisoners, and that
the asylums give shelter to 878 boys, and the conservatories to 1,077 girls.”
Correspojjdenco.
We have received the following beautiful description through the politeness of Rev. Father Carrier:
“Clinton, Missouri, March 28,1871.
"My dear Father Carrier: You ask me for a scientific letter. I remember scarcely enough of my botany to tell you the name of the pretty little rnola cucuHata which is springing up everywhere under our feet as we work. But I can describe our spring landscape for you, although I can hardly expect to do it justice, for our location, on the west side of Clinton, is one of the prettiest that I ever enjoyed. We are a mile from town, whose white spires and houses gleam in the light of the setting sun, appearing above the brush-covered bluffs and stone quarries that form the eastern bank of Town Creek. Our house is a fine old specimen of a Missouri dwelling, with chimneys outside, negro shanties (no longer occupied by negroes) in the rear, and a green lawn with shrubbery’ in front. The trees which afford the white blossoms I send you, grow at our gate. A branch of Town Creek flows near our house, and the water elms which flourish on its banks (said elms obtaining, in some cases, a huge size) are already in a state of verdure which affords an agreeable shade. Below the elms blooms the red-bud or Judas tree, still tinged -with the gore of the apostate apostle; the wild plum, white and odorous, beloved of bees, the dogwoods, elders, and other shrubs. The flowers of the season (anemones of two or three kinds). I recognize the nem-orosa and the rue anemone, if I am not mistaken, violets, bloodroot, crowfoot, several kinds of cress, shine out like blue and white gems among the herbage; and promise of more brilliant blossoms, at a later period, is afforded by the buds and sprouts that are just appearing above ground.
" I shall soon, however, have to leave this spot where I am rusticating—at least I hope so—to engage once more in the profession to which I intend to devote my life. We are now under promise of starting on the 1st of April, but the date itself is rather suspicious.
“I shall certainly send the Sarracenia, which, if I do not mistake, is pitcher plant, as soon as I can get it. Meanwhile, accept my sincere apologies for my‘rash judgment,’and remember me kindly to Father V , and all true devotees at the shrine of nature, who are all, and none more so than yourself, Rev. Father, the objects of the fervent vows of
“ Yours, in affectionate devotion, 8."
We take the following interesting information from a letter of a kind correspondent whose letters are always welcome :
"St. Pato, April 2d, 1871.
* * * “We have had during the past weeks visit from Rev. Father Genin, a French missionary among the Indians in Dakota. He has built a mission at the mouth of the Wild Rice river, in the Territory, where he has quite a large number of half-breeds; these have good houses and farms, and are, as Father Genin says, “better Catholics than the white people.” Father Genin has a very large parish and travels about among all the Indians with impunity. He is very interesting, especially when speaking of a country and people we know so little about. He has travelled on his missionary labors from the Labrador coast to the foot of Mount St. Elias, speaks I do not know how many different Indian dialects, and has crossed and recrossed the Great Slave Lake in a small canoe. I am in that hopes some time you will see Father Genin at his Mission of the Holy Cross, and have the pleasure of listening to his narrative.”
NOTRE DAME'SCHOIASTIC.
MaSio and Idusidans.
Abundance of music, but few capable of rendering it as it ought to be rendered. Such is in few words the truth about the musical status of the world.- <We have a yearning for music, fine music of course, but we are never more than ha.f pleased by what we hear; we are sometimes even shocked. There is an evident lack, if not of training, at least of rehearsal; the musicians are not sufficiently familiar with either their notes or the spirit of the music they bring out. One rehearsal cannot do more than get the musicians together, and smooth off the roughest edges of discord; two rehearsals will be better than' one, but two rehearsals will scarcely do more than give the musicians an idea of the manner in which the piece should be rendered; at the third rehearsal the leader may begin to insist on having each part sung or played in its proper spirit, have the pianos, the crescendos and the fortes well marked; three rehearsals are not half enough when the music is of a difficult character, and when the singers have to depend more on their ear than on their actual knowledge of music. We think that a great improvement has been made in our church music since a few weeks, and the choir will soon regain its former prestige if it is properly trained and frequently rehearsed. Of course every member should deem it a strict duty to attend promptly the rehearsals appointed by the director, likewise the director should insist on the attendance of all the members at the rehearsals thus appointed by him More, after all, depends on the leader than on those who are led. Efficiency on the part of the former will always insure a ready attention on the part of the latter, and the more pains the leader takes and the more devotedness he displays, the more will he obtain the good will of those placed under his charge.
St. Cecilian Papers.
HISTORY OF A COAT.
The coat to which I have reference began its useful career as an overcoat; its color was of a reddish gray, its warmth was very great, its capacity for holding such articles as mittens,, gloves, and the like, amounted to four pockets, three outside and one inside. As I have described the coat, I will relate its history.
I wore it for two winters as an overcoat It met with only one particular adventure during that time, besides some pretty hard usage in the course of coasting down hill. One day I came near losing it. A thief got hold of it, but fortunately I saw him and gave chase. After a great many shouts of “ Stop thief! stop thief!” I called the attention of some persons, who attempted to catch him. Being hard pushed, he dropped the coat and made his escape. The next winter I tried it on and found I had outgrown it, so that it would no longer serve me as an overcoat I took it to the tailor and had it altered into a common every-day coat, and then began its second career. I wore it as an every-day coat for one winter; the next it looked so rusty that I laid it aside and determined to use it as a hunting coat; in this capacity it met with quite a number of exciting adventures. One day while hunting, I had the misfortune to fall into a muddy creek and got it very dirty; I made a fire to dry it, and accidentally burned a tremendous hole in the back. I hung it on a bush for a moment and went to gather some wood; as I was returning I heard the report of a gun; but I paid no attention to the sound. As I drew near I saw one of my companions holding something in his hand; he was laughing very heartily. Says he to me: “Look, what I took to be a large bird of some kind,” and he held up my coat, pierced with num
berless shot. Alas, poor coat! fate seemed to be against you.
The coat whose eventful career I have just related awaits my return, once more to accompany me in the glorious sport of the exciting hunt; true, it is the worse for the wear, the burnt hole, (which is mended, but unfortunately not with the same colored cloth,) and the shot marks, but it is still wearable for some time and may bear me company in many days of pleasure yet. C. Dodge.
Signs.
WARRANTED GOOD, OR YOUR MONEY REFUNDED.
To take down a gridiron from the nail where it is hanging with the left hand, is a sign there is to be a broil in the kitchen.
If a woman cuts her nails once a week, it is lucky—for her husband.
To lose a very fine pocket-book, containing a one thousand dollar note, is very unlucky any day.
If a mirror is broken at 10:30 o’clock on the first of January, it is a direful omen, and a certain sign that a good looking-glass will be missed in that house.
If you hear a rooster crow, and the geese and hens make a noise while you are in bed, and the clock strikes at precisely at the same instant, it is a sign of mo(u)ming. This token hardly ever fails.
If you get on horseback on a clear Saturday morning before the sun is up, it is a sure sign you will have a hand in the bridle.
If you carry a spade, shovel or hoe through the house in winter, it is a sign that you want to dean the snow off the front porch. If .in summer, it’s a sign that it’s nearer to the garden through the house than around it.
To meet a funeral procession at three o’clock in the afteroon, is a certain sign of death. This is an unfailing omen.
To sec a cat sitting in the parlor on a Brussels carpet close to the piano, preparing to wash her face, is a sign that some one in that house will shortly receive a licking.
If a red-haired man falls in love with a beautiful woman, with a large fortune, who has an absolute horror of red hair, that man will be most likely to dye before he is married.	'
Dethroned Sovereigns.—There is a rather long array of ex-rulers now living in Europe. Their names, including some who had never more than nominal tenure of their thrones, are as follows. The time when they “ went out of the business” is also given: Prince Gustavus Vasa, of Sweden, 1869; Count de Chambord, Aug. 12,1830; Duke Charles, of Bruuswick, Sept 16,1830; Count de Paris, Feb. 24,1848; Duke Robert of Parma, 1859; Grand Duke Ferdinand, of Tuscany, 1850; Duke Francis, of Modena, 1860; Frauds II, of Naples, Feb. 13,1861; the widow of King Otho, of Greece, Oct. 24,1862; Duke Adolphus, of Nassau, 1866; King George, of Hanover, 1866; the elector of Hesse, 1866; Princess Charlotte, ex-empress of Mexico, 1867; Isabella, queen of Spain, 1869; Napoleon IH, 1870.
“Fellow-trabellers,” saida“cullud” preacher, “ ef I had been eatin’ dried apples for a week, an’ den took to drinkin’ for a monf, I couldn’t feel more swelled up dan I am dis minnit wid pride and wauity at seein’ sich full ’tendance bar dis evenin’; an’ when I refleck dat it am right in de whitewashin’ season, when de brudders am seen a gwine ’round de street a-lookin’ like old gypsum mummies preserved in lime, an’ de sisters are up to dar ankles in de scrubbin’ time, my heart yems toward you like a piece of India-rubber on a hot stobe, an’ I feel dat I hab an affeckshun for you dat nuf-fin’ can estrange, or syringe, I forget now which; but one am just de same as tedder.”
Slight Hiats.
It is singular, says a printer, that the men who are presumed to know better, should come into an office and read the MSS., or look over the proofsheets. Many a man has considered himself insulted because he has been plainly told that such action is contrary to all system, and in direct violation of the common law of printing offices. We are all subject to the law.
We learn from some source that all “ well regulated families” have, of necessity, certain rules for the government of the household. Thinking our office something of a home, and all connected with it constituting a family, we have adopted certain rules for our convenience and that of our visitors; and we do now proclaim a few of the most wholesome to the public:
Boys and loafers are not allowed in the composing room, unless they are editors.
The man or boy who is guilty of whistling in the office will be adjudged by the compositors as a nuisance.
Men who seek to trade horses or match mules will find the printing office an unprofitable place to do anything of the kind.
Our exchanges are private property, not to be read by any one, save the editor, until after they are placed in the waste basket
Every printer is pledged to keep sacred the name of a correspondent, so it will do no good to ask any questions of that character.
No article will be read unless the editor has the real name of the contributor.
Other rules will be published as occasion presents itself—Exchange.
Puzzling the School-Mistress.—In the latest biography of Artemus Ward is given a serio-comic conversation, in which Artemus puzzled a female teacher in a steamboat cabin. We quote:
“Pardon me, madam, but do yon think that glorious sunlight in Greece is constitutional—that is to say, if early be the dream of youth—whenever they are so—and you know, I presume, that George Washington, when young, never told a lie—that is Greece—in the blue skies, I mean. You understand me, of course?”
“Do I understand you to say that George Washington went to Greece in his early youth ?” she asked. “I scarcely think that I perfectly understand you.”
“ I was about to remark,” said he, “ that so far as Greece was concerned he was more so.”
"More so of what?” replied the lady, still more perplexed.
“More so with regard to it viewed morally. Because the zEgean is a sea—a blue sea, which might, if not under those circumstances—very truthfully, though; but before breakfast—always before morningmeal. You agree with me,I hope?” And Artemus smiled, and bowed politely.
A Western hog was turned into a richly acorn-ed field, inclosed with a stout fence of logs; being of a curious turn of mind, he set about the plan of visiting a neighboring plot of ground beyond this fence. At length his search was rewarded by discovering a long, crooked, hollow log, through which he could pass at will The farmer observing his action, secretly turned the aforesaid log about so that the entrance and the outlet terminated in his own lot, and watched the proceedings of his swine in his next attempt to visit the neighbor’s domains. Piggy boldly entered the log, and coming out, was wonderfully surprised to find himself still at home, and not believing his senses, vent in where he came out, and of course came out at home again. With a snuff and a snort, and a suspicious look at the log, he scampered off, ever after to avoid the vicinity of his uncomfortable perplexity.
•
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre j@AME Scholastic.
PUBLISHED AT
NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O-, Indiana.
TERMS:
•ne year....................................$100
Copies of the publication can be obtained at the Students* Office.
Holy Week.
The commemoration of the passion and death of the Redeemer of the world has always been annually made by the Catholic Church. The three last days of the week are especially devoted to this. The Thursday, on the evening of which He partook of the Last Supper with His disciples, and instituted the adorable Sacrament of the Eucharist ; Friday, on which He died on the Cross on Mount Calvary, and Saturday, during which His sacred Body reposed in the sepulchre. The Catholic Church has especial ceremonies, by which she continually keeps the memory of these events in the minds of her children, and on the recurrence of Holy Week brings them vividly before the mind’s eye. Were we to judge from the universal indifference displayed by all non-Catholies to the recurrence of this anniversary, we might justly say that these ceremonies, which are the outward expression of the spirit of Christianity, have preserved the memory of the sorrowful and glorious sufferings of our Divine Lord.
Straws show which way the wind blows, and such straws as uninterrupted amusements, theatre going, grand fashionable marriages, and the like, during Holy Week, show how unchristian society is even in this land of many churches. The terrible lesson given society in the fact that the First I Magistrate of this nation was assassinated in a theatre on Good Friday evening seems to be as unheeded as was the preaching of Noe before the flood.
We are no advocate of a gloomy religion; but we cannot but deprecate the almost universal forgetfulness of the holy time in which Our Divine Lord’s sufferings and death are commemorated, and no one can justly complain of us as being too rigid when we express our heartfelt sorrow and fear, which are caused by this forgetfulness on the part of Christians, and by their uninterrupted course of business and amusement without a thought on those great mysteries which so intimately refer to them and to the whole human race.
Sorrow, that such things are. Fear, that worse things may follow.
That such things are is a just cause for sorrow to any one who calls himself a Christian—a follow-of Christ. A follower of Christ, and not bestow one thought on Him during the days in which His death is commemorated!
That worse things may follow is a cause of fear. This indifference is sad indeed, and has already borne fruit; but if it continue, and increase, we may well fear that this country of ours will be practically a heathen land, and that its inhabitants though calling themselves Christians will, in no distant time, think no more of Jesus Christ than did the Pagans of old.
During a few hours’ stay in the thriving young city of Elkhart, we had the pleasure of meeting several of our friends, old students of the College. We dined with Orville and Hardin, and with them rode out to the former’s farm, on which, until lately, he resided. We would have been glad to prolong our stay, and to be present at an entertainment in which Hardin and several young ladies,
formerly pupils of St. Mary’s, were to appear. Miss Davenport and Miss Simonton were among the number. But we had “ to move on." We made a short trip north on the HL S. & L. S. road, and, though we had no compagnon de voyage, we met with so many old friends, and some new ones, both in the train and in the places we stopped at, and received such courteous treatment from the gentlemanly conductors, that our trip was a very pleasant one indeed. On our return we dined at the Railroad Eating-house, where Mr. Tyler furnishes excellent meals. We remarked that though it was Friday, we had no reason to regret our not being able to partake of the long list of meat dishes, the names of which run so glibly from the tongues of the waiters, for there was plenty of fish and everything else that a hungiy man could wish for on a day of abstinence. Mr. Tyler and his house are too well known to need any word of commendation from us; nevertheless, with the remembrance of both so fresh in our minds, we cannot refrain from giving our praise to the house and our thanks to the proprietor.
Elkhart is growing fast; and, though the citizens cheerfully admit that South Bend is ahead, yet the admission is made with a feeling of confidence that ere long Elkhart will have no rival between Chicago and Toledo.
The only fault we heard spoken of, and that one we admit is a grievous one, is that property is held so high by the owners, beyond the reasonable value at the present time, that improvements which would raise the real value of the property cannot be made,- and that many families, who have come from Laporte and Adrian in consequence of the R. R. Company’s shops being removed from those I places to Elkhart, cannot find dwelling houses at | reasonable rent
We have found in an English paper an account of Right Rev. Bishop Dufal, which we copy into the Scholastic, as it will prove interesting to many of our readers who know that he was the predecessor of Veiy Rev. Father Sorin as Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross:
Right Rev. Pierre Dufal, Bishop of Delcum, f. p. i., and Vica,r-Apostolic of Eastern Bengal; nominated by the Propaganda 13th June, I860, confirmed by the Holy See, 3rd July following; and consecrated 25th November of the same year, in the conventual church of the Holy Cross, at Le Mans in France, by Mgr. J. H. Guibert, Archbishop of Tours, assisted by Mgr. J. J. Nanqnette, Bishop of Le Mans, and Mgr. R. L. G. de la Hail-landiere, late Bishop of Vincennes, in the United States of America (1839, till resignation, 1847); he was installed in his mission 15th May, 1801. His Lordship was born 8th November, 1822, at Saint-Gervais, in the arrondissement of Riom, Department of Puy-de-D6me, and Diocese of Clermont, in Auvergne, France; and, after receiving his education in the diocesan seminary of Montferrand, at Clermont, under the direction of the Sulpician Fathers, was admitted into the Congregation of the Holy Cross, (Salvatorists,) at the convent of Notre Dame de Ste Croix, at Mans, on the 19th of September, 1848; his profession taking place 15th August, 1850. He received the tonsure from the hands of Mgr. L. C. Feron, the venerable bishop of his native diocese (who still survives, the “ Doyen,” or senior member of the French Episcopate—having been consecrated in 1834—and it is a remarkable fact that there have been only three prelates intervening between Mgr. Feron and the celebrated Massillon, Bishop of Clermont, from 1717 to 1742, viz., Lemaistre de la Garlaye, 1743— 1776; De Bonald, 1776—1800; and Duval de Dam-pierre, 1802—1833, a period of 128 years). The present distinguished Bishop of Orleans, Mgr. Dupanloup, conferred minor orders, as also the subdiaconate, and diaconate, Mgr. Dufal, and he was ordained priest 24th September, 1853, in the
chapel of the greater seminary at Blois, by Mgr. L. T. Pallu du Parc, Bishop of Blois; he subsequently filled the office of Professor in the College, and Superior of the Orphanage of Vigna Pia, at Rome, as well as Superior of the French seminary of St Bridget in the same city. In 1857 he was sent to the Mission of Eastern Bengal, by the Propaganda, arriving in India in December of that year. He afterwards became Superior of this Mission, and was finally nominated to the episcopal charge of the vicariate, as stated above. In 1867 Mgr. Dufal was appointed Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, at Le Mans in France, to which he belongs; and be quitted India in August of that year; but he returned to his vicariate in December, 1868. In 1869 he proceeded to Rome, and assisted at the (Ecumenical Council there; his return is now anxiously expected by his attached flock in Eastern Bengal. Residence, Episcopal House, Chittagong Number of priests, 8; Catholic population, 7,250.
Daily Mass.
Among the most commendable practices of devotion which the piety of the students perpetuates year after year is that of attending the daily Mass which is said in the college chapel. For one who understands what is meant by the Sacrifice of the Mass, and knows that no human act is deserving of as much merits and is so fruitful in blessings as devout attendance to this divine mystery, it becomes a duty to consecrate the first momentsof the day to this great devotion. Whatever may be the pressure of study, and the scarcity of time in which to learn difficult lessons, he will first discharge to his God the tribute of his Christian love and gratitude. No consideration will divert him from this pleasing duty; for he knows that time spent with God is not a loss but a gain, and that while he gives a little, he receives tenfold. From a business point of view, therefore, if spiritual things can be considered from that level, giving honor to God at the cost of a little time is a wise policy. It is a good investment, which must needs bring a very high rate of interest What if the duties of the day are arduous, the lessons long and hard to memorize, the time barely sufficient to meet all the obligations of half a dozen classes! cannot the Giver of light render everything easy to comprehend, quicken the understanding, assist the memory, and and simplify all the intricacies which otherwise would demand hours of reflexion and research?
Truly these who through fear of a little exer-. tlon or of a loss of time abstain from the daily Mass, forego the best means of securing not only their spiritual but also their temporal advancement, and since the want of a lively faith is the real obstacle to a better policy and the cause of great lukewarmness which God condemns, may obtain the inestimable blessing of a greater faith, and the gift of appreciating the advantages which are offered to them during their college days,—advantages which they will in vain look for in after life.
Tre 31st of May, of this year, will be for Notre Dame a day memorable in her annals. On that day the blessing of the corner-stone of the new church will take place, and we hope that the presence of many illustrious Archbishops and Bishops will honor Notre Dame on that occasion. Those who witnessed the 31st of May, 1866, preserve a lively recollection of that magnificent festival, which the great Archpishop Spalding and the venerable Bishops of Buffalo, Cleveland, Milwaukee and St. Paul rendered illustrious. May we again have the great privilege of seeing here those of these saintly pontiffs, whom death has spared, and rejoice in the presence of many others of our venerable Bishops.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Bulletins will be sent home for Easter.
The beginning Latin Class of Prof J. A Lyons, A M., numbers twenty-five members.
Prof. T. E. Howard, A M., will deliver, Wednesday evening, an interesting lecture on astronomy.
Rev. Father P. Lauth, S. S. 0., has been appointed to give missions with Rev. Father P. P. Cooney, S. S. C., formerly pastor of South Bend, who has received the same obedience.
James K. Finley, of Pana, RI., and A J. Reilly, of Fort Dodge, Iowa, of the lower Law Class of ’69, have elected to the office of city attorney in their respective cities. Prof. Foote presides in the law department of the University.— Union, South Bend.
The Drawing Class of Bro. Albert is progressing finely, and increasing in numbers. We expect a pretty fair exhibition of Drawing in June. The art of Drawing is such an accomplishment that all those who can afford to study it should seize the opportunity which is afforded here for its cultivation.
Work on the new church is about to be resumed ; already immense quantities of bricks have been collected around the building, and* the stone-cutters are hurrying the splendid chiseling of the front door. With fine weather, and a sufficient force of workmen, nothing can prevent the church from being under roof before the winter.
Prof. M. T. Corby’s large vocal class is now busily engaged in preparing a grand Cantata. It will soon give its attention to Choruses and other selections from a hew and brilliant Opera, which Opera has been dramatized for the St. Cecilia Society. It is intended to have the said opera brought out in May, by the St. Cecilians, assisted by the excellent vocalists of Prof Corby and some amateurs.
We intend to be proud of our choir—we can even now be pleased with its efforts. It is not only the beautiful scenic effect of the red-robed, white-sur-pliced choristers that we wish to notice as an improvement on the past secular appearance of the singers, but it is the religious tone of the fourvoiced Plain Chant, which speaks so much better to the heart than that badly rendered music of the great masters; in that especially is the real improvement. We can pray better now; we do not feel so terribly distracted; our ears are more at ease; we can listen and enter into the spirit of the great chant and yet remain in God’s presence. In fact we ourselves, who attend the divine office and endeavor to attend it well, feel improved by the choir’s improvement May this continue until it reaches near to perfection. All depends on the ready punctual attendance of the singers to the rehearsals, and no less on the stirring active discipline and directions of the leader.
Vandalism.
In spite of all orders to the contrary, and all the efforts made to protect the life of young trees and multiply their number through the grounds, some foolish person will every spring set fire to some part of the premises, especially around the lake, and destroy the fruit of much labor and expense. It may be a satisfaction to such irresponsible individuals to contemplate the ruin they create by such wanton and absurd acts, but at the same time it would be nothing but justice to require of these persons the equivalent of the damage they do. Last year a few hundred poplars were thus destroyed in a few moments, and already this year the same vandalism has been perpetrated at the eastern end of St. Joseph’s Lake. Were it not for this annual destruction of trees on our premises, we would have duringour hot summer days the benefit of a luxuriant shade from hundreds of trees which some foolish person did not permit to live.
Arrivals.
T. W. Chamberlain, J. A Roberts, L. S. Dowe, Calvin Morris, Odlin Shuey, Jacob Ross, C. H. Faxon, H. D. Faxon, Frank Elwood,
Chicago, HL Columbus, Ohio. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Springfield, HL Germantown, Ohio. Germantown, Ohio. Chicago, Hl.
Chicago, III. Sycamore, HL
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
March 24—IL Finley, T. O’Mahony, P. Coakly, W. Crenshaw, J. Rourke, J. Shannahan, T. Ireland, J. McGlynn, T. Healy, P. Finnegan.
March 31—A King, J. Fox, J. Mulquinn, J. D. McCormack, J. Gearin, J. Hogan, T. Grier, F. Shephard, C. Wheeler, E. Dunn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
March 24—H. Kinkead, J. Ward, C. Hutchings, J. McHugh, F. Arcntz, C. Ortmayer, J. Goesse, T. Hiebler, B. Roberts, R. Lang, C. Sollit.
' March 31—J. Ireland, L. Hibben, T. Casey, J. Taylor, C. Butler, G. Ruger, E. Newton, H. Breckweg, D. Crown, D. Egan, A Sharai.
M. A. J. B., Sec.
MINIM DEPARTMENT
T. Gibson, G. Gross, R. K. Dougherty, L. Mon-tedonico, E. Raymond, F. Huck.
Honorable Mention.
Collegiate Course.
Moral Philosophy and Metaphysics—J. Zahm, T.
Johnson, R. McCarthy.
Ancient Literature—T. Johnson, J. McHugh.
Second Greek—T. Ireland, M. Keeley, E. B. Gambee.
Fourth Greek—J. Hogan, D. Egan, R. Staley, J.
Kane.
Second Latin—T. Ireland, J. Shannahan, J. McHugh, E. Gambee, J. Keely, M. Carr.
Third Latin—J. Gearin, M. Carr, J. Heine, M.
Keely, D. Eagan.
Fourth Fatin—C. Heine, C. Hutchings,
Fifth Latin—T. O’Mahony, N. MitchelL
Physics—J. Gearin, J. Zahm.
Botany—J. Gearin, J. Wilson, A Howe, J. Mc-
Cormack, N. MitchelL
Physiology—R. McCarthy, J. Wilson, M. Mahony.
Mineralogy—J. Gearin.
Geology—J. Wilson, J. McCormack, A Howe, R. McCarthy.
Zoology—T. Ireland, E. Gambee, N. Mitchell, J.
Wilson, M. Mahony.
Surveying—F. Shephard, J. Fox, N. Mitchell, J.
Wilson, R. McCarthy.
Astronomy—J. Zahm, J. Gearin.
English Literature—T. O’Mahony, J. Heine, M.
Carr, M. Keeley, J. Fox, T. Dillon.
Analytical Geometry—T. O’Mahony, N. Mitchell.
Trigonometry—F. Shephard, J. Wilson, T. Ireland, M. Keeley, M. Mahony.
First Geometry—W. Crenshaw, M. Keely, F. B.
Shephard, C. Swenk, J. Wilson.
Second Geometry—M. Grier, J. McHugh, P. O’Connell, R. Finley, E. Gambee, J. McCormack,
First Algebra—T. Ireland, T. Grier, C. Swenk.
Second Algebra—P. O’Connell, J. McCormack, T. Dundon, G. Darr, S. Dum, A. Howe.
Third Algebra—R. Finley, C. Adams, W. Dum, C. Buehler, J. McGahan, J. Zimmer.
First Rhetoric—T. Ireland, J. McCormack, J. McHugh, C. Dodge, C. Hutchings, J. K. Murphy, D. Hogan, W. Crenshaw, T. Grier, A Howe.
Second Rhetoric—S. Ashton, W. Clarke, R. Finley, P. O’Connell, P. Scott.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Fifth Greek—T. O’Mahony, J. Heine, J. Shannahan, M. Carr, L. Hayes.
Sixth Latin—C. Dodge, W. Clarke, D. Brown, S. Dum, C. Berdel.	•
Seventh Latin—J. Hogan, W. Dum, J. Murphy, N. Wooster, H. Turner, W. Wilstach, E. Buehler.
Eighth Latin—J. Dunne, J. Campbell, V. McKinnon, P. Reilly, J. McGinnis.
Eighth Latin (2nd div.)—P. O’Connell,' R. Finley, J. McCormack, J. Carroll, A. Higgins, J. Rourke, C. Potts, A. Dickerhoff, J. Anderson, M. McCormack, D. Emmons, J. Hoffman, J. Shank., C. Butler.
ENGLISH GRAMMAR.	*
T. Dundon, M. Daly, P Finnegan, C. Swenk, M. Carney, J. Carroll, P. Coakely, R. Fahey, T. Foley, C. Morgan, H. Achoff, J. Rumely, M. Moriarty, A Dickerhoff, R. Lange, L. McOsker, D. McGinnis, E. Watts, P. Federspiel, P. Reilly, E. Shay, J. Kinkead, J. Heinz, J. Potts, L. Rupert, J. Keenan, A. Atkins, B. Higgins, M. McCormack, E. Dunne, J. Zimmer, J. Finley, J. McDermott,-J. CampbeB, E. Cavanagh, F. Reeves, O. Wing, J. Hoffman, P. O’Bryan, M. Roach, A. Hertrich, H. Shulte, J. Farrell, E. Ryan, J. Lynch, R. Duffield, T. Kelly, J. Sterling, F. McOsker, J. Ewing, L. Ely, H. Hunt, M. Healy, T. Smith, W. Hughes, H. Breckweg, F. Devoto, H. Quan, J. O’Hara, J. Pumphrey, J. McDermott, A BaU, C. Allen, J. Lum, E. Greaves, F. Tolerton, T. Heibler, F. Livingston, B. Templeton E. Gault, R. Kelly, J. Drake.
BOOK-KEEPING AND COMMERCIAL LAW.
C. Wheeler, E. Gillen, E. Dunn, J. Walsh, G. Darr, W. Atkins, W. Smith, G. Goodell, J. Mur-nane, L. Rupert, W. Crenshaw, M. Carney, R. Fa
hey, J. Rourke, T. Murphy, V. Hackmann, L. Hayes, C. Hutchings.
Second Class—IL Lange, T. Ward, P. Scott, C. Vinson, H. Breckweg, F. Arantz, H. Woltring, E. Newton, J. Heintz, D. McGinnis, J. C id ver.
Third Class will be mentioned next publication. ARITHMETIC.
R. Lang, M. Daly, S. Ashton, J. McGuire, M. Moriarty, C. Morgan, D. Brown, T. Foley, W. Clark, E. Watts, G. Darr, C. Wheeler, O. Wing, P. Coakely, C. Duffy, J. Walsh, T. Dundon, J. Murnane, E. Gillen, J. Stinson, M. Carney, R. . Crenshaw, P. Scott, J. Ward, J. McFarland, J. Nash, J. Buehler, J. Rourke, C. Dodge, V. Hackmann, J. Heintz, J. Rumely, J. Arantz, H. Ackhoff, L. McOsker, F. McOsker, H. Bourdon, J. Spillard, C. Ortmayer, C. Butler, E. Newton, C. Berdel, J. Potts, B. Higgins, F. Reeves, A King, J. Carroll, J. Keenan, D. Brown, J. Hogan, J. Zimmer, E. Sweeney, G. Riopelle, E. Jameson, J. McDermott, H. Campbell, J. Sterling, F. Trautman, R. Duffield, M. Roach, A Ruger, L. Hibben, H. Hunt, F. Devoto, J. McGinnis, T. Heibler, J. Hoffman, E. Gault, J. Ewing, W. Ball, J. Pumphrey, W. Hughes, E. Smith, R. Kelly, E. Griblirig, F. Livingston, W. Lum, T. Smith, H. Quan, G. Green.
ORTHOGRAPHY.
J. McDermott, E. Sweeney, R. Fahey, P. Fe'd-erspiel, E. F. Dunn, E. Nugent, L. Rupert, J. Finley, A King, A. O. Wing, M. Roach, C. Vinson, R. Lange, J. Rumely, C. Morgan, Hl Ackhoff, J. Heintz, J. Ireland, J. Sharai, J. QuiU, W. Gross, L. Ely, J. Goodhue, G. Hoffman, L. Hibben, T. Smith, H. Waldhauser, J. Campbell, E. Hayden, R. Hutchings, J. Murphy, H. Bourdon, F. Devoto, F. Sage, J. O’Hara, M. Healy, M. Weldon, F. Joseph, E. Marshall.	-
READING.
L.	Ely, A Dickerhoff, L. Hibben, E. Lyons, C. Langendeffer, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, J. Goodhue, J. O’Hara, C. Anderson, J. Campbell, J. Taylor, W. Meyers, H. Gregg, H. Arantz, F. McDonald, H. Breckweg, P. O’Brien, J. Filson, C. Lenhart, J. Marks, J. Ewing, F. Devoto, S. Egan, H. Kinkead,
■earil
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M.	Cummings, J. Sterling, T. Kelley, E. McNulty, J. Shields, F. Joseph, M. McCormack, T. Smith, W. Lum, J. McDermott, A Foster, C. Campeau, T, Forbes, W. Ball, J. Pumphrey, J. Repetto.
GEOGRAPHY AND U. S. HISTORY.
A Hertich, E. Sweeney, J. Sterling, J. Hogan' B. Tarkington, E. Marshall, B. Templeton, E Green, A Foster, O. Tong,’ C. Allen, J. Drake E. Kelly.
LANGUAGES.
French—J. Gearin, E. McCarthy, T. O’Mahony, D. Hogan, W. Myers, W. Wilstach.	’
Spanish—T. Johnson.
Irish—T. O’Mahony, J. Walsh, C. Duffy, T. Healy, J. Hogan.
German—T. Dillon, D. Egan, J. Ireland, J. McGuire, J. McHugh, J. Zimmer, W. Meyer, C. Duffy, C. Dodge, T. Grier, C. Ortmayer, E. Lange, W. Wilstach, E. Kelly, F. Anderson, J. Ruddiman, G. Green, V. Armstrong, H. Jones, J. Crummey, EL Waldhauser, F. Joseph, F. McDonald, H. Woltering, D. Wiedeman, J. Bracken, E. Grib-ling, J. Shanks, T. Smith, J. Hubert, W. Still-wagen, H. Potter, J. Taylor, J. Culver, N. P. Wooster, A Brown, J. Langendeffer, A Barth, H. Hulrbut, O. Wing J. Carroll.
Mentions in First Grammar, First Beading, First Orthography, Second Arithmetic, First Geography and First Catechism, Junior Department, have not been sent in.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Puct—C. Ortmayer, J. Campbell, H. Taylor, H. Potter, N. Mitchell, T. Dillon, J. Wilson, F. Obert, E. Haydell, M. Weldon, H. Quan, L. Ely, M. Adams, J. Heinz, H.Newton, J. Wuest, Jno. Dunn, J. O’Hara, D. Armstrong.
Violin—J. Bumcly, J. McGuire, W. Dodge, B. Boberts, H. Jones, T. Foley, W. Emonds, R. Lang, G. Hug, D. Brown, J. Ward, W. Fletcher, Jos. Goesse, S. Atkins, J. Walsh, J. Staley, T. Ireland, T. Higgins, W. Byrnes.
Clarionet—C. Dodge.
Cornopean—H. Kinkead.
Guitar—V. Hackmann, J. Shea, B. Vogt
Flute—B. Crenshaw, J. Carroll, H. Hurlburt, A Coakley, D. Hogan.
penmanship.
H. Breckweg, V. Hackmann, C. Jones, A Hoer-ber, F. McDonald, W. Wilstach, W. Mayer, J. Spil-lard, V. McKinnon, EL Jones, B. Lange, J. Bumely J. Hubert, B. Vogt, J. Heintz, C. Vinson, J. Gosse, F. Tolerton, H Hunt, D. and J. McGinnis, G. Lyons, J. Quill, E. Gault, W. Dum, F. Livingston, J. Shanks, E. Shea, W. Lum, B. Staley, T. Foley, J. Graham, T. Ely, L. Both, J. McCall, C. Lenhart, J. Ward, F. Joseph, A Filson, S. Ashton, IL McCormack, W. Ball, L. Hibben, C. Morgan, H. Quan, F. Arantz, J. McCormack, D. Brown, G. and EL Hug, G. Buger, B. Finley, W. Smith, S. Mayer, P. Finnegan, P. O’Connell, P. Coakley, T. Dondon, P. Federspiel, J. Hogan, J. Zimmer, F. Shephard, J. McGahan, E. Sweeny, J. Swenk, M. Atkins, A Brown, J. McGlynn, J.. Murnane, W. Crenshaw, E. Dunne, C. Wheeler, M. Daly, M. Roach, F. Healy, F. Beeves, A Hertich, T. Grier, M. Carney, J. Keenan, J. Farrell.
VOCAL MUSIC.
N.	Mitchell, G. Biopelle, A Brown, W. Boberts, C. Duffy, V. Hackmann, R. Staley, C. Hutchings, J. Quill, T. Ely.
drawing.
Figure—N. Mitchell, J. Buehler, A Rosenblatt. Landscape—J. McGahan, C. Ortmayer.
Architecture—J. Goesse.
Geometrical—F. Shephard.
Animal—G. Hug.
Flowers—J. Bumely.
Academic—EL Breckweg, F. Devoto. minim department.
Grammar (1st Class)—G. Gross, W. Byrne, E. DeGroot, A McIntosh, L. Montedonico,W. Morris, P. Gall. •
Second Class—T. Nelson, H. O’Brien, B. Q. Dougherty, E. Forester, A. Morton.
Holy Ansels’ Sodality'.
At a meeting held on the 28th of March 1871, the following officers were named as charged with the various duties and special responsibilities of the aforsaid Society—viz:
President—Rev. Dr. W. J. Quinn, S.S.C.
Vice-President—John O’Connell, S.S.C.
Director and Instructor of Ceremonies—A A.
Brown, S.S.C.
Secretary—H. Breckweg.
Treasurer—W. Gross.
1st. Librarian—G. Lyons.
2nd. Librarian—J. Cambell.
Censor—W. Myers.
The members of this pious Sodality are always chosen from the Junior Department of the University, and give their services to the altar whenever required.
The Instructor of Ceremonies appoints those who are to serve on the various festival days, and superintends the general deportment of members in church, in the vestry, and at the meetings of the Sodality.
A regular meeting of members takes place every Wednesday evening, at 7 P.M., and instructions are given preparatory to coming festivals, all business regarding the Sodality is duly attended to. minutes registered, applications for membership received, social reunions and. entertainments arranged, and an entente cordiale maintained among all.
H. Breckweg, Sec'y
St. Gregory’s Society.
The fourth regular meeting of the St. Gregory’s society was held on the 30th day of March, 1871. Messrs. Foster and Filson were admitted to membership. The fifth regular meeting was held April 3rd, 1871, at which it was announced that the society would take part in the offices of the Holy Week. The rehearsals of the Society take place regularly every Monday and Thursday evening.
In the course of a month or so it is intended to produce Palestrina’s “ Mass of Pope Marcellus ”— the music of which is expected to arrive from Borne in a short while.
F. C. B., Sec'y.
St. Aloysius Fhilodesiic Association.
The twenty-third regular meeting of this association was held on Tuesday, March 21st. The office of censorship being vacant, Mr. Walter Crenshaw was unanimously elected to fill that position. After the miscellaneous business of the evening had been transacted, the following question was debated :
“ Reaolved, That a Republic would be a better form of Government for France than a Monarchy.”
The affirmative of the question was sustained by Messrs. J. M. Gearin and W. Crenshaw; the negative by Messrs. J. A Zahm and P. O’Connell. The gentlemen on the affirmative started by trying to prove the general proposition—That a Republic is better than a Monarchical form of Government— and then endeavored to show that a republic is particularly suitable to France on account of the peculiar nature and disposition of the French people. The negative defended their side of the question by showing that a republic is unfavorable to France because the extent of the territory is too limited, citing tfie examples of the Grecian and Italian republics, which on account of their smallness were always a constant theatre of revolutions and civil dissensions; that a monarchy is the last form of government resorted to after all others have
been found unsatisfactory; and that it would beim-tpossible to establish a permanent republic in France on account of the opposition of the nobility, and the eventual interference of the crowned heads of Europe, in case such a form of government were adopted.
The President, after expressing himself greatly pleased with the manner in which the debate had been conducted, and the evident preparation which each one engaged had given to thequestion, summed up the arguments brought forward on both sides, and gave his decision in favor of the negative.
The exercises of the evening were rendered particularly entertaining by the reading of several articles written by the editors of the Two-Penny Ga-eette. The most interesting and instructive of these were “Thoughts on St. Patrick’s Day,” by Old Mortality; “Improvements,” and “Adventures,” by Old Jack; and “ Female Education and Female Writers,” by Orlando Furioso.
After the reading of the Gazette, the meeting, which had been one of the most satisfactoiy of the year, adjourned.
Amanuensis Princeps.
The members of the Society return sin cere thanks to their Director, Very Rev. Father Corby, S.S.C., for the valuable work he donated to their Library.
Scientific Association.
At a meeting of the above named association, held in the College Library on Sunday, April 3rd, the following corps of officers was elected for the second session of the scholastic year:
President—Bev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.
Vice-Prerident—John M. Gearin.
Recording Secretary—John A. Zahm.
Corresponding Secretary—Thomas O’Mahoney. Treasurer—James J. Wilson.
Librarian—J. D. McCormick.
The following programme for all the regular meetings of the remainder of the session was then adopted .-
Lecture, by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C., April 23rd.
J. M. Gearin, Essay, April 30th.
J. A Zahm, Essay, May 7th.
J. J. Wilson, Essay, May 14th.
T. O’Mahoney, Essay, May 21st.
J. D. McCormick, Essay, May 28th.
Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C., Lecture, June 4th.
All the members, under the direction of their worthy President, show a great interest in the affairs of the association, and are determined that it shall now, more than ever, merit its position among the first societies of the University.
J. A. Zahm, Secretary.
St. Edward’s Literary Association.
The following were the exercises of a meeting of the St. Edward’s Literary Association, held Tuesday evening, March 21st:
Mr. C. E. Duffy was the first to occupy the stand, and read a lengthy criticism on the exercises of the previous literary session, in which he displayed to advantage his fine discriminating powers, and fully convinced all present that justice was his guide. Immediately after, the following essays were read. “War,” by J. M. Rourke; “ Curiosity,” by J.M.Mc-Gahan; “The Shamrock,” (poetry) by J. D. McCormack; and “The best method to learn to speak and write with facility,” by T. F. O’Mahony.
Mr. Rourke’s essay was written in a plain and pleasing style, and contained many pointed arguments and apt illustrations of the evil effects produced on society by the dire ravages of war. Mr McGahan’s essay was considered very good, and manifested vast improvement Mr. McCormack’s poetry was probably beyond our powers of criticism, and from the hearty applause he received, it
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■was evident that it was highly appreciated. Mr. O’Mahony’s production was written in the fine style for which this gentleman is remarkable, and as this has been duly criticised in your columns on several occasions we will refrain from saying anything further.
The reading of essays being concluded, declamations were solicited, and several members responded, among whom were Messrs. Keely, Heine, McCarthy and O’Mahony. No more business being on hand the assembly adjourned.
Yleek.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
The 23d, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th regular meetings were held, respectively, March 11th, 14th, 21st, 24th, and 28th. At these meetings, those who deserve special mention for essays and . declamations, are as follows: D. Egan, “ Criticism on the debate, ‘ Public and Private Education;’ ” H. Kinkead, “ComicSpeeches;” D. Brown, “Idleness D. Hogan, humorous essay on “ The Goat R. Staley, “ Cataline’s CareerJ. Rumely, “ History of our Great Coat;” B. Roberts, “Keeping TimeM. Mahony, “ Duty of Children towards their Parents;” P. Scott, “Power of Music;” S. Ashton, “ Criticism on style and manner of speaking;” D. Egan, “Honesty;” J. Crummey, “Disobedience;” V. Hackmann, “No memories so pleasing as those of Childhood;’’ S. Ashton, “Description of a Flood.” Of those who declaimed, the following are the best: C. Dodge, TV. Dodge, C. Morgan, Mahony, C. Ortmayer, J. Guesse, J. Buehler, C. Berdel, “ The Boat RaceC. Hutchings, “New Brooms sweep dean;” J. Rudiman, “Hilarity.”
J. McHugh, Cor. Sec.
Reorganization of the N. D. "U*. C. Rand.
A reorganization has taken place in the Notre Dame University Comet Band. This musical association has ever been successful in its undertakings; and, with full confidence in their leader, Mr. E. Lilly, they hope to render their music even more pleasing, this season, than it has ever before appeared. The Band is composed as follows:
OFFICERS.
Leader—Mr. E. Lilly, S.S.C.
Assistant Leader—Bro. Basil, S.S.C.
President—Bro. Placidus, S.S.C.
Vice-President—E. Watts.
Secretary—W. Stillwagen.
Treasurer—Bro. Paul, S.S.C.
First Censor—J. McCarthy.
Second Censor—G. Riopelle.
Each instrument is played as follows:
Sopranos—Mr. E. Lilly, Bro. Basil, W. Stillwaggen.
First Bb Cornetts—Mr. J. O’Connell, J. Gillespie.
Second S’ Cornetts—P. Talbot, H. Kinkead.
Third B? Cornetts—W. Atkins, W. Wallace.
© Alto (Solo)—E. Watts.
First® Altos—Bro. Leopold, G. Riopelle.
Second © Altos—Mr. J. Garrity, Bro. Francis. First B? Tenors—Bro. Emanuel, R. Crenshaw. Second B^ Tenor—Bro. Albert, J. McCarthy. First © Bass—Bro. Paul.
Second ® Bass—Bro. Placidus, Bro. Ferdinand.
Cymbals—J. Zimmer.
Side Dram—J. McMurphy.
Bass Drum—Bro Wilfred.
Antonio, Sec.
One day when the great Erskine was, as usual, on his way to Westminster Hall, with his large black bag crammed full of briefs, he was accosted by a boy, who asked him if he was a dealer in old clothes. “No, you imp,” returned the counsellor, “ these are all new suits.”
Boatiag.
The Notre Dame boating Club of 1871 held its first meeting on Wednesday, March 8th. The meeting was called to order by Rev. A. Lemonnier, and several new members were admitted; after which the election of the society officers took place, resulting as follows:
Director—Rev. A Lemonnier, S.S.C.
President—Prof M. A. J. Baasen.
Secretary—Robert Finley.
Treasurer—G. H. Luddington. , Commodore—G. L. Riopelle.
A lively interest is evinced by the members of both crews, and there is already much speculation with regard to the issue of the June races. The parts are now in excellent condition, thanks to our worthy Director, who has always manifested an unremitting zeal for the health and happiness of of the students.	R. Finley, Sec.
Minims’ Bass-Ball.
[We see with fear and trembling the game of Base-Ball assuming the domineering attitude it had last year, to the almost utter exclusion of reasonably recreative games. Even the brave Minims, after indulging in marbles the first few days of pleasant weather, would “knuckle down” no longer, and are not only enthusiastic, but gloriously triumphant over the B. B. C.—much more so, it may safely be said, than any one of them ever was over his A B C.
Having thrown away their marbles and taken up the bat, the Minims went at the game of B. B. with a will, as they do for everything they take hold of. As they do not at all wish to hide their light under a bushel, they were not content to play B. B. among themselves,—it was too much like playing the left hand against the right, and was becoming monotonous. To vary the monotony, they had a’ contest with the younger nine of one of the Junior B. B. Clubs, an account of which has been handed us which we publish in good faith, premising that the games took place on St. Patrick’s Day and on the previous Wednesday. The game on Wednesday, which terminated after five innings, stood 11 for Minims and 4 for Juniors.]
The Juniors, not pleased at losing the honors of the day, proposed to play for the two bats on St. Patrick’s Day, to which the Minims readily consented. Bro. Thomas, hearing of this, and wishing to make the game interesting, furnished the bats for the occasion. Early in the afternoon of St. Patrick’s Day, the fourth nine of the Excelsior B. B. Cluo were on the Minims’ grounds; but we noticed the absence of some of the members who played in the other games, who were replaced by some members of the 2nd or 3d Nines. It is not our intention to make the members of those nines feel bad by saying that the Minims can beat them; but they must confess that one, if not more, of their members played in the game. The Minims, however, were not alarmed, but went to work vigorously. They deserve great credit for the manner they acquitted themselves. R. Doherty’s pitching seemed to bother the strikers considerably. D. O’Brien played admirably well behind the bat. Geo. Gross acquitted himself remarkably well as first base-man. Louis Montedonico took in every grounder that came near 2d. Space will not permit me to notice the playing of the others, of whom each played his part. Some of the Juniors also played well: but fearing that my report is already long, I must be brief.
The game ended after 7 innings, at which time it stood, according to the umpire’s report, 41 to 16 in favor of the Minims. The Juniors retired to their yard, without either the bats or the honors of the day, fallowed with cheering and waving of hats on the part of the Minim®, and they received the like reception on the part of their Junior friends.
The Minims have a good Club, and promise to make things lively for some of the Junior Nines this season. They also advise the 4th Nine of the Excelsior B. B. C. to replace Tommy Smith by John McManus, before they play them again.
The Minims return their thanks to Prof Baasen for the ball which he presented them.
On Wednesday, April 5th, a very interesting, as well as a very exciting game took place between the second Nine of the Alpine (Junior) and the Minim Base-Ball Clubs. After three hours’ playing, the game terminated 21 to 15 in favor of the Minims. The Juniors should acknowledge themselves unable to contend with the Minims, as this is the third time they have been badly beaten within a very recent period.	Krites.
Baso-BalL
Mr. Editor:—A friendly game of base-ball was played between the Juanita and Star of the West base-ball Clubs, on March 29th, on the grounds of the latter. At 1:45, P. M., the toss of the copper sent the Juanita to the bat. Mr. J. Taylor, of the Star of the West, kindly consented to act as umpire. The first innings the Juanitas were quickly disposed, of making but one run. The Star of the West were, in turn, disposed of, with five runs. The second innings was a whitewash for the Juanitas—the Star of the West scoring two runs. From the commencement, the Star of the West took the lead, and kept it throughout the game. Both nines displayed some very nice fielding. The game was interesting, and one of the quickest ever played at Notre Dame. Those who deserve special mention for good playing, are, Messis. Gearin, Wilson, Roberts, and Shephard, of the Juanitas; and McGuire, Dum, Berdel, and Mc-Oscar, of the Star of the West. Mr. Wilson was obstinate on second—he let no balls pass. Mr. Gearin, as pitcher, fills his position well, and deserves much credit for capturing one of Berdel’s liners. The following is the score by
innings:
1 2 3456789
Juanita........0	3	0 0 2 0	2	5	0—12
Star of the West..5	2	2 1 12 1	4	3	2—32
Dick.
challenge.
Notre Dame, March 31, 1871.
Juanita Base-Ball Club: We the members of the Star of the West first nine, challenge you to play us a series of games for the Championship—the first to be played on our grounds, the second on yours, and toss up for the third choice of grounds. Accept by Sunday, if possible.
C. Berdel, Sec'y.
J. Nash, Pres't.	Per S. Ashton,
[reply.]
* Notbe Dame, April 5,1871.
Mr. 3. Ashton—Sr.- In answer to yonr challenge of March 31st, requesting a series of match-games of baseball for the Championship of Notre Dame, I hereby decline the proffered contest. The Championship, now-held by us, must, consequently, be considered as transferred to you, according to the Rules governing such cases.	Yours, respectfully,
J. A. Roberts, Sec'y.
A. W. Arrington, Pres't. Per J. M. Geabin.
Judge C-------, of Memphis, was recently called to preside as chairman at a public meeting in that city. During the proceedings an exciting discussion sprang up, and amid the confusion of loud speeches, motions and cross-motions, one speaker called out impatiently to have his motion put to the meeting.
“ Has your motion a second ?” inquired the chair. Speaker—“Yes, sir; it has fifty seconds at least” Chair—“Then let it have ten more, and the Chair will make a minute of it”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
SAINT MAEY’S ACADEMY.
St. MLary’s, April 5,1871.
The last two weeks have passed quietly and . pleasantly. Application to scholastic duties, relieved by the usual sports proper to the season, makes the hours fly swiftly. The Juniors and Minims, armed with miniature gardening implements, are busily engaged, during their recreations, in preparing flower-beds, strawberry beds, arranging their moss gardens, and building miniature summer-houses in which their dolls may luxuriate during the approaching summer.
Classes will continue, with the exception of Good Friday, during every day of this week. Easter Monday will be given as a holiday. On Easter Tuesday classes will be resumed; therefore there will be no interruption of the regular routine. This fact is mentioned to correct the impression entertained by some that a recess of several days was to be granted at Easter.
On the 23d ult. Dr. Rogers, of Memphis, Tennessee, visited the Academy and addressed the-pupils in the most encouraging manner. He drew a most amusing picture of the state of education in the far West some fifty years ago, and then contrasted the picture -with the present state of education as illustrated by St. Mary’s Academy and similar institutions.
On the 25th of March the following young ladies were admitted, by Very Rev. Father Provincial, into the Sodality of the Children of Mary:
As full members—Misses M. Prince, A Lloyd, A Shea, J. and R. Leoni, M. Ford, E. Shea, M. Heth, R. Spiers, A Casey, E. Dickerhoff, M. McIntyre.
As Aspirants—Misses H. and N. McMahon, K. McTaggart, J. Langendaffer, J. McGuire,
Into the Sodality of the Holy Angels:
Misses M. Sweeney, E. Horgan, M Cummings, F. Prince, K. Lloyd. Tours, etc., Stylus.
ARRIVALS.
Miss M. Lane,
“ K. Champion,
“ G. Kellogg,
“ M. Faxon,
Lebanon, Indiana. Coldwater, Michigan. Detroit, Michigan.
Chicago, Illinois.
TABLES OF HONOR—SR. DEP’T.
March 26—Misses Kate Zell, Lucy Dooley, Maiy Cochrane, Kate Haymond, Ella Finley, Ada Reynolds, Alice Mast, Ellen Shea, Sarah Hoover, Sarah O’Brien, Emma Hendricks, Julia Millis.
April 2—Misses Rosa Fox, Lucy and Anna Duffield, Louisa Ogden, Josephine and Rosa Leoni, Margaret Letourneau, Elizabeth McFarlane, Ida Wilder, Ella Wood, Anna Lloyd, Mary Lacy.
TABLES OF HONOR—JR. DEP’T.
March 22—B. Frank, E. Blum, A Robson, L. Tinsley, C. Stauffer, A Garrity, M. Cummings, M. Hoover, Hattie and Mamie Ely.
March 29—F. Rush, S. Honeyman, H. Seipp, L Lehman, M Sweeney, G. Darling, A Byrne, E. Horgan, M. Reynolds and M. Gall.
HONORABLE MENTION—SR. DEP’T.
[The figures “1” and “3” indicate that the young lady whose name precedes the figure, has received either one or two tickets for exemplaiy deportment during the previous two weeks.]
Graduating Class—Misses H. Kiel 2, A. Sturgis 2, A Radin 2, M. Kirwan 2, N. Moriarty 2, K. Young 2, A Locke 2, N. Millard 1, C. Foote 2, A Rhinehart 2.
First Senior Class—Misses M. Tuberty 2, M. Shirland 2, M. Kellogg 2, L. Marshall 2, J. Hogue 2, A Clarke 1, J. Forbes 2, A Borup 2, G. Hurst 2, H. Tinsley 2, A Cornish 2, M. Shanks 2, K. McMahon 2, G. McDougal 2.
Second Senior Class—Misses K. Zell 2, L. Hoyt 2, M Cochrane 2, M. Lange 2, L. O’Brien 2, K. Haymond 2, K. Brown 2, E. Finley 2, A Reynolds
2, A Shea 2, Aline Todd 2, Aline Montgomery 2, Alice Mast 2.
Third Senior Class—Misses R. Fox 2, E. Shea 2, L. Dooley 2, N. Duffield 2, L. Duffield 2, D. Greene 2, L. Ogden, M. Ward 2, S. Hoover 2, E. Dickerhoff 2, T. Finley 2, E. Hendricks 2, M. Getty 2, R. Spiers 2, J. Leoni 2, R. Leoni 2, M. Heth 1, A. Woods 2, A Minnick 2, J. Langendeffer 2, M. Ford 2, C. Wood 2, M. Kearney 2, L. Niel 2, A. E. Clarke 2, N. Gross 1, L. Jones 1.
First Preparatory Class—Misses M. Letourneau 2,1. Wilder 2, L. McFarlane 2, R. Nelson 1, Ella Wood 1, J. Falvey 2, F. Sammons 2, B. Cable 1, M. Wicker 1, K. Boyd 2, C. Angle 2, K. McTaggart 2, R. Devoto 2, J. Tucker 2, Anna Lloyd 2, M. Prince 2,1. Bounel 2, J. McGuire 2, F. McGuire 2, J. Kearney 2, M. Kreutzer 2, M. Quan 2, E. Blum 1, A Robson 1, B. Frank 1.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses E. Greenleaf 2, M. McIntyre 2, E. Boyland 2, A Emmonds 1, L. and M. Weire 2, L. Sutherland 2, H. McMahon 2, M. Lacy 2, C. Bay 1, C. Creveling 2, E. Sullivan 2, I. Lehman 2, G. Kellogg 2, L. Tinsley 1, C. Stauffer 1, A Garrity 1, F. Rush 1, M. Cummings 1, M. Hoover 1, S. Honeyman 1.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses A. Hunt 1, S. Klassen 1, E. Birney 2, A. Frazer 2, A. Conahan 2, E. Drake 2, H. Seipp 1, M. Sweeney 1.
Junior Preparatory Class—L. Wood 2, A Byrne 1, E. Horgan 1.
GERMAN.
Second Class—Misses S. Hoover, J. Langendeffer, B. Frank.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—J. Hynds, C. Foote, M. Shirland, EL Young, M. Kirwan.
Second Division—A Borup, C. Angle.
Second Class—G. McDougall, K. Spiers, G. Hurst, A Cornish, A Carmody.
Second Division—A Todd, C. Bay, B. O’Neil, A Locke.
Third Class—M. Lasson, L. Duffield, M. Shanks, M. Prince, A Rhinehart, H. McMahon, A. Reynolds, A Sturgis.
Second Division—K. Emmonds, M. Lange, J. Tucker.
Fourth Class—M. Kearney, M. Kreutzer, L. Jones, J. Langendeffer.
Second Division—R. Fox, L. McFarland, M. Chorane, B. Frank, H. Seipp.
Fifth Class—N. Gross, A E. Clarke, J. Millis, A. Radin, L. Marshall, A Mast, A. Wood, A. Shea, S. Hoover.
Sixth Class—L. Sutherland, L. Wier, M. Hoover, A Robson, E. Finley, M. Getty, K. Haymond, E. Sullivan, J. Leoni, L. McKinnon, K. Boyd, R. Leoni.
Second Division—S. Honeyman, E. Hendricks, E. Boyland, R. Nelson.
Seventh Class—A Conahan, J. Duffield, N. Duffield, C. Creveling.
Eighth Class—L Lehman, F. Rush, M. Hildreth.
Ninth Class—L. Harrison, F. Butters, M. Sylvester, A DeHaven.
Tenth Class—H. Ely, M. Ely, M. Reynolds, Kendall.
Exercises—M. Kirwan, M. Shirland, M. Kellogg, M. Kearney, G. McDougall, R. Spiers, A Todd, A Cornish, A Carmody, I. Wilslie.
Harp—M. Shirland, K McMahon, A Radin.
Guitar—A Montgomery, M. Wier.
A Connecticut lawyer, who wished to cross the river on the ice, was told that it would be entirely safe to make the attempt if he crawled over on his hands and knees. Anxious to go, he humbled himself accordingly, and had laboriously got half way across when he was overtaken by a man driving along leisurely in a buggy. The rapidity with which he assumed an upright positionwas startling to the driver.
Queen Victoria’s private fortune is estimated at $16,000,000.
“ Hrs forehead extended to the gable end of his peck,” means he was bald-headed.
A bachelor friend compares a shirt-button to life, because it so often hangs by a thread. _
Is it possible, Miss, you don’t know the names of your friends?” “ Oh yes, I don’t know what my own may be in a year.
A little girl, sent out to hunt eggs, came back unsuccessfully, complaining that “lots of hens were standing around doing nothing.”
Swinging is said by the doctors to be very good exercise for a person’s health; but many a poor wretch has come to his death by it.
Inebriated gentlemen who slip down on the ice at St. Paul have a cheerful custom of firing five shots at any passer who may laugh.
“Pete,” said a mother to her son, “are you into them sweetmeats again?”
“No ma’am, them sweetmeats is into me.”
An unwashed newsboy being asked what made him so dirty, replied: “I was made, as they tell me, of the dust of the ground, and I reckon its just working out.”
An old lady told her son to list the door, in order to keep out the wind. “ That will make it worse,” he replied, “ for you well know ‘ the wind bloweth where it listeth.’"
A fellow in Ohio put one end of a gun-barrel in the fire and looked down the muzzle to see whether it was loaded. A coroner’s jury decided that his suspicions were correct.
“Tom,” said a man to his friend, “I think it’s highly dangerous to keep the bills of small banks on hand nowadays.” “Tim,” answered the other, “I find it more difficult than dangerous.”
The Boston Advertiser, emulating Mr. Greeley’s achievements in the agricultural line, tells its readers something about “raising” beets. The best way, it says, is to take hold of the tops and pull.
There being no prisoners in the Keene (N. H.) jail, the local paper suggests that, “as the rogues seem to be all outside, it might be used as a safe retreat by a few honest people of a retiring disposition.”
A quaint old gentleman of an active, stirring disposition, had a man at work in his garden who was quite the reverse. “Jones,” said he, “ did you ever see a snail?” “Certainly,” said Jones. “ Then,” said the old fellow, “ you must have met him, for you never could overtake him.”
L 8. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Winter Arrangement. rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING NAST.
Leave South Bend 9 35 a. m. “	1217 p. m.
“	“	9.15 p.m.
M .u 12 37 a. m. WV freight, 8*40 p. m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 5.10 p. xd. u	“	3.08	a.	m.
«	M	5.07	a. m.
“	“	6 30	p. m.
Way freight,	9.35 am.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago
8.20 p. m
6.50 a. m
8.20 a. m
10.10 p. m 9^0 p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
49* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tablet at the depot and other public places.
49* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutea faster than South Bend time. - - • -	- — •
CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
C. P. Luaxb, General Passenger Agent, Toledo.
H. Watsom, Agent, South Bend.
CK088IVG.
Goixg Nona—Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30 p. mi Freight, 4:05 p. m.
Gonra South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m., and 6:20 p. m
Freight, 4:50 a.m.	,	*