!
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 21, 1878.
Number 16.
Christ’s Knight.
INSORIBED TO MAURICE F. EGAN.
Z	-	'
No doughty knight e’er entered lists of old To tilt in tourney ’mid the brave and fair, More valiant than the knight of holypray’r, Who Truth’s keen lance doth ever firmly hold, While clad in armor bright with Faith’s pure gold.
His shield’s device is beautiful and rare, The Holy Name of Jesus blazoned there Dire presage to the ancient foe e’er bold.
And still another knightly sign is given
Which bodes him well throughout life’s fiercest fray, He bears the favor of the Queen of Heaven, Upon his heart which throbs ’neath her mild sway The battle o’er—the foe’s dark helmet riven, Her smile will light him to eternal day.
Joseph W. S. Norris in the Ave if aria.
The Artist Healey.
The Catholic Church has ever been the protector of the arts and sciences. It was under her fostering care that art took its rise in Italy. It was through her endeavors that the Christian artist was encouraged, until modern works in painting and sculpture rivalled those of ancient Greece.	.
In the United States there are many gems of art placed in the Catholic churches throughout the land; and though our country is young as a nation, and the members of the Church have not been famous for their wealth, yet much , has been accomplished in the way of art. Music owes much to the American Catholic, Mr. R. R. Springer. It was his generosity which gave to Cincinnati her grand Music Hall, to him she is principally indebted for one of the five great organs of the world, and he it was who founded her College of Music, presided over by Theodore Thomas, one of the greatest of orchestral leaders.
The Church, in painters and sculptors, has hot as yet in the United States been prolific, yet she can claim as one of her sons the greatest of American portrait painters, • George P. A. Healey, an artist whose fame is not limited to the country of his birth, but has crossed the seas.
Prom his boyhood, Mr. Healey showed a great taste for art, and before he had far advanced in years he had' exercised his brush in a few small undertakings. It is related that some of his efforts were seen by Sully, the celebrated miniature painter, who was pleased with them because of the great promise they indicated. Encouraged by this great painter, young Healey determined to make painting hjs profession, anti §§t tq work with great jse^l,
In after-years, when Sully was shown by Healey his portrait of Audubon, the naturalist, the elder artist bowed and said: “ Mr. Healey, you have no reason to regret my advice.”
In 1832 Healey’s first portraits were exhibited at the Boston Athenaeum, where they attracted much attention. Shortly afterwards he sailed for Europe, where he studied several years in Paris and Italy. Having visited Rome, Florence and other cities renowned for their art treasures, he went to Paris, and thence to London, where he painted portraits of many distinguished men, among whom were Gen. Cass, the then United Slates Minister, the Duke of Sussex, and others. Having finished his engagements in London, he returned to Paris, where he was called to paint the portrait of the citizen-King, Louis Philippe. The king was so highly delighted with the work of the artist that he gave him a commission to paint a portrait of Washington, which when finished was placed in the historical gallery of the palace at Versailles, where it may now be seen.
It was in 1840 that Mr. Healey exhibited in Paris his portrait of Gen. Cass, for which he was awarded a gold medal. Not long afterwards the Americans then residing in Paris, wishing to compliment M. Guizot for his pamphlet on Washington, commissioned our artist to paint a portrait of the distinguished French statesman and author. The picture-was life-size, and now adorns the walls of the Smithsonian Institute, Washington city. King Louis Philippe then gave him other commissions, among which were the portraits of Gen. Jackson and other distinguished men in the United States.
After having filled the commissions of the king, Mr. Healey spent some seven years in making studies and in painting one of his greatest works, “Webster Replying to Hayne,” which now hangs in Faneuil Hall, Boston. His. next important work was a picture representing Franklin, Lee and Dean negotiating a treaty of alliance between France and the United Colonies. Il was for this work he was awarded the second gold medal at the Exposition held in Paris in 1855. Daring that year Mr. Healey returned to the United States. He took up his residence first in Cincinnati, but he removed thence to Chicago, where he remained for the next ten years, successfully engaged in portrait painting. From Chicago he again crossed the ocean, remaining abroad until 1875, acquiring honor and glory in every city visited by him. In Italy he received an honor never before awarded an American: he was invited to place his portrait among those of the distinguished painters in the Uffizi Gallery at Florence, a compliment not paid to every foreign artist, and one to which even many native artists of note often vainly aspired.
Afr. gealey has painted a gre$t puqiher of historical
246
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
portraits of the leading personages connected with the late Rehellion, all of which are of great interest and rare merit. At the Centennial Exposition he contributed a picture representing an interview between Lincoln, Sherman, Porter and Grant preparatory to the well-known march to the sea.
Among the many famous portraits of this artist are those of the late Pope Pius IX and the poet Longfellow. Of the first of these a writer says: “There is a pleasant story told of Mr. Healey’s portrait of the Pope at the first great Paris Exposition. It was ordered by a Cardinal. As Mr. Healey had no means of obtaining a sitting of Pio Nono, he made careful studies of him during some public ceremonies, and painted a remarkable portrait. When the Cardinal heard how the work was done he took it for granted that it was bad, and refused to receive it. The Pope, hearing the story, sentfor the portrait and painter, and gave him a sitting. But the picture had been so carefully painted that it needed no change. The Cardinal, repenting of his rashness, in a day or two sent for it, but his request was politely declined, and the picture, duly blessed by the august original, is still in the artist’s possession.”
Mr. Healey is a true, devoted and practical Catholic, and has received many distinguished favors from Prelates in Rome. The late Pope Pius IX, some years before his death, as a mark of esteem and in recognition of his talent created him a Chevalier of the Order of St. Gregory the Great. Our artist is a gentleman of whom the Catholics of the United States may well feel proud.
Excellence of the Organ.
Many and various are the instruments by which music in its different degrees and resources is displayed for the delight of the music-loving multitude. Inexhaustible indeed are its treasures. It soothes the fancies of the excited imagination; it is a solace to the afflicted heart; it gladdens and stirs up the drooping spirits of the soul, and gives ample food to the faculties of the mind. At times men rejoice, are sad—hope, fear, and love, according to the different emotions, grateful or ungrateful, of the sensible soul; and music adapts itself to these different slates of man’s soul. Love, friendship, sympathy, pleasure, hate, envy, anger, hope, fear, desire,—each and all are expressible in the language of musical sound, even as we give vent to these feelings by gestures or by words. And as music in general represents, as it were, the human soul in these different emotions, so each musical instrument in particular is calculated to express one, two or all of these effects. But none, we hold, does this like to the organ; other instruments may do so in a measure, but in the organ we have all of these combined, in all their perfection of tone.
The flute, on account of its melodious sound and great resemblance to the human voice, is an instrument held in great repute both in ancient and modern times. Under the management of a good player, it is able to show all the power of touching the heart which music possesses. He can bring forth from it strains of triumph, of sorrow, of joy, of sympathy. But this effect is increased, as it were, when to the simple melody of the organ-flute stop, an har-monius and sonorous accompaniment is added, thus heightening the effect. The tones of the clarinet are indeed powerful, warm, sometimes graceful. Approaching in tone the female voice nearer than any other instrument, it nat
urally adds elegance in combination with the tones of other instruments. In the organ, however, the effect of this instrument, as represented by the clarinet-stop, can certainly, though by different tone-combinations and arrangements by a skilful organist, be rendered more striking. The sound of this instrument on a well-constructed organ can be almost perfectly imitated, so that people skilled in music would imagine a clarinet player to be stationed in the organ-loft Beauty and sweetness of tone, active execution, and pathos, feeling, and grace characterize the tones of the violin. Of all modern string instruments, nay of all musical instruments, this seems to be the one best calculated to express all the feeling, pathos and sweetness of a musical genius, such as Paganini. The organ, in its most melodious strains, can scarcely equal, probably never surpass, the violin in this respect. We would therefore, perhaps, be obliged to yield the palm of excellence to the violinist were we not backed by the grand, sonorous accompaniment with which the organ can beautify and enrich the melodious strain. We love to listen to the expressive sounds of the violin, but we love still more the same repeated on-and accompanied by the subdued chords of the organ.
Musical taste, however, seems nowadays greatly to favor the piano-forte, and this perhaps not - undeservedly. Its very name implies softness and strength. As a keyed instrument, beauteous in form and outline, it responds to the touch so as to enable the performer to vary and accommodate the expression to all those delicacies,energies, and. striking lights and shades which so greatly characterize the more refined compositions of the present day. The merits of this instrument cannot be too highly valued. Above all, it is best calculated to form a musician; it is an epitome of an orchestra—an abridgment, a muttum in parvo which can enable the performer not only to conceive but to express all possible harmonious combinations by himself, independently of others. The piano-forte has been the germ, the embryo, as it were, of the sublimest musical ideas of the composer, and the delicacy of its touch has enabled him to give the lightest shades and boldest strokes of musical expression. As an acccompaniment to the voice it stands pre-eminently first, for it best enables the performer to vent his feelings in the power of song. It of course cannot show itself to advantage in a crowd of instruments, but to make up for this deficiency it plays its part perfectly in private. Under the magical fingers of a Rubenstein or a Liszt, it calls into existence all the enchantments and beauties of music; it draws from all her resources, leaving none untouched. From a strain of soulbreathing tenderness, the music gradually melts into a faint echo, as it were, leaving upon the soul those gentle impressions which it is only in the power of a musical genius to imprint. Such are some of the merits of the piano-forte. In its present state of perfection it is undoubtedly one of the noblest and most elegant instruments in the whole compass of musical practice. The harpsichord of old cannot be compared to the piano-forte of our time.
It would seem, then, that the piano-forte surpasses every other instrument—that no other possesses such an extensive range, effectually representing the extremes of a grand orchestra. There appears, also, better music to have been written for the piano-forte than for probably any other instrument; witness a Beethoven, a Mendellsohn, a Liszt, and other lesser lights. It best accompanies the voice,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	247
and also seems to be most in use. With all those grand qualities in its favor, it would seem difficult to institute a comparison between the piano and organ, and that in favor of the latter. We will endeavor, however, to show that the organ is in all respects equal, and in many respects superior to the piano-forte. In the first place, it is evident that a musical instrument, or rather a combination of instruments of loftier, more elegant, and more majestic structure than the organ could not have been invented. As to more artistic finish, the grand piano may perhaps be superior; and as to elegance of proportion, the violin; but as to grandeur of outline, elegance of design, and majesty of structure the organ stands unrivalled. If we consider the internal construction and combination of parts, the number of pipes of various kinds and dimensions, and of multifarious tones and powers—the various registers to regulate and modify the sound—these all seem to heighten our estimate of this king of instruments. Again, the organ stands pre-eminent as to solemnity, grandeur, and rich volume of tone. These qualities, more than any other, obtain it an acknowledged pre-eminence over every other instrument. -The pedal of a great organ is indeed the voice of sublimity. What the poet conceived of a thunderstorm at night in the Alps may not inaptly be applied to the effect of a great organ in the hands of a master when in his best moments of musical inspiration.
.	“Far along
From peak to peak the rattling crags among, Leaps the live thunder! not from low cloud, But every mountain now has found a tongue, And Jura answers through her misty shroud Back to the joyous Alps, who call to her aloud!
How the lit lake shines a phosphoric sea, And the big rain comes dancing to the earth! And now again ’tis bleak, and now the glee Of the loud hill shakes with its mountain’s mirth, As if they did rejoice o’er a young earthquake’s birth.”
The organ then, under the twofold aspect of perfection both of the instrument itself and of the organist, is inferior to no source of the sublime in absorbing the imagination. The rush and concourse of sounds issuing from its bosom has' been aptly compared to the full and even volume of a mighty river, flowing onward wave after wave, now dashing against some rock, sweeping with momentarily increasing vehemence to the brow of a precipice where it rushes down, a wide-spreading and overwhelming flood. In sublime effects, then, the organ, among all musical instruments, stands supreme, and rules, as it were, in the realm of instrumental music.
The organ is in all respects equal, in many respects superior, to the various musical instruments of modern times. The piano, violin, flute, harp and guitar can produce but feeble though beautiful sounds in comparison to the sublime and majestic voice of the organ. How grand and imposing does not this king of instruments appear when in the hands of the inspired master! Imagine a Handel uniting his feelings to the voice of the pedal, strong and solemn. As an orator by eloquence and action carries away the audience, in like manner does the organ, by majesty of sound and refinement of sentiment, captivate the mind and heart.
But besides the unquestionable superiority of the organ to other instruments, it has merits which are peculiarly and emphatically its’ own. Indirectly, no higher praise could be bestowed upon it than its adoption and use for divine worship by the Church. Always wise and cautious, the
Church admits in her ritual and ceremonial nothing except that which by its very nature and application directly or indirectly adds to the beauty and lustre of divine worship. When she wishes the better to dispose her children to the worship and adoration of the true God, and to beautify the ceremonial and liturgy, she calls to her aid art and science. Who doubts of the salutary effect of religious paintings, as a means to touch the heart and to call forth sentiments of admiration and love! They are living words Gf truth and love, exposed on canvas. In like manner the Church has selected and adopted the organ as best fitted for the place and purpose she had in view.
At present the organ performs almost an integral part of divine service. Directly, it possesses intrinsic merits which would lay claim to our consideration, and furnish the motives that brought about its introduction in public worship. As above stated, the organ in point of harmony and as a single instrument, has no rival. Depth of harmony and flow of melody form the criterion by which, independently of good or bad execution, we judge music, both in an objective and subjective sense. Again, the more harmony and melody coincide, or the better they unite to make a uniform whole, the better and nobler sentiments do they call forth from the soul. But that these absolute requisites for good music admirably shine forth in organ sounds is evident to the musical observer- In point of the beauty and pleasure they afford, what can excel those excellent compositions of the great masters as executed by a master? We often look upon a statue or painting representing St. Cecilia with her fingers upon the organ-keys, and her gaze towards heaven, entranced as it were in an ecstasy of delight. Pure and^ holy, chaste and fair was the virgin, and like qualities we involuntarily associate with the instrument whose keys her tiny fingers are touching. Is not, then, the ideal of music a beautiful one ? And should not many an organist blush to have deviated from the lofty purpose of the organ, and descended to what is low and trivial ? For, should not the tones of the organ bear some resemblance and express the very sentiments of that saintly figure ? Here the very beau-ideal of music is expressed. For it is but the means to strengthen the chords of love that bring, as it were, the creature to the Creator. Men should always strive to imitate the perfect, or at least those far advanced in the realization of the ideal. In the arts, and especially in music, this would seem the duty of all who, ex-prof esso, apply themselves to the realization of the beautiful. But abuse and misapplication seem now to be the lot of the arts. Instead of a heavenly aim they seem nowadays to be the instruments of cultivating the sensual and low, and degrading whatever may savor of the beautiful and the true.
Such are some of the thoughts that would suggest themselves in considering the merits of this, the king of musical instruments. To sum up: vastness of design, loftiness and grandeur of structure, characterize its exterior; whilst majesty, solemnity, and beauty of sound proclaim its superior excellence over the vast array of inferior instruments; and, as will be shown in a future article, it adds, like an earthly echo of the angelic choirs in heaven, its full, rich and inspiring notes to the beautiful simplicity of the Gregorian Chant.	.	M.
—Some mean-spirited married men can’t see any difference between receiving a Christmas present from their wives and buying it themselves. There is, however, a great deal of difference. In the first case you get something you don’t want.	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
No Pains, no Gains.
We live in a busy world. Men are restless, and daily busy their brains about the carrying out of new designs, planning new schemes, and searching after new discoveries in things that seemed to be already at the point of perfection : the telegraph, the electric light, the phonograph, the microphone and telephone startle the scientific world into an ecstasy of delight. What centuries ago scientists knew nothing of, nay dreamt not even of the possibility, much less of the realization, is to-day a fact, known by the whole world. This age is emphatically an age of progress— progress in science, literature, and the useful arts. The present achievements in these three branches of human learning are indeed astonishing, and palpable to the multitude. But was it different in ages past, when people, knowing nothing of the future, thought to have brought human art and science to the zenith of perfection ? The careful student of history knows well that acquirements in knowledge and perfection in art partake of the character of the nations or people that cultivate these branches of learning. The Athenians under the administration of Pericles were refined: so was their poetry, their architecture, their art of painting and sculpture. In the moral order this is also true. A virtuous man performs virtuous actions—a wicked man wicked actions: an effect, indeed, must partake of the nature of the cause that produces it. But from whatever point of view we look upon what men have done and achieved in the past, as well as upon their present productions, we shall find verified the truth of the title of our essay, that where no pains are taken there will be no gains, and that therefore the gains are always proportionate to the pains. Man, in his present condition, is suffering the penalties imposed by an offended God upon Adam, and, consequently, upon all mankind, whose common father he is. Having been created in a state of original justice—that is of sanctifying grace, integrity, science and immortality, he forfeited these heavenly gifts, and drew the curse of the Creator upon his head, condemning him, as the Scripture tells us, to eat his bread in the sweat of his brow, and to many other evils both of body and mind that now weigh heavily upon the human race. The perfect science, then, which man originally lost, he now, as far as his dimmed intellect and inconstancy will permit, begins to recover by labor.
Man has also become prone to evil—his moral nature has therefore suffered a like change. Besides, his physical constitution was weakened, so as to subject him, from the cradle to the grave, to many and various infirmities and pains. But, worst of all, he forfeited the right to heaven, which God had gratuitously bestowed upon him. Hence the fourfold acquirements that result from the labors of man: the intellectual, moral, physical and spiritual.
That one cannot gain in intellectual culture, be moral, perfect, or develop what pertains to the physical order, nor obtain heaven as a reward without having taking proportionate pains or labor, shall be my endeavor to illustrate and prove in the sequel. Authority, history, reason and experience will furnish sufficient proofs of the truth of my assertion.
To gain heaven is, indeed, the greatest of all gains. But Scripture tells us that the kingdom of God suffers violence, and none but the violent bear it away. The ulti-■ mate end of man, as the Catechism teaches, is union with (?od in heaven. But in order to obtain this end, man must
have supernatural means, and these means none but God can give. Man, therefore, can reach heaven only by those means or in that way which God, his Creator, has pointed out to him. Almighty God has given man an infallible guide, and placed within his reach an unfailing means of attaining his end. This guide is the Catholic Church. The means are the Sacraments. That the Catholic Church is a divine institution, being founded by Christ—that out of its bosom there is no salvation—that whoever is saved, is saved in the Church—needs not proof here. It cannot be otherwise, if we believe the words of Christ Himself. As regards men that ignore the existence of God, such as atheists, and those that idolize, as it were, the human intellect, as the rationalists, there seems to be truly no more miserable state of human nature to picture than the one in which the lot of these men is cast. Can they find anything in this world that will entirely fill the void, that will entirely satisfy the craving in their hearts? No. Man comes from God, his end is to return to God, the source of his being, and as long as he swerves from the path leading to this end his soul must be filled with the pangs of doubt and an insatiable thirst for something he scarcely knows what. What folly to so idolize the human intellect as to make it reject the mysteries of faith because it cannot comprehend them! Do we even thoroughly understand the simplest natural phenomena that daily pass before us ? No. The human understanding is limited, for so its very nature requires it. It can never exceed its bounds, for the infinite is beyond the reach of the finite.
It is said that pride is the root of all evil; and that this pride affects all atheists and rationalists cannot be reasonably doubted. There is no such thing as a genuine atheist. He may be such in theory—but never in reality; the so-called atheists, even the most prominent among them, like Voltaire, Rousseau, Tom Paine, etc., profess this impious doctrine mostly because they are blinded by passion and prejudice. Voltaire, although a radical atheist in his writings, was not such at heart; he was a slave to his passions and brutal appetites, and these led him far from God, but never so far that he could say in sober earnestness, There is no God. No: Voltaire in the morning, in his sober senses, acknowledged the existence of a Supreme Being, and even prayed to Him; Voltaire at noon, under the influence of intoxicating drink, was an atheist. Voltaire knew there was a God, but he was a sot, a voluptuary, a thief, and was not willing to bridle his passions and keep the Commandments of God, therefore it was that under the influence of passion he wrote against that God whom he outraged in his sinful life. So also with Rousseau. And Tom Paine, as we see by his quaking fear at the hour of death, was no more than half a believer in his own atheistic doctrine. Others there are who are blinded by the pride of intellect. On the part of these men nothing but humility, united with a calm philosophical research into the truths of creation and the existence of a Creator, will lead them to God; with unprejudiced mind and honest heart must they enter upon their investigation, and the God of truth will soon open their eyes, and give their supplications a hearing. In their own view, it may not, perhaps, be of great importance to know the true God, but this only goes to show how far human nature may sink, so as finally to ignore the very Author of its existence.
But there is a class of men who believing in God still reject a portion of the revealed truth, and this because it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
does not, perhaps, coincide with their natural propensities, which seem rather to tend towards evil than good. The Catholic Church is the work of God, instituted and invisibly governed and protected by Him. Although the Church embraces all nations in her communion, when we cast a glance over the now-civilized world we find many still straying afar from her maternal bosom. How many millions are still buried in paganism, not knowing the true God I How many thousands have wilfully torn themselves away from her kind embraces, and now protest against the teacher and nourisher frond whom their forefathers derived their spiritual food! But they were the losers; they were the withered branches on the vine of the Church. Having separated, they in their pride aud arrogance went to find the truth where it was not. Let them not be deceived. They lost,'through blindness, and sacrifices must be made in order to recover the gem of truth. Heaven is to be gained, but to travel in the opposite direction will surely not lead to a blissful port. There is, in fact, no more appropriate application of the truth, “ No pains, no gains,” than in this case. If those that cross the sea of life in a strong, impregnable boat are harrassed by the contrary winds of temptations and disappointments, how can those entertain hope of reaching safely the shore that sail in a fragile bark, liable to be sunk into the deep by a little gust of wind? The weight of authority on this point is great, for it is no less than that of God Himself. He tells us that heaven is a reward, a remuneration for our good works upon earth. But to gain this reward He has given means ; and those means are not to be had outside of the Catholic Church. Ecclesiastical history never yet recorded the doings of a schismatic or heretical saint, and, as far as reason and experience teach, nobody yet found the truth who was not in search of it. It was after a long struggle with his innate passions and the forfeit of the splendid promises of a brilliant future career, that a St. Augustine found the truth. And why should not some sacrifices be made when such a great boon is at stake ? How foolish men are to refuse in time what eternity shall not offer them, the occasion to find the truth and abide by it!
There is, however, another field of action, where many work: some taking great pains to reach the proposed end, others using less strenuous exertions; whilst some, again, profess indifference. This is the field of the intellect, that faculty of ours by which we judge, think, reason, and perceive. Man’s mind is essentially active; and of its different pursuits none perhaps is more congenial to it than the pursuit of knowledge. This is but natural, and seems to be a direct consequence of what we know of the perfections of God. God is omniscient; His science is infinite. But man, being modelled after the image and likeness of God, must try to attain, in some degree, and as far as his natural faculties permit, to what he knows to be a perfection in God. Human knowledge being limited and imperfect, must be acquired; it is not inborn. The principles are present, but undeveloped and, as it were, in an embryo state. Hence the necessity of education. But as no one can acquire knowledge for another, it follows that whatever acquisitions one has or will have, in an intellectual point of view, must be due to one’s own private and personal exertions. You are therefore what you have made yourself; and if you be a virtuous man, and a learned man, no one can rob you of this treasure in any way whatsoever; and should you perhaps forfeit your life, you lose not your virtue, and your knowledge will only be the more deep and
extensive, for the Sovereign Judge will give each his due. Individuals as well as nations are illustrative of this point, for it is a universal principle, a principle that holds good in every age and clime. History, experience, reason and authority give proofs of its truth.
Whatever culture of mind, then, one possesses, must be the result of personal industry; for no one is so foolish as to expect from others what he knows they cannot give. In glancing over the pages of ancient history, we find that the Athenians under the administration of Pericles rose to a perfection in intellectuil productions, in art, science and literature scarcely equalled, never surpassed, by any succeeding age. Phidias, Zeuxis, Parrhasius, Homer, Pindar, Demosthenes, .ZEschines, Polybius, Plutarch, all have immortalized their names in the grand productions of their genius. No doubt the age of Pericles stands unrivalled iu the annals of mankind. This it owes, not to imitation, but to its own refined taste and inventive genius. The Athe-nians were a refined but also a painstaking and industrious people. They possessed genius, but they always developed it, and their masterpieces of art and eloquence stand as monuments to posterity. We wonder at this, and seem curious to find the true cause of such progress. Bead history, and you will notice that a spirit of investigation, private industry, refined taste, and development of natural genius won for them the laurels of victory. Individual progress presupposes the adoption of the same means; for as a nation is composed of individuals, its honor, glory and successes naturally depend upon the qualifications of its component parts. An athlete in the Olympic games was required to pass a thorough training, and undergo severe trials and preparations. He was to be of irreproachable manners, free condition, and of a very austere mode of life. Preparations of this kind were considered necessary for the contest and the gaining of the victory, hereby giving us an instance of how much the ancients valued even trifling means, as it were, when a great object was to be gained and laurels of victory to be won. The gains that accrued to the victor in these Olympic games were indeed surpassingly great. He was crowned, so to speak, in the sight of all Greece. With great pomp was he reconducted to his country; his name was celebrated by poets, and statues were erected in his honor. There could, indeed, have been no more flattering rewards bestowed upon the conqueror knowing no other praise than that of men.
Physically speaking, we cannot all be athletes; but there seems no impossibility in the intellectual order. An athlete in knowledge, in word and in deed implies no contradiction. The physical constitution can be developed, strengthened; the same is true as regards the development and strengthening of the mind; and, as in the case adduced, dexterity, soundness and agility of the bodily frame and organs crowned the conquering athlete, so shall knowledge and success crown those that labor most assiduously in the field of the intellect. But why recall the past to afford proofs of what the present is the actual realization ? Do not each hour’s, each day’s, each week’s, each year’s records positively testify to the fact that without pains there are no gains? Was human nature different when those mighty nations of antiquity peopled the earth from what it is now ? We cannot say so; for theologians, history and tradition seem to hold the contrary. If there be any difference at all it is accidental, not essential. What men then acquired was owing to their own personal labors and exertions: what men now achieve is owing to the same cause—their
250	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
own individual endeavors to obtain success. In the many avocations of life, in the various pursuits in which the multitude daily engage; in the different ends that men strive to attain, we find illustrations of the point at issue. The student well knows, and daily experiences, that the gains in regard to knowledge depend entirely upon, and are proportionate to, the pains he takes to prepare for his classes. This is the more palpable when lessons are difficult to comprehend and hard to memorize. The musician, whose labors seem to be rather of a pleasing nature, has learned that only after long and tedious practice of a musical composition can he enter into the spirit of the composer and reproduce the piece with all the nicety of shades, all the energy and animation which the author originally intended to be essential to the execution of the composition.
To history and experience a few more points might be added which reason would seem naturally to suggest. Man is essentially an active being. As such God created him for heaven. This life, however, is but a preparation for the life to come. He must therefore work in order to obtain heaven: for “the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent bear it away.” Heaven is therefore but a reward for what men do and suffer in this life for its possession. No one is born perfect; neither in the intellectual, physical, nor moral order. Your reason must be developed; your physical constitution strengthened; your moral worth increased. This is all personal work; it is therefore but by your own personal exertions that your intellect, heart and body cau be perfected, each according to its individual properties. Such thoughts would reason, independently of proofs from other sources, naturally suggest.
As to good morals, it is equally certain that without pains there are no gains. Through the Fall, not only man’s intellect was dimmed, but bis heart became prone to evil and his body to infirmities and death. Hence the threefold struggle, as it were, of men in their present state. When we read, therefore, of great and holy men we must not imagine that this greatness and holiness was innate to them, but, on the contrary, their genuine greatness and moral worth were always proportionate to their personal exertions in overcoming those temptations, in rejecting those allurements, which, if yielded to, would blemish their heart and stain their soul. Innocence and purity of heart we admire not only because they in themselves are the qualities of the good and holy, but also because we know that their possessor is a hero, as it were, overcoming the foes that would fain rob him of his treasure and tear from him the gem of virtue. Those that nowadays treasure, or strive after, good morals and character, must be on their guard and cannot be careless and indifferent, for they either would forfeit or never attain this priceless boon. Where immorality and corruption abound, innocence is exposed, and, if not well protected by the owner, becomes a prey to the invader. Thestory of Joseph is well known, and testifies that in ages past, as well as at the present time, good morals and innocence were but the price of personal labors, of personal virtue. Socrates, the pagan philosopher, although having no true notion of the one only God, still was adorned with many great qualities. Disinterestedness, magnanimity, fortitude, modesty, eminently shone forth in the character of this sage. To spread the principles of honesty and morality among the people, he made use of every favorable circumstance, public or private, that offered itself, to give them useful instructions. Above all, he en
deavored to improve the good natural disposition of young men, to form their minds and hearts, and to train them to justice, temperance, respect for religion and the laws, warning them at the same time against idleness, vanity and licentiousness. Here we have this philosopher, a pagan, destitute of supernatural motives,—for he knew not the true God,—but actuated by simply natural inducements, practicing virtue and avoiding vice, in which he greatly surpassed many of the so-called Christians of our days. Few perhaps would nowadays, like Socrates of old, stand up for justice, morality and right; and although we live in an enlightened age—an age enlightened in the sciences, but denying or scoffing at religion; enlightened as to progress, material and worldly progress, yet we are unfortunately far back in the knowledge and practice of morality, honesty and virtue.-
But besides the framing of the the heart and mind, there is another duty incumbent on men as regards their physical constitution. Here also, as well as in the intellectual nature of men, development seems to be an essential requisite. The bodily organs, left to themselves, in a state of inactivity would soon become enfeebled and unfit for their respective functions. Inquire into the mode of life of that pale and sickly boy. His sunken cheeks, weary frame, sad look, tell of neglect as to the care of his health. He shuns the changes of nature as to heat and cold, and is afraid that every little gust of wind, every little sunshine, every little cold, is pregnant with disease. But how lively and cheerful is yonder rosy-cheeked boy, who in fair and foul weather, in sunshine or rain, delights in sports, and is nowhere happier than when in the free embrace of nature ! This is but what nature teaches. For even in the physical order there are laws, and by these laws we must abide, if we value health, strength and bodily activity in general. How to take care of health, or how to avoid many causes of disease, may be learned by all. That general acquaintance with the mechanism and working of the human system, which all persons, even of little education, should possess, is necessary to guard it against injury, and to improve its divers capabilities and powers. Health is a great blessing, and how many there are who, through their own fault, are now dragging along a miserable existence! Be prudent, and do not reject those means of preserving or restoring health which God in His goodness has placed at your disposal. Do what you can in order to preserve your health, for with sound health you are better fit to benefit society, thereby indirectly doing the work of God. If life and its opportunities be valuable, is it not wise to acquire that which would prolong its existence and augment its capacity? We see, then, that even the normal state of our existence, the state of health and strength, is due, in a great measure, to our own exertions. If anyone would, perhaps, be dubious about this assertion, let him recall the past, or consider his own experience in this respect; and if he be incredulous still, let him consult and rely upon the testimony of others.
Such, then, are the thoughts and arguments that would go to prove the truth of the axiom, “No pains, no gains.” That history, reason, authority and experience have furnished sufficient matter for argumentation that no man can reach heaven unless he travel in the right direction, which direction God Himself has pointed out for us, cannot be denied. That in the natural order you cannot acquire knowledge in any other way than by study is equally incontestable. Knowledge by infusion comes direct from
$HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
251
God,—that is, superhaturally. That you can be moral only when you fight for it, as it were, is evident; and this perhaps the more so, if evidence would admit of degrees, in this nineteenth century. As to health and stength of the body, hygiene and medicine remind you of their usefulness, and how they can be preserved, or gained when lost. An; ticipating, then, the result of our labors in whatever sphere of action we may work, let us not act cowardly, but like men who know that life is good and serious, and that we are but sojourning in a land whose trials when o’er lead the wandering feet unto a blissful shore.	M. L.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A memoir of John Lothrop Motley has been written by Oliver Wendell Hohnes, who was his intimate friend.
—The report that Signor Verdi is composing a new opera, “Francesca da Rimini,” may be contradicted on the authority of Signor Verdi himself.
—A weekly newspaper devoted to the interest of the Catholic Church is to be established in Rome, and will be printed simultaneously in five different languages.
—A biography of the Duke of Wellington, containing a portrait, eight plans of the principal battles, and three maps, is just ready for the printers at Rivingtons’, London.
—Mr. Thomas Bailey Aldrich’s story “La Reine de Saba ” has been translated into French by M. Thomas Bentzon, who publishes it in book form, with some picturesque tales by Edward Eggleston.
—Shakespeare’s “Merchant of Venice” has been translated into Portuguese by his majesty Dom Luiz, and the work is already in press. It will be followed by “ Othello,” the translation of which is now ready for the printers.
—“The Messiah” will be given under the direction of Theodore Thomas, in Cincinnati, in Christmas week. The soloists will be Misses Van and Cranch, of Cincinnati; Mr. Hartley Thomson, an English tenor; and Mr. Myron W. Whitney, of Boston.
—Two years ago prizes were offered at Munich for the best works in tragedy, comedy, and farce, and it is now announced that no fewer than 192 tragedies, 119 comedies( and 125 farces—in all 436 productions—have been offered. The prizes have not yet been awarded.
—Several valuable pictures were destroyed at the fire which took place last week at the Hotel de Ville at Moulins. Amongst them were an “Annunciation,’’ by Caravagio, and an “Adoration of the Holy Trinity.” These two pictures belonged to the Church of the Sacred Heart, and had been temporarily deposited in the Hotel de Ville.
—The programme of the fifth Leipsic Gewandhaus concert was composed largely of novelties. Among them were a “ Rhapsody ” for contralto solo, male chorus and orchestra, by Brahms; an overture, “Nordische Heerfarht” (successful), by the Danish writer, Emile Hartmann; M. Saint-Saens’ G minor concerto, played by Mme. Essipoff; and Gade’s symphony in B flat.
—The Shere Ali who translated “Robinson Crusoe” into Persian is not the Shere Ali of present European fame. The name Shere Ali is, it seems, as common in Afghanistan as John Smith in England, and from this arose the error of The Academy (London) in ascribing the book to the Ameer of Cabul. The true translator is a Tajik, or Afghan of Persian descent, and his translation is regarded by scholars who have examined it as a very poor piece of workmanship.
—The London Figaro of Nov. 23d says: “Dr. Hans von Billow is a man of action. He conducted at a concert at Hanover on Saturday, on Monday he arrived in England, the same evening played at the Monday Popular Concerts, on Tuesday he conducted the Blind School concert, and on Wednesday he played the last five of Beethoven’s sonatas at his first recital at St. James’ Hall. On Thursday he started off into the provinces, and for the next three weeks,
at least, he will know not a single day’s leisure. For the Monday Popular Concerts Dr. von Bulow selected Schumann’s fantasia in C and the pianoforte trio in G minor by his friend and compatriot, Hans von Bronsart. The merits of the trio were fully discussed after its first performance in this country at the concert of Miss Helene Arnim at Messrs. Kirkman’s Rooms last season, and nothing further needs now be said about it. The executants on Monday were, of course, Dr. von Beulow, Mme. Norman-Neruda, and.Sig. Piatti. St. James' Hall was crammed to the doors, and Monday Popular Concert audiences were warm in their expressions of delight in welcoming back this great, if occasionally erratic, pianist.”
’ Books and Periodicals.
Jesuits ! By Paul FSval. From the Tenth French Edition. By T. F. Gallwey. Baltimore: Published by John Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore St.. 1879. Pp. 384. Paper price, 75 cts.
Some time ago in our column headed “Art, Music and Literature” wre announced the publication of this work in France, and later on gave notice that Messrs. Murphy & Co., of Baltimore, had a translation in press. This translation is now before us. Of the work itself we can but re-echo the words of praise bestowed on it by the Catholic press of France. Paul Feval was a brilliant young Bohemian, the friend of Eugene Sue and other writers of that class. He began his literary life as an opponent of the great Order of Jesuits, but has now become its friend. His conversion excited surprise among his old friends, but neither friends nor foes were prepared for the great work he has produced. It is a masterpiece in which great historical knowledge and critical acumen are united to a style at once brilliant and forcible. No one can read these pages of fervid defence without feeling them to be the sentiments of an honest man. Messrs. Murphy & Co. have issued the work in good style.
—The Holiday number of Church's Musical Visitor is a beautiful and valuable publication, which every music lover should possess. It contains forty large pages, in bright binding, and is handsomely illustrated. It opens with a cluster of four pretty Christmas Carols followed by Handel’s immortal “ I know that my Redeemer liveth ”; then comes what must prove of great interest to every musician,— & facsimile piece of music by Chopin, with a fine portrait of the composer. Another specially interesting feature of the Christmas Visitor is the autograph letter of Franz Liszt and portrait. The literary department includes Christmas stories, poems, musical essays by eminent writers, and shorter articles, together with, all the musical news. The music in this number comprises no fewer than twelve pieces—songs, piano and organ pieces. One of the songs is the dear old “Auld Robin Gray”; and for piano there is a fine arrangement of the new opera of “ Carmen.” There is also a full-page engraving called the “Dominant Chord.” Price of the Christmas Visitor is 25 cts.; §1.50 per year. The publisher will send particulars on receipt of stamp. Address, John Caurch & Co., Cincinnati, 0.
The Future oe Catholic Peoples. An 'Essay Contrasting Protestant and Catholic Efforts for Civilization. By Baron de Haulleville. With Prefatory Notes by Cardinal Manning, Cardinal Dechamps and Puis IX, and an Appendix containing Notes from Various Authoritative Sources. New York: Hickey & Co., Publishers of “The Vatican Library,” 11 Barclay St. Pp. 320. Price §1.50.
. This work of Baron de Haulleville is one of remarkable ability. The learned author institutes a comparison between the work done for civilization by Protestant nations and that done by Catholic. He brings to his aid a vast array of facts, and uses them with great force. He entirely explodes the theory put forward by enemies of the Church that Catholic nations are poor as compared to non-Catho-lic ones. Indeed he shows, and truthfully too, that the age of a nation’s greatest material prosperity is that which is most thoroughly Catholic. This of course is not a proof of the divine origin of the Church, but it goes to show the falsity of a charge frequently made, that a nation cannot be Catholic and prosper. As a controversial work, it is of great value. It is well printed and neatly gotten up.
252
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, December 21, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,	'
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Christmas Day.
As we now write, the fields are shrouded with snow, the tinkling of sleigh-bells may be heard upon the not far distant road, and the surface of the lakes is covered with ice. Everything indicates that this year we are to have a white Christmas; and, somehow or other, that joyous holiday seems to us to be all the gladder and merrier when it
comes with the snow deep upon the ground. Christmas without snow seems to lose some of its many charms; but with the snow and the ice everywhere, it becomes the gladdest season of the year. It may be that with our changeable climate the snow may melt away and disappear before Christmas comes, but all appearances at present writing lead us to hope that such will not be the case. However, with snow or without it, we wish each and all our readers a merry and pleasant time during the approaching holidays.
Here in the United States, or at least in this western part, we have several days for family gatherings. With those of New-England birth or descent, every one celebrates Thanksgiving Day and makes it the occasion of a family reunion, when family ties are renewed and strengthened. Then, with the Knickerbockers of New York, New-year’s day is observed, and friendly visits of congratulation are made. But though Thanksgiving Day and New year’s are appropriately observed, Christmas Day has ever been the favorite day with all classes. It of all days is the family day, when sons and daughters return once more to the homes they have left and assemble around the hearthstone to retell their scenes of the early life. That day, of all in the year, is the one which gives more joy and pleasure and contentment than all others besides.
It is that desire of gathering together in the household that takes home next Monday the majority of the students. That it interferes with the order of classes is a fact long
known, and one which everyone would like to see remedied. But so long as people have the love of home and family gatherings rooted in their hearts we fear there can be no change, and the Christmas vacation must take place. Perhaps after all it is better it should be so, for the feeling to which we refer is a sacred one and ought rather to be encouraged than crushed out.
To all those who leave for their homes we wish all the joys of the season. May they, as they are gathered around the hearthstone, pass the hours in good cheer and joy and peace. May they enjoy with their friends and relations, not this Christmas alone, but, in the far future, when they have taken their stand in the world, may they enjoy their Christmas Day with the friends they now go home to meet. To those who remain at Notre Dame we also wish a merry Christmas. Last year there was any amount of amusement furnished. Every night, almost, impromptu entertainments were gotten up in the study-halls and the ten days of vacation spent very pleasantly. This year, no doubt, there will be the same opportunity offered to those who remain for spending every bit as pleasant a time.
The Minims’ Entertainment.
Entertainments by the members of the Minim Department have not been frequently given at Notre Dame. When Bro. Celestine had charge of the department some twelve years ago, two Entertainments were gotten up by them. Then, again, during the prefectship of Bro. Emmanuel two were given in Washington Hall, while some three or four years ago, under their present prefect they also gave an entertainment. Last Tuesday’s, the sixth ever given by the Minims, took place in tkeir study-hall and was very successful. The programme, printed in another column, was well carried out and afforded much ammusement to all who had the good fortune to be present. The Entertainment was given in honor of Very Rev. E. Sorin, who is a warm friend of all the members of the department.
There were songs by Masters G. Woodson, 0. Farrelly, F. Campau, G. Rhodius, N. Nelson, H. McDonald, W. Rheinhardt, and A. Schmuckle, all of which were well given. Some of these young gentlemen have excellent voices. The song by the eight Minims was capital, and elicited great applause.
The address of Master Amadeus Coghlin to Very Rev. Father General was very fine and well delivered, and the prologue by Master F. Brady comical and good. In the way of declamations some excellent ones were rendered by Masters H. Snee, J. Inderrieden, W. McDevitt, A. Coghlin, and J. Garrity. We do not like to make any distinction as regards the merits of those who declaimed, but will content ourselves by stating the fact that the audience was surprised at the excellence of most of the young deciaimers. All acquitted themselves well, and were rewarded with hearty applause.
Four little plays were given during the course of the evening. In that entitled “ The Trial of Peter Sloper ” the principal characters were taken by Masters F. Campau, A. A. Coghlin, G. Rhodius and C. McGrath. In “ The Baseball Enthusiast ” Masters W. McDevitt, W. Coghlin and Jos. Courtney took the parts, and took them well. In the “Rival Orators” Masters N. Nelson and F. Campau caused much merriment, and in “Josh Reade” Masters N. Nelson, C. McGrath, W. Rheinhardt and O. Farrelly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
253
distinguished themselves. In all the plays, those taking part acquitted themselves in a manner highly satisfactory, and showed that they had received thorough training.
A piano solo was well executed by Master George Rhodius; and Mr. George Cochrane, though not belonging to the Department, by request played quite a number of excellent selections on the piano. Master W. Jones was quite successful in a comic speech. The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. Fathers General and Corby, who richly complimented the young participants in the evening’s exercises. The Minims are to be congratulated upon the fine little Entertainment they gave under the able instruction of Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., and Bro. Albert. Can they not give another, and in Washington Hall?
8
Personal.

»
.—M. T. Corby, of ’64, visited Notre Dame last Monday.
—J. C. Kelly (Commercial), of ’67, is banking at Le Mars, Iowa. .
—J. Frank Zahm (Commercial), of ’65, is in business at Toledo, Ohio.	’	.
—0. W. Lindberg (Commercial), of ’76, is doing well in Lakeland, La.	"
—Valerio Baca (Commercial), of ’73, is in business at Valverde, N. M.
—B. F. Roberts (Commercial), of ’73, is in business at Independence, Mo.
—W. Sheehan-Monaghan of ’75, is engaged in farming near Louisville, Ky.
—Thos. J. Ewing, of ’69, visited Notre Dame at the beginning of the week.
—Henry Quan (Commercial), of’75, is keeping books for his father in Chicago.	>
—A. K. Schmidt (Commercial), of ’78, is in his father’s establishment in Chicago.
—C. Robinson (Commercial), ’77, is in business with his father at Sandusky, Ohio.
—J. J. Luken (Commercial), of ’54, is the Chicago Agent of Uienaber & Son, Cincinnati.	•
—James B. Gray (Commercial)’, of ’76, is deputy County Treasurer of Carroll County, Iowa.
—J. Golsen (Commercial), of ’75, is doing a good Commission business in South Water St., Chicago.
—Charles F. Morgan (Commercial), of ’71, is superin. tendent of a large manufacturing establishment at Oak. land, California.	•
—Joseph C. Heinz (Commercial), of’71, is chief bookkeeper for the Denver & Colorado R. R. Co., Colorado Springs, Colorado.
—William B. Moon (Commercial), of ’68, is a member of the firm of Harsha & Moon, dealers in drugs, medicines, etc., Deland, Florida.
—Warren C. Kain (Commercial), of ’67, is in the book business at Vicksburg, Miss. We believe he is a- member of the City Council of that city.
—Rev. R. Shortis, of’49, and Rev. A. Saulnier occasionally take a stroll over to Notre Dame, where they are ever welcomed by their host of friends.
—We wish our friends would furnish us with plenty of items for this column. The personals that appear in the Scholastic are read with great pleasure by the students of former years.
.	—C. N. Riopelle, of ’61, is practicing law in Detroit,
J Mich. Arthur Riopelle (Commercial), of ’72, was lately married, so we are told. George Riopelle (Commercial), of ’74, is clerking for the firm of C. Mabley & Co., in the city of the Straits.
—Rev. Fathers O’Mahony and Robinson reached home from Windsor, Ont., where with Rev. Fathers Cooney and R. Maher they were engaged in preaching a mission.
Father O’Mahony left on Monday for Waukesha, Wis., to attend the funeral of the late Col. Richard Dunbar.
—A. M. Owen, of ’68, after having graduated at the Bellevue Hospital College settled at Evansville, Ind. He now occupies the position of Professor of Surgery in the Medical College in that city, and has charge of St. Mary’s Hospital at the same place. Mr. Owen has, besides,a large medical practice.	.
z—We are pained to announce the death of Col. Richard Dunbar, of Waukesha, Wis., which occurred on the 16th of 4 Dec. The Colonel was well and cheerful up to the hour ‘ of his death, which w’as caused by paralysis of the heart. Col. Dunbar was the father of Edward Dunbar, of ’62, who is buried at Notre Dame. May his soul rest in peace!
-.—The first reception of the Mignon Social Club was held at the residence of Mr. John Cochrane, No. 40 Throop St., on last Wednesday evening, Dec. 5th, and a very enjoyable time was had. This Club numbers among its members many of the Chicago graduates both from here and St. Mary’s. Among the gentlemen are E. J. McMahon (Commercial), of ’78; M. T. Corby, of ’65; T. J. Cochrane (Commercial), of ’75; T. Walsh (Commercial), of’71; D. and J. Hogan, of ’71; J. Taylor (Commercial), of’71; J. Flaherty (Commercial) and J. F. Ward, of ’71, and many others. The second reception occurred at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Ward, No. 91 Loomis St., on Wednesday evening, December 18th.
Local Items.
—Classes cease this evening until the 2d of January.
—To all our subscribers we wish “A merry Christmas 1 ”
—The Minims w ere quite elated over their Entertainment.
—There are a number of.fine singers in the Minim Department.
—The usual monthly Conference was held on Wednesday last.
—Matins and Lauds of Christmas will be chanted next Tuesday evening.
—The Bulletins for the month of December were made out last Wednesday.
—The jingle of the merry sleigh-bells was heard this last week for the first time.
—Classes will begin again on the 2d of January. Every one should be here on time.
—Quite a large number of students will go home for the holidays next Monday morning.
—The Minims’ Entertainment'Tast Tuesday evening was in honor of Very Rev. Father Sorin.
—There was a steady fall of snow all day Wednesday, which greatly improved the sleighing.
—Every reader of the Scholastic should send us a new subscriber during the Christmas holidays.
—Those who intend spending the holidays at their homes will leave on Monday morning, December 23d.
—We have heard some talk of a Christmas-tree being put up in one of the study-halls during the holidays.
—Let every one remember that any delay in South Bend after the holidays will be a bar against honors in June.
—There was excellent sleighing this past week. Mayor / Tong was the first to appear at the College with a cutter.
—A fine Christmas present to a friend, and one he would appreciate, would be a year’s subscription to the Scholastic.
—The Minims gave their Entertainment last Tuesday evening in their study-hall, which was nicely fitted up for the occasion.
—Vespers to-morrow are those of a Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal. In the morning Ulissa de Angelis will be sung.
—There’ was some middling good skating during the week past. The heavy fall of snow, however, interfered with it somewhat.
—Christmas-boxes will begin to arrive on Monday, and
254	THE ROl'RE DAME SCfiOLAS^tC.
there will scarcely any day go by for a week after without several coming.
—On Wednesday the Vespers of Christmas Day will be i sung, page 64 of the Vesperal. Alissa Regia will be sung at the High Masses.
—It is too bad to have the snow come along just as the lakes freeze over. It spoils the skating. How would it do (to have the ice well swept ?
I —Master John A. Gibbons won a beautiful prize presented 4 by Very Rev. Father Granger for the one who would give the best explanation of the Mass.
—We understand that amusements similar to those so heartily enjoyed last year will be furnished to those who remain here during the Christmas holidays.
—We hear that Rev. M. P. Fallize will be raised to the priesthood some day the coming week. The ordination will take place in the Cathedral, Fort Wayne.
—The members of the Class of Elocution in the Minim - Department have certainly made great progress in Elocution. Tney surprised everybody last Tuesday evening.
: —Quite a number of Juniors joined in taking a sleigh-■ ride to the St. Joe Farm on Wednesday. Mr. Shickey’s teams made good time, and the boys enjoyed themselves.
—How the evenings for the next ten days will be enjoyed by those who remain here for the holidays! The socials will be held alternately in the Senior and Junior studyhalls.
—Why should not those students who remain at Notre Dame give an entertainment on New Year’s eve, in Washington Hall. We are certain it would be thoroughly enjoyed.
—A mammoth new tea-urn has lately been put up in the kitchen, capable of holding forty gallons. From this it can be seen that there are plenty of people to be furnished with tea every evening.
—The only fault found with the Minim Entertainment last Tuesday evening was that the room was too small. Our little friends ought not to be so bashful, but come out on the boards in Washington Hall.
—Those students who remain at Notre Dame should remember that the roll of honor will be printed next week and the week after. These rolls will be made out by the prefects and the prefect of discipline.
—We again call attention to the advertisement of C. Po-lack, No. 101 Main St., South Bend. Any one wanting.any-thing in his line will be sure to be accommodated. His stock is A No. 1, and cannot be beaten in South Bend.
, —At the meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M. held .‘^Wednesday, the 18th, questions were answered by Messrs.
"Jas. Fenner, Dennis Clune, and Chas. Brehmer. The ten-minutes instruction was given by Rev. Father Robinson.
—We will give a bound volume of the Scholastic of last year to the student in the Junior Department whose name appears oftenest on the roll of honor from the first ■week ot January to the last week in June. Who will get the volume ?
,	—Special cars have been chartered to run to Chicago next
Monday morning from South Bend. The boys going westward find it belter to travel together. They are able to enjoy themselves better than when scattered throughout the cars of a train.
—If any one has found a pair of beads with the cross and first three “Aces” broken off, he would do a favor by leaving them with the Senior Prefect. It is not so much for the value of the beads in themselves, but they are a souvenir of an old friend.
—We are informed that the officers of the College wish to have it distinctly understood that any student found to delay unnecessarily in South Bend, or any other place, on his return from the Christmas vacation, will be deprived of all honors and premiums at the end of the year.
—The three prizes offered in the Junior department will be given in the Junior refectory to-morrow evening. The Scholastic prize will be given to that student whose name appeared on the roll of honor since September. Two other prizes will be given, one of which the students will vote for.
—In the roll of honor to be printed the first week in January, besides the namesof those who, remaining heredur-ing the holidays, deserve to have their names appear in it, will be given the names of all who return on the 2nd of January. This is due to them for being prompt in returning for class.
. —In an article reprinted from a daily paper, and which lappeared in last week’s Scholastic, it was stated that St. ^Mary’s Academy is built upon the grounds;of the University. Of course most of our readers are aware that St. Mary’s is a chartered institution, and is built on land belonging to it, and not to the University.
—Everybody should procure a copy of the Scholastic Annual and Almanac. Although the selections are from the Scholastic, the editor of this paper has no interest in the Annual, it being a private enterprise. The price is 25 cis. Address, J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind. Copies may be procured at the students’ office.
—There has always been disorder occasioned by some students remaining in South Bend several days before coming to the College after the Christmas holidays. As these students were “ entered ” at the beginning of the year, the College authorities wish it understood that from the time of their arrival in South Bend after the holidays they are subject to the regulations of the College. Hence anyone remaining in South Bend more than a few hours need not expect any honors at the end. of the year. Let every one make a note of this, and act accordingly.
—A gentleman writing from Brooklyn (the City of Churches), after wishing us a merry Christmas and happy New-year, in his genial, good-natured and happy style, says: I am delighted to read the Scholastic (a title and designation it merits). It manifests a clear, intellectual spirit, and I must say to it: “ Go on, and prosper!” In a former letter he pronounced it the best college paper in America. Another, writing to us from Lafayette, says: “ We find much delight in perusing the Scholastic ; in fact I read it more carefully and with more interest than any other periodical I get.”
—The sixth regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, of the Junior Department, took place Sunday evening, Dec. 15th. The ten-minutes address was given by Rev. Father Toohey. Messrs. A. Zahm and E. Piekenbrock gave answers. At this meeting Rev. Fathers Granger, Toohey, Stoffel, and Fallize, and Bros. Leander and Hugh, were present. The question proposed at a former meeting was answered by J. Gibbons, A. Zahm, and J. Casey. The prize for the best answer to the question was awarded ex aequo to J.'A. Gibbons and-A. Zahm. -
—On Thursday evening Rev. J. A. Zahm, delivered in Phelan Hall a Lecture on “ Paris and the Great Exhibition.” A large number of magnificent views of the Great Metropolis and the International Exposition, just received from Paris, were used as illustrations. Among these may be mentioned many superb views of the principal public buildings, churches, palaces, monuments, fountains, bridges and streets of the “Beautiful City,” together with numerous equally fine views of the Exposition buildings, Art and Industrial exhibits, Statuary, etc., etc. A short account of each of the views accompanied their projection on the screen.
—The late Col. Richard Dunbar, proprietor of the celebrated mineral springs at Waukesha, Wis., was buried at Notre Dame last Thursday. It had been always the desire of Mr. Dunbar to be buried at Notre Dame by the side of his son, who is interred in the little cemetery adjoiningthe Scho-lasticate, and his wishes were respected by his friends at Notre Dame. The body arrived at South Bend on Wednesday evening and the funeral took place the following day. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. A. Granger, with Rev. P. Franciscus as deacon and Rev. P. Johannes subdeacon. The church was appropriately draped and a large number of the members of the community attended the funeral. The funeral sermon was preached by Very Rev. President Corby.
—The following was the programme of the Entertainment given by the members of the Elocution Class of the Minim Department on Tuesday evening, Dec. 17th, in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	255
honor of their venerated patron, Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General C. S. C.:
Address...............................A. Coghlin
Prologue.................................F. Brady
Declamation—“ Battle-cry of Freedom”.....H. Snee
Song..................................G. Woodson
Piano Solo............................G. Cochrane
THE TRIAL OF PETER SLOPER.
.	A FARCE.
Peter Sloper...........................F. Campau
Judge Noggins..........................A. Coghlin
Constable Briggs.......................G. Rhodius
Journeymen, etc.
Declamation—“ The Little Boy that Died”. .J. Inderrieden Song...................................0. Farrelly
Declamation—“ The Maniac ”...........W. McDevitt
Song................F. Campau, G. Rhodius, N. Nelson
Recitation—“ My Dog Spot ”.............A. Coghlin
Song..............................  ..H.	McDonald
THE BASEBALL ENTHUSIAST.
John.................................W. McDevitt
James..................................W. Coghlin
Tommy................................J os.Courtney
Declamation—“Drummer Boy”..............J. Garrity
Song.................................W. Reinhardt
Song (Composed for the occasion).....Eight Minims
Piano Solo.............................G. Rhodius
Dialogue—“ Rival Orators”. ...F. Campau and N. Nelson
JOSH READE.
A FARCE, IN TWO SCENES. Josh Reade................................N. Nelson
James and Robert.......C. McGrath and W. Reinhardt Camera.................0. Farrelly
Song...................................N. Nelson
German Song..........................A. Schmiickle
Piano Solo.............................G. Cochrane
Song (Accompanied by G. Rhodius) 	F.	Campau and N. Nelson Piano Solo........G. Cochrane
Closing Remarks............Very Rev. Father General
RoH of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, J. B. Berteling, M. H. Bannon. M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, Thos. Barrett, J. F. Buch anan, J. J. Coleman, A B. Cougar, T. F. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, F. W. Cavanaugh, Thos. E. Chalfant, J. M. Carroll, E. Calkins, E. Dempsey, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, M. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, P. J. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, J. C. Herrmann, Louis Horne, J. T. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, J. Q. Johnson, A. M. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, M. Laughlin, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, M. J. McCue, W. B. McGorrisk, J. B. McGrath, M. J. McEniry, J. J. Mc-Erlain, Wm. O’Brien, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, Jas. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, Wm. Ryan, M. Reilly, 8. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms, J. Simms, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, A. Scheiber, Ed. Schifferle, C. L. Stuckey, P. Shea, T. S. Summers, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, J. J. Shugrue, S. P. Terry, P. Vogle, F. Williams, F. X. Wall.
The name of Geo. Sugg was omitted from the Roll of Honor for some weeks past by mistake. ,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkmann, F. W. Bloom, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, G. C. Castanedo, A. A. Caren, W. D. Cannon, T. F. Clarke, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, O. C. Eigholz, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, M. L. Foote, J. W. Guthrie, H. G. Guynn, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, J. W. Halle, H. M. Haerly, J. Haney, J. W. Kurz, J. Kennedy, J. A. Lumley, T. F. McGrath, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. F. Mug, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekenbrock, R. C. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A. 8. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, F. E. Weisert, R. T. Williams, A F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, P. 8. Fitzgerald, J. Gordon, N. Nelson, H. McDonald, F. X. Campau, C. McGrath, F. P. Brady, W. A. Coghlin, W. F. Reinhardt, G. Knight, J. Inderrieden, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, J. S. McGrath, G. J. Rhodius, C. L. Garrick, O. Farrelly, A. Hartrath, A. Chirhardt, C. Crowe, G. G. Tourtellotte, F. Orner, G. Woodson, H. Kitz, C. Long, C. Welty, F. H. Parsons, E. 8. Chirhardt, E. Howard, H. Snee, F. Farrelly, O. Rheinboldt, F. McGrath, A. J. Campau, P. Campau, J. B. Inderrieden, A. Schmiickle, E. C. Esmer, W. V. O’Malley, J. Chaves.	'
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
J. Coleman, J. Hermann, L. Horn, M. T. Burns, R. Anderson, P. H. Vogle, J. McErlain, W. Arnold, F. Smith, J. Kurz, J. Brady, M. J. Burns, J. Seeger, G. Castanedo, A Mergentheim, F. Phillips, M. Wolf, C. Brinkmann, F. Becker, O. Eigholz, D. Reidy, J. Kennedy, F. Grever, J. Schneider, L. J. Morgan, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. Rietz, F. Glade, J. Halle, F. Gaffney, E. 8. Walter, G. Schnull, J. Mug, A. S. Rock, F. Scheid, C. Van Mourick, C. Cones, J. Harrison, J. English, A. J. Burger, M. J. McCue. F. W. Cavanaugh, G. Sugg, J. B. Berteling, A. Congar, J. Brady, T. Barrett, J. Gibbons, F. Bloom, E. P. Cleary, W. McGorrisk, J. B. Claggett, K. Scanlan, J. Nelson, E. Sugg, A. Keenan, J. Eberhart, J. Arentz, F. Phillips, E. A. Walters, J. Baker, R. P. Mayer, J. Thompson, G. Sugg, H. Niles, R. Keenan, J. W. Guthrie, C. Cavanagh, R. Price.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. J. Rhodius, W. A. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, J. B. Inderrieden, A. Hartrath, O. J. Farrelly, G. Tourtellotte, G. Woodson, C. McGrath, A. M. Coghlin, W. F. Reinhardt, H. McDonald, P. Fitzgerald, J. McGrath, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, H. Kitz, C. Long, F. Parsons, E. Chirhardt, E. Howard, H. C. Snee, F. Farrelly, A Reinboldt, A. J. Campau, J. Chaves.	■
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been, the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—C. Brinkman, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, M. Bums; French —G. Castanedo, G. Schnull, A. Keenan, J. Coleman; Music— B. J. Claggett, F. Bloom. A. Rietz, H. Niles, F. Grever, G. Schnull, J. Thompson ; Drawing (Artistic)—R. Anderson, R. Pleins ; Drawing (Linear)—A. Burger, M. McCue, J. Berteling, A. B. Congar; Elocution—J. P. Hagan, W. Widdicombe, A. B. Congar, R. P. Mayer. K. Scanlan, F. McGrath, T. Hale, J. Perea, G. Donnelly, E. Collins, A. Zahm, J. Kurz, William Grant Jones; Telegraphy—R. Price, R. Keenan.
—“ Competition ” is the class-fever. The winners show lively symptoms.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mr. C. Mc-Kerlie, Sturgis, Mich.; Mrs. Gayhauth, Ohio; Miss Amelia Harris, Miss Wickham, Niles, Mich.
—The snow falling in gentle flakes like Heaven’s graces is a lovely reminder of that mantle of purity which Christians should prepare for a worthy celebration of the coming of the Infant Jesus. Nature is full of God’s teachings, and symbolizes the holiest mysteries.
—On the Octave of the Immaculate Conception the Chapel was decorated in white and gold. At High Mass Rev. Father A. Saulnier, C. S. C., preached in English on “The Dignity and End of Man.” After Mass the Blessed Sacrament was exposed until after Vespers.
—At the weekly Academic reunion, selections from English Literature were read by Miss A. Cortright, Miss

256
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Capel and Miss Walsh. Miss Rosing, read in French, “ Une courts episode de I'histoire d'Espagne" Miss Geiser, “Die Kirchs," von Melchior, V. Diepenbroch, in German.
—The French and German class pupils were invited to visit the church and other places of interest at Notre Dame. Accompanied by their teachers, the visit was very agreeable. Most of the young ladies being also music pupils, the organ-playing gave them great pleasure, as they could follow the parts, and the effects produced by the mixture of stops and power, shown by strong contrasts.
—The Literary Society meet regularly on Wednesdays. St. Teresa’s Society is engaged in reading the Life of St. Thomas of Aquin; St Catharine’s, in the perusal of Historical Selections, Reed’s Lectures on the English Poets, and a sketch from the Life of St. Thomas of Canterbury from Mrs. Jameson’s Legendary Art. St. Angela’s is engaged in the History of the Crusaders. St. Agnes’s little Society find pleasant reading in “Ferncliff.”
—In the course of an article entitled “The Swan Exhibition,” the Saturday Evening Herald of Chicago, says: “ All this lovely painting does not in the least detract from the art-work of the needle. The Sisters of the Holy Cross at SL Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind., have contributed a large quantity of laces, crocheting and silk embroideries, made up into dressing slippers, handkerchief-cases, and soon; like everything which leaves their hands, it is of the most superb quality.”
—Dec. 10th was the Feast of the Translation of Loreto. St. Mary’s being so highly favored as to possess the facsimile of the “ Holy House,” enriched with the indulgences attached to the original (through the zeal of the late Rev. Father Gillespie) this Feast is one of great devotion. Very Rev. Father General said Mass in the Santa Casa, or Holy House, at 6 a. m., for the professed members of the Community. Rev. Father Shortis at the same hour said Mass in the Convent Chapel, that all might receive Holy Communion. At half-past six the “ Children of Mary ” assisted at Rev. Father Saulnier’s Mass in Loreto. Afterwards they took the pilgrims’ breakfast. Throughout the day, the Chapel was thronged by the visitants, who doubtless prayed fervently for all those, living, and dead, who contributed to give this shrine of devotion, embosomed in solitude and breathing the spirit of faith. Who can value enough such a celestial favor ? The day of graces closed with the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament in Loreto.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
. HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Hope Russell.
1st Sr. Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Mary Danaher, Ellen McGrath, Sarah Hambleton, Aurelia Mulhall, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Zod Papin.	-
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Marie Plattenburg, Harriet Buck, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Ward, Annie Ryan, Adella Gordon, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Emma Gerrish, Annie McGrath, Adella Geiser, Lucie Chilton, Margaret Carroll, Mary Ussel-man, Anna Jones, Ella Mulligan, Margaret McNamara, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Julia Kingsbury, Kathleen Wells, Julia Barnes, Mary Tam, Ina Capelie, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins, Minna Loeber, Mary English.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Anna Herman, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Ollie Williams, Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Mary Ludwig.
Junior Prep.—Misses Julia Wells, Catharine Campbell, Mary Lyons, Mattie Doxey, Marie McN. Garrity, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Sophie Papin, Elise Dallas.
1st Jr.—Misses Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Elise Papin, Mary Poquette, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Amelia Morris.	•
PRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Aurelia Mulhall, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, L. Kirchner, Ella Mulligan.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Julia Butts, Genevieve Winston, T. Walters.
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret] Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Teresa Walters, Rebecca Neteler, Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Annie Herman, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Mary Ludwig,'Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Caroline Gall, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Alice Donelan, Mary Tam, Mary Fitzgerald, Margaret McNamara, Julia Butts, Mary Zimmermann, Maud Casey.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier, Teresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Genevieve Welsh.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath, E. Lange.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas. Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover, Anna Maloney.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Kathleen Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Emma Gerrish.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Marie Plattenburg. Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher, Mary’ Mulligan, Minna Loeber.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Julia Wells, Martha Pampel.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Martha Doxey, Maud Casey, Alary Garrity, Ellen Cavanaugh, Elise Dallas.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Tam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Caroline Hopkins, Julia Barnes.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary.
9th Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves, Ada Clarke, Emma Fisk, Alice King.
Harp—2d Class—Miss E. Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Minerva Spier.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Teresa Walters.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Miss Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Agnes Brown, Catharine Hackett, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Aurelia Mulhall, Alice Farrell, Anna Woodin, Mary Casey.
5th Class—Misses Mary McGrath, Emma Shaw, Zoe Papin, Annie McGrath, Harriet Buck, Angela Ewing, Mary Birch, Anna Jones, Mary English, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Mulligan, Charlotte Van Namee.
General Class—Misses Alma Moe, Teresa Zahm, Julia Butts, Laura French, Linda Fox, Mary McFadden.
Theoretical Classes.—'Misses E. Lange, E. Keenan, H. Buck, L. Neu, M. Usselman, A. Dillon, M. McGrath, A. Farrell, M. Sullivan, C. Hackett, T. Killelea, M. Campbell, G. Winston, E. Walsh, A. McGrath, J. Grover, C. Gall, A. Mulhall, A. Ewing, H. Rosing, A. Wells, M. Mullen, M. Dallas, A. Maloney, M. English, E. Gerrish, A. Cortright, M. Danahar, C. Danaher, E. Thomas, M. Loeber, P. Wolford, L. Chilton, G. Glasser, A. Donelan, J. Kingsbury, M. Tam, M. Fitzgerald, C. Ward, M. Ryan, L. Fox, M. Chirheart.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Genevieve Wells, E. Lange, Rebecca Neteler.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Dallas, Ellena Thomas, Jessie Grover,Teresa Killelea, Angela Dillon, Elizabeth Schwass,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
257
Julia Kingsbury, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Sullivan, Laura French, Mary Campbell, Sophie Papin, Julia Butts, Angela Ewing, Catharine Campbell, Maud Casey, Ella Mulligan.
■	PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran, Harriet Buck, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Lucie Chilton, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Jessie Grover, Catharine Danaher, Adella Gordon. Addie Bisby, Anna Herrmann, Alma Moe, Henrietta Rosing, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Margaret Carroll, Margaret Whealan, Ina Capelie, Caroline Hopkins, Mary English, Alicia Donelan, Margaret McNamara, Grace Glasser, Ollie Williams.
/	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mattie Doxey, Julia Wells, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Sophie Papin, Johanna Baroux, Annie McGrath. Agnes McKinnis, Maud Casey, Adelaide Clarke, Charlotte Van Namee, Amelia Morris, Jessie Pampel, Elise Dallas, Ellen Mulligan, Linda Fox, Mary Poquette, Mary Cbirhart, Annie Orr, Mary Lyons, Jennie McGrath, Bridget Haney, Manuelita Chaves, Elizabeth Considine, Ellen Lloyd, Alicia Esmer, Maria McN. Garrity, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Mary McFadden, Teresa Haney, Alice King, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Feehan, Margaret Ivers, Elise Lavoie, Julia Cleary, Elise Papin.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Tam, Teresa Killelea, Mary Usselman, Eleanor Thomas, Agnes Brown, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey, Amy Jones.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Hake, Annie Woodin, Mary Sullivan, Alice Hiltman, Linda Fox, Marie Plattenburg, Emma Lang, Catharine Ward, Angela Dillon.
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Kirchner, M. Brown, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Annie Maloney, Mary Usselman, Nellie Galen, Lizzie Schwass, Alice Farrell, Zoe Papin, Lucie Chilton, Mary Birch, Annie Jones, Angela Dillon, Alma Moe, Emma Shaw, Ellena Thomas, Catharine Hackett. Minnie Loeber, Mary Eng-■ lish, Mary Sullivan, Ina Capelie, Julia Barnes, Addie Geiser, Carrie Gall. Louisa Neu, Julia Kingsbury, Jessie Grover, Mary Danaher, Katie Danaher, Ida Fisk, Philomena Wolford, Della McKerlie, Mary Tam, Mary Hake, Mary Carroll, Mary Fitzgerald.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall. Zog Papin, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Ellen Galen, Catharine Ward, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Harriet Buck, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Philomena Wolford, Jessie Grover, Teresa Walters, Elizabeth Kirchner, Genevieve Welch, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Margaret Carroll, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Alma Moe, Julia Kingsbury, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary Tam, Mary English, Caroline Gall, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Ludwig, Ollie Williams, Mary Hake, Mary Campbell, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zahm, par excellence. Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk. Louisa Kelly, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Adelaide Kirchner, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Brown, Mary Plattenburg. Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Grace Glasser, Mary Sullivan, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins, Louisa Neu, Della McKerlie, Elizabeth Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart, Mary Po-quette, Elizabeth Considine, Julia Cleary, Alice King, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Ellen Mulligan, Charlotte Van Namee, Julia Wells, Marie McN. Garrity, Ada Clarke, Elise Papin, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer.	-
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOG-RAPHER
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express -.10 15 a.m. 4 CO p.m Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 45ajn
Night Express...................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH,	A, KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo*, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express... ..8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J* C- McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt
THE “AVE MARIA,”
•A. CATHOLIC JOUSNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)

Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLYFATHER PIUS K, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO XHI And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” -The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
tehms :
One Year.........................................$ 2 50
Five Years........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)...20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana. Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 £ 41 Chambers Nerr York, ‘ ' '	...	I	.
258
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
To perpetuate the memory of him whose dying words were
“ Take care of the Church which I have Loved, so well and Guarded, so Sacredly,” The Continental Publishing Company have published a beautiful Mezzograph portrait of His Holiness
POM PIUS IX.
Read the following Letter from Archbishop Purcell:
Cincinnati, February 22, 1878.
Archbishop Purcell begs to return to the Continental Publishing Company, his sincere thanks for their highly appreciated engraved, likeness of the lately deceased Pontiff, Pius IX. He hopes to see many evidences of like merit from their establishment.
Very Respectfully,
< J. B. PURCELL, Archbishop.
Have also published as a companion-picture to the above,
M8J m
These beautiful portraits are on heavy plate paper, 2 ft. long by 1$ ft. wide. Either, or both of the above portraits will be sent—pre-paid—to any address, on receipt of nineteen (19) cts. to pay postage and-tubing. Send Currency or postage stamps.
CHRONOS.
AJNY OF TITE FOLLOWING CIIROMOS SENT ritE-LLVlD OjV RECEIPT OF
50 CJE1NTS EA.CIL
The Cherubs, (new)	,
Holy Family, .	.	.	. ' 18x24
Mater Dolorosa, .	.	. 18x24 ’
St. Patrick—with the snakes, (new) 18x24
Ecce Homo, . Guardian Angel, Pope Pius IX, .
24x30
18x24
. 18x24
18x24
Address all orders to CONTINENTAL PUBLISHING CO.,
No. 4 Home Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Do not fail to order THE CHERUBS, the Handsomest Chromo Published.	dec 7-4t
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.	.
pgy In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross. '
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C. •
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, ’	MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & EETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the CoIllillUus 5 Ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Savanna filled. Give them a trial.
Sign of the Big Indian.
101 Main St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST-, opposite Sherman Hoose, .
Chicago, Illinois.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
259
Civil Engineers & Surveyors. ZM M. PROCTOR [of ’75). Civil Engineer of City and County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering. A RTHUR J. SPACE [of’61], County Surveyor for _/A St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.	L. S. & M. S. Railway. On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend aa follows: GOING EAST. 2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m. 11 05 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; . Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am. 12 16 pm. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am. 9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am; Cleveland, 7 05am; Buffalo, 1 10p m. 4 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight. GOING WEST.	- 2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am. 5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm. 8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicano 11 30 a. m. 7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight. F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South’Bend. J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.				
"Weekly Newspapers.					
rpHE CATHODIC COEUMBIAN.pub’ished 1 weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s stu- dents and friends solicited. Terms, S3 per annum. D. A. Clarke, of ’70. rpHE A. V Til MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the JL Blessed Virgin, published every Satnrdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, §2.50.					
Hotels.					
rpHE BOND HOUiSJE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House. rpHE MATTESOX HOUSE, Corner of Wa-_L bash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson. Book Binders. .					
	Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago RAILWAY. Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.				
T71DWARD I*. ‘FBYjNTN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind-Pj er, Kalamazoo, Mich.					
	Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
Visiting Cards.	1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9/3 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p.m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.1'7 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.3) ’• 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell. - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - . - - - P-ymourh, - -- - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - -- - - - Peru, - - - -- - Bunker Hill. - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton,- - - -- - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - -- - - - Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - -- -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2 CO “ 2/12 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 pnn. 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 62 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
CABBING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E." A. Wilkie, ’	Mishawaka, Ind. CENTS will obtain you a Copy of Tan Scholastic ZiO Almanac for 1878. Address J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.					
Attorneys at Law.					
■pROMrN «fc HAR VEA' (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-_D tomeys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio. QPEER Jt MITCHEEL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], 0 Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa. rpHOMAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions. TpAJVDXT1VG- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], At-J? torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill. TOTT1V	NTcTTUGrT-I [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.	. EiODGE dt DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and JLz Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa. nRVILEE J*. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) kv Attorney at. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind. IfcBRIDE «fc MIBBARD (Jas. E. McBride, of J.YL ’68;, Att’ye at. Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich. 11/IBBIAM J. OB A. RIvE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. 0.					
	PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS. Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon. RETURNING Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p.m. “	- “	1119 “		 “	“ 2 55 a.m.				
	WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES Through to Indianapolis! Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour. EiTBerths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance. F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,	■ Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis				
	INFORMATION WANTED AF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, seed about 18 years. \ J Was a Minim in ISM and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, HI.; afterwards in St Louis. Mo. Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”				
JA.MES A_. O’KI^ILIjY—of ’G9 —Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JO TUN D. MeCORMICK-of '73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DANIEL B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of’70), Circuit
Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan.	' sep 14-ly
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Msiy’s I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.	’
P, SHICKEY.
260
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE. ’
Time Table—Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Ma'J	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	JNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 pm 1 15 “ 12 35 am 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
	•Mail	•Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 OOIa.m 10 20“ “ 1 13^p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and South Bend Ui-vision.	
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715“	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henbt C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledtabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, UI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE -
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Eond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Maryin Hughitt,
Fas?; Ag’tj Ctjicigq, Qen. Manner, Chicago,
TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On’ arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaU.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 P.M. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 AM. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 P.M. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12.25 a.m.		
Lima,							
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	   Arrive			2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 A.M. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 1145 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 P.M. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 “ 11.30 “ 1.30 A.M.		*
Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive			2.33 “ 4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,..'	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsbuigh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	___
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBK to QUEENSTOWN and. LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.	■
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York, Or to JACOB WILE, foreign Exchange and Postage Agent, ■