The Scholastic.
JDeVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS
Volume VI,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 14, 1873.
Number 40.
Sslf-Indulggnce.
Indulgence implies dispensation, that is to say, exemp-> tion from certain presupposed obligations to which the in-• dulged party is subject; and by self-indulgence we are to understand the voluntary yielding of the soul to those base inclinations which enervate and cripple, and oftentimes even destroy, its nobler tendencies. In other words, the term self-induigence conveys the idea of human reason as subordinate to human passion, and the consequent degradation of the mind of man.
On the contrary, self-control is the assertion of supremacy on the part of Reason, and suggests, on the instant, the idea of the merely animal instincts, appetites and passions, as held completely in check, and at the command of Reason."	’	•
No higher compliment can be paid a young person than to say that41 he respects himself”: and yet how seldom can this justly be said? But what does this expression signi-ly? Simply that the young person thus commended is Piaster ef Uis own nature: that the superior powers of his * being hold the reins of his propensities, and control all his energies; that is to say, he will condescend to nothing unbecoming the dignity of true manhood. But in the category of those who respect themselves, one addicted to selfindulgence can certainly not b j classed.
Many points of etiqm-tte rest on that noble self-respect which, founded on real dignity of character, will never allow its possessor to infringe upon the happiness of another, and which is instinctively mindful to accord whatever will contribute to the satisfaction of others, even at no small sacrifice of convenience and comfort to self.
Why does etiquette preclude conversation upon dress, food, etc., in polished circles ? Why are egotism and boasting counted as so vulgar? Why are contradiction and argument so scrupulously excluded from refined and culti-valed families ? Why is an angry expession a blot upon the reputation of a lady ?
The answer to all these questions is contained in the simple truth that self-indulgence, ignoble thoughts, and base habits of mind, are exhibited in talk about one’s self, i about dress and food—also in contention, fault-finding, and the like. Envy and jealousy, those disgraceful sentiments so often found in the human heart, find expression i in detraction and slander; and these specious methods of J self-indulgence can never be tolerated by those who have j any just pretensions to Christian refinement of manners.
Respect for others is the surest proof of self-respect. A 1- reasonable person will, by impulse of nature, so to speak, accord toothers the consideration to which he believes himself entitled. It is the upstart, the pretender, the shoddy, who forgets all-the world but himself, and who is boastful, self-opinionated, and ready to defy the rules of common J politeness. You will see him pass those superior to him-
self with, a toss of his head, and perhaps with a rude jostle. He will shout, to his equals across the street—will hold conversations on street-corners and in a loud tone of voice. He wauts to make a "great impression on others, a great noise in the world, and you will always find him in the most conspicuous place. He is overbearing to servants, and cruel to animals. At table—that place which above all others has been noted as the one to test the true lady or gentleman—you will be disgusted with his greedy, bad manners. He will be snappish to the waiters, and rude to every one. His only master is self-indulgence, and he cares not how much annoyance he gives to those around him.
Free will, that most sublime of all gifts bestowed by God upon man, finds its exercise in the contest between the two opposing elements of the human mind: between the efforts of the superior portion of our being at bringing about self-control, and the perverse inclinations of the animal nature in us, which constantly urge us to self-indul-geuce. The human will is naturally impatient of restraint: it will not brook opposition. Impulse alone guides the child; restraint is a lesson taught by experience. The brilliant light of the taper attracts the infant: he reaches towards it—he grasps the pretty flame, and Is burned. He learns his first lesson of prudence. Again he sees the light. He draws back his little hand. The beauty of the light is the same as b.-fore, but the babe controls himself, and will not touch it. Young as he is,-he has found that his inclinations will betray him.
As time advances, he discovers, daily, additional proofs that his animal propensities are constantly prompting him to act jegardless of consequences, and in a manner which in the end will certainly lead to his destruction. _ His appetite impels him to gluttony: reason teaches him that nature will revenge herself, and punish this degrading vice, by producing illness and a disrelish for food. Anger kindles his whole being, and transforms this beautiful world in which we dwell into a pandemonium: reason checks the transports of rage, and represents his conduct in its true light, picturing the remorse consequent upon yielding to the dictates of revenge. Yes, behold, the magic wand of Reason restores the sunshine to the hills, the loveliness to the skies, and sweet affection to the heart which a moment before was so violently agitated by the furious tempest of hatred. Now, like a judge upon the bench, Reason summons the senses of the body in the youth, and the faculties of his mind, as a jury to test the claims of Self-Indulgence against Self-Control. What witnesses are brought to establish the pretensions of the former? All the evil passions of the human heart. Each comes forward _with his dark and arrogant disposition, filled with every detail calculated to revolt the soul intent on virtue. ’
Temptation, as a culprit charged with plots to murder
314
- I
Innocence, is surrounded bjT his base accomplices, and these have all been gathered from the ranks of Self-Indulgence.
But observe the witnesses to defend the claims of selfcontrol. All the virtues whose bright robes were woven in the atmosphere of Heaven.- sun-crowned Wisdom, cleareyed Understanding; the three celestial graces, Industry, Modesty and Purity, with all their lovely followers, are there. The cause of Self-Indulgence is defeated by their very' presence, and along with his envious kindred he is convicted of vile fraud. He stands branded as guilty of the wicked purpose to destroy the life not only of every virtue, but even of the soul itself.
None but a madman could tamper with Self-Indulgence after the case has been made out so clearly against him.
Mary V. Harlan.
St. Mary’s, Alexandria, Va., May 31.
AU I AU must pass Away I
BX MO.
Summer’s sun is slowly marching To his conch beyond the seas,
Forest leaves are sweetly singing
Songs they learned from evening breeze ;
Western skies are painted crimson, With the brush of nearing sun, Workmen slowly plodding homeward—
The toil of day is done.
Starry heavens in their beauty Conquer artist in his main, Though his pencil glide forever
All his efforts are in vain ;
Nature’s works he cannot compass, Though his mind be rich’and rare,
Sweetly trace the Maker’s pencil In the sky so bright and fair.
Silvery moon is sailing grandly O’er the pearls of Eastern shore, To the starry sea above us
And the shrine of angel lore ;
Merry songsters of the wild wood Long ago have gone to rest, And the wood without their musie
With the smiling moon is bk-st,
Lovely Howers of the forest,
Drooping down with sickly hue, Lift their heads -with joyful wonder
As they sip the falling dew ;
Lilies fair that late were fading ’Neath the rays that could not cure.
With the breeze's falling waters Bloom again as bright and pure.
Sitting here among the roses, In the flowers’ sweet perfume,
List’ning to the night winds telling
Tales of love unto the moon,—
My happy heart grows sadder
When I think of time’s decay
That this beaty and enchantment All I all! must pass away.
The Louisville Courier-Journal thinks the sight of four able-bodied men playing croquet is the sublimest spectacle an impoverished country ever beheld.
THE SCHOLASTIC, - -	? ...	.
- Thoughts	.
The image of the Divinity-impresseijpn. the human sou? would not be a true image -unless it were an image of the Trinity. But a very slight reflection will develop the existence of the triune image in thePrinciple of Thought.
There is first the Idea, of whose origiii'the wisest philosophers have been unable to give .any account: this is the Image of the Father, “’born of:none,” which reposes in the human understanding. "•	, ...
When the idea makes itself known to.itself or others, it does so by generating tiieWord—the Image of the Eterna? Word—which reposes in the human memory.
But in order to the completion of -thought, there still remains necessary an act of the Will by which we assert the conformity between the Word and the Idea. This act is at the same time voluntary and'necesiiary. Voluntary, because it may be refused. The fool may say “ in his heart r ‘There is do God.7” Necessary,- because by the refusal he becomes a fool—i. e., one incapable of logical .acts of the mind. His act is one of mental suicide, and no further thought is possible until the principle denied is implicitly reasserted. This Act of the Will which is the completion) of Human Thought, is the Image of the Holy Ghost.
The word, which has hitherto reposed unspoken in the v memory, may now be uttered aloud, conveying a knowledge of the idea to all who will listen, thus becoming an image of the Incarnate Word.	-
Such it seems to me, is one of the most beautiful images of the Trinity to Ire found throughout the wide and fertile regions of Creation.	S.
Lstter from Hou. A. C. Do&ga.
Our much esteemed friend, General A. C. Dodge, has written that he will be here. We are glad of it, for we are no less pleased to see bis honest countenance than be is to see good Notre Dime, of which he thinks so much, if we judge from what he writes us:
Burungton, Iowa, June 3, 1873.
President Lemonnier, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. and Dear Sib: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your circular letter of the 31st ult., inviting me to attend your Annual Commencement, to be held on the 25th and 2G;h inst., and the ticket accompanying the same.
Mrs. Dodge and myself thankfully accept your polite invitation to be present upon an occasion so fraught with interest to our sons, and to us as parents.
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are endeared to us by the remembrance of former pleasant visits, and by the kindness and hospitality extended to us by their worthy and pious inmates—while to the lovers of taste, art, and nature, few places present more to attract the eye of the visitor, especially at this season of the year.
Your principal buildings are majestic, and occupy one of the most beautiful and picturesque sites in our country, Your grounds are unusually extensive, tastefully laid off. and in the work of their adornment nature and art seem to have vied with each other. You have groves of primeval forest-trees, lakes of ample dimensions, filled with cool spring-water, upon whose limpid surface students are wont to try their manhood at the oar, and fields waving with
THE SCHOLASTIC.
315
' golden harvests. These are of your surroundings, and they seem to impart an air of peaceful seclusion promotive of the great objects and purposes to which you and your brotherhood have dedicated your lives.
Your obliged friend,
A. C. Dodge.
Stray Notes.
The English sy^em of pronouncing Latin is objectionable on the score of sobriety as well as on that of propriety. The misguided “puer” is driven from pure rye to pure-rum until he explodes in a pure roar’em in his genitive plural. No wonder that public opinion is fast urging the abolition of this pernicious system altogether.
"If*ifs’ and ‘arts1 were pots and pans,” says the old proverb, and most persons suppose that these ‘ ifs ” and “ans” are conditional conjunctions. Quite a mistake. “If” is ■old Norman French, and means a yew-tree, and “an” is a slight corruption of “anne” an alder-tree. The proverb simply means that if these trees were so constructed as to be utilizable for domestic purposes, it might lead to pantheism.
Dan Tucker seems justly entitled to the epithet “ Old.” He was known as Dan T., or Dante to the Italians in the fourteenth century. His daughter, Anne Dante, still survives, and has a considerable musical reputation.
When a man is asked for his autograph on the back of a promissory note, he should always take time to consider whether he ought-to-graph or not.
Those who work on the top of the new steeple enjoy a salubrious climate. Climb it and see if they don’t.
In these days of Woman’s Rights, when a man leads his chosen one to the hymeneal altar, and subsequently finds that he has to cook dinners, wash clothes and rock the cradle, while his wife attends political meetings, he will be apt to regard the arrangement rather as high menial than hymeneal. I mean he’ll alter his preconceived notions of matrimonial bliss.
Hec's mortuus est seems to be knelled forth by the last refusal. To which we can only respond in the old loyal strain. Vital Rec.
Episkopein means “ to be a bishop ” as well as “ to survey.” Another proof of the connection between Science and Revealed Religion. But the Paifnm de Rhum, has no connection whatever with the Paifum de Rome.
If hostilities and arms are the same thing, is it all the same whether you receive a friend with open arms or with open hostilities*
A Clipper from South Bend tried to get over the Atlantic last week, but became a total wreck. Score 39 to 18.
The College de Propaganda Fide.
The Italian Government has levied a tax of thirty per cent, on this famous institution. Why does it not confis-— cate it at once ? The Church in Italy can have no rights that a Liberal Government is bound to respect. Justice used to be considered an attribute of civil government; but our modern Liberals have changed all that. Stealing is now looked upon as rather a virtue than a vice by those who have heretofore been in the habit of measuring their propensities in that direction by the danger of discovery. What a terrible example to its own subjects is the Italian
Government now giving! It is simply telling its people that robbery is only an offense in the eyes of Heaven when power and apportunity are wanting to its successful commission. We find in the columns of a cotemporary the annexed short history of the College Propaganda Fide:
“ Mgr. Vives, a Spanish Prelate, conceived the pious idea of establishing in Rome a College for young men sent there by missionaries from every part of the world, in order to become in their turn propagandists of the Roman Catholic faith. For this purpose he purchased the palace of Signor Perretini, situated in the Piaza di Spagna, and gave it to Urban VIII. The Holy Pontiff accepted the gift, and founded the College of Propaganda Fide, in the year of our Lord 1627. Anthony Barberini, brother of the same Pope, endowed it with an annuity, in order that he might have twenty-five Orientals, young men, educated there. The College was subsequently enlarged by sevaral donations from Roman Popes and other pious persons. At the end of the last century, during the French Revolution, all the property belonging to this college was confiscated, and its members' expelled. In the year 1803 the Holy Father had hopes of recovering the stolen property; but Napoleon the First issued a decree by which the Cellege of the Propaganda was entirely suppressed. After the fall of the French Emperor all the members of the institution returned to Rome with Pius VH, who located them temporarily with the Lazarist Fathers; until Cardinal Litta, who bought the college from Napoleon, gave it back to the Pope.
Senator Casserly.
Senator Casserly has paid into the United States Treasury his share of the back pay, says the Santa Clara Argusi of May 24th. It cannot be said that the Senator “returned ” the money, for he never received it, but sent to the Secretary of the Treasury the draft of the Secretary of the Senate. No dirty money has ever soiled Senator Casserly’s honest palm. His Senatorial career has been entirely pure, and his character for honesty is to-day immaculate—without spot or blemish. Mr. Casserly forwarded to the Treasurer the Secretary of the Senate’s draft with the following letter:
Sir : I send herewith, indorsed to your order, the proceeds to be paid into the Treasury, the draft for this date of the Secretary-of the Senate for S970.40, received by me from him as being the full amount coming to me under the law giving to members of Congress an increase of back pay. If I add a word, it is-that what I do may not be construed to the prejudice of others. For reasons which I deemed sufficient I voted against the provisions for the increase of salaries at every stage of them, not excepting the final stage, the adoption of the conference report. Those reasons embraced several objections to the measure of which that of the increased back pay was but one. They had little, if any, reference to the increase of pay in the future. Having so voted throughout, I find it more satisfactory to myself, personally, to decline the amount to which I am entitled as increased back pay. In taking this course I would not be understood as reflecting in the least on members o'f Congress who see their way clear to the adoption of the opposite course, as many of them are so well known as honorable and disinterested men in their public and private life by those who know them best, as to make it impossible for me, at least, to impugn their motives or deny their good faith. Very truly,	E. Casserly.
Knowledge is twofold; it consists not only in an affirmation of what is true, but in the negation of that which is false.
A cheerful recognition of God is the way to obtain a cheerful satisfaction and confidence in God.
■ / . ' .
.310./	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Whs Sshiilastii}*
Published, every Week during Term Time, at P NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.	. _
TERMS:	*
One year..........................92 00
' One session (Snrowths)'....:............ 1	23
Single copies (10s) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Graduates of ’73.
We are happy to be able to announce in this number of The Scholastic that at the final meeting of the Faculties of Arts and Sciences, held June 11th, the following young gentlemen of the Classical and Scientific Courses were duly admitted for Degrees, to be conferred at the 29th Annual Commencement, June 26th:
CLASSICAL:
T. F. O’Mahqny,	M. M. S. Foote,
E. B. Gambee,	D. J. Hogan,
SCIENTIFIC :
Thos. J. Dun don,	J. D. McCormick,
P. J. O’Connell,	Thos. P. White.
To the credit of these young gentlemen we must say (and we do it with sincere pleasure} that although the Examinations were unusually severe, there was no occasion, in any instance, for the exercise of the discretionary power vested in the President, according to the system explained in another column,as the percentage of each was above the standard adopted for admission without grace or favor.
Success to the young graduates r they have merited the esteem of the Faculty by their gentlemanly behavior during their stay at Notre Dame; they have won the highest distinction of the aspiring student by their diligence and perseverance, and though we shall regret their ab sence when they take their departure from Notre Dame, pur best wishes shall accompany them, and they shall be heartily welcome at Notre Dame, whenever their new duties shall permit them to visit the scenes of their labors and successes.	The Director of Studies.
Out System of Graduation.
Adopted June 10, 1873.
• It may be a matter of curiosity to some, and of deep interest to others, to know'the system adopted by the several Faculties for determining the worthiness or unworthiness of candidates for Degrees, and for their gratification or instruction we give the following explanation.
First, in order that one may be recognized as a candidate, it must be known to the proper Faculty that he has pursued all the studies marked in the Course in which he purposes taking Degrees. This being ascertained to be the case, the following system is observed:	'
All the candidates for Degrees are examined in their several studies, both in writing and orally. For the Written Examination, the matter of which is assigned by the Director of Studies, they receive, in each study, from' the
examiner, after a thorough investigation of their work, a> certain percentage according to their merit. This percentage, together with the written compositions on which it was calculated, is placed in the hands of the Director of Studies-, ; that he may, if thought advisable, review the work of each student and satisfy himself that the percentage was- fairly given. For the Oral Examination, which takes place before the respective Faculties, a secretary keeps record of the number of questions proposed and the number correctly answered, from which be calcul ites the percentage to which the candidate is entitled in each branch of study. This is also placed in the hands of the Director of Studies, who then makes out the average percentage of each candidate for both Examinations.	.
The Examinations over, the Faculty assembles; when? each Professor, without knowing the average percentage of any of the candidates, votes each of them, in each study ii? which ire had him under instruction, that percentage of which he judges him worthy, from his knowledge of his ability and proficiency. This last percentage is then added , to the two others and the average again taken. If the final) average is ,8b or above, the candidate is admitted for Degrees; if it is below 89 and above .75, the President has discretionary power to admit the candidate to Degrees, provided his superior .proficiency in some special branch fs judged sufficient to counterbalance his deficiency in others. If, however, the percentage falls below .75, the candidate-is rejected till such time as he has made up for his defi-. ciency. According to this system, it is believed that a more correct appreciation of the candidate’s real merit may be formed than in any other way, and the student who receives his Degrees under this arrangement may fee? s itisfied that he has won them, and not obtained them by favor.	.
June Examination, 1873.
TO BE HELD ON THE DAYS NAMED BELOW.
Rev. A. Lemcznniek, President, General Supervisor.
CLASSICAL BOARD.
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday. Saturday—Monday, June 17, 19,20, 21, and 23.	*
Rev, A. Louage, Dean, Presiding,
. “ J. O'Connell
“ W. F. O’Rourke.
“ H. Thiele.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
“ T. E. Howard, A. M.
“ M. A. J. Baasen, A. M,	'
Before this Board will be examined all the Classes of Greek and Latin, except the Senior Class (which has already been examined by the Faculty of Arts); also the Classes of English Literature, American Literature, Rhetoric, and English Composition.
..	SCIENTIFIC BOARD.
Beginning Thursday the 19th, and continuing thence simultaneous with the Classical Board,
Rev. Jos. C. Carrier, Dean, Presiding.
“ J. Zahm.
Prof. W. Ivers, A. M.
.“ A. J. Stace, A. M.
“ D. A. Clarke, M. S.	.
■ /'
THE SCHOLASTIC.	1 ii7
Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, B. S.
“ 0. Schnurrer, A. M.
Before this Board will be examined all the Classes in Pare and Mixed Mathematics, and those of the Sciences except the Senior Class (which has already been examined by the Faculty of Science) and those specially belonging to the Commercial Board.
COMMERCIAL BOARD.
Saturday Monday and Tuesday, June 14,16 and 17.
Prof. L. G. Tong, LL. B., Dean, Presiding.
“	J. A. Lyons, A. M.
“	W. Ivers, A. M,
“	D. A. Clarke, M.	S.
“	0. Schnurrer, A.	M.
Bro. Camillus, C. S. 0.
Before this Board will be examined (on Saturday) the Commercial Classes of Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, Orthography and History; and on Monday the Classes of Commercial Law and Book-Keeping.
BOARD OF PREPARATOBY ENGLISH STUDIES.
/	(Simultaneous with the Classical Board.)
M Rev. M. J. Toohey, Presiding.
Mr. D. E. Hudson.
Bro. Benjamin.
“ Albert.
“ Emmanuel.
“ Leander.
“ Alexander.
Mr. J. F. Edwards.
Before this Board will be examined the Preparatory Classes in Grammar, Reading, Orthography, Geography, etc.
BOARD OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
Saturday and Monday, June 21 and 23.
Rev. P. W. Condon, Presiding.
“	M. J. Toohey,
“	P. Lauth,
“	H. Thiele.
Prof.	M. A. J. Baasen, A. M.
“ O. Schnurrer, A. M.
Before this Board will be examined all the Classes in German and French.
Notice and Explanations.—Each Board will hold its sessions, on the days named, as follows: From 8 to 9.30, and from 10.30, to 12 A. M.; from 2 to 3.30, and from 5 to 6.30 P. M.
Should any Board finish the work assigned it before the last day named for the Examination, they will be expected to relieve whatever Board has still the greatest amount of work on hand.
The absence of a student from Examination, unless lawfully excused, will be taken as an acknowledgment of inability to pass the Examination, and he will be treated accordingly in the classification for next term.
The beautiful procession on the festival of Corpus Christi, one of the annual events at Notre Dame, was equal to almost any of the processions of preceding years, and far superior to most of them. A full account will, we hope, be furnished us for next week’s Scholastic.
Hon. Schuyler Colfax has promised to attend the cl osing Exercises on Thursday, the 26th.
Hon. J. D. Osborn, senior editor of the South Bend Union, having on his accession to the judicial bench withdrawn from the editorial management of that paper, the quill has been taken up by J. Brownfield, Jr.
The Messrs. Fassett brothers, of the Union office, South Bend, were at Notre Dame on the evening of Corpus Christi to witness the procession; and Messrs. Beal and Smith, of the Register, paid us a visit on the day following.
Our good friend Rev. Father Oechtering, of Mishawaka, has donated a gold medal to be awarded to the best student in German. Fat her Oechtering is always zealous for a good cause. We thank him heartily in behalf of all the German students.
Fly-Catches.
It's hot.
The lake is lowering.
Bro. Thomas’ trade holds its own.
Many rumors are going the rounds.
The Santa Maria has been repainted.
/
The recreation after supper is pleasant.
Cricket has ousted base-ball for a time.
Examination is the topic of conversation. _ Much preparation is making for Society Day. The Play Hall firemen have been discharged. The Classes are having their photographs taken. -The crews have improved much by their practice. The Thespians will present no after-piece in June. The fountain can play no more; serious work now. Recreation at table is frequent now; all are pleased. The steam-pipes have the Spring fever; they take it easy. Most of the Classical and Scientific graduates of last year are expected here in June.
Several from Notre Dame attended the grand Jubilee at Chicago, and returned well pleased.
The rats are roped in with hook and line by one of the students; he says that they bite well.
Sanitary.—The health of the inmates of Notre Dame is excellent. Indeed it has been quite healthy here all year, and that prevalent disease of warm weather has kept away until very recently.
Bathing in the lake has commenced. The water is pronounced to be in a good condition. Whenever there are many in, the boats should be out, so as to be ready to/ assist in case of accident.
“ Wicket.”—The base-ball fever has died away, and in its place has sprung up a desire for a species of Cricket; but “our boys” are not very expert at this yet; besides, the season is rather warm for it to prosper, however, Several amusing games, have been played.
Recreation.—On the afternoon of Thursday of last week a delegation from the Chicago students waited on the Rev. President, and on account of their number, which is one hundred, they prevailed upon him to grant a halfday’s recreation. Good for the Chicagoans!
Museum.— Some youngsters made a raid on the wild game of the neighboring groves and caught two ground-squirrels and a young rabbit. These they caged, and ex
318	THE S CH
OLASTIC.
posed them, to the view of all who were interested. We understand, however, that at present the cage is left, the animals having died or escaped.
Visitors.— Though Commencement time is drawing near, and we should expect that the number of visitors would he fewer, yet such is not the case. Bro. Augustus has much business these times, and indeed it will increase now. We understand that a large crowd of people are expected here this year. “The more the merrier!” says our friend.	’
The Botanical Garden has commenced to put on its garland of floral beauty; the pinks along the paths have been in full bloom for some days past; and as we pass along its pleasant walks and witness the young sunflowers that are beginning to make their importance felt, our imagination carries us ahead to .the' month of September, when they will be arrayed with their golden crowns.
Where are we?—Have we been asleep? Where has the year gone ? Another ten days, and all is over. Indeed it is a reality! The session and the year have gone quickly by. We are on the border of a long vacation, and Commencement Day is here in the imagination of many; the few remaining days will be soon numbered among the things cf the past—yet no time should be lost; “a moment lost is lost forever.”
Busy'Dn all sides—Scarcely can we turn our eyes in any direction that we do not see men at work. Within the past ten days a new fence has been constructed between the Junior and Senior yards, a new well dug in the Junior yard, the Minims’ Play Hall painted, the ball-fidd and the park in front of the College moved, the fountain repaired, to say nothing of the Church and College. Indeed this is a busy season about Notre Dame, both for students and others, and it as hot as it is busy.
Fishing.—We have given this several mentions of late, but it seems we must mention it again, for never have we seen it so good before. A nice string is caught in a few hours. Though we are surprised at the number caught, yet we do not nolice the supply diminishing; there seem to be myriads of them left. However, it seems to be somewhat of an imposition on good nature that persons should make it a commercial pursuit to visit the lakes, catch the fish, sell them, and keep it up for weeks. This we think is going a little too far. .
Base-Ball.—Not long since there was played on the grounds of the Apprentices a very agreeable and interesting game of base-ball between the South Bend Club and the Atlantics, which resulted in favor of the latter by a score of more than two to one. The game was particularily interesting, owing to the gentlemanly deportment of the nines towaid each other. In fact in this regard it was a model game. The young men of the South Bend nine are real gentlemen, and it gives us pleasure to have them visit, the University grounds. A large crowd was present.
Be Cheerful.—Come now, be cheerful. If you cannot pay your debts immediately, do the best you can, and pay them as you are able. “ Care killed a cat.” If you have not fifty cents to luxuriate upon the delicacies of the season, appropriate half of that amount for something more substantial and wholesome; kiss your wife, if you have one; if not, kiss some pretty girl and marry her immediately— for acts of desperation frequently result happily and bene
ficially in their effects. If you have children,.romp with ■; them; if not, romp with your neighbor’s. ■ Look'upon the : bright side of everything—put on a cheerful countenance —keep your mind in*the right trim’, and if you find that your native town will not support you, pack up and. g6 somewhere else. At all events be cheerful.	'
Biographical. .
We are pleased to learn that Mr. William P. Grimes has been appointed to the important and lucrative position of toll-taker on the Ridge Turnpike. Mr. Grimes was born at Roxborough while yet quite an infant; and, as it was his fortune to have a mother before he passed his childhood, his earlier years were spent in acquiring knowledge and getting spanked. The direction taken by his opening mind encouraged his father to afford him an opportunity to discipline his vigorous intellect with exercises of a sawhorse Here his soul expanded and ripened, and, for many years he pursued his researches into the remotest domain of his art while separating into proper length the firewood of the Grimes family. Feeling at a later period, that the range of his intellectual vision was too limited, he was elected conductor of the mules of the canal boat J. P. O’Brien; and there are old scientists upon the foot-p.ith who tell With admiration of the original and startling manner in which Mr. Grimes used to twist the mule’s tail and swear when any of the animals needed encouragement. Subsequently the study of geology engaged his attention, while, at the same time, he dabbled a little in civil engineering. He would combine the two by digging away at a bank of earth, examining the substance with a shovel as he placed it upon a wheelbarrow, and then he would wheel it up and add it to the tow-path for the purpose of strengthening that promenade. He was called from this position to his present office.	-
The Jesuits.
We have received a pamphlet entitled, “ The Jesuits and Their Dangerous Designs,” taken from tracts published by Willis Nevins, and places in a clear and simple light the inconsistency of some “liberals” who, while professing liberty of conscience, applaud the persecution of the Jesuits on account of their opinions. It contrasts the belief of the Jesuits—“ The Divine law is above human law’”—With that of B.smarck: “ The Slate is, in all things, ecclesiastical and civil, the supreme authority.” It shows that our Divine Lord was persecuted to death because there was an idea among the mob and certain Jewish rulers that His spiritual kingdom was not compatible with the government. In like manner now, the Jesuits, the intimate servants of the Pope, are persecuted, with no crime alleged, because the Pope’s spiritual rule over the Emperor’s Christian subjects is thought to derogate from the Emperor’s royal authority. It shows finally that if law is to be based on human principles, these principles being liable to change, it may soon be the Communists’ turn to make laws; and “then, ye respectable citizens, ye bankers and real estate owners, tremble! Confiscation will then come to you. You who have gloated over the suppression of the religious orders in Rome, of the Jesuits in Germany, how will you feel when, having destroyed the men who kept in check your foe, you gnd a mob of howling infidels, socialists and communists,
■ - ..
THE SCHOLASTIC. .	313
'	-	•	-	C'
declaring that alt capitalists are the foes of the nation!” A godless law will infallibly lead to anarchy—mob rule or ultramontane rule, one or the other, there is no third choice. The tract can be obtained from William Squire, 433 Twelfth street, at the low price of ten cents.
• -----------------------------------
Boll of Honor.
FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1873. Senior Department.
A. Allen, D. App, F. Buter, W. Briaut, C. Berdel, M. Bastarache, V. Baca, Valerio Baca, W. Bartlett, G. Brown. J. Browne, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, A. Costello, J. Comer, W. Campbell, G. and J. Crummey, B. Dorsey, J. Devine, C. and W. Dodge, T. Dun-don, J. Drake, P. Downey, J. Euan, T. Flannagan, T. FPz-patriek, M. Foote, M. Foley, C. Franks, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, E. Graves, H. Hug, D. and J. Hogan, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, J. Harrington, J. Hoffman, A: Horne, P. Jacobs, J. Kelley, P. Lilly, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, J. McDermott, D. Maloney, E. Monohan, J. and T. Murphy, J. McAlister, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeny, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, T. Noel, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, P- O’Mahony, J. O'Brien, P. O’Sullivan, F. Phelan, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scrafford, J. Scherer, G. Tobin, M. Torbett, S. Valdez, W. Van’t Woud, C. Vinson, L. Watson, T. White, C. Walter, H. Walker, J. Wolfe, H. Zeitler.
Junior Department."
J. Aran‘z, G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Black, P. Brosseau, C. Burger, F. Cronin, J. Carmody, J. Campbell, C. Campean, J. Caren, B. Casey, J. Devine, J. Dore, W. Dexter, F. Dowe, J. Daley, F. Egan, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, W. Fletcher, C. Furer, F. Fraz e, W. Qros«, J. Grace, W. Green, J. Graham, H. Hunt, E. Holt, C. Hake, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings J. Jepson, A. Kleine, R. Kelly, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie. B. LeFevre, C. Lewis, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, S. and W. McMahon, J. McNally. J. and S. Marks, J. McIntyre, J. McGrath, W. Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, N. Mooney, L. Munn, D. McAndrews, J. Nevin, D. and J. O’Connell, E. Ohmer, W. Ohlen. C. O’Connor, W. Pollard, J. Quill, H. Quan, A. Reid, C. Ruger, W. Rumely, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F.Sweger, H. Shephard, P. Schnurrer, H. Schaller, W. Schultheis, O. Tong, S. Wise, F. Wittelsber-ger, S. Woolley, H. Zuber.
Minim Department.
H. Faxon, C. Faxon, J. O’Meara, A. Koch, T. Nelson, F. Carlin, J. Cooney, E. Raymond, A. Murphy, W. O’Hara, F. and N. Ewing, T. Hooley, R. Healy, C. McKinnon.
' J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Catspaws.—It is disgusting as well as discouraging to see how many people verify the story of the monkey, the cat and the roasted chestnuts in Don Saltero’s kitchen. On the one side are the monkeys, on the other the cats. Before them are the good things of life—wealth, fame, comfort and all the other ingredients, real or imaginary, composing that much-sought-after compound, happiness. Too lazy or too proud, if not too selfish, like his monkeyship, they contrive, in every conceivable way, to put all the disagreeable and perilous work upon somebody else! And thus drones are made on the one hand, and drudges on the other; and of this, to a great extent, comes the vast inequality of social condition which we see and lament.
\ •
SAINT MARY’S ACADMEY. 1
Tablet of Honor, (Sb. Dep’t.), June 7,1873.
Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, M. Lassen, A. Mast, A. Shea, K. Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, M. Lange, A. Todd, Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Nellie Gross, Bose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rosemary Spier, Rosemary Green, Mary Comer, L. Black, Nellie Lansrdon. Mittie Ward, E. Haggarty, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida E. Wilder, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, L. Dent, B. Grace, L. Daley, K. Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Josephine Esther Boyce, E. Plamondon, S. Shipley, Genevieve Walton. L. James, J. Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T Clarke, Mary Riley, Jennie Noonan, A. St. Clair, N. Foote, H. McMahon, Lou Beckman, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy, Annie Reid, M. A. Roberts, Rebecca Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Mary Quill, K. Casey, E. Ives, Addie Roberts, Ella Quinlan, N. McEwen, M. McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Henrottn, R. CanoU, S. Chenoweth, A. Stockton, D. Simonds, Rosa Klar, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, Fannie Snouffer, L. Lilly, E. Mann, J. Haney, N. McMahon, Mary Lyons, H. Miller, M.E. Black, R McKeever, Mary Kane, B. Turnbull, K. Ismon, A. Boser, A. Garries.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class—Misses K Zell, Mary Cochrane, Mary Lassen, Alice Mast, Alice Shea, K. Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class.—L. Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Nellie Gross, Rose Devoto, Mary E. Biown, Rosemary Spier, Rosemary Green, Lillie West, Mary .Comer, L. Black, N. Langdon, Marietta Ward.
Second Senior Class—Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Ida E. Wilder, Julia Kearney, Bay Reynolds, Mollie Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, L Dent, B. Grace, L. Daley, K. Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, J. Locke, E. Boyce.
Third Senior Class- G. Walton, L. James, Julia Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Clarke, Mary Riley, Jennie Noonan, A. St. Ciair, Nellie Foote, H. McMahon, L. Beckman, Annie O’Conner, Nellie Heedy, Annie Reid.
First Preparatory Class—E and B. Wade, Rebecca Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, C. Germain, Ettie Burney, Flora Rush, Mary Quill, Katie Casey, Emma Ives, B. Gaffney, R. Roscesco, Addie Rob. erts, Ella Quinlan, N. McEwen, Mary McGuire, A. Conahan, L. Penniman, L. Henroton.
Second Preparatory Class—S. Chenoweth, M. White, S. Smith, A. Stoekton, M. Dillon, D. Simonds, L. Forrester, R. Marr, Kate Wickham, R. Klar, J. Valdez, R Manzanares, F. Snouffer, T. Heckman. E. Drake, L. Lilly, E. Mann, J. Haney.
Tbii d Preparatory Class—N. McMahon, Mary Lyons, H. Miller, M. E. Black, R. McKeever, N. Kane, B. Turnbull, K. Ismon, A. Boser, A. Garics.
The Breton Women. Among the many strange customs which mark the Breton peasantry, there is none more remarkable than that of wearing the hair. For, while the men cultivate long tresses hanging down to their waists, and of which they are very proud, the women do not show a single lock; and the girl who might be tempted by the beauty of her cTiecelure to allow a ringlet to escape from beneath her closely-fitting cap, would not only lose all chance of obtaining a lover, but would be regarded by the young men as a file perdue—that is a coquettish girl unworthy of their affections. To this strange custom many London and Paris ladies are indebted for the magnificent hair which adorns their heads, but which was grown in the wilds of Brittany.
Scolding never did anybody any good. It hurts the child; it hurts the parent; it is evil, and only evil, every where and always.
320
THE SCHOLASTIC.

©he Igann,”
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. ” Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid withiu the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
' For 2 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.	,	.
Single copies. IB cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Avb Maria for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Mari* for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave Maria is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA.
• Noire Dame, Indiana,
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUMNi ARRAXGEMEXT.
'jpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
“	“	12 25 p m.
“	“	9.15 p. tn.
?	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.2'> p.m.
“	“	4.35 p. m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. tn. "	“	2 55 a	tn.
“	“	5.00 a.	m.
“	6 05 p m.
“	“	6.37 a.	m.
“	“	8.20 a.	in.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.m “	“	4.05 a. m
“	“	1 35 p. m
“	“	5.30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
WES T.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. tn l*	“	6.50 a.	m
“	“	8.20 a.	m
“	“	9.40 p.	m
.	"	“	10.30 a. m
“	“	12.30 p.	m
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTT-TW PAGES EVERT MONTH.
§1.00 PER ANNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Making connection with all trains West and North.
4S” For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places. ’
gSP L’raius are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes asterthan
South Bend time.	.
J. H DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Gary, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, 1 icket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolciiard, Freight Agent, South Bend. '
Soog
Which will be read throngh and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1813. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville. .
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. ni.; 8.06 p.m.	.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.
Freights. 1.00 a.m ; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line-
^ST'RAINS leave West Side. Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad (Ip ison Street Bridge, as follows
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. | Arrive South Bend, -	7 30 a.m
“	9 35 a.m I	' “	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.51 p.m. |	“	“	5.30 p.m
- GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.4u a.m. | Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
41	“	11.45 a.m. I '■	12 25 p tn
“	“	<i 30 p.m. |	“	7.10 p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. 1 Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. |	“	6.30 p.nj
S. R. KING. Agent, South Bend.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisi-. ana, Mo.
Wenona. Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line.
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, HL, and Louisiana'. Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
$6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
arrive.
*8:00 p.m
*4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
E7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA-
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1814.
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday, t Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
This Institution, incorporated in 1841.enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, ft is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
JAMES CIIARLTON, ' , Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
j. c. McMullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO!
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board, Bed and deddiug, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- U0 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano,	-	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
. Use of Violin, ----------	-	200
Drawing. -	-	-	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Studeuts who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.	X
For further particulars, address
Bev. A. LEMONNIEB, C.S.C.
President.
PJEXNSYGVASilA CI XTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New fork without Change. -	.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. ni Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train	“	“	. 5.15 p.m	“	“	-6.41a. m*
3rd train	“	•'	9.00 p. m	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
. J. Ml C.’CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh. ‘ H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag*t, Philadelphia.	'
F. R. MYE*8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.	u
* Second day.	-