The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JlSlTEF^ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.	.
Tflsce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 7, 1874. Number 7.
JNO.HA GERTY,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notary Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG,
ATTOBNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, - ’ - South Bend, Indiana, oai-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to .
ES. PECKS,1	.
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	, South Bend, Indiana.
p J. HOLLAND,, & Co.,
*	"Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, •
—ALSO—
WUOTESATF JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. 1O& MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
E. CUMMINS,
*	DENTIST, •	.
No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
Do you want a drive ? Go to
J^EN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STABLES,
Corner of Michigan and Washington Streets, South Bend, Indiana. o24-2m
^UTHE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^
JJENRY BLUM,	.	*
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN .
CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc.,
No. 54 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. j^o24-tf
Jg NIC AR & Co,-
HARDWARE MERCHANTS, 118 MICHIGAN St., - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA .	HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc., Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc, '____________________________________o2t-tf
■y NICAR,
DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, .	ALL	SORTS OF '	’
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc. —ALSO—	-
v Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. _____________________________________o24-tf J^RS. C. S. STOVER, ■
MILLINTER,
129 Michigan, Street, -	- . South Bend, Indiana,
Dealer in	.
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc.
^"The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	’ o24Jan 1
PLIGHT & FAIRFIELD, JEWELLERS, South Bend, - - - Indiana.
Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's CONFIDENT IN	...
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, .
None Can Fail to be Suited.
Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	o24-3zn
Q.EORGE HEHR,	.
FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GENERAL DEALER IN ' Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Stalls.) .	.	%o24-tf
THE KNOBLOCK STORE,
63	-	-	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
Is the Place For all Kinds of ’ CHOICE FRUITS (FOREIGN and DOMESTIC), —ALSO—	.
CHOICE BRANDS of CIGARS and TOBACCO, Cheaper than at any other place in. the city. o24-lm
THE SCHOLASTIC.
65
pALJiER & Vanwinkle, ' Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES, Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER, 71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the .College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o34-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend,, Indiana.
.	-	•	-	o24-tf
REWARD BUYSEE, Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS,. JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, -
South Bend, Indiana.
liepairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J^-tf
HANAUER,
‘ Nos. 33 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to
TDUZBY & GALLAGHER,
CLOTHIERS,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
JRELAND & SON,	1
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54. MICHIGAN St., - . SOUTH BEND, IND., (Opposite the Dwight House).
---o--
HACK LINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	hio24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
--0--
PROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. Jgo24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home durins their stay, JERRY“KN1GHT, captain mills f Proprietors.
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of
Mens’and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
OF THE
• Celebrated BURT, . LILLY YOUNG PRATT and
Brackett & Boyden’s
Hand and Machine sewed Goods,
THE
Largest Stock
In The City.
Give us a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
We would call your attention to our immense Stock of FINE’ SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3m
AND DEALERS IN
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
SATIN GLOSS PHOTOGRAPHS.
99 MAIN STBEET,
- - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
For the most improved Satin Gloss Photographs or Gems (4 for 50 cents), go to -
BECKWITH’S GALLERY,
107 & 109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over National Bank.)	% o21-6m
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Frnits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ’ ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
,	%o24-tf
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI^ESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Uisce quasi semper vic turns; vive quasi ci'as moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 7, 1874. Number 7.
Clare’s Grazia. '
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
[From the Ave JZaria.]
Gladly won, the little fairy, from her grieving hy the fire, Weeping o’er a sick canary in its cage of golden wire,
At my feet this autumn morning, with the sunlight on her hair, Sits and listens to my stories, gentle little cousin Clare.
Listens with confiding glances, parted lips with wonder dumb, To the tales of dear St. Francis,—Francis of Assisium.
How he loved (that wondrous preacher, most seraphic sainted priest,)	■
Not alone each human creature, hut each bird, and flower, and beast.
Loved the silent shining fishes, preached the flow’rs a sermon sweet,
Called the birds his little sisters as they chirped about his feet.
• “ ‘ Called the birds his little sisters ’ ? dear brown Saint! was that his word ?
Then, oh ! then! ’’—cried Clare, upspringing, “ he can cure my little bird!
« See my darling little Brownie, with its head beneath its wing! Like a ball of ruffled down, he moans and moans, poor little thing!
“Seednor water hath he taken since the noon of yesterday, Sleeping, he will never waken---! ” And the guileless heart gave way.
“Brown thou wert, O Saint of Brownies! Dear St. Francis! ”— thus she prayed,—
“ Help thy little brother Brownie, he will die without thine aid! ”
Childish faith, with childish fancies making beautiful its prayer! Who shall say that dear St. Francis did not heed the little Clare?
In the cage the sick canary took its head from out its wing, Shook its feathers, plumed its airy pinions,—and began to sing!
Cried aloud its little mistress, “Dear St. Francis! thou hast heard!
—Brownie! like a good Franciscan, sing a hymn of praise, my bird! ”
Sunnyside Reveries. .
PLAYING AT FOOT BALL.
Standing here in the broad, bright sunshine this beautiful afternoon, watching a game of football as it ebbs and flows, is not a penitential task. Now the eager contestants are close to us, wildly chasing the bounding ball; and again it takes a sudden turn, and, still blindly following it, away they go across the fields until they are almost
lost in the distance. To one who does not understand the game and who is not animated by the eager spirit of mastery, it seems a very foolish, childish amusement. He is apt to imagine that the more sensible and perhaps the best paying idea would be to stand in some particular spot and quietly wait till the ball comes his way, when he can. have his kick at it without the fatigue and vexation of running after it; but those who play the game could never do that, and they would lose the greater part of the amusement if they did.
There are thousands of people—aye, the great majority of men—who are nothing but footballs, or grown-up boys who play football. The world is pretty evenly divided into the two classes—one active, the other passive; ona givingand the other receiving all the kicks. Of course the two classes blend, and the most observing man cannot tell where the one ends and the other begins; for the man who is most zealous in pursuing the ball often falls and becomes the football himself for his more successful companions to kick; and they perform the operation none the less severely because he was once their companion. Now a man is not necessarily disgraced because he has been kicked by the world; it is only in exceptional cases where he is even injured by the operation. If he is possessed of a great intellect and an earnest, manly desire to do a great good to his race, he may take it as a rule that those he wished to benefit will not receive it kindly, but will kick and abuse him for his presumption. It is a sad sight to see a man who has labored conscientiously, given the best years of his life for some great principle, go down to his grave amid the jests and sneers of his countrymen, without one hope that the great object of his life will ever be consummated. But there are hundreds who have so toiled and died, and when the people reached the time they were in advance of, they received their reward, and monuments and poems gave them the place they deserved in history.
Opposition, kicks, and cuffs are the means God uses to develop the energy and latent strength of those whom He calls to fill important positions. Iron is rendered flexible by beating; and rare are the cases where men are injured by it. It is well to notice those exceptions. Whenever you see a man grow cynical and hopeless because of the ridicule which the world heaped upon his opinions, you may be certain the world was right and his opinions were worthless. The evidence is prima facie that his mission was not to inaugurate reforms. Shelley was, no doubt, injured by the scorn which his opinions received, but not so much as the world would have been, had it accepted his absurd theories. And so it is everywhere. Society must protect itself, no matter at what cost to the individual. If you see a great wrong and feel it to be your duty to
68
THE SCHOLASTIC.
reform it, there are many things which you will need, hut this is of the first importance: you must be prepared to receive as hard blows as you give. Sins and wrongs always have brave defenders, and if you cannot stand hard blows don’t attempt it; you are not fit to play foot-ball in the field of reform, and it is doubtful if your name will be remembered beyond your generation. You have no right to expect it; it is only those who do some great good, or some great evil, that are remembered, and you are not fit for either.
A young man who has been educated at home by the most competent masters is not prepared to enter the world, alone; the beggar on the street will have a better chance of success than he, for the very education of the former will be an injury to him at the outset. He can give nothing to the world, he can bear nothing; and he will certainly receive nothing but kicks.
This democratic principle of education in our schools is a grand thing; it receives a boy for just about what he is worth, and rewards him only for what he does. The son of the laboring man has an equal chance with the son of the millionaire; and I have noticed it carried to such an extreme that the latter does not receive an equal amount of credit for doing the same work; but this latter is only the universal principle of equilibrium trying to assert itself, and is not productive of any lasting evil. The only basis of an aristocracy here is talent and application; and the student who, on account of wealth or position, ignores this fact will find to his sorrow that he is not fit to play an intellectual game of football; if he attempts it, he will as surely find himself receiving all the kicks. A student whose parents are wealthy is peculiarly liable to the delusion that he is possessed of great talent, and that those less favored should bow down before him; but when he finds they not only refuse to do it, but pass on ahead of him and ridicule and laugh at his pretensions, he begins to see that there is something wrong in his theory, and if he discovers what it is, he is no longer in danger; he will work his way out and deserve the respect and honor which will attend his success. Now, it is better this experience should come to him early, while in school, than, as it must come, later, out in the world. The ridicule of his schoolfellows may be hard to bear, but it is not so bitter as that of the world; nor is it so difficult to overcome.
It requires a certain amount of training to make a champion player of football, and, in the game to be played on the broad field of the world, the kind of training you need is such as will enable you to bear as many kicks as you give. Do not attempt to avoid them; you cannot do it honorably. If you play at all, play fair; and if you have no enthusiasm, stand aside and wait till the ball comes your way, which (like Micawber’s indefinite “something”) it in all probability never will. Beware of kicking an opponent when you find him down; it is not honorable nor manly; it is not Christianlike, and, besides, it does not pay. In the hurry and rush of the game you too may fall, and if you establish the precedent, some one else will kick you in your misfortune. You never can gain any advantage by kicking your opponents; it is only the ball you are both pursuing that counts. Never despair of success. The man who can feel and see in the distance the ultimate triumph of the good cause he is now contending for, although he see it by faith alone, has nothing to fear; his success is already assured. He can bear the calcitration
and contumely of the world, for he knows that the world is moving on and in the not distant future he will receive the certain and ample reward of earnest, faithful labor.
T. A. D.
Surprising—Is it not?
That intelligent non-Catholics, well read in general matters, should be ignorant of the Catholic doctrines, is not surprising, because they scarcely ever give a thought to the real teachings of the Church of God. But that highly-educated, polished and refined ladies and gentlemen, who are not only versed in the sciences, as sciences go—but who also have read their Bible—and who go to some place of public Protestant worship once, and perhaps oftener, on Sunday, should even from their point of view have anything but the highest respect and veneration for the Blessed Virgin, is surprising indeed. They know from reading their Bible that Jesus, true God and true Man, was united to her in the closest degree possible; that after His birth He remained with her until about His twelfth year, without ever leaving her presence; and then, after the brief manifestation of his Divine wisdom to the priests and doctors, He returned with Mary His Mother, and Joseph His fosterfather, and “ was subject to them,” residing with them as a dutiful Son, conversing with them as their Divine Instructor. And when in the course of time the soul of the pure and faithful St. Joseph departed for Limbo to await the opening of Heaven’s gates, Jesus continued to dwell with His Mother.
Of the thirty-three years He lived upon earth He dwelt thirty years with Mary His Mother.
Now if an ordinarily good person resides with, and converses freely with, a truly pious and virtuous one, the former cannot but be benefitted by the intercourse. How much then must Mary, who from her conception was the most perfect creature that ever came from God, have profited by this long and intimate intercourse with Jesus!
It seems that everybody enjoys the music of the celebrated Thomas Orchestra; from those who can scarcely boast of having any ear for music, up the scale to those who have made music their special study and delight, all are charmed with the orchestral music. But it must be admitted by all, especially by those refined ladies and gentlemen whom I mentioned at the beginning, that those who had given particular care to the development of their musical faculties derived almost infinitely more pleasure from the perfectly artistic execution of the masterpieces of great composers than others who, up to the time, had been sent into raptures, or at least were well enough pleased by the performance of fifth and sixth rate piano-thumpers.
From this comparison some very faint idea can be had of how infinitely more Mary profited by her conversation and intercourse with Jesus, than any other person could with any other than Jesus, and also how much greater was her capacity of mind and soul and heart than of any C^her to receive the infinite graces and blessings which He bestowed upon his Mother.
She was conceived Immaculate; her soul was never for an instant stained with sin; her mind was unclouded by ignorance, her heart from its first pulsation was inclined to God, she increased in grace in her youth so much that when the Archangel was sent to her with a verbal message direct from the mouth of God, he addressed her “ Hail, full
THE SCHOLASTIC.
69

of grace, the Lord is with thee.” If she were then full of grace, and if then the Lord by His power and gifts was with her, how great—infinitely great, in comparison to other mortals—mast have been the powers of her soul to receive that immense increase of grace when “ The Word was made flesh” and dwelt in her chaste womb. How infinitely she must have increased in grace before God, living her life for thirty years almost alone with Jesus! Certainly it is surprising that any intelligent person can have other than the highest and greatest esteem for the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Considcratiors oa the Origin and Progress of Physical Science.
A LECTURE READ BEFORE THE NOTRE DAME SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATION, EV S. W. UNOVEM.
If it is a source of pleasure to the student of history—as it . confessedly is—to note the various circumstances attending the rise and till of nations,—to observe the gradual development of small and dependent states into powerful and extended empires,—to study the cause of those grand mutations, religious and political, observable in the world’s history, and their consequent effects on society at large,— to compare the prevailing sentiments of one nation or epoch with those of another, and analyize the character of those who have been instrumental in bringing about great events, and who, to a greater or less extent, have exercised an influence not only on their contemporaries, but also on succeeding generations,—how much will not his pleasure be enhanced, if, in connection with these subjects, he direct his attention to the consideration of the origin and progress of art, literature and science, and the bearing which the successful cultivation of the two former, and the practical application of the latter, have had on the amelioration of thejnaterial and moral condition of mankind ?
\
We behold literature and art even in the infancy of society having attained a degree of perfection which surprises us when we compare it with the condition of science at the same period. Indeed the perfection of literature and art seems to have preceded the era of civilisation itself. When Greece was as yet what we would deem semi-barbarous, or at most semi-civilized, considering the manners and customs of the times, she had already produced her greatest masters in every department of art and letters. Nearly five centuries before the Christian era, this favored land had given birth to her most celebrated architects— Phidias, Callicrates, Scopas and Melagcnes. Contemporaneously with them flourished those world-renowned geniuses in painting and sculpture, of whom the Phidias just mentioned, Myron and Polycletus, excelled as sculptors; Zuixis, Timantbes, Parrhasius and Apollodorus, as painters. All these were, in the full sense of the word, masters of their art, and as such all their successors have been obliged to acknowledge them. Since their time no improvements deserving of mention have been made in either painting, sculpture or architecture. All subsequent artists have been content to imitate their productions, deeming it a success to equal them, to surpass them impossible. We will not here consider the great degree of perfection attained in the various departments of literature—in history, poetry, philosophy and oratory, as it is somewhat foreign to our purpose, and would demand more space than the limits which we have assigned to our essay would allow.
But what we have said of literature and the arts cannot be affirmed of the sciences—particularly of the physical and the natural sciences. It is true, mathematics were cultivated by the ancients, and with comparative success. Arithmetic, geometry, surveying and astronomy were studied, and for a time advanced with rapid strides. The namesofthe celebrated geometricians Euclid and Archimedes, the former of whom flourished about 300 years B. C., the latter a century later, are familiar to every schoolboy. Astronomy had her representatives in the persons of Hales of Miletus, one of the seven wise men of Greece, and Anaximander, one of his disciples. At a later age, conspicuous among her votaries were the Ptolemies, who made such advances in astronomical science, that few changes were made in it until the time of Copernicus, a Polish priest, who in 1543 made known to the .world in his six books, “De Orbium Calestinm Rewlutwnibus" the system of the universe which since his time has everywhere obtained.
Concerning the natural sciences, zoology, geology, mineralogy, botany, etc., little or nothing was know. Aristotle, who died B. C. 322, is generally regarded as the father of zoology and botany, although Solomon, 1000 years before the Christian era, wrote on these subjects, for as we read in the Third Book of Kings, c. iv, v. 33: “He treated about the trees, from the cedar that is in Libanus, unto the hyssop that cometh out of the wall, and he discoursed of beasts and of fowls and of creeping things and of fishes.” However, none of these works of the latter have come down to us, and we can form an estimate of their merits only by the knowledge we have of their author, “ the wisest of men.”
These same sciences were at a later epoch assiduously pursued by the famous Roman naturalist, Pliny the Elder, but without any decisive result. After him they were suffered to fall into almost total oblivion; nor was it until quite recently that these studies began to occupy the minds of scientists, since which time their development has been so rapid, that they have been brought to as great—if not greater—a degree of perfection as any of the other sciences. But of the natural and mathematical sciences, it is not our intention to speak, except in as far as they shall have a direct bearing on, or tend to, a more satisfactory elucidation of the subject under consideration, viz.: The Origin and Progress of Physical Science.
But before entering upon the consideration of our subject we may be allowed to premise that by the term Physical Science we wish to be understood as meaning Chemistry and Physics or Natural Philosophy, excluding Astronomy and other cognate branches of Science sometimes classed under the same head..
Where Chemistry took its rise is uncertain. Many writers contend that it was first cultivated in Egypt by the Egyptian priests, whose knowledge during those primitive ages of the world was more extensive than that of any other people—and adduce in support^ of their opinion the signification of the word chemistry, which they maintain should be derived from Ghemia, the ancient name of Egypt. This country, often called the cradle of science, was at that early stage of human society resorted to even by the sages of Greece, in search of wisdom. The first author who makes mention of this science is Julius Matemus Firmi-cus, who flourished in the reign of Constantine, about A. D. 340. Although we cannot determine the precise epoch of
IQ	T H E 8 C
HOL ASTIC.
the origin of chemistry, we are nevertheless certain from history and many works of art which still exist, that many chemical facts were known and practically applied at a very early date. This ean be said of the Egyptians and Phoenicians particularly. These latter people were famed . for their skill in dyeing, making glass, and for the degree of perfection to which they had arrived at in smelting ores and working metals. The Egyptians also knew how to prevent the decomposition of dead animal bodies, as we see in their mummies, which exist in a state of almost complete preservation even at the present day. The Israelites were acquainted with several of the metals, particularly gold, silver, copper, iron, lead and tin. The knowledge of the Greeks concerning these matters extended no further than that which they had borrowed from the Egyptians. The facts then just enumerated necessarily evince that these various nations must have possessed at least a partial knowledge of the principles of chemistry and metallurgy, although they did not make use of anything like the symbols and formulae introduced by m odern chemists for the sake of facilitating the study of the science.
Concerning the origin of Physics we know but little. Most probably the first advances of any importance made in this science were by the Greeks. They, however, made but few discoveries, and these were of little practical value. They were undoubtedly acquainted with the principles of Mechanics and Hydrostatics, but thoir knowledge extended no-further. Those massive monuments and stately temples, which even after the lapse of ages still command our admiration, sufficiently demonstrate that these people possessed no ordinary knowledge of the laws of Mechanics to enable them to erect such stupendous structures. Besides this, some of the discoveries made by Archimedes and other philosophers of antiquity have been handed down to us. These however were of minor importance, at least in the eyes of the ancient philosophers, who regarded them as mere curiosities, and not as so many master keys of inventions and discoveries of the greatest practical utility, such as they have proved to have been by the indefatigable researces of modern scientists.
But on noticing the great disparity in development of literature and art on the one hand, and of science on the other, we are naturally led to inquire why such was the case. Why was it that the Greeks made such little progress in the sciences, especially in the physical sciences, although they were such great lovers of knowledge, and in every respect such a highly intelligent people ? Why was it that they never made any great discovery? or were never the authors of any useful inventions like those of modern times ? In a word, what reason can be assigned for their being so backward in everything relating to man’s convenience, comfort and material advancement? The question is not hard to answer. It was owing to their peculiarly metaphysical turn of mind, which entirely eschewed experiment, the basis of the physical sciences. They delighted only in speculation, “ spinning like the spider”—as my Lord Verulam quaintly expresses it— “the thread of speculative doctrine from within themselves”; but they disdained to descend to what was practical. They were satisfied with theory, but totally disregarded facts. The inductive method of reasoning, “ by which,” says Sir John Herschel, “ science in its present advanced state is chiefly promoted,” was entirely unknown to them, or at least if known, was never successfully em
ployed. Its application to the experimental sciences was reserved for the scientists of a later age, for it was not until the time of Lord Bacon that it was fully developed and generally received. All the philosophers of Greece were more or less acquainted with the science of geometry and astronomy, but it was considered ignoble to study them for the sake of the practical benefit which might be derived from a knowledge of their principles. Even Archimedes himself, endowed with a genius for mathematics which few or none have ever possessed, would have long ago-been forgotten were his memory to rest on the few inventions now attributed to him; inasmuch as he was never the author of anything which could justly claim the lasting gratitude; of his fellow-men. He considered it as degrading for a true philosopher to descend from the regions of speculation to the practical application of scientific knowledge. If he ever directed his mind to anything practical, it was only, as he himself said, for the sake of recreating his mind, or when compelled to do so from necessity.
Had the philosophers of antiquity had the same objectin view in their scientific pursuits as have the moderns, what great good might they not have accomplished ? of what useful inventions might they not have been the authors? what grand discoveries might they not have effected? Pacts—-the basis of the experimental sciences, such as chemistry and physics—were not wanting to them. The same phenomena which have led to the most important discoveries of modern times were then observable. For instance, they had a knowledge of steam as a motor. Hero, 130 years B. C., describes what he ealls an Eolipile which beautifully illustrates the motive power of steam. They were also acquainted with the power which certain forms of glass, or glass globules containing water, possess of magnifying objects when seen through them. This is proved from what we read in Seneca. He says.- Litem quam vis minutes et obscures per vitreampilam aqua plenum, majores darioresque cemuntur.'1* “Letters, although minute and obscure, appear larger and clearer when viewed through a glass bulb filled with water.” The magnet and its power of attracting iron, and also of communicating its attractive properties, was well known to them, but, strange to say, never utilized. The attractive power of amber, after being subject to friction, was noticed both by the Greeks and the Romans. Thales, who flourished six hundred years B. C., makes mention of it. Pliny, the naturalist, also remarked this phenomenon, but his knowledge of electricity was limited to this fact only, and in this regard he was no farther advanced than his Greek predecessor, who lived almost seven centuries before him. It is to the study of these few simple phenomena that we owe nearly all the changes which have taken place in modern society, all the improvements which now exert such an all-controlling influence on the material and social condition of mankind.
(to be continued.)
/— After the execution of his third wife, (Jane Seymour), Henry VHI sought the hand of the Duchess of Milan, who declined, on the ground that she had but one head, and said, “If I had two heads, one should be at his majesty’s service.” In that case, “ Old Hal ” would probably have axed her twice.
* Nat. Quest., lib. 1, cap. 7.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Ivy of Ireland.
When Bacchus, as the poets tell us, was roaming in his youth through the islands of the West, the last which he visited -and the one he loved the most was Ireland. So much did he love it that when he was returning to the skies he tock from his crown the grapevine that bound it, and was about to plant it in the ground as a memorial of his affection. But he ceased on being assured by the aged king of the island that Saturn himself of old, when lying hid there from the wrath of Jupiter, had thrice planted the vine in vain, for it always withered by reason of the envy which Hyperion from the first had shown towards Ireland. The wine-ged wept, and taking from his brow a branch of ivy he planted it on the spot where his tears had fallen, and blessed it and said “HailI and farewell! Flourish forever here; Sourish thou here forever, child of ’ the shade and of the shower! and if as the Titan Prometheus once prophesied amongst the assembled gods, this Island, now the happiest of all that are bathed by the ocean streams, be destined to be strewn in future ages with the towers of her kings and the temples of her gods, do thou strongly embrace those ruins—cloth them with thy robes of unfading verdure and make them more beautiful in their desolation than the towers and temples of other lands in all their uninjured beauty.”	A. 31.
Literature.
—
Grapes and Thorns. By M. A. T., Author of “ The House of Yorke,” “ A Winged Word,” etc. New York: Catholic Publication Society.
The many readers of “The House of Yorke,” which obtained for its gifted author a first rank among our storywriters, will be glad to hear that another beautiful Catholic story, entitled “ Grapes and Thorns,” from the same pen, has just been issued in book form. It was first published as a serial in the Catholic World. This is just the kind of books we need most—lifelike, well-told, thoroughly Catholic tales that can be unhesitatingly recommended as good reading for young persons of both sexes. We heartily wish that we could boast of a dozen more writers like the author of “ Grapes and Thorns.” The story is fascinating, and beautifully drawn out; the different characters seem like living persons whose counterparts, one could easily pick out in his circle of friends. We admire, too, the attractive and substantial way in which the book is dressed. The shelves of the Circulating Library for the students should be filled up, we think, with such books as this.
Sacrum Septenarium. Or The Seven Gifts of the Holy Ghost As Exemplified in the Life and Person of the Blessed Virgin, for the Guidance and Instruction of her Children. By Rev Henry Formby. New York: Catholic Publication Society.
P6re Belot, a recent French writer, laments, as many others have done, the ignorance which prevails respecting the working of the Holy Ghost in our souls. “ If,” as he says, “ progress in the spiritual life and examples of sanctity are so rare even among persons who make profession of piety, one cause may be assigned among others for this, namely, the condition of ignorance in which a great number of Christians live as regards the working of the Holy Ghost in us, the excellence of His Gifts, and their importance to everyone of us for the sanctification of our souls.”
Blessed Benedict Labre used to say that when we find our
selves growing cold and remiss in our religious practices we should pray to the Holy Spirt for His sevenfold gifts. But we shall pray with more fervor if we first know their wonderful operation. It is seen in the Blessed Virgin* “ There can be no better and more winning exemplification of the Seven Gifts of the Holy Ghost than that of Blessed Mary, the Holy Mother of the Christian family.”
The object of this exquisite little book, as its title indicates, is to enliven our faith and make us appreciate more perfectly the sanctifying power of the Gifts of the Holy Ghost. We take pleasure in recommending it to our readers as tending to augment the love of God and foster devotion to His Immaculate Mother. It is a gem of bookmaking.
Messrs. Kreuzer Bros, of Baltimore send us a little book entitled “Manual of Good Manners.” It is intended for students, and will be found useful for the many excel-ent hints it contains. The binding and printing, we are sorry to say, are not the best.
A new and enlarged edition of the “Manual oe the Sodality of the Sacred Heart of Jesus,” has just been published by Murphy & Co., Baltimore. It contains the Little Office of the Sacred Heart and many beautiful prayers, litanies, etc. This is one of the prettiest little books we have seen in a long time; it is in blue and gold, and just the size for a prayer-book.
Catechism of the Apostleship of Prayer. Catechism of Devotion to the Sacred Heart.—These two Volumes have just been added to the Library of the Sacred Heart, published by Messrs. Murphy & Co. We cheerfully recommend them to our readers as containing complete and clear explanations of the beautiful devotion to the Sacred Heart, which cannot be too highly appreciated. The members of the different Associations of Prayer will find these little books invaluable.
—We have just had time to glance at the “Rosa Mystica” a sprightly paper gotten up by the young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy. It presents a very neat appearance, the articles are written with great care and much ability. We will in some future number publish extracts from this paper.
—We had the pleasure of reading the last number of the “ PhUomathian Standard” published by the St. Cecilians. If anything, it is far better than in former years.
—Father Harper has in press a second part of “Peace Through the Truth,” his exhaustive reply to Dr. Pusey’s “Eirenicon,” the first volume of which appeared some eight years ago.
—The most important needle work ever done in the world is supposed to have been done by the mariner’s compass
The difference between a woman and a looking-glass is said to be that the woman speaks without reflecting, and that the looking-glass reflects without speaking.
—A female shoplifter, being caught in the act of stealing some costly lace, quietly remarked that she was unaware that she had been doing anything wrong, as she had taken the lace in a fit of abstraction.
The San Antonio (Cal.) Herald says: “A gentleman who came several thousand miles to view the country, with the purpose of purchasing, got a large-sized red.ant on him a few days ago, and, stranger as he was, he cavorted around and used as appropriate language as if he had lived here all his life, and moved in the best of society.
72	T.HE SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AH communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: Oneyear....................?...$! 00
Single copies (Seta.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
—There are three classes of books which ought not to be read by young men; and parents and guardians should be very careful not to allow those under their charge to read them under any circumstances, as they destroy the mind and soul.
The first of these classes comprises those works of an openly immoral character. Of this class little need be said. Most people, of all classes and denominations, notwithstanding the degeneracy of the age, are opposed to the circulation of a literature of this kind. Yet it continually creeps out in the flash periodicals published in New York and elsewhere. Young men ought to avoid these as they would the deadliest poisons.
The second of these classes includes in it all books that dare to attack openly or indirectly the sacred dogmas of Christianity. Of this class are the works of Gibbon, Hume, Paine, Huxley and others. It would be useless to prove the immense influence for evil which books of this sort exert on the minds of the young or of those whose education is not thoroughly completed. Their action on the mind is to unsettle it and send it adrift. It relaxes, deadens and destroys all Christian life. To preserve from contam-• ination the minds of those whose position of necessity leads them into these dangerous fields of literature, there is required sound knowledge, strong faith and great grace.
The danger which arises from this class of works is so great, and their character is so well-known, that it would seem an almost useless task to call the attention of mankind to it. And yet experience has proven that many do notsufficently apprehend the danger; many persons forget that as bad company injures young men, in the same manner do books opposed to Christianity weaken the belief of the weak-minded or of those whose minds are not fully developed in the divine truths preached by our Lord.
The third class is composed of those romances and novels Which although they do not profess openly to attack Christianity or morality, yet by the false coloring which they give to the realities of life, by their entire disregard of all moral principles in their delineation of plot and character, lead persons into the falsest ideas' of life and utterly destroy all Christian morals. Of this class of books the most conspicuous are the novels of Eugene Sue, Paul de Kock, Victor Hugo, and many others. Though the same spirit may not pervade to the same extent the English novelists, yet there are many of them which are more than simply tinged with it. Some of the novels of Bulwer, as “ Paul Clifford,” etc., ought never to be in the hands of young men. As to the novels of Ainsworth and others of his stamp, young men would do both their minds and souls much good if they would leave them alone altogether. As to the Dime Novel, which is read even by men who would be ashamed to acknowledge the fact, the reading of it is a waste of |
time; and more than this, it renders the reader wholly unfit for more serious study. Beware of all these classes of books—they are all of the literature of death; they destroy the mind and kill the soul.
- Father Lemoanier3
What a pleasant picture arises at the sound of thia name J even the’word itself is musical, and thus emblematic of the beautiful character which it represents. What a gracious presence, what kindness, what ease, what exquisite taste, what goodness! in him met most perfectly the priest, the scholar and the gentleman. But he was even more than this: he was an artist in the broadest sense of the word, having a true appreciation of music, poetry, painting, landscape gardening and general scenic effect; molding nature with the hand of art, he would have made Notre Dame as charming as the Pincian gardens. He was besides a most genial companion, possessed of a delicate and ’ ready wit and a never failing fund of good humor.
It is not surprising that the beauty of his character, and his social disposition, should have won for him and for Notre Dame hosts of friends: and such was the variety of his information, the largeness of his understanding, and the purity and integrity of his life, that those who were once drawn within the circle of his friendship remained his fast friends forever. With men generally there is a wide distinction between acquaintances and friends, but with Father Lemonnier there was no such distinction; to know him was to love him: his acquaintances looked upon him as a near and dear friend; and to all of them the news of his death will come as the announcement of a personal bereavement.
His active life, from his ordination to his death, was completely identified with Notre Dame; so much so that the' biography of Father Lemonnier for the last eleven years of his life would be the history of Notre Dame for the same period—by far the most brilliant period of her history. First appointed Prefect of Discipline, at the special request of the late Rev. Father Patrick Dillon, then President of the University, he had successively filled every office up to that of President and Superior, in which he died. To hold so many and such varied trusts, with satisfaction both to his superiors and to those under his charge, is indeed given to few, and is alone sufficient to mark him as a man gifted with a rare combination of mental and moral endowments.
One trait of character in his connection deserves particular mention, his remarkable power of adapting himself to the peculiarities of the many different kinds of persons with whom he came into contact. He undoubtedly had his likes and his dislikes, but these could hardly be perceived in his intercourse with others. This many-sided sympathy of his not only explains his popularity with all classes of people, but may also account for his dramatic taste, especially his admiration of Shakspeare; for, like Cardinal Wiseman, he loved and appreciated the great poet, and he possessed himself no little share of dramatic genius. It was however towards the pastoral drama that his taste was drawn, and Twelfth, Night, or As You Like It, gave him far more pleasure than Lear, or Macbeth, innocence, gentleness and purity having a wonderful attraction for his soul. This delicacy of taste is very noticable in his “Filial Love,” performed so well last June by his favorite society, the St. Cecilians.
THE SCHOLASTIC
73
‘ To this wide sympathy with others we may also ascribe his marvellous success as President. For him the term University was a word of marked significance: he would have all departments of study in a prosperous condition, the sciences, the arts, the languages, the professions; he would have the various societies active and harmonious ; he would have officers and professors working together with one mind; he would have the students contented and rapidly advancing in all knowledge; he would have the surroundings as comfortable and beautiful as they were good and useful; and finally he would have all sanctified by a pervading spirit of Christian piety' and virtue. To say that, at least in a large measure, he succeeded in all this, and that in time he would undoubtedly have completely succeeded, is to name him what he was indeed, a model President.
But if he was all this for the University, what was he to each of its inmates! We have lost him, and now, alas, we know what he was. It is not too much to say that each one of us has lost his best friend. Most truly was he a father to everyone that needed his help, the extent of his encouragement and assistance being measured only by his power in doing good. In aiding others, and in making them happy, he never wearied: it was his delight to do them good, and nothing gave him greater pain than to be unable to grant their request.
Surely heaven is the fit abode of such choice souls, and however keenly we may feel our own loss, we can but believe that his self-sacrificing and beautiful spirit has attained to a state of bliss of which we have no conception. For us his example remains; let us follow it. Bidding a number of us farewell in his sick-room a few weeks ago, he said: “ If I get better I will go to see you; if not, you must come to see me.” Let us not forget our Father’s invitation.	Filius.
THE OBSEQUIES. •
Last Saturday was a day of solemn grandeur at Notre Dame. On the Thursday preceding it, the genial, patient and saintly^Father Lemonnier had breathed his last, and his death caused a gloom to enshroud the scene of his long and faithful labors. Each face was sad, each pace was slow, when his old friends and co laborers learned the sad intelligence which even the pious and Christian manner of his death seemed scarcely to lighten.
Throughout the different parts of the College were displayed the-marks and tokens of mourning. The grand parlor, where lay in silent state the body of the loved departed, was draped in a manner at once the most touching and appropriate. The pictures were covered with crape, and the pillars wreathed with the same material. A temporary altar was erected, and blessed tapers alone shed their light throughout the room. It was on Friday afternoon, at the express request of the students of the University, to whom he had always shown a father’s love, that the body was brought thither, by the students themselves. From that time until the hour of burial there were students about the coffin, whilst his many loving friends from Notre Dame, St. Mary’s and South Bend thronged to take the last look of him who was soon to be laid in the silent grave. It was particularly touching to see with what feelings of respect and affection the remains of the venerated President were visited by the old students of Notre Dame.
Their every feature seemed to say that they had lost a friend and benefactor. '	-
But the time was fast approaching when that cherished countenance was to be hid from the gaze of his many and true friends. The deep tones of the muffled bells, the sad strains of the funeral march, the eyes reddened with tears and the deep sighs heard on all sides, announced that the hour of burial had come.	’
The procession formed in front of the grand entrance; the body was raised by the pall-bearers, with the usual religious ceremonies. The bier was borne to the church by the representative s of the students, who claimed for themselves this privilege, while six priests walked on either side.	'
When the Vespers of the Dead where sung, the Rev. Father Corby, President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Watertown, Wisconsin, ascended the pulpit and in a few eloquent and touching remarks paid the last tribute to the memory of his friend. He spoke of his old comrade as a priest, and as President of the University. As a priest, he depicted his blameless life—one which had been short indeed, but in which much had been accomplished. The character of the priest was in itself ths most sublime on earth, and when the priest felt the grandeur of his calling and corresponded to the graces of his vocation then did he stand aloft above kings and potentates, the most admired of the human race. Father Lemonnier was known to them all, and they knew of him as a priest nought but what was edifying. In his capacity as an officer of an Educational Institution, his duty was not less faithfully performed. As an organizer, he was unsurpassed. In his discipline, he was stern without harshness. By his energy he was the very soul of the University. By the tenderness of his heart he became the friend and beloved of all. Who could refrain from shedding tears when such a man was taken from us by the ruthless hand of death! How the great qualities of his life shone forth with increased brilliancy on his couch of death! The bustle of life had ceased for him. .His indirect service of God was wellnigh o’er.	•
The world with all its allurements had lost all charms for him. His look, his words, his smile, his perfect resignation, showed the man who lived but for the love of God. Father Lemonnier was gone; soon all that remains of him for us here below would be concealed beneath the cold damp sod. Shortly silence would reign about him, and his bones would moulder into dust beneath the shadow of the humble emblem of his faith. But his memory w’ould still live at Notre Dame, and his name would be the synonym of zeal, of edification and of virtue.	.
The eloquent and learned preacher retired from the pulpit leaving the vast concourse of people who attended the funeral impressed almost to awe.
The clergy then assembled around the catafalque and chanted the Libera, the Church’s solemn dirge for the dead. Then the procession again formed in front of the church, and wended its way towards the humble cemetery of the community, whilst the deep tones of the organ flowed beneath the-vaults of the Temple of God, and the doleful sounds of the great bell from the church tower re-echoed the sadness of the hearts of all.
The rest is easily told. The coffin was laid in the grave open to receive it. The clay falls upon the lid with a dull, heavy sound; the cross is planted at his head; the
THE SCHOLASTIC.
last sod is heaped upon the rounded grave, and all is over except Christian hope. ■
At a meeting of the Faculty, held on Thursday, the Sth Inst., in the assembly-room, which under the direction of Prof. Lyons was draped in mourning for the occasion, the following resolutions were adopted:
Whereas, It has pleased Almighty God to remove from us our honored President, the Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, C. S. C., and,	'
Whereas, His death, humanly speaking, is a great loss, not only to the University of Notre Dame, but to the whole Congregation of the Holy Cross, of which he was an exemplary Superior; therefore be it
Resolved, That we express our sincere sorrow, tempered with Christian resignation, for the untimely death of our beloved President.
Resolved, That in the life and death of Father Lemonnier we see an almost perfect illustration of the Christian character: gifted with talents of the highest order, he relinquishes all hope of worldly success, becomes an exile from his native land and devotes his life to the welfare of strangers; here, by his gentle and graceful manners, his varied accomplishments, his zeal, and his integrity, he wins the good will of everyone, draws hundreds of youths to a noble life, and honors God and his religion in his every work; and finally when disease and death came to try him as in a fiery furnace, he endured with a patience and died with a confidence that showed how solid was the foundation upon which his faith rested.
Resolved, That we convey to the Reverend Fathers and Brothers of the Congregation, and especially to the Very Rev. and venerable Superior General so closely connected with the deceased both by the ties of blood and by those of religion, the warm expression of sympathy in their bereavement; and of our trust that with them we may one day meet him in that blessed home where there is no parting.
Resolved, That these resolutions .be spread on the journal of the Faculty meetings, and that they be also published in the Scholastic.
The following are the Resolutions of the Sodality of the Holy Angels, adopted Oct. 31st, 1874;
Whereas, It has pleased Divine Providence to remove the revered and beloved President of the College and our former Director, Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, C. S. C., from the labors and cares of this world to the joys of a better life, be it
Resolved, First, that we, the Sodality of the Holy Angels of Notre Dame University, have lost a venerated Father, a wise and faithful Spiritual Guide, and an esteemed and beloved Friend.
Resolved, Secondly, that overwhelmed as we are with grief at our own loss, we are compelled at the same time as Christians, to rejoice at what we feel to be his gain, in having departed from us to the society of the Holy Angels above. •
Resolved, Thirdly, that we will faithfully assist, in our official capacity, at the public Masses that shall be offered for the repose of the soul of our former Director.
• Resolved, Fourthly, that we offer our respectful condolences to the numerous friends and relatives of the Rev. Augustus Lemonnier.	'
Resolved, Fifthly, that a copy of these resolutions be printed in the columns of the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Sequiescai in pace.
W. S. Meter,
J. F. Beegan,
D. J. O’Connell,^
H. J. Quan,
F. J. Weisenburger,
V. F. McKinnon,
Committee.
At a meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, the following Resolutions were adopted:
Whereas, It has pleased Almighty God to call from ns our beloved President and zealous patron, Rev. Father Lemonnier; be it therefore	.	.
Resolved, That we mourn the loss of a pious Father and sincere friend, who has endeared himself to us both by, the ex-amplary life he led and by the unfeigned solicitude which he always manifested for our welfare.	-
Resolved, That this Society has lost a beneficent friend, who by his fostering care always promoted its interests. *
Resolved, That while we condole with Rev. Father Sorin in his affliction at the loss of his beloved nephew, we also recognize a cause for the alleviation of his grief, in the resignation with which Father Lemonnier bore his long illness, and in his edifying death.	J. Net, 1 .
M. Foley, Committee.
J. J. Gillen, J
The following are the Resolutions of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, adopted at a meeting held Nov. 4th, 1874:
Whereas, An All wise Providence has ordained that our wellbeloved friend and Director, Rev. A Lemonnier, should bid adieu to us in this vale of tears and enter into the joys of a blissful eternity'; be it therefore
Resolved, That although we recognize in this affliction the finger of God, and desire to submit humbly to His divine wishes, yet it is with sorrow inexpressible we realize the stern fact which has bereft us of one who has ever been to us a de
voted friend and kind, dear father.
Resolved, As a token of the sorrow which must fill the heart of every St. Ceeilian, of either past years or of the present, when he realizes the true devotion ever manifested in the inter
erests of our youthful band by our departed Director, that the banner and hall of the Association be draped in mourning for thirty days; that the members also wear a badge of mourning for the same period of time.	-
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
venerable and afflicted uncle of the deceased, and that they be published in the Scholastic, as also in the Chicago and South
Bend papers.
R. Staley, W. S. Meter, M. M. Foote, V. McKinnon, J. F. Beegan, D. J. O’Connell, 3. P. McHugh,
■ Committee.
The following Resolutions were adopted by the Thespian Association at their meeting held Nov. 4th, 1874:
Whereas, It hath pleased Almighty God, who doth all things well, to call from us, in the prime of his life, our beloved Director, Rev. Father Lemonnier; be it therefore	-
Resolved, First, that while we humbly bow to the decree of an Allwise Providence, we cannot but feel that in his death we have sustained an irretrievable loss..	’
Resolved, Secondly, that as in the death of our beloved Director our Society has lost the most efficient and devoted officer it ever had; we the members of this association, as a slight tribute to his memory, will wear a badge-of mourning for. thirty days.
Resolved, Thirdly, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy to his venerable uncle, Very Rev. Father Sorin, and the other grief-stricken members of his family, and unite our lamentations ’ with theirs for one who was to us at once a friend and a father.
Resolved, Fourthly, that copies of these resolutions .be presented to his relatives, and that they be published in the Scho-.lastic, N. Y. Freeman's Journal, Boston Pilot, and Cincinnati
Telegraph.
T. A. Dailey, V. P., E. J. McLaughlin, R. W. Staley, Sec'y, T. J. Murphy,
■ Committee.
THESCHOLASTIC.	75
The Columbian Literary and Debating Club adopted the following Resolutions at their meeting, held Nov. 4th, 1874 :
Whereas, It has been the will of our Heavenly Father to take unto His own celestial kingdom our kind and honored Director, ’ Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, President of the University of Notre
Dame, be it	'
Resolved, First, that in the loss of the Reverend gentleman, the Columbian Literary and Debating Club have to mourn a generous friend and patron, an attentive and zealous Director, and a noble and revered founder.
Resolved, Secondly, that we offer our affectionate condolence to the relatives and friends of the deceased, humbly sug-.gesting the reflection, so prompt to offer itself to every Christian heart, that virtues such as those of our departed Director have met a reward far greater than the acme of worldly prosperity could have afforded.
Resolved, Thirdly, that while submitting to the decrees of Divine Providence, and endeavoring to imitate the virtues of which our Reverend Father in Christ has given so amiable an example, we will not permit an opinion of his merits to cause us to neglect fervent prayer for the repose of his soul, in which we will heartily unite with the members of the Religious Community to which he so worthily belonged.
Resolved, Fourthly, that a copy of these resolutions be published in the Notre Dame Scholastic.
H. C. Cassidy, 1
A. Horne, > Committee.
N. J. Mooney, )
rersons.1.
—Harry Scales, of’05, is practising law in Chicago.
—Douglas Cook, of 58, is doing well in St. Louis.
—Jules Labarthe, of ’60, is now in Peoria, Illinois.
—Tom Ireland, of ’72, is flourishing in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Prof.P. Foote has now a good law practice in Chicago.
—Harry Watkins, of ’64, is clerk of the Mayor’s Court in Chicago.
—Ed. Shea is now teller in ex-Mayor O’Neill’s bank, in Milwaukee.
—We were pleased to see Rev. Father Paul with us for the past week.
—Gen. R. W. Healy, of ’58, is United States Marshal in Mobile,'Alabama. .
—We are pleased to learn of the recovery of Rev. E. Lilly, of Watertown, Wis.
—Will Howland, of ’64, is engaged in the dry goods business in Elkhart, Indiana.
—Geo. P. Colvin, of ’6'1, is with bis father, Mayor Colvin; in the United States Express Office, Chicago.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, his lady, and his son D.ivid Wile, were at Notre Dame on Saturday, attending the funeral.
—P. Sullivan, Commercial graduate of last year, is teaching school for Rev. M. O’Reilly, in Valparaiso, Ind.
—P. L. Garrity of Chicago spent last Saturday and Sunday with us, visiting old friends and his children at St. Mary’s.	.
—H. W. Walker, of ’74, met with a severe accident in Chicago last week. We are happy to learn that he is now recovered.
—Messrs. J. D. and D. J. Hogan of Chicago spent a couple of days with their old College chums at Notre Dame last week.	-
—Mr. Quan of Chicago was at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s on Saturday last. He was in very good health. We were sorry he could not remain longer with us.
—Mr. Thomas Clark, an old student of Notre Dame, and a Thespian in ’67, made us a short visit last week, in company with his friends Sparks, of Cheyenne, Colorado, and Woolverton of South Bend.
—Rev. Father Corby of Watertown was with us for a
few days. He is, we are glad to say, in excellent health, and we have no doubt but that he enjoyed himself with his old friends at the College and at St. Mary’s.
—Among others who attended the funeral of the late Father Lemonnier, we noticed Judge Stanfield and lady, and D. A. Veasy and lady, of South Bend; Miss E. A. Starr, the accomplished authoress, from St. Mary’s; Mrs. Carlin, of St. Mary’s; Mrs. Major Walker, of Helena, Montana ; Mrs. Judge Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; Mrs. Gooley, and others.
Local Items.
—Oh moi 1	.
—Kaieete, eh!
—Wretched walking.
—On with you overshoes.
—Who were the “ convert s” ?
—Plenty of ducks on the lake. •	'
—Rooflng.the Junior Play-Hall.	.
—How is “Joseph” these times?	.	,
—Have you an autograph book?
—-Bro. Thomas is well patronized.
—A new roof on the Music Hall.
—The Minims have a new teacher. • *
—Who had gravy spilled on his hat?
—Bulletins were made out Wednesday. .
—H. V. Hayes’ room is nicely frescoed.
—Straw hats are a la mode in the Juniors.
—Father Ford’s new church is rapidly building.
—Both lakes are frequently visited by fishermen.
—Overcoats, shawls and overshoes are in great demand.
—Good prayer-books for sale at the Students’ Office,
—Bro. Bonaventure is covering his plants for the winter.
—375 Scholastics are sent off by our friends at St.
Mary’s.	.
—New stock of goods at the Students’ Office, Wednesday.
—Blinds were put up in the Collegiate Study-Hall last week.
—A regulator will be placed in the room of the Director of Studies.	.	'
—Who is it that was “ mad ” the other day when playing handball?	.
—Carpenter, the hatter, has removed to 105 Michigan street.	[o24-lm
—Why not clear the woods just north of the Botanical Garden ?
—The Faculty-room is beautifully draped in memory of Father Lemonuier.
—The members of the class of Calisthenics are busy with dumb-bells.
—A new clerk in the Students’ Office. We hope he may long remain there.
—A Junior exhibited very bad taste the other day. We prefer our meat cooked.	-
—The general Communion of the Students on AllSaints’ Day was truly edifying.
—Prof. Stace purchased a beautiful buggy and a tip-top horse on his late visit to Chicago.
—The class of Calisthenics is in good working order. Many of the Commercials attend.
—The students had a Requiem Mass sung for the late Rev. Father Lemonnier this morning.	,
—The increasing number of subscribers for The Scholastic gives us great encouragement.
—We have received a number of articles on “Painting.” We will publish the best of them in a few weeks.
—The progress made by the beginners in the Class of Telegraphy taught by Mr. Ruddiman is wonderful.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—Why was St. Joseph County at the lact election like a tacking ship? Because it hove in stays for Surveyor.
—Thanks to Prof. Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio, for copies of the Cathedral Pair Messenger. It is a dainty sheet.
—The beautiful snow last Saturday wasn’t so beautiful after all. “The black-eyed mud reached up and licked it in.” •
—It was a queer sight Wednesday morning to see the Juniors—or rather some of them—standing in a row in the study-hall,
—Bro. Alpheus says he was not disturbed Inst Wednesday morning at two o’clock by a person who wished to go to Chicago.
—We should judge that the “Ace Maria'" was popular among the Juniors. Wednesday last we saw a number with copies.
—There are 900 copies of the Scholastic printed now. Cannot our friends make us publish a full thousand by procuring us more subscribers?
—The Students’ Retreat closed on Sunday last. It was successful in every way, and we doubt not but that all who participated in itjderived much benefit from it.
—As the funeral of the late Father Lemonnicr took place so late in the week, notice was not sent to as many of the Rev. Clergy as would otherwise have been done.
—New goods always on hand at Carpenter’s, 105 Michigan street,.	[o24-lm
—Many letters and telegrams have been received by the College authorities from the friends of the late Father Lcmonnier, in which they regret the loss of the worthy President
—The Conference of the Clergy, held on Wednesday, Nov. 4, was well attended. Rev. Fathers Louage and O’Connell read excellent papers; the first on a question of Liturgy and the latter on Dogma.	*
—I have spared no pains nor expense to make my store one of the most attractive places in-the city. Call and see me.	E. C. Cabpentek. [o24 Im
—Those who patronise the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyance to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at this hotel.
—Rev. Father Ford is now prepared to r< ceive subscriptions for his new church from his old friends. Expecting no refusals he will call upon his many friends in the coming week for their donations. Persons on whom the Rev. gentk-mau may not be able to call, may send their subscriptions to Rev. Father Ford by letter or leave them at the Students’ Office.
—As may be. seen in our advertising columns, the organ which is now used in the old church is for sale. The reason for the sale is that the depth of the organ is too great for its place in the New Church, and a new organ will have to be procured. Any congregation desiring a first-class organ can now procure one at a very reasonable rate, as he may perceive by reading the advertisement.
—It was the wish of Father Lemonnier to be buried after the first Vespers of the Feast of All Saints, and this furnished an opportunity for his many friends living in Chicago to attend the obsequies, which were performed in the afternoon. However, in the morning a Solemn Requiem Mass was sung by Very Rev. Fr. Granger, assisted by Rev. Fr. Colovin as deacon, and Rev. Fr. Toohey as subdeacon ; the students and community attended, and the services were very impressive.
The pall-bearers at the funeral were Messrs. Kelley, Murphy, Grier, Hogan, Devoto, Cassidy, G. Kelly and Ney. The clergy who assisted as pall-bearers were Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart; Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. 8. C., Director of Studies, Notre Dame; Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Prefect of Discipline, Notre Dame; Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., Master of Novices, Notre Dame; Rev. W. O’Mahony, C. S. C., St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend; Rev. L. J. Letourneau, C. S. C., Lowell, Ind.; Rev. P. P. Gillen, C. S. C., Holy . Cross, Iowa; and Rev. F. Lechner,' Notre Dame.
Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.', was officiant at the sep ulture, and the stalls were.filled with the clergy. .
Art Notes.
■—The Class of Drawing is increasing in number every week.
—We have noticed a decided improvement in the drawings of nearly all the members of the Drawing Class since our first visit. We hope they will continue to progress in the beautiful art until they become proficient.
—A friend of ours hinted to us that the angelic painter in the coridor of the college was the genius of Prof. Voh Weller.	'	.
—Among the many beautiful statues which maybe found at Notre Dame there is none equal to that of the Blessed Virgin in the Chapter-Room of the Presbytery.
—We hope to be able shortly to give a faithful description of the Ciborium lately received from France. .
—The painting of the new church by Signor Gregori is beginning to attract the attention of visitors. There is one figure in particular on the east side, a Magdalene, full size,-holding the ointment box, which alone would make the reputation of a painter.	•	-
Musical Notes.
—It is with pleasure that we note a disposition in some of our Students to devote their hours of practice to classical music alone. Mr, C. Robertson is now engaged on the overture to Prometheus, by Beethoven, and Mr. C. W. Walters is practicing the overture to Don Giovanni by Mozart. We understand that they will produce these or similar pieces at the first Soiree given by the students.
—We learn that a glee club has been formed in the Junior Department but have not yet completed their organization.
—We hear rumors of the reorganization of the Philharmonics.	•
—The Band is rehearsing weekly. There is considerable improvement each week.
—The Deid Marches played by the Band at the funeral were well rendered—though perhaps the Eh was somewhat too loud.	'
Society Notes, .	.' .
—The Columbians are working well.
—The Philopatrians are getting along finely.
" —The St. Cecilia Philomatheans have their hall beautifully draped.
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels held their first social re-union on Wednesday. It was the swectestkind ofmeeting,
—In the report of the Philodemic Society, in the last number of The Scholastic, the name McFarland appeared instead of McPharlin. It is but fair to correct this mistake, as Mr. McPharlin was on the victorious side of the debate that evening and his many arguments had. a very material effect in obtaining the President’s decision.
—The eighth regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo. demic Society was held on the evening of the 3d inst. The exercises were both interesting and instructive. The first in order was a well-written criticism of the last meeting, by Mr. Ney. It contained many excellent hints for young debaters. Mr. Hoyt declaimed a selection from “Julius Caesar.”. Mr. McPharlin read an animated essay with good effect. The debate of the evening was: “ Resolved —That the Postal Telegraph System would be beneficial.” On the affirmative were Messrs. Grier and Graves; on the negative, Messrs. Mathews and Gillen. It was an excellent subject, and in the course of its discussion the benefits which would accrue from the adoption of the Postal Telegraph System were well established. The President gave his decision in favor of the affirmative.
—We have received from Very Rev. G. H. Doane, and
THE-SCHOLASTIC. *
others, a circular addressed to the Young Men’s Catholic Associations and Literary Societies of the United States, inviting them to meet at Newark, N. J., on the 22nd of February, 1S75, to take part in forming a National Union. The.circular says:
“ ‘ In unity there is strength.’ The growth and multiplication of Young Men’s Catholic Societies, having for their object the improvement of their members in various useful ways, and affording them opportunities for wholesome and innocent recreation, and uniting them in fraternal charity, is a work which is extremely desirable, and calls for the hearty sympathy and support of all classes of our fellow-Catholics. We have the good wishes and encouragement of the most of our prelates and priests, under whose auspices and authority these Societies ex-’ist, and the sympathy of sister Societies. When the National Union is formed and properly organized, the work of affiliation can go on, and by the time the next Convention is held, or in a very few years at most, we shall have Conventions representing, we trust, hundreds of Societies and thousands of members. With the blessing of God and the co-operation of sister Societies, this Union will be accomplished and prove a blessing and safeguard to the Catholic Young Men of America.”
Will any College Societies join the Union ? Societies intending to send delegates, will notify as soon as possible James F. Hagan, Sec., Catholic Institute, Newark, N. J.
Soil of Honor.
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, F. Bearss, T. Cochrane, L. Chamberlain, E. Chalfant, J. Crummey, G. Crum-mey, H.'Cassidy, J. Cullen, W. Dechant, F. Devoto, M. Foley, J. Ferry, C. Favey, T. Flannagan, W. Fullerton, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gdlen, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly,' G. Kelly, J. Larkin, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy,. N. Mooney, J. Mathews,' E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, H. Marble, P. Matlimore, P. J. Mat-timore, J. Ney, A. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Proctor, J. Quinn, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, E. Ratigan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, G. Summers,- J. Van Dusen, F. Wilhelm, C. Waites, R. White, B. Euans, J. Ewiug, M. Egan, L. Leitler, F. Scrafford, F. Hebard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
J. Beegan, J. W. Connolly, A. Byrne, A. Bergck, F. Buckman, G. Budd, A. Burger, E. Courtney, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, *F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxon, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, J. T. Foley, L Goetig, J. M. Green, J. Griffith, C. Greenleaf, F. Hoffman, J. S. Hayes, C. Hake, P. Kelly, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, J. Keilty, F. Kleiner, C. V. Larkin, R. M. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, T. Monahan, M. J. Murphy, W. P. Nelson, D. Nelson, G. Nester, C. Peltier, D., J. O’Connell, J. D. O’Hara, F. Palmer, W. J. Roelle, A. Reinke, L. P. Smith, E. Sugg, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon, T. Summers, P. Sehnurrer, N. Vanamee, C. W. Welty, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward, F. J. Weisenburger, J. Haffey, J. Colton, J. Johnson, C. Quinn.
MINIM DEPARTMNT.
Samuel Goldsberry, Francis Carlin, Francis McGrath, Joseph Carrer, Ralph Golsen, Eddie Raymond, Hugh Colton, Albert Bushey, Michael McAuliffe, Tommy Hooley, Harry Ordway, John O’Meara, Lee J. Frazee, CharliC^fmpau, Alexis Campau, Oscar Bell, Francis Campau.
Ckss Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5.
Senior'Class—T. H. Grier, T. J. Murphy, C. Walters, J. E. Honan, E. J. McLaughlin.
Junior Class—E. G. Graves, F. Devoto, E. S. Monohan, T. F. Gallagher, J. Caren, J. J. Gillen.
Sophomore Class—H. Cassidy, B. L. Euans, J. A. Brown, T. Hansard.
Freshman Class—N. J. Mooney, J. G. Ewing, E. J. McPharlin, M. L. Keeler, M. Foley, J. F. Rudge, J. Van Dozen, J. K*>pf’ J. Handley, W. Dechant, A. Horne, J. Mathews, J. Ney, F. M. Scrafford.	'
Minim Department.—Michael McAuliffe, Colly Clarke, E. Raymond, Lee J. Frazee, Ralph Golsen, Francis Carlin, Eddie Joyce Dubois, Willie Van Pelt, Willie Lindsey, Charlie Bushey, Clement Moody.	'
Out-Door Sports.
—Fishing is not very bad just now.
—There is good shooting on the Lake.
—Hand-ball ruled the day on Wednesday.
—Marble-playing has begun amongst the yonnsters. ‘
—On the 4th the “Mulligan Guards” beat the “Excelsiors ” seven. Score, poor.
—Two scrub nines of the Seniors played a game of. base-ball on the 4th.
SAINT MANY’S ACADEMY.
—The Health Lift, an admirable instrument for the promotion of health, engages the interest of the young ladies frequently during recreation.	■
—Dancing lessons are given every Monday and Thursday.	.	■
—The first No. of Vol. Second of the “Aurora" edited by the Graduates, was read on Sunday, Oct. 11th.
‘ —The first No. of Vol. 1st of “Rosa Mystica" edited by • the First Senior Class, was read Sunday, Oct. 25th.	-
—Since the last report, the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Detroit * and the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Chicago have honored St. Mary’s with visits. Rt. Rev. Bishop Foley gave the young ladies recreation on the 24th ult.
—Miss Mattie Shirland, a graduate, visits St. Mary’s frequently. We are always happy to see her.	’
—Mrs. Crane of North Carolina, and Mrs. Dunlevy of Mound City, III., both former pupils of St. Mary’s, passed a few hours in the Academy last week.
.—Dr. Beech and his bride paid a visit to St. Mary’s since the last report.	.
—The death of Rev. Father A. Lemonnier, President of the University of Notre Dame, has elecited the warmest sentiments of condolence on the part of the young ladies of. the Academy. The inclement state of the weather precluded their attendance at tbe funeral, and this was a subject of the deepest regret.	-
ART NOTES. ‘
—We had been crushing acorns under our feet for the last month, without concern, when we happened to see some drawings and paintings of the saintly lists of perfection in the Studio at St. Mary’s. Is it possible, we said to ourselves, that we have been too stupid to notice their charms 1 But some one had noticed them, if we had not; some one with skill at the tips of the fingers too. Of course, we feel suitable remorse, and try not to step on the acorns when we see them.
—Block-drawing (like block-printing centuries ago) is “all the fashion” with our young artists. Really, blocks are quite attractive when nicely pencilled; still more when . put in India ink. We have seen some in pencil and some in ink, which looked as if we could throw them across the room.	•	■
—This “ Indian Summer ” atmostphere reminds one of Bienstadt and his “ Yo-Semite.”
—The blue waters of the St Joseph are again visible through the thin groves. They contrast pleasantly with the brown of the oaks.
—Some nice studies in oil, of fruit and atumn berries, are on the easels. This is the time to paint ruddy-cheeked apples.
—As lately as the 25th of October, the witch hazel was. found in full bloom on the river bank. The leaves had fallen, and a few of last year’s dry capsules win still on the twigs, just beginning to blossom. This envious exception to the rules of spring and summer is made by a cluster of small flowers which Took like currant-blossom adorned with several slender streamers of very pale yellow. Notime was lost in transferring the leafless twig, with Its blossoms and fruit, to paper.
78	JHE SCHOLASTIC.
.	Tablet j£oaor.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOV. 1, 1874.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Graduating Class—Misses J. Walker, M. Walker, A Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Donnelley, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair, M. Johnson.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dil-ger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelley, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L. Johnson, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoll, L. Henroten, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, A. Byrnes.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Thompson, E. Thompson, M. Poquette, C. Thayer, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, E. Mann, S. Hole, H. Russell, E. Bowman, J. Stough.
2nd Prep. Class—J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, B. Hildebrand, L. Meade, E. Cody, M. McKay, E. McFarlane, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, S. Riesing, F. Easton.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses G. Hills, C. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, F. Reppetan, A. Lehman and M. Railton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. Carlin, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, A. Pool, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Siler, B. Siler, D. Allen, M. Summers, J. Brown, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey, F. Middleton, N. Mann, H. Kraus, L. Vincent, L. Walsh, N. McGrath, J. McDougall, H. Hoffman, A. Koch, C. Orr, S. Cash, I. Mann, E. McDougal), K. Hudson, J. Corrigan, A. McGrath, E. Simpson, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, J. Keedy and R. Goldsberry.
ADDITIONAL ARRIVALS.
Post Graduates.—Miss A. Smith, Peoria, Illinois; and L. West, Chicago, Illinois.
Miss A. Smith,............Greenville, Michigan.
“	R. Klarr,............Chicago, Illinois.
“	M. Hoffman,..-.......Chicago,Illinois.
“	E. Lappin,...........Seneca, Kansas.
“	M. Quinn,............St. Paul. Minnesota.
“	M. Johnson,..........Elkhart, Indiana.
“	C. Orr,..............Lacon, Illinois.
“>	S. Cash..............Chicago, Illinois.
“	M. Redfield,.........Chicago, Illinois.
“	S. Rising,...........Aurora, Illinois.
“	C. Hughes,...........Chicago, Illinois.
“	M. Hughes,...........Chicago, Illinois.
“	F. Easton,...........Berrien, Michigan.
“ J. Brown,..............N. Buffalo, Michigan.
“	M. Rynolds,..........Chicago, Illinois.
“	M. Anthony,..........Sandusky, Ohio.
“	C. West,.............Sandusky, Ohio.
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for iis sweetness and power, containing 38 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet in width.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
81.00 PER YEAR,
r 11HE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published _L every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at. this University and at St. Mary’s Academy, and of the progress of their sons and daughters in these two institutions. For this purpose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names ol those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professors and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately in-forn ed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive; while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and ability, render “The Scholastic” a valuable publication for all who desire variety and utility in their ^reading. “The Scholastic" consists of sixteen wide two-column pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matterand the remainder with advertisements.
Notice to -Advertisers:
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the following list of prices:
One Page,	(per month,) -	-	-	-	$10 00
One Column	“	' -	-	-	-	-	6 00
Half Column,	“	-	-	-	-	4 00 -.
One-Third Column,	-	-	-	.	-	2 50
One-Eighth Column,	“	-	-	-	-	1 50
Address,	Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
FOUNDED IN 1842.
CHARTERED IN 1844.
rpHIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted A up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred students.
Situated near the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
Terms:
Matriculation Fee. -	-	-	-	-	-	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-months, -------- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-12 50
Use of Piano, -	...	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Violin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	2 50
Vncil Teasons J General Class Principles, -	-	- 10 00
'ocal Lessons ' Vocal Cnltnr?>	.	.	.	.	15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	'- 5 00
Uss of Library, (per session) -	-	*	-	-	.	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 00
Telegraphy	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Ute of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus	-	-	2 00
(Classical Course, -	-	-	-	10 00
Graduation Fee, -< Scientific Course, -	-	-	- 10 00
.	(Commercial Course, -	-	-	5 00
Doctors' Fees and Medicines at Physician’s Charges.
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the University are charged extra, -	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
Payments to be made invariably in advance..	„
Class books, Stationery, etm, at current prices. •
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February.	'
For further particulars, address	.
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C. S. C.

THE SCHOLASTIC
IQ
the
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL	•
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PUTS IX,
And Many Distinguished Prelates. -
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests oi the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians, but solely to such as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but to the whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of a Mass once a month.'	‘
Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space'of one year.
Terms:
One Year, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	§300
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 00
Rive Years, -	--	--	--	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc., should be addressed to
Editor op “ AVE NARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST.-MARY’S ACADEMY,
JIOTRE pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-Aix miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad; and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every be-iiolder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which .he grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one.of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music • of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while’the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
Eor Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel trill find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary's can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7 8m
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
C-A.±TT)Y FACTORY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15e.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	_	. 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	_	_	35c.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25e.
Proportionately Low Prices to Wholesale CaslL Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
------------0---
M. LIVINGSTON & OCX,
94. AXioliig-an. St^ Sontli Bend, Ind^
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
ZFITRNTISIIUNTG- GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Eull DRESS SUITS show an amount, of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost, if-made to measure. Money is scarce but Clothing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring' Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths. Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we. turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o2Ltf.
HORTON & PALMER,
DEALERS IN
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices.	•
- Ho. 72 'Washington street., - South Bend, Indiana.
&o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Coonivy's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has oh hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared tQ furnish to all desiring!
'	qM-.tf
80
THE SCHOLASTIC;
. TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—WE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
-	—TO—	'
CUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK
SELECTED "WITH GREAT CARE
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
—o—
WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING
—THAT—
FROM OUR FACILITIES
—AND—,
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE— '
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor usjkj
a call.
1OO Michigan Street, o24-2m
Respectfully,
ER, & Bro..
South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S/RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24/1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	Z '
2.35
10.38
12.27
9.11
7.54
3.55
3.20
4.50
4.51
8.00
730
Note.
GOING EAST.
k. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.30; Cleveland, 2.35 p. st.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m. '
a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. at.; Cleveland, 10.20
a. m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledh, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. ar.; Buffalo 4.05 a. at.	| '	‘
p. m. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Bufialo, 1.10 p. at.
p. ai. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,’2.30 a.m,, Cleveland7.G5a m., Buffalo 1 TOP.ar.' p. at. [No.70], Local [Freight.
. GOltyG WEST.
K. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 A-. M.	C
a. at. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. m. \	,
p. m. (No. 7), Evening'Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 P. 31.
r. at. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at’Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.	\
a. m. (No. 9), Accommodation\Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. at, Chicago 11.10.	N.
a. Ji. [No. 71J Local Freight.
_______ Conductors aie positively forbidden to-carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. II PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANY & CHICAGO H.B.
Un and after Bunday, Nov. 12, lb73, trains pass New Albanjana
Salem Crossing, as iollows: GOING NOH TN.
Pass ... Freight. Freight. Pass....
7 29 p .2.48 a. .8 57 p.
31.
Pass ... Freight
GOING SOUTH.
,9.24 a. in.
M. Freight.
Pats'
..............8	23 p.k.
.............10 47 A ji.
..........'...AA5	a.m.
............11.23	A.M.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent
MH
Michigan Central Railroad
' Time Talkie.
From and after May -24th, trains on the Michigan. Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, Mail. -	-	-
Day Express, -Accommodation, Atlantic Express Way Freight,
Evening Express, Pacific Express, Accommodation, Mail -	-	-
Day Express -
Way Freight -
TRAINS "WESTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles -Three Rivers Accommodation Atlantic Express -	-
Way Freight -	-	-	.
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD. .
■	WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles Mail -	-	-	-	-	.
Pacific Express -	-	-- -	-	-
Way Freight- -	- ■ -	-	-	-
12.45 a
9.10 a
12.12 a
7.35'p
8.55 p.i
8.00 a
2.35 a
4.40 a
6.25 a
3.57 p
4.35 p
1.45 p
9.15 p - 7.40 p.
9.00 p.
10.30 a.
6.05 a.
3.45 p.
5.05 a.
- 5:05 p.

SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains leaAe South Bend—815 a m, 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 am, 11.40 am, 3,30 pm, 7.00 pm
Leave Niles—6.30am, 9.20am, 12.45pm,4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 a m, 9.E5 a m, 1.20 p m, 5.10 p m.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 a m, 7.VU p m.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 am," 7.30 pm.	. ,
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 pm.
.Leave—8.20 am. 11.15 am, 3.05 pm, 6.35 p m.
Sunday Trains.	.
Arrive—8.33 am, 5.30 p m.
Leave—9.f5 am, 7.05 pm.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen’l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, Agen tNotre Dame
Chicago Alton\nd St. Louis Line.
<55711 AINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near (Ip Madison Street Bridge, as^ follows: .	•
St. Louis and SpringfieldExpress, \ via Main Line	"	\
Kansas City Fast Express, via , Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St.Louisan'd Spri ngfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and ; 'also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson- >'
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*9:30 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m,
*9:40 a.m,
*4:30 .m.
!7:15 a.m,
vill, HL, and Louisiana, Mo. /	$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m -
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only ^Except Saturday. 8 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train. /	_ '	_
Pullman Palace Dining and, Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, /	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, ‘ Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PEXMsILVAATACEXTKAL DOUBLE TEA0K RAILROAD.
" PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New -	■ York without Change.	-
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. | Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.*
2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m.*
3rd train	“	“	9.00. p.m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South,-and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphie.
F. R. MYEKS, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh. • ‘W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent', Chicago. ' ♦Second day.