Jotre Dame Scholastic.
JDisce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 9, 1878. Number 10.
Confirmed in Grace.
Each day I pass the quiet dead, Where long, sweet sleep the toiler takes Still resting when all nature wakes, And when the stars shine overhead.
And some sleep there that knew no toil, Sweet children of the grass and sun, Whose summer days all blissful run, The fair white soul untouched by soil.
Aye, snowy mounds, not purer ye
Than little forms which rest below, While hushed and grave the cedars know
That cradled sleep none more may see I
Surpassing rest!—Ah, dear, bright boy!
Well do we mind the sunny hair 1 The clear dark eyes, the brow so fair, And all that gave and promised joy:
The delicate and tiny form,
Too active, frail to long sustain The restless heart and massy brain, And the spirit keen to catch alarm.
Thy dainty form, O child of mine, Come to me now with added grace, ^Charming as in the sacred place
Where they bloom and glow in love divine.
In all the turmoil of my life Thy little voice pipes in my ear, Cheery, delicate and clear
As harp-notes heard in some sweet strife.
Blest little sleeper, thou art free
From all this tumult that we know;
Nor pain nor passion more may grow, But love and light eternally.
Sinless, suffering, bright beloved,
A Joseph early gone before,
Our Lord hath given thee generous store To cheer our souls when sorrow-proved.
The last gaze of intelligence,
The rapt appeal that filled the eye, It was, dear child, thy mute good-bye, Thy prayer to meet when we go hence.
One saint is ours in all that host,
One soul in all that blessed, throng, One voice for us in mercy’s song, One cry to save though all be lost.
So is the greater blessing given, And so our sorrow turned to joy; To-day thou wert a gracious boy, But God hsSi^laced thee best in Heaven.
F.
John Boyle O’Reilly’s Poems.*
Mr. O’Reilly is a poet. When that is said, all is said. There are so many good rhymesters nowadays, versifiers of various degrees of excellence, that our understanding of what is poetry becomes somewhat confused. But when the poet does present himself, our vision is at once cleared and we recognize him. There is no mistaking the kingly eye, the graceful majesty, the splendid retinue, the voice of melody, and the heart of tenderness,—so far above us, yet so closely sympathizing with us,—the master whom we reverence, yet the brother whom we love. Verily the gift of poesy is, after religion, the first best gift of God to man. How precious should his treasure be to the poet, and how precious should the poet himself be to us! And the truth is, despite the wailing of feeble writers, that genius is always recognized and honored. When the would-be poet fails to catch the ear of the people, he may be sure that his lips have never been touched by the sacred fire. The “mute, inglorious Milton ” was a creature of Gray’s imagination. It is not to be wondered at, then, that when Mr. O’Reilly’s “Songs from the Southern Seas” were first given to the public, although coming from an unknown author, they were received with the utmost delight, for the poet was recognized.
But these “Songs ” delighted the public, not simply because they were genuine poems, but because they were new poems, poems from a region which heretofore had yielded nothing of art or poetry to the treasures of the world,—they came as an unexpected gift from a barren land. Beauty is always delightful, but beauty unexpected is ' fairly entrancing. To the maj ority of readers Mr. O’Reilly’s poems were like the discovery of a new world. Unknown Australia was presented with its inverted skies, its brooding atmosphere, its abnormal vegetable and animal life, its strange aborigines, so different from our American Indians, its peculiar immigrant life and penal settlements,— and all this by a convict poet, fresh from the chain-gang; everything was in keeping with the antipodes of the world.
In the present volume Mr. O’Reilly has given us several poems in addition to his Southern Songs; but the charm of his poetry still lingers about Australia and the Indian Ocean. This is still the field of his glory. He is the poet of that splendid region, even as Bret Harte has made his own the picturesque mining country of California. “The King of the Vasse ” is still the noblest creation of his imagination. Indeed it seems to us one of the finest New World poems written since the discovery of Columbus.
* Songs, Legends and Ballads. By John Boyle O’Reilly. Boston, Mass.: The Pilot Publishing Company. 1878.
150	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Emigrant and native life are alike clothed in idyllic beauty and romance, while pathos, supernatural intervention, and almost epic grandeur render the story of absorbing interest. This is not the only poem in which Mr. O’Reilly has shown his power in telling the affecting story of the emigrant. The preparation and departure are nowhere more simply and feelingly described than in “ The Loss of the Emigrants ”; while the toils, privations, and hopes of the pioneer are vividly portrayed in the first part of “ The Dukite Snake.”
Several of the poems in this volume are of a patriotic character; but though many of them are splendid bursts of patriotism we confess that they do not seem to us to display the same felicity of genius as his narrative and descriptive pieces. They are well-written lyrics, but others have written as good who could never approach the excellence of Mr. O’Reilly’s more characteristic pieces. An exception should be made in favor of the sweet verses to “My Native Land,” and the intensely realistic lines in “ There is Blood on the Earth.”
A number of tender, meditative pieces, half story, half description, show Mr. O’Reilly’s genius in a most amiable light; they are the key which discloses the source of that love which is so freely given to our poet by his readers. “ Macarius the Monk,” “ Chunder Ali’s Wife,” “ Forever,” “The Shadow,” “Dying in Harness,” “Golu,” “Unspoken Words,” “ My Mother’s Memory,” “ The Old School Clock,” “Maiy,” “A Legend of the Blessed Virgin,” “Withered Snowdrops,” and the exquisite preludes to the Australian stories illustrate this pure and most lovable trait of his genius.
The quality in Mr. O’Reilly’s poetry which has perhaps elicited most admiration is his graphic power in the recital of highly exciting narative. Examples of this power maybe found in the “Rideof Collins Graves,” “ The Fishermen of Wexford,” “ At Fredericksburg,” “ The Flying Dutchman,” “The Amber Whale,” and “Uncle Ned’s Stories.” They are indeed glorious recitals, brim full of life and action.
A slight tendency to remorseless, gloomy, Swift-like satire is the only serious fault we would find with our gifted poet. This depressing characteristic runs through most of his poetiy, and is easily accounted for when we remember the sad life he led so long, and the still sadder life he witnessed. “ The Dog Guard ” and “ The Monster Diamond ” are most oppressive stories; the latter, we think, would have given a better moral lesson, and would at the same time have been a more artistic poem, if the poet had not changed his diamond to quartz; such a conclusion savors of the clap-trap of the novelist, rather than of the ideal truth of poesy.
We have read this volume through with the greatest pleasure, and feel that its author is one of the rare tribe of genius, with an active, beauty-loving and creative imagination, and a heart that sympathizes with all human joy and suffering. As a narrative, meditative and descriptive poet we believe that he is destined to attain a very high place in our literature,—provided he does not, like Bryant, suffer the cares of the sanctum to draw him too far from the haunts of the Muses. In this practical age our poets sometimes seem to forget that the Muses are jealous beauties.
—A means has at last been invented to make money go a long way. It is simply the one hundred ton gun, which will fire twenty-five dollars worth of iron six miles and a half in fifty seconds.
The Irish Language.
The Celtic tongue is fading fast and we closely standing by— Without a pang within the heart, a tear within the eye—• Without one pulse for freedom stirred, one effort made to save The language of your fathers, lisp the language of the slave ! Sons of Erin ! vain your efforts—vain your prayers for freedom’s crown
Whilst you crave it in the language of the foe that clove it down.
Know you not that tyrants ever, with an art from darkness sprung,
Strive to make the conquered nation slaves alike in limb and tongue?
The Russian Bear ne’er stood secure o’er Poland’s shattered frame,
Until he trampled from her breast the tongue that bore her ' name,
Oh! be Irish, Irishmen, and rally for the dear old tongue Which, as ivy to a ruin, to the dear old land has clung;
Oh, snatch this relic from the wreck, the only and the last, To show what Erin ought to be by pointing to the past. * .
“The language of the conqueror,” says Tacitus, “in the mouth of the conquered, is ever the language of the slave.” Well did the Roman historian know what a powerful influence the preservation of a language exercises upon a conquered people. The poet says the Russian never rested satisfied, nor did he regard his conquest of Poland complete, as long as a vestige of its national language remained. Spenser knew equally well when he informed Queen Elizabeth that she could adopt no more powerful means to uproot Irish nationality than to suppress the Irish language. Nor need I tell you that any suggestion on that point was likely to pass unheeded. In the outset, her harsh measures were spurned and despised, and only excited the people to love it the more—a character especially inherent in the Irish people. The more they are persecuted, when their cause is just, the more devoted they are. They may persecute as they will, “ their spirit may break, but it never will bend.” They may proscribe our bard, but he cannot yield; he still tells them he is not ashamed of what they call his whining. He says that
“He was bom for much more, and in holier hours.”
The harsh laws enacted by Queen Elizabeth for the suppression of the Irish tongue did not avail much, but it led to ultimate decay. Her worthy successorshave contributed to this result, for they never slacked a rein. During a persecution of such long duration, the plantation of a king that seemed favorable to them, at least in whom they confided ; the ravages, the cruelty and the devastation of the pwus Protector; the settlement and intermarriage, contributed much to the decline of the Irish language.
I shall refrain here from mentioning the thirst the British Government always had both for the spoliation and confiscation of everything that was most sacred and dear to us. Suffice it to say, that for ages our habits, customs and manners were the incessant objects of their attack. There was, for instance, a law enacted against wearing the hair in a particular fashion, but to speak the native language was, if I may say, a capital crime. It was banished from Ireland’s schools—the cradle in which it should have been nursed— to meet no warmer reception at the hands of the hedge-
* Written by Rev. Michael Mullen, and copied here from that excellent work “ The College Irish Grammar,” by the Very Rev, Canon Bourke, President of St. Jarlath’s College, Tuam.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
schoolmaster, who knew very little of the English language himself. There are in this country to-day men who remember in their young days having to carry around their neck a piece of wood on which there was to be an incision for every time they committed themselves by speaking Irish.
That unhappy spirit which pervaded so many centuries reaches even our own time, as we see from the reports of the national schools. One man is reported, not for teaching or encouraging it in his school, but simply because he recreates himself by musing over Irish manuscripts. Another, because he admits that he devoted some portion of his time to translating MSS., is censured. Well did the great Arch-1	bishop of the West call these schools the “ Sepulchre of the
j	Irish language.” This is only a slight idea of the efforts
made to stifle that grand old tongue.
There is no language in existence more pathetic in giving expression to outpourings of a loving heart. No one who has lived in an Irish-speaking district but can and must apt preciate the powerful effect of that language. A proof of the preference which the Irish peasantry give to their native tongue may be seen in the effort they make on Sunday mornings, even walking from five to eight miles sometimes in order to hear an Irish sermon. Nor do the ferven-blessings you hear from their lips make a less impression. Meet an Irishman where you will, when he speaks his native tongue, his greeting will be, “ God save you! ” nor is the answer less Christian-like, “God save you kindly!” If, while you are at work, he passes you by, his salutation will be, “ God prosper you! ” and his farewell, equivalent ' to that familiar Latin expression, “ Pax wbis." Nor should I omit the “ God speed you! ” which he receives. There is something more in it which I cannot describe, but I will leave it to Very Reverend Canon Bourke, M. R. I. A., President of St. Jarlath’s College, Tuam, and author of some Irish works, to which I shall have occasion to refer hereafter. On the language, he says: “A national language is the epitome, the miniature picture of the nation. The dignity of the ancient Spanish character is impressed on the language of Spain, and the Italian tongue reflects the attributes of that music and pleasure-loving people. This seems to have been felt by Charles V when he said that he should speak to his mistress in Italian, to his horse in German, to his birds in English; while the majesty of the Spanish language, he hoped, made it a suitable medium for reverent and awful communings with the Deity.” He continues to show from another illustration that the language is so associated with the Irish character, that we cannot separate one from the other. In the Hebrew lan-\ guage he says that we find the people ever contemplating the past, or vainly imagining the future, and consequently that the verb in their language admits of no present tense. So also the generous and disinterested character is portrayed in the fact that we do not, as all covetous people would certainly do, possess a liabeo. No effort whatever could introduce such an expression. Whether it is modesty or pride that deters him from saying boldly that he has anything, I know not. In fact, he cannot say it, for ;	he has no word to express it in that way. He merely says,
|	Ta ogam, which is equivalent to Est mihi, or, in English, sim-
I	ply that it is with him or to him. He again calls attention
I	to the nature of the imperative mood. The root of the verb
'	is found in the imperative mood. He infers from this that
the people speaking this language were never intended to be slaves; and he deduces as a necessary consequence that
from the nature of the language it harmonizes and blends with the nature of the people who speak it
That the Irish language is peculiarly adapted for poetical purposes, is a subject too extensive to be embraced here. I shall, however, use that erudite work which I have already so freely used. To persons unacquainted with the history of the Irish language, it would seem as absurd to say that the style of writing hymns adopted by the Latin Fathers, so many of which we have in the Roman Breviary, was learned from the Keltic bards, as the paradox of Parsons who says that the Diad in Greek was an excellent translation from the Irish edition by his Grace the Archbishop of Tuam.
That versification was unknown to the classic poets, I need only quote Zass: “Formam incognitam poetis classic® vetu statis et peregrinam certe.”—Grammatica Gdtica. Now Father Bourke puts this very clearly, and proves it on the authority—I shall say only for brevity—of Zuss. He shows that “ the hymns used prior to the period in which Urban VHI flourished were composed either by (1) Irishmen, such as Sedulius, Columbanus, Columba, Secundus; or (2) by men of Keltic origin, as St. Ambrose; or (3) by those who, like St. Augustine, were of the same metrical school as St. Ambrose; or, lastly (4), those who flourished between the fourth and fourteenth century, and followed in the composition of hymns the metre and melody of the great master of hymnology, St. Ambrose.” He goes on at length to show that the Saint just quoted, who lived in the fourth century, being himself a native of Gaul, learned the method of versifying from the Keltic bards.
But the beauty of Irish is not confined to this alone. It was equally adapted for other purposes, whether in treating of history, law, medicine, divinity or astronomy. When Rev. Geoffrey Keating wished to write a history of his native country he would write it in Irish. Nor was it less suited to Uulfadda for composing his famous laws; nor to Brian when he fired that heroism which for freedom blazed forth at the battle of Clontarf; nor to St. Patrick when announcing to our heathen sires the glad tidings of the Gospel.
Such and only such a language could survive centuries of persecution, of confiscation and proscription, pure and uncorrupted. It might have become extinct, but never could it be corrupted. When you hear people speak of Munster Irish and Cannaught Irish I would not have you understand there is any difference in the language; it is only in accentuation.
To many the Irish language seems to have passed through its stages, according to what Webster, the dramatist, says:
.... “All things have their end—
Churches and cities which have diseases like to men Must have like deaths that we have.”
Not so with the Irish language. It is in some way immortal ; but as I am not going to write a history of it, I need not mention the stages through which it passed. Certain it is that there was always an admirer to he found, for what was excluded from the school-room found a home in the hearts of an enthusiastic people. That language which could not be tolerated was kept alive, as the poet tells us:
“In songs and sermons, rants and rhymes, Enlarged some fifty fold.”
The thirst of learned philologists and antiquarians within the past half century led many men of thought and erudition to study the ancient languages. Even in English
152	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and German universities it began to be prized, and this Father Bourke says brought about a reaction among the higher and. more enlighened class of our countrymen. “ Hence,” he says (in the preface to the fifth edition of his Irish Grammar), “the baneful effects produced by that blightingspirit of false shame to speak their mother tongue, ■which was fast sucking out of the hearts of the peasantry the very life-spring of their venerable old gaodailge, will soon, it is hoped, be outdone.” This must be very consoling to Father Bourke, for in a former edition he laments the cold neglect of the people. They would make an excuse that they had no text-book. He set to work and wrote a grammar and easy lessons at a time when there was little hope of success. May I not say that it was in the same state as the Hon. Charles Gavan Duffy described Irish politics, “as a corpse on a dissecting table”? Now I mention this to show that our Rev. author was actuated by no motive of mere speculation or gain.
The many editions through which these two works have passed point to a brighter future. When we have men who admire our language such as Pritchard, Latham, Blackey, Newman, and Lewis, all Englishmen; Pistet of Geneva, Zeuss, Gluck, Herr Korner, Herman Gbrres, and a host of others iu Germany, with Ward in France, no wonder that we should find men at home able and willing to use their voice and pen in so praiseworthy a cause. Truly it ought to be a noble cause to keep alive such a relic of the glories of the past, to oppose a policy which has waged a war so incessant against our Faith and our language: the latter indeed has somewhat succumbed, but the former, like its Founder, has risen from the grave to which heretical hate had consigned it. But he may say, “ What good is Irish to me ? ” Away with such talk. Suppose there was no other advantage than the pleasure and satisfaction of cultivating his national language, would it not be, if not a claim to scholarship, at least a laudable boast of having learned for her own sake his country’s language? But besides, ‘he can unlock those sealed tombs which contain the science, poetry, the history and romance of our country’; ‘or he can read in numbers full nigh as bold and sonorous as Homer’s own, his masterly descriptions of the battles of the Greeks and Trojans, the debates of hoary octogenarian warriors, and the glowing harangues of God-like men “or should he desire to know how those soul-stirring airs, which Moore, has rendered immortal, flow on and affect the soul when gushing forth through the medium of the sweet Celtic, he may open Dr. McHale’s translation of the ‘ Irish Melodies,’ and sing as Carolan would have sung the woes of his heart for his afflicted lone land, because, like Sion, her ‘parent,’ ‘fallen from her head is the once regal crown; in her streets, in her halls, Desolation hath spoken, and whilst it is day yet her sun is gone down.’ ” “ Or should he be inspired with any hope, he may go further, and exclaim in prophecy that ‘ her sun shall shine out when the brightest shall fade.’ ”
May we not, then, look forward to a happier future ? At home and abroad active measures are being taken to revive that old tongue. The Irish Archaeological and Celtic Society, the Kilkenny and Southeast of Ireland Archaeological Society, and the Ossianic Society bid us to hope well for the future. The Catholic University and the concession lately granted of having Irish taught in the public schools, all these seem to foreshadow a favorable result. Add to this the active part taken in this country by the
press, and the establishment of the many Gaelic societies too numerous to mention. Shall we, then, stand inactive ? No, no.
“. ... Build ye up the Celtic tongue above O’Curry’s grave;
Speed the good work, ye patriot souls, who long your land to save,
Who long to light the flame again on Freedom’s altar dead, Who long to call the glories back from hopeless Erin fled, Who long to gem her saddened brow with queenly wreath again,
To raise a warrior people up, a nation in her train.
Speed then the work: be scorn our lot, our ancient pride is flown,
If midst the nations of the earth we stand in shame alone.
Ah! cease that alien speech—too long its hollow sounds have rung,
And pour ye forth from Celtic lips the rushing Celtic tongue.” P.
The Walhalla, or the Palace of Heroes.
This palace is built upon a mountain in the midst of the vast plain of the Danube in the centre of Bavaria, near the village of Donaustauf and about four miles from Ratisbon; the waters of the Danube wash the foot of the mountain. Lofty green hills, one of which is crowned by the ruins of the Castle of Stauff, form a natural amphitheatre around it The first stone was laid by the King of Bavaria on the 18th of October, 1830, the anniversary of the battle of Leipsic.
This superb edifice, so poetically and majestically situated, is designed to receive the busts and statues of the illustrious men of Germany in every age. It is of the Doric order, of colossal dimensions, and constructed entirely of greyish white marble. The architect is the Baron Kleufe. On the frontiers.of the two sides are placed the productions of the first sculptors of Bavaria. The interior of the Walhalla is an oblong square, whose walls are adorned by a carved frieze representing the migrations, religious costumes, manners, wars, and commerce of the ancient Germans. Beneath the frieze, between pilasters of red marble, topped by Ionic capitals of white marble, are to be arranged the statues of great men.
The idea that founded the Walhalla is a grand one, and no nation would be dishonored by adopting it and imitating its bold execution. We know of no religious or philosophical opinion, generally professed, that would not sanction in some degree the desire of public recognition, and the love of surviving oneself gloriously in the remembrance of humanity. Even though led to believe in the vanity and emptiness of these noble desires, yet their usefulness and profit for society cannot be denied. What noble and generous endeavors have been encouraged by the Walhalla of England, the Abbey of Westminster! At the signal of battle, Lord Nelson cried: “ Victory or, the Abbey of Westminster!” This expression is more beautiful than the ancient cry of heroes—“ Victory or death! ” It shows more generous confidence and more love. In the heart of Nelson there was this thought: “ Living or dead, I shall merit the recognition of my country." Such a spirit is honorable not only to the individual but also to the country that inspires it. We may judge of the morality of a people by the devotion more or less deep and persevering towards virtue and genius. If society should have its penal code, it should have also its pantheon. Then it might compensate for the bloody severity of its laws
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	153
.	. •	*	>	• •	. t 1	’ ' > .	.	_	.
against its criminal children by the dignity and sacredness of the rewards bestowed upon its heroic children. If it punishes, it also recompenses; if there are torments, there are also crowns; if there is the anathema, there is also the apotheosis.	J.
Teachings of Nature.
How comparatively few are there amongst the multitude of human beings inhabiting this earth, who.when treading । the path of life pause and reflect on the many and noble objects laid before them for study and contemplation! To those who may devote time to the study of natural objects • great is the pleasure and manifold are the lessons which | may be received therefrom.
But to the people of the present day these lessons seem to be of little interest and of less importance. The works of nature convey no other ideas to them than that which their outward form presents. They scarcely ever think of comparing the ever-changing scenes of nature with the stages of human life which man passes through from his |	coming in to his going out of the world. But to one who
)	observes closely that which is going on around him, much
■ material for study and contemplation is afforded.
The opening spring he compares to youth, when everything is fresh and full of hope; life runs on smoothly, and everywhere is peace and happiness. Then comes the ; blooming summer, symbol of early manhood, when every-[ thing is ripening and ready to burst forth into a golden ' harvest. The decay and dissolution of life come like the I ‘ ’ cold blasts of winter, carrying with them in their progress > that which was verdant in spring, blooming in summer, * and matured in autumn.
Such is the inevitable destiny of man. His time on earth is limited. If he pass through the first three stages true । to his God and fellow-men, he will be prepared to enter into the fourth without fear or uncertainty, for he knows that eternal happiness is the reward of a virtuous life, j	Take a tender twig, and in whatever shape it may be bent
’	such is the position it will have when grown. So it is with
human beings. If, when young, false ideas or bad habits are taught or acquired, it will be a very hard task to correct them. In the path in which they had been first placed, whether it be the right or wrong one, in it they will continue until some more powerful influence changes or stops their course.
Parents, guardians and preceptors of youth cannot be too careful to instil into the minds of those in their charge Pf the love of righteousness and truth, that they may be en-! abled when choosing their path in life to take the right one. If a tree is planted on barren soil, where the essentials necessary for a healthy vegetation are wanting or but imperfectly supplied, it will soon die, or if it does give a lingering existence its stunted growth or want of vigor will give evidence of the sterility of the soil. Thus , it is with man. If in youth he habitually associates with persons of low and vicious habits, he, too,’ like the tree, t	will exhibit to all by his undeveloped mind and evil	habits
’i	the soil on which he was nurtured. Many, alas! are the
t	deplorable examples which we have of persons	who,
I . brought up in the school of vice, continued in it till	called
| to the final dread account.
. Go into the forest, and there meditate on what appears rc before you as the effect of time. Across your path lies the remains of what was once the monarch and pride of the
forest, but in its present prostrate condition, rotting away into the dust whence it came, it gives no indication of what it had been in times gone by. Standing near are other trees, which though of great age and size are not so old as the one lying before you; but a withered limb, or decaying heart, shows too plainly that they also will soon begin to crumble into dust. Around these are groups of various ages and sizes, from the year-old sapling to those of a quarter of a century, which are sound in every part. It should be unnecessary to draw a comparison between these simply organic creatures of the forest and human creation, for it is clear to every reader. Man in some respects resembles the trees, with their leaves at first so young and tender, afterwards becoming old and withered, as described by a well-known poet:
“Like leaves on trees the race of men is found, Once green in youth, then withering on the ground; Another race the following spring supplies, They fall successive, and successive rise;
So generations in their turn decay,
So flourish those, when these have passed away.”
Another and not less instructive lesson may be learned in the same forest. Listening attentively, the low murmur of running water may be heard, which at first sounds to the ear like far-off music. Advancing in the direction whence the sound proceeds, we find jetting forth from the base of a primitive rock a small" stream of limpid water which might indeed outrival crystal in its purity. Prompted by curiosity, we follow its course, and find it running tranquilly along through a most delightful valley; on either side are flowers of the most beautiful varieties; for a time all seems innocence and pleasure, but on its way it is joined by other streams which though they increase its size at the same time destroy its purity. Thus as it progresses it increases in size, and in impurity, until finally it flows onward with the impetuosity of a torrent until en-gulphed in the ocean. Such is the way of life. In youth all is innocence, purity, and happiness. This period, which is of comparatively short duration, is often recalled with pleasure in after years, when new companions, new occupations and new walks of life have taken the place of those happier and dearer ones of childhood. Man, like the tiny stream, goes on, increasing in wealth and influence ; but the primitive simplicity, innocence and candor so characteristic of his boyhood are lost in the midst of avaricious pursuits, companions more or less evil, until the simple and tiny stream of his life merges into the turbulent, passion-tossed ocean.	F. C.
Scientific Notes.
—Herr Rohlfs, the well-known African explorer, is about to start on’ a fresh exploring expedition. His intention was to leave Berlin on Tuesday, travelling by way of Tripoli.
—The Scientific American is not over-sanguine about the success of Prof. Edison’s latest reported discovery in electric lighting. It knows very well, too, what the nature of the discovery is.	'	'
—The scheme for an observatory on the summit of Mount JEtnais again pursued in the English scientific journals. The atmosphere there is peculiarly clear, and it is thought that some important results might be arrived at by a series of daily observations.
—Speaking of certain maps of the United States Geological Survey, recently forwarded to London, the Times of that city says: “For clearness and for beauty of workman-
-4k
154
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ship they are wonderfully good. The maps of our English Survey cannot bear comparison with them in this respect.
—Mechanical science is obtaining a chance of introduction to university life at Cambridge. A workshop has been erected, and stocked with tools and machines, so that instruction can now be given in the use of tools in metal and wood, and also various instruments can be manufactured. Elementary practical classes will be started this term.—Athenaeum.
—The Eastern unsettlement threatens to create yet ‘ another nuisance—a new European language. The Albanians, in asserting their nationality, claim that Albanian shall be the official language of their country. The Albanians have two chief languages, the Tosk and the Guegh, and they cannot read them when other people write them, so they use Greek for written communications.
—The opinion advanced by geologists, on theoretical grounds, that an enormous deposit of salt reaches from the Luneburger Heide to the coast of the Baltic has been established by actual tests. Borings have shown that one branch of the deposit extends from Luneburg, under the Elbe, and across the grand duchy of Mecklenburg, and another in the direction of the duchy of Holstein by way of Legeberg to Elmshorn.
—Contrary to an announcement to the effect that Eddystone Lighthouse had suffered in the late gale from some serious accident, it appears, happily, that there has been no injury to the structure. All communication was cut off, owing to the violence of the gale, and consequently it was impossible to ascertain whether any temporary suspension of light or any other accident had occurred until the weather moderated.
—The forthcoming number of the Mittheilungun, the last to which Dr. Petermann’s name is attached as editor, contains an elaborate paper, by Prof. H. Fritz, “ On Periodical Changes in the Length of Glaciers.” The author has the hardihood to assert that the frequency of sun-spots exercises, indirectly, no doubt, a marked influence upon the growth or wasting away of glaciers. When sun-spots are frequent the glaciers advance, when they approach a minimum they retire.
—News of Prof. Nordenskiold’s Northeast Passage expedition has reached Stockholm. It left the north coast of Norway on the 25th of July, reached Jugor Straits on the 30th, steamed on the 1st of August, and arrived at the mouth of the Yenissej on the 6th. It was intended to start afresh on the 10th of August. The Kara Sea was nearly free of ice. A little scattered drift-ice near White Island was the only ice met with during the whole voyage. The expedition has thus a good prospect of success.—Nature.
—It has been ascertained that one of the peaks of the Kuen Lun Range in Khotan, ascended in 1865 by Mr. Johnson, is 23,890 feet high. The feat is therefore unparalleled in the annals of mountain-climbing. “ The plains at the base of the peaks are themselves very lofty—probably nearly 18,000 feet —but even then the feat, for the difficulty and hardship involved in it, remains unequalled. Mr. Johnson has had considerable experience of mountaineering at these exceptional altitudes. He is now Governor of Ladakh.”—Athenaeum.
—M. Toyama describes a simple way of seeing stereoscopic pictures without the use of lenses, and without any straining of the eyes. The two pictures are to be mounted with an interval between them of about an inch and a half Then by means of a partition between the pictures and the eye, on the ordinary skeleton stereoscope the two parts are so separated that the right eye shall see only the right picture and the left eye the left picture. When this is done the two pictures will combine just as easily as with an ordinary stereoscope.
—In digging the foundations for a new shaft at the rear of the premises in the occupation of Messrs. Morgan & Co., in Long-Acre, London, Oct. 17, some workmen came upon a chest containing a large number of gold and silver coins of the reign of Henry VIII in a high state of preservation. Besides a quantity of miscellaneous articles, the box contained about twenty pieces of church plate and ornaments. Among these were a massive chalice, a ciborium, and a monstrance, all set with precious stones; a finely-carveu
1 crozier head, a lapis lazuli crucifix, a pectoral cross and chain attached, some small vessels, and what appears to have been the mitre of an Abbot or a Bishop. At the foot of the chalice a cross with a nimbus is engraved, and in a scroll the Latin inscription, “ Ai majorem Dei gloriam."
—Mr. Beale, of the Linnean Society, gives the result of an interesting experiment he made two years ago in endeavoring to acclimatize the Australian gum tree in the neighborhood of London. “In June, 1876, I selected of the Eucalyptus globulus six strong plants about 3ft. high, and which had been well hardened off; I planted them in my garden on the river side above Richmond, selecting various situations, some exposed, others sheltered. On the approach of the first severe winter weather all the plants were killed. At about the same time I sent a plant to a friend living near Torquay, who planted it out with complete success, the tree, when I last heard of it, being well wooded and upwards of 20ft. high. The Australian gums are not sufficiently hardy to resist the extremes of climate in the greater portion of this country, but they might be planted with advantage in Devonshire, Cornwall, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Wight. I remember about twenty-five years ago my firm (Carter & Co.) received a very complete collection of native seeds from Baron von MQller, which included ninny of the different species of Eucalyptus.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Longfellow’s poems have been published by George Routledge & Sons, of London, in a uniform and complete edition of eleven volumes.
—Mr. Ruskin, by advice of his physician, has decided to write no more on political economy, but to give his attention exclusively to art.
—R. Worthington has nearly ready Mr. R. A. Proctor’s “Pleasant Ways in Science,” which treats a variety of topics, from sun-spots to the phonograph.	•
—At a sale of pictures at the Hotel Drouot, Paris, last week, Rosa Bonheur’s “ Oxen at Pasture ” realized 18,000 francs, and “Heather Land,” by the same artist, 20,000 francs.
—“ The George Eliot Birth-day Book ” is the title of a small volume just published abroad. It is a diary, containing two or three quotations from the writings of George Eliot for each day in the year, with blank spaces for writing on the opposite pages.
—Goetz’s “ The Taming of the Shrew” was announced to be performed for the first time in England on the 12th inst. at Drury Lane Theatre, by a company the whole of whose names are entirely new to most people. Herr Karl Meyder will be the conductor.
—Herr Rudolf Waldman was not only composer and librettist of a three-act comic opera, called “ Senora Mata-Florida; or The Joyous Monks of Saint Just,” produced in Berlin on the 26tn ult., at the Woltersdorff Theatre, but he also enacted the principal part.
—Among the ruins of a large palace at Xayi, in southern Mexico, has been found an ancient library. The writings are on terra-cotta tablets a half inch thick, and are supposed to be religious records. The language in which they are written is not well understood.
—Henry Holt & Co. will publish at once, as one of their hand-books, the “Studio Arts,” by Elizabeth Winthrop Johnson, which is intended to be an introduction to the study of art and a help to those who want a general knowledge of art. It will be of value to those who look at pictures or who buy them.
—A little volume called “The Month of St. Francis” has just been published in London. It contains thirty-one meditations on the life and virtues of the Seraphic Patriarch, translated from the Italian of Father Candido Mari-otti, at the request of the Franciscan Fathers of Stratford.
—A search recently made, by order of the Austrian Government, in the labyrinth of rooms forming the buildings of the Castle of Prague, has, the Acaiemy says, led to the finding of a number of valuable pictures, and among
^THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
155
them of nineteen pieces originally collected for George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham.
—A. translation of the inimitable work the Imitation of Christ, from the Latin into Singhalese, is published. It is the work of a devoted and veteran Missionary Apostolic, and was printed at the “Ceylon Catholic Orphan Press.” It is a neatly got up octavo volume, and ought to be in the hands of every Singhalese Christian.
—The new English subscription edition of Thackeray’s works will be limited to one thousand copies. Its publication will extend over one year. The volumes are printed in imperial octavo size, on paper expressly made for the purpose, and contain many new illustrations on steel, copper, and wood, printed on real China paper.
—Mr. Jules Massenet, the composer of “Le Boi de Lahore,” an opera now going the rounds of the theatres in Italy, and of several orchestral works with which Mr. Thomas has made us familiar, has been appointed, by the Minister of Fine-arts, Professor of Composition at the Paris Conservatoire, as the successor to M. Bazin.
—The Runic inscription on the lion of the Piraeus at Venice is declared by Professor Bugge, of Christiania, to be almost illegible and undecipherable. It resembles inscriptions in the Province of Upland, and was probably the work of Scandinavian soldiers in the Foreign Guard mantained by the Sultans of Constantinople during part of the Middle Ages.
—The Thomas Orchestra of Cincinnati numbers about seventy instruments, distributed about as follows: First violins, ten; second violins, ten; violas, eight; ’cellos, six; contra basses, six; fagottos, two; contra fagotto, one; flutes, three; oboes, two; clarionets, two; cornets, three; horns, four; trombones, three; tympani, two; tubas, two, and several triangles, drums, etc.
—The Papal Archaeological Academy will, shortly resume its sittings. It has been closed for sometime in consequence of political circumstances, but Leo XIII has now granted permission for its resumption under the direction of Cardinal di Pietro. Besides the study of classical antiquities, to which the Academy’ formerly confined itself, it is now to turn its attention chiefly to the Middle Ages.
—Henry T. Coates’ “Fireside Encyclopedia of Poetry,” which will be published on the 5th, was begun in the fall of 1871, and contains over 1,200 poems by nearly 400 authors, English and American. E ich poem is given in its completeness, and nearly all the longer minor poems that have become classic will be found. The book will make an octavo of 1,040 pages, and will be illustrated by fourteen engravings on steel.
—The entertaining art talks given last year by Miss Eliza Allen Starr, the well-known art teacher, and author of “Patron Saints,” at her residence at No. 299 Huron Street, Chicago, will be resumed, the first on Monday next at 3 p. m., and the series on succeeding Tuesdays. These talks are for ladies only. Miss Starr will take up the Sculptures in the Catacombs, and will cover the history of the art as far as the period of those artists who were both sculptors and painters. Thence the talks will be on modern sculpture.
—The three volumes which Mr. Black’s new novel, “Macleod of Dare,” fills will present a new feature. Several of his artist-friends each presented him with a drawing to illustrate his story, and these woodcuts will appear in the three-volume edition. In gratitude Mr. Black dedicates his book to its illustrators—Messrs. T. Faed, R. A., J. E. Millais, R. A., J. Pettie, R. A., W. Q. Orchardson, R. A., P. Graham, A. R. A. J. A. Aitken, G. H. Boughton, T. Graham, C. Hunter, C. E. Johnson, J. McWhirter, and F. Powell.—Athenaum.
—M. Paul Stapfer, Professor in the Grenoble Faculty of Letters, is about to publish the first volume of an important work on Shakespeare et l'Antiquite. In it he makes a study of those plays of Shakespeare which relate to subjects taken from antiquity; and, in the second, he will examine the influence of the antique genius on Shakespeare. This work, which is the production of one of the most subtle critics of the French University, and in wnich Shakespeare will be studied from a highly original point of view, is already translated into English.
—Focardi’s Wonderfully-funny Statuette, entitled “ You
Dirty Boy,” for some time past on view at the Paris Exhibition,' has been there the focus of a laughing crowd, composed of every nationality, its extraordinary humor appealing irresistibly to the risible faculty common to us all. The marble original (for which only the model in plaster is at present exhibited) is a £500 commission from Messrs. Pears, the transparent soap manufacturers. The success of the model has induced the firm to cause its reproduction in terra-cotta to be announced, and a large list of subscribers has resulted.
—Cavalier Francesco Grandi has just completed a lifesize portrait of his Holiness Leo XIH. The artist has been very happy in portraying the features of the Pontiff, and of exhibiting, as far as art may, the intellectual character of his subject. The Holy Father is represented seated in his cabinet waiting the hour of a great reception, for which he is just about to depart, and is on the point of rising. This is hinted at in the attitude of the Pontiff. The walls of the room are hung with tapestry, admirably and faithfully worked out, and yet subservient to the subject of the picture. Signor Grandi does not, as so many modern artists do, paint a background of furniture, or tapestry, or drapery, and put a lay figure in the foreground, devoid of life or expression. The Pontiff is the subject; the tapestry, although admirably depicted, is but an accessory. The portrait is an excellent likeness of his Holiness.
—In the July number of the London Quarterly Reaieio is a paper on Dr. Routh, the Centenarian President of Magdalen College, Oxford. The writer of the article once asked the Doctor if there was any Commentary on Scripture which he particularly approved of and would recommend. The Doctor said: “ If you will take my advice, sir (an old man, sir! but I think you will find the hint worth your notice), whenever you are at a loss about the sense of a passage in the New Testament, you will ascertain how it is rendered in the Vulgate, the Latin Vulgate, sir. I am not saying ” (here he kindled, and eyed me to ascertain whether there was any chance of my misunderstanding him), 11 not that the Latin of the Vulgate is inspired, sir!” (he turned his head a little impatiently and moved his hand). “ Nothing of the sort, sir; but you will consider that it is a very faithful and admirable version, executed from the original by a very learned man—by Jerome, in the fourth century! certainly made, therefore, from manuscript authority of exceedingly high antiquity and, in consequence entitled to the greatest attention and deference.” “ I have forgotten,” says the author of the paper, “ what he said besides. . . . It is only fair to add that I have since discovered for myself several proofs of the soundness of his advicb; and the anecdote is put on record in the hope that other students may profit by it likewise.”
—Canon Bowles was noted for his absence of mind. It is related that in early life he came to London for the express purpose of waiting on the Archbishop of Canterbury to solicit a vacant living, but omitted to leave his address, and quitting London abruptly, he could not be found when the prelate sought him a few days afterwards. Another time Bowles started from Bremhill on horseback, to ride to Chippenham; he dismounted to walk down a steep hill, leading the horse by the bridle slung accross his arm, and continued to the turnpike gate, where he offered to pay the toll and was not a little surprised when the keeper said: “ We don’t charge nothing for your honor, as you bean’t on ’osback.” On turning round he perceived the bridle dangling on his arm, but could not descry his horse.
—A late Earl of Eglinton was much annoyed by boys climbing and destroying some of the fine trees on his estate, and he gave instructions that they should be prohibited doing so. One day, however, some boys violated his injunction, and were discovered by the Earl himself. They all made their escape except one, who, to avoid detection climbed to the highest branches of the tree, on which he was found. Here the Earl observed him, and ordered him to come down. The boy demurred, saying he would thrash him. “ Upon my honor,” said the Earl, “ I will not touch you, if you will come down.” “I dinna ken what you mean by yer honor,” said the boy, “but if you’ll say ‘ as sure’s death,’ I’ll come down.” It is said that the Earl had to comply with this condition before the delinquent could be induced to descend. •
156
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 9, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St Mary’s Academy, Notre . Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per	Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, /	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Z “Put None but Americans on Guard.”
A periodical called the National American has lately been started in St. Louis with the avowed intention of reviving an old and malicious humbug, the Know-Nothing party. We feel inclined to give the editor a bit of a lecture on English uudefiled, its use and abuse, even in regard to the title of his publication, but if he be a true Know-Nothing our logic would likely be thrown away upon him. Apart from his abuse of the vernacular, the following is a specimen of his abuse of history: “ We firmly believe,” he says in his leading editorial, “ that native-born American citizens are the only and proper ones to fill all positions of honor, trust and profit in this country, and under that (this, eh ?) belief shall advocate only the election or appointment, to all responsible positions, of none but native born Americans. We have the advice of the father of this country, George Washington, who, on the eve of an important battle being fought [eve—being fought—oh! oh!] gave orders to the under-officers to ‘ place none but Americans on guard to-night.’ Thus it will be seen that while he had great confidence in some who were not native-born citizens, yet he was unwilling to trust any [ any what ?] with responsible positions at times when it was important to have true and reliable men. We might cite numerous instances similar to the above, but that alone will suffice.”
Yes, this will suffice. But, Mr. National American, where did you find this precious historical morceau upon which you count so much ? Certainly not in the “ Life of Washington,” nor in any of his papers; certainly not in any History of the United States that we know of. We are aware that such a maxim was, some twenty and more years ago, attributed by the Know-Nothing papers of that time to General Washington, but we also know that the falsehood could not long stand the light of day, that it soon disappeared from the public prints and was only heard of from Know-Nothing orators in the halls and rendezvous of the Know-Nothing clubs. Very likely the editor of the National Amer-
icanhas been reading up history from old files of that organ of the Plug-Uglies of Baltimore, the Clipper, or some such delectable sheet, redolent of fire and brimstone, and now has become so full of it that he wishes to enlighten the rest of the world. We would scarcely have noticed himself, his bad English or his falsehood were it not that he is the second who within the last few months has trumped up the old forgery, “ Put none but Americans on guard to-night.” That Washington never used the maxim, either in the language or in.the sense given it by the Know-Nothings, can be clearly proved by examining that great man’s papers. Professor Sparks, his biographer, when appealed to in regard to it on its first appearance, replied that he had never met with the words inquestion in any of Washington’s writings. Nothing daunted, however, the irreverent Know-Nothings then mutilated and garbled the order issued by Washington, and published the forgery in their organs throughout the country, palming it off as the genuine document. Many were gulled by the artifice, and, yielding to their narrow-minded prejudices, soon had the country in an uproar. Rioting and bloodshed were the consequence. So much for what a few malicious bigots can do. Now let us look at Washington’s Order and then at the Know-Nothing forgery. The genuine document as given in General Orders, Force’s American Archives, Vol. II, p. 1634, reads as follows:
“ Cambridge Headquabtebs, July 7,1775.
“ The General has great reason and is highly displeased with the negligence and inattention of those officers who have placed as sentries, at the outposts, men with whose characters they are not acquainted. He therefore orders, that for the future, no man shall be appointed to these important stations who is not a native of this country, or has a wife or family in it to whom he is known to be attached; the order is considered a standing one, and the officers are to pay obedience to it at their peril.
“Parole, Dorchester: countersign, Exeter.”
Such is General Washington’s Order, word for word, letter for letter. Now, reader, compare it with the following awkward forgery, word by word, letter by letter, with the words “ Pay Roll ” substituted for “.parole,” and “ Countersigned ” for “ countersign”:
“Cambbidge Headquabtebs, July 17,1775.
General Order :—The General has great reason to be displeased with the negligence and inattention of the guards who have been placed as sentinels on the outposts—men whose characters he is not acquainted with. He therefore orders, that for the future none but natives of this Country be placed on guard as sentinels on the outposts. This order is to be considered a standing one, and the officers to pay obedience to it on their part.
(Signed) FOX, Adj. of the day. Countersigned, Exeter, Pay Roll, Dorchester.
The awkwardness of the forgery makes it doubly apparent The men that did it counted much on the gullibility of the people or they would have been more careful.
It is hardly likely that Washington would not have placed as much confidence in Lafayette, Montgomery, De Kalb, Kosciusko, Moylan, and other foreign-born officers and soldiers of the Revolutionary army as in that native-born traitor, Benedict Arnold, and other native-born tories and traitors whose descendants in later times caused so many outrages and so much bloodshed by their Know. Nothing cabals, and which are now sought to be revived by a few editors of Know-Nothing proclivities. We have seen answers to these, but not quite to the point; we thought, therefore, that the publication of Washington’s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
157
Order would be the strongest and best refutation that could be brought forward.
Washington has never been known to utter or write anything that could reflect in the least on foreign-born citizens or their eligibility to such offices of honor, trust, or emolument as their services, probity and talents justified in entrusting to them. Their valor and patriotism were too brilliantly exemplified in the War of Independence to leave any doubt upon his mind; nay, many of them held honorable positions on Washington’s own life-guard. Of those of one nationality much persecuted and hated by the Know-Nothings, he said: “ The Irish volunteers merit the. warmest thanks of America for their patriotism; and I hope their countrymen, who have so long struggled for liberty, will be hospitably and cordially received here.” Then there were Lafayette, Rochambeau and others from France, Kosciusko from Poland, Steuben from Germany, Montgomery, Barry, Moylan, and the Lynches of Ireland, and hundreds of others, who distinguished themselves in the War of Independence, all of foreign birth, and who proved themselves worthy of the greatest confidence.
As to Washington’s expressed views in regard to naturalization and the eligibility of citizens of foreign birth to offices of trust and emolument, it is well known that in his first Address to Congress after his elevation to the Presidency he earnestly called the attention of that body to the subject of naturalization; that, accordingly, the first Congress convened under the Constitution fixed the term for naturalization at two years, and that this act received the signature and approbation of Washington. Furthermore, as if to clinch the matter, he wrote as follows: “ The bosom of America is open to receive, not only the opulent and respectable stranger, but the oppressed and persecuted of all nations and of all religions, whom we shall welcome to a participation in all rights and privileges.” If there be a shadow of doubt in any one’s mind as to Washington’s real sentiments, the foregoing extracts from his writings should be conclusive evidence as to what they really were; unlike some would-be great men, Washington was never ambiguous, but always clear, and to the point!
Physical Culture.
In ,education there is not only required the training of the moral, or intellectual powers,, but also the physical, which taken with the others go to make up the man. Each of these powers must be developed, and yet each must yield something to satisfy the claims of the others. For example: if we were to cultivate the physical powers only, we would bear a strong resemblance to the savage; if we cultivate the moral only, we would be apt to become enthusiastic maniacs; while, the cultivation of the intellectual alone, would make one an eccentric oddity. Hence we may readily infer that the formation of the complete man depends upon the training and uniting of these three powers. We find that the ancients attached great importance to physical training, and the end at which they professed to aim in all their schools of culture was a sound mind in a sound body.
The Greeks and old English entertained an idea that without proper physical training it would be impossible to find in a nation either warriors or statesmen. It was this same idea which drew from the Duke of Wellington, when looking on at the boys engaged in their sports in the play-ground of a renowned school, the remark: “It was
there that the battle of Waterloo was won.” Can the same be said of the young men of the present day ? Do we see among them, on the play-grounds, the display of that physical energy which would enable us to point ont the rising Napoleon or Washington of the nineteenth century ? In reply to this question, we must say that there are many young men of the present day who are equal to, if not able to surpass, those of olden times in physical sports. But it is hot for this class we intend these few remarks, but for those inactive, discontented, stunted youths, who pass their time in a manner which will prove injurious not only to their physical powers but also to the moral and intellectual. They expend fortunes in the vain hope of regaining their declining health, and change of climate or skilful medical treatment seems only to bring them nearer to the grave. The same words might be well applied to them which were addressed to a Syracusan prince by a Spartan cook. The prince being present at one of the Spartan public repasts, found the food very insipid: “I do not wonder at your dislike,” said the Spartan cook, “ for the seasoning is wanting.” “ What seasoning ? ” asked the prince. “ Running, perspiration, fatigue, hunger and thirst,” answered the cook; “ these are the ingredients with which we season all our food.”
Practical success in life depends much more upon physical health than is generally imagined. The success even of professional men depends in no slight degree upon their cultivated physical strength. Thus a well-trained, strong and manly voice is considered almost indispensable to the successful lawyer or politician. The lawyer has to climb the heights of his profession through close and heated court* rooms, and the political leader has to bear the fatigue and excitement of long and anxious debates iu a crowded house. Hence the lawyer and politician are called upon to display powers of physical endurance and energy even more extraordinary than those of the intellect. Such powers have been very often exhibited in a remarkable degree by many of our greatest lawyers and statesmen. The observation of an eminent writer is doubtless in a great measure true, that the greatness of our great men is quite as much a bodily affair as a mental one. It is in the physical man that the moral as well as the intellectual man lies hid; and it is through the bodily organs that the soul itself works. As wine savoffe of the cask wherein it is kept, so the soul receives a tincture from the body through which it works.
At the present day, healthful bodily exercises have somewhat fallen into disrepute, and education has become more exclusively mental; very much to the detriment of the bodily health. But this is an age of scientific progress—an age in which all seem to be swept along with the restless tide of modern invention. Let no one imagine that we wish to hold that the physical powers alone are deserving of attention, for it is a sad but undeniable fact that the moral training of youth is wofully neglected at the present day, and particularly throughont our enlightened land of liberty. But, as we have before stated, to form the complete man requires not only the cultivation of the moral or intellectual powers, but that of the physical powers also.
—A young man boasting in the presence of Aristippus of the number of books he had read, the philosopher observed: “It is not he who eats most is the stoutest and healthiest, but he who digests the best”
158
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
Local Items.
—C. M. Nodler (Commercial), of ’78, is keeping books at Keokuk, Iowa.
—Very Rev. President Corby left last Wednesday on a visit to Watertown, Wis. ' .
—Rev. Fathers Spillard, Jacob Lauth and Shea are stationed at Austin, Texas.
—Rev. D. Tighe, of ’70, is pastor of Hyde Park and South Chicago. He is doing very well.
—Wm. P. Odendahl (Commercial), of ’71, is living at Carbon Cliff, Rock Island County, Ill.
'—Rev. Father Saulnier, C. S. C., is assistant Chaplain at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
x—Rev. P. J. Conway, of’59, is pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, Chicago, one of the best parishes in the city.
—Rev. John Shannahan, of ’7^, is now at Mercy Hospital, Chicago, happily recovering from a severe illness.
—Rev. P. Franciscus, C. S. C., begins preaching the Forty Hours’ Devotion at St. Joseph’s Church, Laporte, Ind., to-morrow.	‘
—Our genial friend Rev. R. Shortis, of’49, Chaplain at St. Mary’s Academy, visits us every once in a while. His visits are always welcome.
'x —Very Rev. Father Sorin is spending a few days at the Bethesda Springs, Waukesha, Wis., where he is the guest of Col. Richard Dunbar.
—Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Rietz, Mr. J. J. McGrath and Mr. Thos. Nelson, of Chicago, were visiting Notre Dame at the beginning of the week.
K—Rev. P. W. Riordan, of ’58, is pastor of St. James’s Church, Chicago, one of the largest parishes in the city. He is now building a beautiful new church.
—The Revs. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., and J. Gleeson, C. S. C., preached the Forty Hours’ Devotion at St. Patrick’s Church, Laporte, at the beginning of the week.
—Edward Odendahl (Commercial), of ’70, is married, and is now engaged in farming near Carroll City, Iowa. His brother, Hubert, is living with his parents at Fulton, Ill.
-. —Frank A. Arentz (Commercial), of ’72, is holding the responsible position of cashier in the freight office of the Pilsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad at Fort Wayne.
- —Rev. P. J. Colovin is pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis. He is assisted by Rev. John Lauth, oP ’66. Rev. Father Colovin has one of the finest parishes in Wisconsin.
—Henry Faxon (Commercial), of ’76, and Clarence Faxon (Commercial), of ’77, are in the large wholesale establishment of A. T. Stewart & Co., in Chicago. A friend who visited them this last week says that they are both doing very well.
—We lately had the pleasure of spending some two or three days with our old friend, Rev. M. O’Reilly, of ’59, who is parish priest at Valparaiso, Ind. There is not a more energetic or faithful pastor in the United States than Father O’Reilly.
\. —Mr. H. Wertheimer, the able and gentlemanly business manager of the Cincinnati Volksfreund, lately visiting Notre Dame, called at our office while we were absent. We hope when he comes again, as he promises to do before/ \Christmas, we shall have the pleasure of meeting him.
—Mr. John Arthur, of Erie, Pa., paid Notre Dame a first visit, last week, accompanying a young brother who remains at class here. Although the vernal beauty of Notre Dame’s surroundings had departed, Mr. Arthur thought this a beautiful place, and intends repeating his visit during the summer holidays. He is a welcome visitor.
—It may be all very well to be particular as to who we show special courtesy to, but the man who is not willing to bow or dodge at the rapid approach of a brick is lacking in the first and truest principles of politeness.
—The Bulletins have all been sent off.
—The weather is delightful and the boys are happy.
—On Wednesday last the comet went out serenading.
—There will be compositions next week in the Collegiate Course.
—A number of storm-doors have been put up for the winter.
—The Philodemics adopted their new Constitution on Tuesday evening.
—The College Librarian has been hard at work in the Library the past few weeks.
—The name of J. G. Baker was omitted from the Roll of Honor last week by mistake.
—Rev. John A. Zahm will give a lecture on some scientific subject next Thursday evening.
—If the weather continues to get cold the members of the Boat Club will put their boats into winter quarters.
—The snow which fell a few days before All Saints’ Day did not last long. It disappeared in a short while.
—Work on the avenue leading to the College progresses each day. By next spring the avenue will be in fine condition.
—Vespers to-morrow are from the Common of the Blessed Virgin. In the morning the Missa de Angdis will . be sung.
—Prof. Ivers’ Lecture before the Columbian Club on the 29th of Oct. is spoken of in terms of the highest praise by everyone.
/—Four large basalt columns from the Rhine are on - their way to Notre Dame for the Cabinet of Mineralogy and Geology.
—We will publish next week the programme of the private Entertainment of the St. Cecilians to be given on the 22d, the Feast of their patron.
—H. G. Niles had the best Bulletin in the Junior department for the month of October. F. W. Bloom had the second best, and M. J. Burns third best.
—The string Quartette will appear at the St. Cecilians’ ^private entertainment on the evening of the 22d. The members will have quite a number of new selections.
—All the Catholic students in the Junior Department having a desire to learn how to serve Mass receive the proper instructions. Eight Masses are served daily by students.
—The carpenters are through with their work in the Cabinet of Mineralogy and Geology, and the painters and glaziers are at work. By the end of the year the specimens will all be arranged.
—Foot-ball is the favorite field-sport with the Juniors. We can hear the merry ring of the voices as we sit in our sanctum, and we can generally tell the result of the games by the cheers of the victors.
—It has been suggested by the leader of the Band that a platform be erected in the parterre in front of the College for the use of the Band. The suggestion is a good one, and we hope it will be carried out.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-Bernie Society was held Tuesday evening, Nov. 5th. Mr. J. P. Quinn read the criticism. Questions were answered by Messrs. D. Russell, J. Clarke and J. Shugrue.
—We have every reason to believe that the private Entertainment of the St. Cecilians, on the 22d of this month, in the College parlor, will be a most enjoyable one. Cannot the other societies give similar Entertainments ?
—The Catholic college exchanges coming to us are the Niagara Index, the Georgetown College Journal, the College Message and the Archangel. The Salesianum and the Spectator have not been received by us this year. Have they suspended ?	■
—There will be songs, instrumental music, essays, declamations and an oration on the night of the 22d, the Feast of St. Cecilia, by the members of the St. Cecilia
1
■ ‘i
I

T'HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
159
Philomathean Association. The exercises will be private, and will be held in the College parlor.'
—The Philopatrians held their 6th regular meeting on the 5th of November. Declamations were given by Messrs. Van Mourick, Rietz, Crowley, Guthrie, Cannon, Scanlan, Halle, Mergentheim, Schoby, Sugg, M. and H. Devitt, Eigholz, Kennedy, O’Donnell, Becker, Canoll, and Seeger.
—In the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association a custom of the Philodemics has been introduced, viz., that of having historical questions given to the different members to be answered by them at the following meeting. No papers will be allowed, and the answers are to be given in few words.
—On Wednesday last the foot-ball of the Juniors was carried over into the Senior yard by a young man, where one of four well-known boys ripped it open. These young men have not added to their reputation by this act, and the one who carried the ball away will of course be expected to pay for it.
—The regular weekly meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary at the Manual Labor School was held Wednesday, Nov. 6th. The ten-minutes’ sermon was given by Rev. Father Franciscus. Essays were read by Masters C. Johnson, “St. Martin of Tours”; W. Healy, “Extreme ‘Unction,’’ and M. Buchmeier, “What is Anathema? ”
—Two ingenious youths of the Junior Department have contrived to pattern what they term “ a combination lock ” for their desks in the study-hall. It is said that the mechanism is so complicated that no student is able to unlock their desks. We presume none of the wardens will be instructed in the secret of the combination ?
—Our friend John says he heard the Professor of Astronomy say that on Tuesday evening last there would be an occultation of the play-days. Our friend John did not know what that meant, but he need not be afraid; the occultation of the Pleiades will not interfere with his “ rec.” if he knows his lessons and avoids detention.
—We are pleased to see that most of the students'join in the field-sports. They are benefited physically and mentally by doing so. There are a few, however, that go around inclosed in ulsters, a sight of whom is enough to bring on an attack of chills and fever or at least symptoms. We can’t see how a boy can stand idly looking on (unless he is an invalid) during a game of foot-ball. .
—It has always been the rule between the Senior and Junior Departments that all balls, etc., thrown by accident from one yard to the other should be immediately returned. We are sorry to say that some few, very few, members of the Senior department have this year thought fit to infringe upon this rule. We feel sure that the other members of the Department will frown down all who break it.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Nov. 2d. At this meeting Masters Schnull, Bloom and Byrnes read essays. Masters McGrath, Zahm, McCarthy, Scanlan and Donnelly delivered declamations. The critic gave in his report. The subject for debate was given out and debaters appointed. E. Fogarty was elected a member. Music was furnished by Frank Grever.
—Persons having any cancelled postage stamps may send them to Mother Angela, St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana, or to C. T. O’Connell, 145 McCullough street, Baltimore, Md., who will forward them to Indiana. They are then sent to Paris, whence they are forwarded to the missionaries in pagan lands to be given in exchange for little heathen children. Save the old stamps and help to propagate the Faith.
—The Niagara Index claims to be the oldest of the Catholic college papers. Not so fast, friend Index. The first number of Niagara's Tribute, which subsequently became known as the Index Niagarensis, and is now known as the Niagara Index, was issued in January, 1870. The first number of the Scholastic Yeah was issued Sept. 7th, 1867; two years afterwards the name was changed to The Notre Dame Scholastic. So, you see, we are almost three years your senior.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Archconfraternity was honored by the presence of Very Rev. F. Granger, Bros. Leander, Alexander and Hugh. The ten-minutes’ address was given by the Rev. Director, Father Walsh, on the “ Right of Catholics to honor the Blessed Virgin.” An essay on “Purgatory” was given by A. Zahm; one on “Holy Water,” by W. McCarthy; and on “The Festival of All Saints,” by M. Burns. Masters Cleary, Kennedy Reidy and Ewell were elected members.
—The fifth regular meeting of the Holy Angels’ Sodality was held on the evening of Nov. 3d. Rev. T. Collins, who was at one time President of the Association, was present. He made a long and instructive speech, dwelling at length upon what is expected from the members of a society. The regular business of the meeting was laid aside for “ the evening, and the usual time of meeting was devoted to song, declamation and other amusements. Masters Schmuckle, Courtney and Woodson sang songs, and Master J. Garrity declaimed. The evening was very pleasantly spent, and shall not soon be forgotten by the members of the Holy Angels’ Sodality.
—The eighth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Tuesday, Nov. 5th. Messrs. Sugg, R. P. Myer and S. Perley on the affirmative, and Messrs. McGorrisk, Donahoe, and G. Cochrane, on the negative, debated the question, “Which was the greater tyrant, Elizabeth of England or Catharine de Medicis of France ? ” It was decided in favor of the affirmative. The debate of the seventh regular meeting was, “ Ought Capital Punishment to be Abolished ? ” The debaters were: Messrs. Simms, M. Burns, and G. Burns, affirmative; Messrs. Don- ‘ ahoe, Devries, and Keenan, negative. A vote of thanks was tendered to Very Rev. Father Sorin for a photograph of himself which he presented to the Society, also to Prof. Ivers for his excellent eulogy on the death of Rev. Father Lemonnier, the founder of the Society.
—Another lively contest took place last Wednesday be- ' tween the Blues and Reds of the Junior Department. These two foot-ball clubs are about equally matched. In the last game played the Reds were victorious, after playing five innings. On Wednesday luck favored the Blues. The game was for a barrel of apples, and was tightly contested to the close. After a struggle of thirty minutes the Reds got the ball within the goal. The Blues won the second inning in twenty minutes. The third inning was won by the Reds in fifteen minutes. The Blues won the fourth inning in twenty-five minutes, tiring their competitors. A rest of fifteen minutes was taken, when both clubs started in with the determination to win. The ball was brought within a few feet of the goals several times, but they were strongly guarded. After a lapse of twenty minutes,-Frank Bloom, captain of the Blues, succeeding in kicking the ball within the goal and winning the game. Frank McGrath, captain of the Reds, handled his men well, and all worked with a will. The winning club shared the apples with their competitors.	'
“A Merchant” writes to us as follows: “What is temptation? It is one or more of the many ways whereby humanity is led to evil results. Although some amusements seem at first to be innocent and joyful, nay, even instructive to the mind, yet the evil tendencies are such that the final result may be injurious. After examining certain amusements they would not be much encouraged, nor would • parents—who love their children to the fullest extent of a parent’s heart, and who do all in their power to educate them in the best manner possible—thoughtlessly allow, yes, often encourage, their offspring to indulge in the amusement I am about to speak of, viz., the practice now so prevalent of learning to play billards. I say learning, for not a player ever became perfect at each best game. He thinks he can or might win the next time, hence always a longing exists to play and play again. Now, friends, if you do already play, or are longing to learn to play, do you remember how much it cost you to learn, as far as you went ? Is it not your experience that it cost you a large sum of money, to say nothing of valuable time that might be employe^ to much better purpose? And after you have learned, or believe that you can play, how many are able to buy a billiard table, to invite such company to play with them as are fit companions ? If you are not able to possess a table of your own,
i
160
THE NQTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and there is none at the house of any of your friends, where would you be likely to go in order to gratify your desire to play ? Where do'you find such places as furnish an opportunity to play billiards ? Not, as yet, in literary halls, and seldom in private' club halls, but invariably in saloons. Now, then, those are certainly not the places to which we should encourage our sons to go, for billiards will not be the only thing indulged in there, cigars and liquors of all kinds being played for in such places. ‘Just for the fun of the thing.’ Believe me, young friends, and be not led into temptation, but say ‘No, sir; my lifetime is too short to spend so much valuable time in that way.’ ”
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold,’ R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, James Brice, J. B. Berteling, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Burger, M. T. Burns, Thos. Barrett, J. M. Byrne, T. J. Burns, J. G. Baker, J. F. Buchanan, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, T. F. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, W. E. Carpenter, W. H. Claggett, F. W. Cavanaugh, D. S.Coddington, E. T. Chalfant, J. M/Carroll, C. K. Devries, E. J. Dempsey, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, M. English, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, L. Horne, J. C. Hermann, J.Q. Johnson. J. Krost, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, M. Laughlin, P. B. larkin, W. J. Murphy, Thos. Mackey, J. B. McGrath, J. M. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McCue, A W. Ne vans, Wm. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, S. 8. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell,'G. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, J. Sieuzak, A Scheiber, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Bimms, T. S. Summers, C. L. Stuckey, P. Shea, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogle, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, W. Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. G. Brady J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, A. A. Caren, F. T. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, O. C. Eigholz, J. M. Eisenhauer, H. J. Fenner, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, H. G. Gwynn, J. L. Halle, H. M. Haerly,* J. Haney, J. Kurz, J. A. Lumley, T. S. McGrath, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, T. G. Arthur, M. L. Foote, A. 8. Manning, H. G. Niles, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, A. F. Reitz, A. S. Rock, D. Reidy, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, M. Wolf, F. E. Weisert, E. S. W’alter, A. F. Zahm, M. J. Burns, G. H. Donnelly.
* Omitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. A. McDevitt, A. M. Coghlin, W. S. Coghlin, W. F. Rhein-hard t, G. Woodson, J. S. McGrath, N. P. Nelson, A. Hartrath, C. L. Garrick, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, H. C. McDonald, J. J. Inderrieden, 0. Farrelly, C. B. Crowe, A. H. Chirhart, E. Howard, H. W. Bachmann, C. M. Long, J. J. Gordon, H. C. Snee, E. S. Chirhart, J. 8. Inderrieden, L. J. Young, H. A. Kitz, F. B. Farrelly, A. H. Schmiickle, W. V. O’Malley, F. A. Campau, Thos. McGrath, F. T. Garrity, E. C. Esmer, F. H. Parsons, Geo. Tourtillott, A. J. Campau, C. J. Welty, J. Chaves.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
F. Grever, A. Rietz, W. Rietz. W. McCarthy, A. Rock, T. Conlan, J. Herman, J. N. Byrne, L. Horne, R. Anderson, R. P. Mayer, T. Summers, J. Arentz, J. Q. Johnson, T. C. Stuckey.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, W. A. McDevitt, N. P. Nelson, W. S. Coghlin C. B. Crowe, A. Hartrath, G. J. Rhodius, P. F. Brady, G. Wood, eon, A. H. Chirhart, F. A. Campau, C. 8. McGrath, H. C. Mc--Donald, O. Farrelly, J. J. Inderrieden, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, J. J. Gordon, J. S. McGrath.
List .of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the
competitions, which are held monthly.—Director or Studies.] COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading—T. Conlan, J. Q. Johnson, 8. P. Terry, F. McGrath, A. B. Mergentheim, Geo. Orr, A. Caren; Orthography—J. Scheiber, P. A. Vogel, S. P. Terry, J. W, Guthrie, Jeo. Orr, F. McGrath; Grammar—C. L. Stuckey, 8. P. Terry, R. Anderson, J. Kurz; Arithmetic—A. Rock, J. Hermann; Geography—J. Kurz, J. Gibbons, J. Q. Johnson; Penmanship—J. Brice, J. Haerly, L. Horne; Book-Keeping—J. Hermann, J. N. Byrne, T. Summers. J. Q. Johnson, M. Hogan, J. English, T. Chalfant, K. L. Scanlan, J. Thompson, J. Stewart, T. Barrett, S. P. Terry, E. Ward.

—There was quite a celebration in St. Luke’s Studio in honor of St. Luke, the Patron of artists.
—The fine days are hailed with pleasure. Walking parties report favorably of their rambles.
—Dictionaries are in vogue. Microphonic sighs have been heard from hastily twined leaves. “ Alas, poor Richard! ”
—A very instructive Lecture was given by Prof. Howard to the pupils at St. Mary’s last Monday evening, subject: “ The Proper Use of the English Language.”
—On All Soul’s Day the Requiem Mass was sung by Rev. Father Shortis, who also preached on the subject of “Prayers for the Dead.” On All Saints, Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. P. Johannes.
—Among the many gratis advantages of the institution, the pupils of the Conservatory of Music have besides the monthly lecture a weekly music instruction in Theory. These classes save much time, and the knowledge there acquired is a gain in the tri-weekly private lessons.
—On the Vigil of All Saints the Nocturnal Adoration of the month was made in the Convent Chapel. The members of the “Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches,” living in the neighborhood, join with the Children of Mary in this devotion.
—Mrs. Clara Fitzgerald, a harpist of merit, having made her studies under the best teachers of that instrument, has taken charge of tuition on the harp at St. Mary’s,‘an advantge which should not be slighted, as it is rare to meet with a competent teacher on that elegant and most graceful instrument.
—Judge Fuller and lady, of Coldwater, Mich., en route to California, are remaining a few days at St. Mary's. Though still feeble from his recent illness, all here are happy to see a gradual return, of strength, and hope ere long the genial climate of the Pacific slope will restore the Judge’s health.
—The visitors during the week were: Mrs. J. M. Pampel, Quincy, Ill.; Mark H. Bisby, St. Charles, Ill.; Mrs. Richard Dunbar, Waukesha, Wis.; Mrs. Cortright, Hyde Park, Chicago, Ill.; Judge and Mrs. Fuller, Coldwater, Mich.; Mrs. M. D. Kust, St. Mary’s, Ohio; Mrs. N. Hollingsworth, St. Mary’s, Ohio; Mr. J. Arthur, Erie, Penn.; Mr. J. J. McGrath, Chicago, UI.
—The reading of “ Rosa Mystica ” was welcomed by all, being the first number of that paper issued this year. All the contributions are from members in the Graduating, and First Senior Classes. Varied in character, each article budded into a rich flower either of prose or poetry, and gave promise of much future pleasure to the teacher. The readers were Misses Fisk, M. McGrath, A. Woodin, E. Keenan, and T. Killelea. Next month the “ Merry Chimes ” will be expected, and doubtless they will ring out a joyous peal.
—The Seniors got up an impromptu Entertainment one evening last week, consisting of a short drama, with good sound inference, to be applied according to fancy. Duetts and songs were not wanting, but the inimitable imitation of Von Weber’s overture on the piano in double motions by Misses Woodin and Brown proved too much for the gravity of the highly respectable audience, and, nolens regens, they took part in the “Laughing Chorus.” Specimens of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bravura carried the Prima and other Donnas to the verge of audible sounds, but they managed to vanish behind a cloud of “shakes,” which were harmless, creating only a transient fever of excitement.
—The pious practice of giving the Beatitudes is still kept up. It consists of small cards on each of which is printed one of those wondrous sentences which formed part of our Divine Redeemer’s Sermon on the Mount, called the “Beatitudes,” from the first word “Blessed” (Matthew, Chap. 5). These little mementos are distributed, and the recipients endeavor during the year to make the particular beatitude which falls to them their practice. While honoring these maxims of the Gospel given by our Lord, fidelity to His commands naturally leads the Christian to become more and more like to the Divine Master.
—Mother Angela being head of the “Archconfraternity of Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches” in America, received last week from the Countess de Merode, Brussels, a large box containing 15 sets of ready-made vestments, black, white, green, red and purple, all elegantly ornamented with gold trimmings; 25 linen albs, and all the smaller linens, bourses, etc., forming a full altar set, and are the work of ladies of Brussels belonging to the Association, who spend their leisure hours in this pious work. From material obtained from France, and donations of silk dresses, laces etc., from ladies in this country, Mother Superior will have ten more sets, which by the middle of November will be ready for distribution to churches in this country where the congregations are unable to provide the altar with necessary articles for the decent celebration of the Divine Mysteries.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduathjg Class—Misses Hope Russell, Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk.	•
1st Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthom, Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Anna Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney, Mary Casey.	’
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Adelaide Kirchner, Grace Glasser, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Philomena Wolford, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cavenor, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Sullivan, Marie Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Angela Ewing, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Harriet Buck, Catharine Lloyd, Alice Farrell.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Anna McGrath, Henrietta Hearsey, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Adella Geiser, Ella Mulligan, Mary Usselman, Anna Jones, Margaret McNamara, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Marie Dallas, Julia Kingsbury, Ina Capelle, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Mary Mullen, Mary Tam, Kathleen Wells, Mary Feehan, Mary English, Julia Bardes.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Anna Herman, Linda Fox, Laura French, Teresa Zahm, Charlotte Van Namee, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig. .
Junior Prep.—Misses Julia Butts, Mary Lyons, Elise Dallas, Catharine Campbell, Mattie Doxey, Mary Garrity. -
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Elizabeth Considine, Mary Poquette, Julia Cleary, Ada Clarke, Elise Papin, Bridget Haney.
erenoh.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Sil-verthorn, Annie McGrath.
■ 2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Aurelia Mulhall, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, L. Kirchner, Mary Casey.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Laura French, Julia Butts, Genevieve Winston.
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Teresa Walters, Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Annie Herman, Elizabeth Schwass, Elizabeth Walsh.
2d Class—Misses Ina Capelle, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee.	'
3d Class—Misses Mary Tam, Mary Fitzgerald, Margaret McNamara, Alice Donelan, Julia Butts, Catharine Hackett, Mary Zimmermann, Martha Doxey, Catharine Ward, Sarah Purdy, Catharine Capelle, Lucie Kelly.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC. ’
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthom, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Sullivan, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Maiy Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover. .
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Catharine Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Henrietta Hearsey, Emma Gerrish, Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Annie Cavenor.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Sarah Purdy, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Lulu Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Elise Dallas, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Tam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Minna Fisk, Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves, Ada Clarke.
Harp—Misses E. Galen, M. Campbell.
Organ—Miss Criep.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn. Minerva Spier.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Leota Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Catharine Hackett, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall, Anna Woodin.
5th Class—Misses Marv and Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, Angela Ewing, Charlotte Van Namee, Henrietta Hearsey, Mary Birch, Mary English, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw, Annie Jones, Mary Casey, Zoe Papin, Eleanor Thomas, M. Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THB
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Rebecca Neteler.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Dallas, Teresa Killelea, Jessie Grover, Ellena Thomas, Julia Butts, Elizabeth Schwass, Laura French, Mary Campbell, Catharine Campbell, Angela Dillon, Sophie Papin, Minna Loeber, Julia Kingsbury, Aurelia Mui hall, Ella Mulligan, Mary Sullivan, Maud Casey.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg, Harriet Buck.	.
OIL PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Sarah Moran.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS;
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Jessie Grover, Carrie Gall, Teresa Zahm, Ina Capelle, Catharine Hackett, Alma Moe, Henrietta Hearsey, Maggie Carroll, Henrietta Rosing, Lucie Chilton, Anna Cortright,'Maggie Whealan, Mary English, Minna Loeber, Catharine Danaher, Julia Barnes, Alicia Donelan, Maggie McNamara, Mary Tam, Grace Glasser, Julia Kingsbury, Sarah Purdy, Ollie Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Catharine Campbell, Laura French, Sophia Papin, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Ella Mulligan, Maggie Cleghorn, Agnes McKinnis, Annie McGrath, Linda Fox, Mary McFadden, Johanna Baroux, Mary Feehan, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Lyons, Jennie McGrath, Annie Orr, Lulu Wells, Mary Garrity, Ada Clarke, Elise Dallas, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Poquette, Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Margaret Ivers, Alice King, Alice Esmer, Lizzie Constantine, Elise Lavoie, Bridget Haney, Blanche Garrity, Mary Haney.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Ludwig, Alice
162
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Donelan, Mary Tam, Mary Fitzgerald, Teresea Killelea, Mary Usselman, Eleanor Thomas, Agnes Brown.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Geiser, Sarah Purdy, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Alma Moe, Mary Hake, Annie Woodin, Mary Sullivan, Julia Kingsbury.	-
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zoe Papin, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Emma Lang, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Jessie Grover, Grace Glasser, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Mary Carroll, Emma Gerrish, Mary Mullen, Julia Kingsbury, Alma Moe, M. English, Mary Fitzgerald, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Martha Pampell, Adelaide Bisby, Mary Ludwig, Della McKerlie, Mary Tam, Anna Herman, Teresa Zahm, Ollie Williams, Mary Campbell, par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Maloney, Mary Casey, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Adella Geiser, Marie Platten-burg, Harriet Buck, Annie Woodin, Mary Usselman, Elizabeth Schwass, Annie Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Teresa Walters, Elizabeth Kirchner, Henrietta Hearsey, Alicia Donelan, Annie Jones, Julia Barnes, Ellena Thomas, Caroline Gall, Mary Hake, Frances Sunderland, Alice Hiltman, Annie Purdy, Ina Capelle, Louisa Neu, Sarah Hambleton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Mary Mulligan, Marie Dallas, Ellen Mulligan, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Maud Casey, Julia Wells, Jessie Pampell, Manuelita Chaves, Jane McGrath, Mary Chirhart, Mary Poquette, Alice Esmer, Elizabeth Considine, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux, Margaret Cleghorn, Elise Dallas, Ada Clarke, Jane McGrath, Minnie Morris, Julia Cleary, Martha Zimmerman, par excellence.
Through trains are run to Lea fenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to Califoi’uia.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation...................... 5 00 p.m.	9 45 a.m
Night Express...........................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A. Iff. SMITH, A, KIMBALL, Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices . at Depot and 122 Randolph street. '	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City • nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J- C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
shickey,
• proprietor of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
-	P. SHICKEY.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	_
GOING BAST.
S 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight. GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago '8 20 a m.
4= 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40;
Chicago, 8pm.'	'
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
Z RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1877.
Northward Trains.		No. 5* Peru and Mich. City Ex.		'sNo. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W.,Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapohs. .. “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru			6.10 P. M 8.30 “ 9.25 “		12.25 p. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “		7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte*	 “ Michigan City...		9.30 P. M. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.				11.02 A. M. 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W„ Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. 6. Ft. W„ Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City.. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 11.47 “ 1.40 “		8.05 P. M. 8.55 A. M. 10.33 “ 12.35 “			
Lv. Peru........
“ Kokomo........
“ Indianapohs....
6.10 A. M.
7.05	“
9.35	“
EsZ" Palace Sleeping Cars are attached to trains leaving Indianapolis at 6.10 p. m., Michigan City at S.05 p. m. Passengers may remain in the Sleeping Cais during the day.
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1864 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, HI.; afterwards in St. Louis, Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., ojjosite Sherman Bouse,
.	Chicago, Illinois.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
163
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Time Table-Noy, 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	.♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. . “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 " 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 pm ,1 15 “ ‘•2 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	{Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 •*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 3 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Soutli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 630pm. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	6 38 *■ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 740 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. {Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Lbdyakd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elijott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Brauches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska,'Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New 'Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free, port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Stre^i Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l,	No 7,	No .3,	No. 5,
	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Night Ex	MaU.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,			12.53 A.M.	10.15 “	258 “	745 «
Alliance,		3.10 “	12.50 p m	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,		4.45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12 55 p m
Mansfield,			7.00 “	440 “	920 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,.’		10.40 11	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Ply mouthy		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOI2NG EAST.
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 P.M. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M. 2.48 “ 4.25 “	• •••••••• •••••••••
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 » 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 aji. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 “	6 05 A.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 1120 “ 2.00 Pat. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
ty or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775*3
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS,
NEW YOBE to QUEENSTOWN and UVEBPOOL,
Every Thursd
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. PALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent,
oct5-tf	Porte, Incllaiia.
164	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and
. County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind. •
"Weekly Newspapers.
TECE CATHOLIC COEUNIRIAjN. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clabkb, or ’70.
THE AUE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip ion price, §2.50.
Hotels.
THE BOND IIOUsSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Tree Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD E. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
C2VLLING CA-RDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
Q S CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BRONV1V	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER <fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mriONIAS R. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	.
FAJNTVTWG- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.	•
JOHN F. McHUG-H [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE dt DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE dt MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ye at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WT I .T.TATVT J. CL 1RKE (of ’74). Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus, O.
JANIES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JO TEST I>. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Daniel r. hibbard, Jr., (of ’70), circuit Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 88 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan.-	»ep!4-ly .
j The Sun will be printed every day during the year to come. I Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of everybody and everything save the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy which has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
The Sun is the newspaper for the people. It is not for the rich man against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man. but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hates. It is for the honest man against the rogues every time. It is for the honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does not take its cue from the utterances of any politician or political organization. It gives its support unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspiracy of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s eidea of independence. In this respect there will be no chang in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not less in the year 1879, than in 1878,1877, or any year gone by. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before the people, The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 a magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and women of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of today. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the coming year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements of the leaders in every section of the Republic will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest maybe added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudulent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Sun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before ; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or §6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or §7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at §1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is §1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending §10 we will send an extra copy free. Address	•
I. W. ENGLAND, Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOG-BAPHER,
Comer Michigan and. Washington Sts., SOUTH