t	■ IJear. PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS, Vol. I. ■	Notre Dame University, Oct. 26, 1867.	No. 8.	
St. Alary’s Academy. St. Maby’s Academy, Oct. 21,1867. HYMN FOB THE MASS OF ST. EDWABD. (Sung at the Mass on the 14th by the young ladies) Blessed Saint! Blessed Saint! Pure from earthly guile and taint. Who can tell great Edward’s glory ? Who proclaims his noble story? _ Sage and gentiles, just and meek, Kind protector of the weak. Royal saint! Royal saint! Brightly doth his record shine, Ruled by wisdom all divine!	_ Magna Charta’s glorious pages, Tells it to all after ages. Slave and bondmen, all oppressed, *	See their wrongs by thee redressed, Royal saint! Royal saint! Heavenly crown! heavenly crown! Sainted Edward is thine own! Grateful nations, still on earth, Tell thy wisdom, power and worth, Crown thy ever-blessed name '	With the laurel wreath of fame. Royal saint! Royal saint! 	<«-*■*.	 Address from the Junior and Minim Departments, Delivered by various Delegates. miss h. num. Very Bee. Bather ProeineiaL: As many of our Juniors and Minims have not had the honor of being introduced to you, we think this .would be a very suitable occasion to perform the pleasing ceremony of presenting th em to your kind notice.— I present, with much pleasure, the two Misses Hoyle, Tm sure they’ll repay all the labor and toil Of parents and teachers. Now this is no joke,	 They’re the best looking Juniors we have from Burr Oak. .	MISS DA Ute A SuULTZ. Miss Eva, and Carrie, both Stirling in worth, They are sisters, you know, of our friend Fanny North; Bev’d Father,—we all are amazed and amused, For the points of the compass seem now quite confused; We have no south, east, or west, but of Norths we have three, How puzzled the mariner’s needle must be. From Attica’s famed and classical soil, Our friend Agnes Longley has come here to toil For classical honors, and classical fame, And to win for herself a classical name. Some day she may write a classical book; You may see by a glance she has the true Attic look. - MISS E. LONGWELL. The hunters of Kentucky were bold, brave, and blunt, And found their delight in the wild, savage hunt; We are fond of the Hunt in a different way, But the Hunt that we love is as gentle as May. Our dear Hattie Hunt, so winning and mild, ■ Is a sweet little Minim, a dear little child, Whose father and mother have gone, you must know, To the city of Denver, out in Colorado. MISS M. TUBERTT. Here’s one dear little Junior, our friend, Mary Clark,	-- ’ She’s as mild as a dove, and as bright as a lark; With sisters and pupils she is a great pet, She comes from the city they call Lafayette. MISS K. SWINEHART.	’ From famed Cincinnati, the Western metropolis, Or in classical parlance, the famous Porkopolis; Here comes a young lady, Miss O’Meara’s her name, Determined to add to the laurels of fame	. Won by her ancestors. Those skilled in historical lore,	_ Have heard of the name of O’Meara before. MISS ANNA CLARK. Our friend Hattie Saunders! From Homer she comes, (Quite classic Pm sure.) She hates to work sums, But in spelling, and reading, and geography, She’s as bright as any young Minim could be.	■ MISS E. LONGWELL. Kev. Father, please with attention now listen, While I bring to your notice my friend Mamie Sisson : She’s the best-natured girl that ever you saw,— She comes from my own native city, PawPaw. MISS HATTIE LILL. From Vicksburg, a land full of sunshine and flowers, We have gathered a plant for St. Mary’s fair bowers. Of such Southern plants, we wish we had many, Our Southern exotic is called Lelia McKenny. MISS LAURA SHULTZ. From Chicago here comes, a comic young maiden; She is such a good mimic and with mischief so laden, I think the man who goes round with the monkey and organ, Could learn a few tricks from our friend Lula Morgan.
- -	r	•
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
3
MISS LIZZIE NIEL.
The Seniors have four stout Millers, you know, But we have the Mills,—this is really so;
Small Mills and big Millers may seem very queer, But this is the way we do business here.
An important position this young minim fills, For she is St. Mary's famed Zeo Kills.
MISS M. SHIRLAND.
Though the Juniors no famous pedestrian could claim, I’ve heard that we had a pretty fair fame For excellent singers, and dancers, and talkers, But now we can boast of two excellent Walkers;— Miss Julia and Maggie are Walkers by name,	‘
And now we are equal to good Notre Dame.
In pedestrians, too, as well as fast talkers,
Since the good Quaker State has sent us two Walkers.
MISS M. TUBERTY.
Here’s our young friend Miss Metzger, all dimples and smiles, She comes from the neighboring city of Niles.
Her tickets of conduct invariably tell, She performs all her duties remarkably well.
MISS M. SHIRLAND.
Here is little Pet Reynols. She is so cute and good, We put her in the plays for Bed Riding Hood.
Now, don’t she look cute in her innocent grace, A boarding school Miss with a sweet baby face ?	-
ARRIVALS—OCTOBER 17TH.
Miss Mary Claffey,	Bertrand, Michigan.
M. McCarthy,	St. Louis, Missouri.
OCTOBER 20th.
Miss H. Cameron,	Decorah, Iowa.
J. Murray,	Niles, Michigan.
E.Pry, "	Fort Wayne, Indiana.
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses L. Murray, K. Connelly, K. Livingstone, Mary Van Patten, Anna Machin, M. Ball, Frances Grant, K. Jarvis, N. Ogle, Emma Conan, Josephine Service, Mary Blair, L. Bicknell.
Junior Department.—M. Shirland, E. Longwell, A. Boyles, K. Swinehart, Frances Saunders, F. Butters, H. Hunt, Anna and Ada Garrety, Ada Byrnes, Leo Mills.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses H. Brooks, L. and C. Plimpton, Mary Tripp, Mary Twomey, M. Forrester, Florence Alspaugh, K. Doran.
First Senior Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, Nora Maher, Anna Wheeler, Emma Langsdorf, K. Cunnea, Laura Lewis, Genevieve Arrington, Agnes Ewing, L. Lyons, Eunice Crouch.
Second, Senior Class.—Misses S. Rooney, Alice Connody, Anna Cunnea, Emma Carr, Alice Radin, K. Young, K. Graham, Bridget Bergan, Mary Carraher, Susan Evans, Agnes Mulhall, Lilian Chonteau, Anna Adams, Rosana Mukautz, F. North, E. Ewing, Mary Druliner, Ida Runals,
Virginia Brown, Mary Morrill, Mary Miller, Mary Ryan, Frances Gittings, Anastasia Darsey, Emma Pickett, H. Lill.
Third Senior Class.—Misses R. Rettig, B. Gardener, M. McCarthy, Mary McColley, M. Barclay, A. Sissons, G. and S. Blakeslee, Emma Ranstead, N. Simms, Anna Bryson, E. Miller, S. Thomson, K. Carpenter, Clara Foote, Emma Ruger, M. Tu-berty, L. McKenney, H. Niel.
First Intermediate Class.—Misses Clara Ward, Teresa Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, Ellen Cooney, Augusta Sturgis, Sarah Walker, E. Lindsay, Mary Simms, Clara Castetter, R. and J. Gittings, Rosa Joslin, Mary Rooney, Julia Walker, Anna Boyles, Alice Dunlap.
Second Intermediate Class.—Helen Sprochnle, M. Walker, L. Niel, Anna Clark, L. Morgan.
First Junior Class.—Mary Sissons, Ada Metzger, Mary Moon, C. North, Mary Clark, M. O’Meara.
Second Junior Class.—Agnes Longley, M. McCarthy.
Third Junior Class.—Little Mary Reynolds. st. Teresa’s literary society
was reorganized Wednesday, Oct. 2d. After the reading of the By-Laws and Constitution, a vote was taken and the following officers elected:
Directress—Sister Eusebia.
President—Miss H. Brooks.
Vice-President—Miss Mary Tripp.
Secretary—Miss M. Forrester.
Treasurer—Miss J. Schutt.
Librarian—Miss L. Murray.
The Society has already assembled for the third time, and is an object of lively interest to the young ladies.	’
At no period, from the very peculiarities of our social condition, has there ever been so great a' necessity for care in directing the literary tastes of the young. Books are universal, and of every grade of moral character. Every body reads, and every body feels, but unfortunately, it is not every body who reflects, and of those who do think, many think perversely. For the past twenty years the call for sensational works has appeared almost insatiable, and in the same measure the demand for literature of Stirling worth has been on the decline, while the effect upon society has been most unhappy. The mind assimilates itself to what is read, and if fiction, or the like, be the sole mental food, we become affected and unnatural in our habits of thought and action. If nourished by good reading, our views of life are rational and unexaggerated.

4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
-*•* mu' "ep"1 w
The mischief arising from the too fashionable works of the day is rapidly reaching a crisis, and the reaction will produce very salutary results: To substitute a discriminating judgment, a correct standard and sound principles for the common mode of selecting reading matter, is the object of the St. Teresa’s Literary Society.
The intention is likewise to impart a general knowledge respecting literature, of authors, their reputation and character, that the members may in future be prepared to accept or avoid, according to merit or demerit.
At present the Society are perusing the “ Philosophy of History,” by the eminent German writer Von Schlegel. At the last meeting a portion of the second lecture, on the “ Dispute in Primitive History and the Division of the Human Race,” was read. The subject is treated by the profound author with a spirited clearness well adapted to captivate the intellect, while it expands and improves the heart. The influence of such an author upon the young mind is of a nature similar to the effect of good air, pure water, and simple, nutritious food upon the body. It ennobles and invigorates, arouses thought, and leads the imagination into a field of legitimate and healthful research.
The hour was enlivened by several poems from our mirthful countryman, John G. Saxe. The following named were read: “ The Old Chapel Bell,” (as an exception to the rule of his taste) “Polyphemus and Ulysses,” “Little Jerry the ‘Miller,” “ My Familiar,” etc.
ENGLISH COMPOSITION.
In the Graduating Class, Miss Mary Tripp deserves special mention. In the Second Senior, Miss North.	■
------4*--------
Several of the addresses from St. Mary’s have been crowded out this week.
We had hoped to hear from St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend, and from the Assumption Academy, Lowell; but as we go to press we have to mourn the non-arrival of news from those flourishing institutions. The pupils of these Academies vied with those of St. Mary’s in the expression of their joy at the return of St. Edward’s Feast.
Saint Angela’s Academy, Morris, Illinois.
;	ARRIVALS.
October 21, Miss Emma Sargeant.
“	22, H. Laughlin, Macomb, Illinois.
“ “ L. Kesleey. “	“
“	23. Alice Williams, Lockport, “
“	24. Sallie Irving, Peoria, “
Notre Dame.
ADDRESS TO THE VERY REV. RATHER PROVINCIAL.
The following address was delivered on the occasion of the commemoration of St. Edward’s Day, (the Patronal Festival of Very Rev. E. Sorin, Provincial of the Order of Holy Cross iii the United States, and Founder of Notre Dame University,) October 13th, 1867:
Vert Rev. Father Provincial:
On this thy patron feast.
Renowned Saint Edward’s Day, & ’Tis ours, the privilege hlest,	'
With music, song and play,
To greet thee, and with gladness fill thy breast. Ours be the joy to say what thou for God hast done, For Edward, and for her whose God is her dear Son.
In distant ages, and in other climes,
While one great State was slowly formed, The golden Sun a thousand times _ Rolled out the shining years. ’Twas thus, while chaos stormed, The mighty spheres, Mid frost, and heat, and rain,
•	Their battered sides still beat amain, At length, in motions tuned to heavenly rhymes, Came, polished forth, from hoary eld to happier times.
Not so this mighty modern empire grows:	•
Full-formed, and phot nix-like, it sprung From ashes dead to life that glows, Complete in this new world. ’Twas thus, when Time was young, Up-broken whirled The primal planet host, And seemed in dreadful ruin lost,
’Till fragments formed, as shattered squadrons close, And new-born globes, complete in strength and beauty, rose.
And as our Union sprang to life	-
From riven Europe’s flying bands, Strong with the strife' Of those old lands,
•	And rich with culture of their years;	'
In one short century,	-
A nation great and free, The best alone her peers:
So this fair Pile, Which here the while, Beneath Religion’s smile, Pale learning rears, By exile hands from many lands, In this sweet valley on the virgin Earth,	’
Her total time, from feeble birth, •
And hopes and fears, To full-grown vigor, beautiful and grand, ’ Her children’s pride, the blessing of the land, Counts scarce one-fourth a hundred years.
■	Old England points, with noble pride, To fanes where science, art reside; As weU doth Spain and Germany,	’
And lovely France and Italy,
■	And many a land beside: 1. ...	'
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	5	
These are the fruits of centuries,	Her sons, to cheer
Of thought, and toil, and power’s decrees;	Her heart again,
Nor ever ill their glorious fame hetide.	,	'And give the nation better men.	'
And in our favored clime,	And where all this appears,	’
The sister States	Scarce more than one score years
Of many a classic hall may boast,	Saw but primeval wilderness,
Whose open gates	The home of beasts, and men in savage dress.
Receive the earnest youthful host,	What means were thine,
Aglow for learning’s festivals;	This gracious change Divine	-
.	"	Free classic halls,	To bring o’er nature’s simple shrine, -
As rich in fruit and promise, if less known to time.	Blest Founder, venerable, wise, benign?
But generous bequests,	Those, only those,
And State Endowments, nurtured these;	-	The good man knows;
As those by kings’ behests	Those, only those,
‘Were formed, and by the rolling centuries: _	That God bestows:
What shall be said -	His blessings rest upon thy toil,
If learning’s fount is fed	His Saints and Angels guard the soil;
By neither grateful dew’ of years,	■	And thy blest cheer is Mary’s smile,
Spring-floods of wealth, nor aught power’s channel bears;	As borne on breezes free,
But in the desert rise,	By hill and dale, by land and sea,
Fed by the friendly skies,	,	Her Angel AVE floats the while
The meed of prayer and toil, -	And beareth thine and her sweet praise o’er many a mile.
To cheer the arid soil,	
•	The gift of faith, the pledge of love,	Long here shall science dwell,
The sign of blessing from above/	Long here shall Heaven’s praises swell, '
Kind Heaven’s approving prize 1	Still honored thou; for holy writings tell,	-
	God giveth more to those who use their talents well. '
0 happy task, belov’d of Heaven,	When little time, and less of gold	•	’
To thee and thy companions given,	Have wrought so much, through faith and love,
From that auspicious morning bright,	What may we hope when years have roUed,	'
When, clothed in robes of snow, baptismal-white,	With added blessings from above ?
. This virgin forest burst upon thy raptured sight!	What hope the ardent toiler cheers,
Then rose thy vow to Heaven’s Queen,	What mighty hopes the future bears!	_
That she would bless the lovely scene,	
And make its shades her dear retreat,	That future dawns, all lily, rose and balm, ■
Religion’s home and learning’s seat:	Arise, Fair Mother, radiant and calm,	•
And since that hour,	’Tis thino to entono the grand, triumphal psalm,
The special power	’Tis thine, ’tis thine to bear the glorious palm,
Of Marv, Queen,	. And call the Nation to adore the Lamb,
Is felt and seen,	Thine, only thine, beloved Notre Dame!
In every shield from harm,	
In every added charm, ■	
That marks the pleasing progress made	And now, dear Father, kind and true,
From forest glade to culture’s classic shade.	Another duty ours to do,	.
From her sweet name, the land and lake,	A pleasing task for ns, a joy we hope for you.
'	Well pleased, their lovely title take;;	Some blest memorial we would give,
Hers was the cot beside the pool,	Which may remain while you shall live,	-
Where one small scholar came to school;	To stamp, with its impressive power,
And hers the present structures grand,	Your recollections on this fleeting horn:.
Where hundreds crowd from all the land;	
Her praise so long the soft melodeon sung,	Another time, as College legends tell,	’
And hers is from the mighty organ wrung;	Our predecessors, they who loved you well,
’	Hers is the magic rhyme	Concluded, after long and generous strife.
Of sweetly flowing chime,	That naught can ease the rugged road of life
And hers the monster bell’s sonorous sound sublime.	Like springy seats, with cushioned backs and sides,
	And that rough journey made by .carriage rides.
Where once the warrior cry	Good-natured they, but wordly-wise, we deem,
Made horrid discord on the midnight sky,	And fain would hope our gift as fit may seem.
There songs of praise	
Meek voices raise	We pray thee, then, dear, Father, thou wilt take
And Christian love is borne on high;	'	This blessed CXTF, most precious for the sake
Around thee stand	Of mystic rite; this blest CIBORXTTMj
A Levite band	. .	In whose dear cell our loving Lord will come;
Who issue forth to save the land;	These GREETS; too; all emblems of pure Love,
While neath thy care	When Christ decends, to bless us from above.
Blest maidens rear,	In that dread moment, when thy hand shall bear
In every grace,	'	On high this CSAXalCE; there dear Father, there,
’	The future matrons of the race;	Remember, 0 remember us in prayer!
,	And from these halls	And we, thy children, dutiful, will bow,
Their country caUs,	And beg his gifts for thee, as we do now;
Each roRing year,	And may his Mother blest win favor for our vow.


6
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Additional List of Students of Hotre Dame OCTOBER 19.
John. Grogan,	Gaines, Michigan.
OCTOBER 22.
Charles W. Walter,	Fort Wayne, Indiana.
OCTOBER 23.
William K. Spalding, Lebanon, Kentucky. • OCTOBER 24. .
Julius Amsthal, Pittsburgh,- Penn. '----------------------------
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. J. Dornan, Jno. Gibbons, V. J. Hertech, Wm. McLain, J. D. Murphy, M. C. Peterson, Porter Rhodes, J. R. Reitz, E. Schell, B. H. Thomas and Burr Woolman. "
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
George Arbuthnot, Louis Botto, Henry Benoist, James Christie, Daniel Egan, Frank Clarget, B. Heffernan, Wm. McGrath, H. Morgan, Charles Sage, James Ryan and David Wile. ’
To the Editor of The Scholastic Year:
Rev. Dear Father:—It may appear ungracious to find fault with a number almost exclusively devoted to my praise, but- still I must take exception to every attempt to show wit or create fun at the expense of the veneration and sacredness ever due to quotations from Holy Scriptures. I am fully convinced that nothing was further from the writer's mind than to be wanting in proper respect to the words used in his innocent hilarity, but any such freedom seems to me out of place. .	/E. Sorin, y
Kotre Dame, October 20, 1867.	/
Won and Lost.
It took a whole hour to decide on which side victory would remain. I have seen sham fights, which lasted a few minutes, or at most, a quarter of an hour, and not one survivor left to tell the tale, but in the brave Second Junior Grammar Class none thought of yielding. The Horace Division succeeded for a long time, not only in keeping its own ground, but even in gaining decided advantage over the Homer Division. But fortune is inconstant, and at the last mo-ent deserted the colors of the Horatians for those of the Homerians, to whom victory was alate, but welcome friend.
Mr. C. Hildebrand' is the leader of the Horatians and Mr. Francis Nicholas the leader of the Homerians.	.
BASE BALL. •
Match Game Between the Second Nines of the Juanita and Mutual Base- Ball Clubs.
Quite an interesting and exciting game of Base Ball was played, on Wednesday afternoon, between the second nines of the Juanita and Mutual Clubs. At the end of the sixth inning the • game was called, the Juanita’s being victorious by a score of 31 to 20.	.
The Umpire, Mr. R. Pinkerton, exercised his duties with credit to himself and satisfaction to all the players.
The following is the score:	-
JUANITA.
| 0. | E. |
S. Hibben, p., - - -	3	3
A. C. Anson, c., - -	0	5
J. C. Keveny, s. s., -	C5‘	"1
E. Hutchings, 1 b., -	^3	‘ 2
J. Hull, 2 b., - - -	2	5
R. Short, 3 b., - -	0	5
H. Boardman, 1. f., -	2	4
J. Campeau, c. f., - -	1	3
A. O’ReiUy, r. f., - -	2	3
Total,................18	31
MUTUAL.
I o.|
R.
J. Moon, p., - - - -	1	4
H. Peterson, c., - -	0	4
J. Donnelly, s. s., - -	1	1
J. McBride,lb., - -	1	4
J. McCormick, 2 b., -	4	2
IT. D. Rodman, 3 b., -	3	1
S. K. Hibler, 1. f., - -	4	0
J. C. Cunnea, c. f., -	1	2
C. Walden, r. f., - - -	3	2
Total....................18	20
Passed Balls—Juanitas, 9; Mutuals, 11.
Called Balls—Juanitas, 7; Mutuals, 12.
Ely Catches—Juanitas, 1; Mutuals, 2.
Missed Balls—Juanitas, 2; Mutuals, 4.
- M. S. RYAN, Pres’t Waunita B. B. Club.
W. B. Smith, Captain Eirst Nine Waunita B. B. Club. • ' -----------------■
Fourth Grammar Class, Junior.
WEEK ENDING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18TH.
The Greeks and Romans have both shown marks of better discipline this week, but there is much room for improvement. In the battles of the week the Greeks have broken the rules of good discipline fifteen times, the Romans eighteen times; the Greeks have won eleven victories, the Romans eight.
Thos. Arrington, Leader of the Greeks.
Alvin Mitchell, Leader of the Romans.
WEEK ENDING OCTOBER 25TH.	.
The Greeks are still ahead in this class, both in victories and discipline; but the Romans are fast gaining ground, and if they persevere, will soon see victory perch on their banners also.
John Hurly, Leader of the Greeks.
James Willson, Leader of the Romans. —..............m
Battle and Battle-First History Class.
The subject was Bunker’s Hill battle. The contest was between Washington’s men and Old Putnam’s men, the former with -L. Wilson for leader, the later headed by W. B. Small. The Washingtonians lost - seven points against the Old Puts. . .	.



THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
Fourth. Arithmetic, Junior.
Mr. Editor :—The two divisions of this class have been seriously engaged for the past week in competing, for the honors of victory. The ^Archimedians. under the leadership of Captain James McGinnis, seem to think the Copernicaris, under Captain H. Morgan, too weak a force to contend with, and frequently look upon them disdainfully; but they should ever keep a watchful guard, or the Copernicans may take them unawares and make a -Least Common Multiple out of every Archimediau that has a head upon his shoulders.
So far, the Archimedians have been continually rejoicing over their daily victories and successful onslaughts upon the helpless, but earnest Copemi-cans, who have persistently fought their opponents. Both parties have done well, and are resolved to do better the coming week, especially the Copernicans, who intend preparing a powerful engine of war, to sweep the boasting Archimedians back to Long Division. If unhappily they do not succeed in this, they may expect another fearful slaughter, and even a few more of their number may be blown into the Minim Department, somewhat, if not seriously injured, by a merciless and fearful Archimedian. We hope this will not be the case, for the Archimedians are already too proud of their numerous victories, and need to be humbled by the avenging hand of some unpretending Copernican who is in the back-ground, only waiting for a fit opportunity to strike the fearful blow. This week we will mention the names of those only who have returned uninjured from the hard-contested and well-fought battles of the past week:
Captain James McGinnis, Alvin Mitchell, E. Benoist, S. McCurdy and Norval Malin of the Archimedians. Joseph Rumley, J. H. O’Neill, Vincent Hackman, Charles Dixon and J. H. Burns of the Copernicans. Both divisions are now preparing for a new field of action, from which they will not easily return, without some serious injury, therefore, they should study the rules of war (I mean the rules of Arithmetic,) more seriously, and wield their crayons with more vigor and greater power than before. ----------------------•
Fifth Grammar, Junior.
Mr. Editor :—For the past week the Excelsiors and Washingtons of this class, have been quarrelling about nine parts of speech, and not unfrequently they get on very warm terms as to the probability of a verb being a noun ; and var
ious other tough matters that, as far as they can see, are not very clearly explained in the book. Thinking from the report made of them in a previous number of the Scholastic, that they were a very smart set of boys, to be spoken of in such high terms, they concluded to study more earnestly than ever, and hence it is that they have separated into two parties that they may have the opportunity of appearing before the public as warriors in the field of Etymology.
We have to report the Excelsiors under the command of Capt. George W. Warren as the victorious Etymologists; not however, forgetting the Washingtons under Capt. James Edward. Lewis, as doing well. Of course there is room for improvement, and both parties seem to think as much, and consequently, employ their tjgteivery seriously, with an occasional laugh x^th^mis-take of some poor fellow who is doing;hisvery best.
George W. Warren, A Trentman* A. Mitchell and George Malin, of the Excelsiors.; J: E. Lewis, Frank Obert, John Cash and George Rockstroth, of the Washingtons, deserve special mention.
C.
Alton (Illinois) School.
Alton, Illinois, Oct. 12.
The following are the names of pupils deserving of mention in the three classes:
First Class—Jas. Dunegan and Geo. McNulty.
Second Class—John Butler and Jos. Fortier.
Third Class—Charles' O’Connell and August Chonteau.
-	*	. October 19.
First Class—Thos. Coppinger and John Park. Second Class—Jas. Barrett and John Murphy. Third Class—F. Moran and John O’Donnell.
Society of the Children of the Holy Angels.
This Society was organized on Sunday, September 29tb, Brother Camillus, Director. The following officers were elected;
President—F. Wendt.
Vice-President—E. Wise.	.
Secretary—L. Sneeringer.
Treasurer—J. Barnett.
Librarian—M. Marnell.
In Type, but Crowded out this Week: Report on F. Hallinan’s Lecture on History. Sodality of the Blessed Virgin in Alton School. Notice of the Debate of the Philodemic Society. Notice of the Debate of the St. Edward’s Society.
JrMHidw IJm’, .
A PSHIODICAL
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OR THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contains matter under the following heads:	.
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.	_ '
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors.
5th. Bulletins of General Health.
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports, Boating, etc.
Sth. Matters of General Interest.
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country. All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
REV. N. H. GILLESPIE.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
. ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA.
I	■	-----
]	FTMHS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern im-
i	JL provements, afibrds accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan
!	Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
i	TERMS:
i	Matriculation Fee.........................................§	5 00
|	Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and
’	Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per
Session of five months....................................................... 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each............................... 10-	00
Instrumental Music............................................................... 12	50
Use of Piano..................................................................... 10	00
Use of Violin..................................................................... 2	50
Drawing.......................................................................... 10	00
Painting......................................................................... 20	00
Use of Philosophical and	Chemical Apparatus........................ 5	00
Graduation Fee................................................................... 10	00
Students who spend their	Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra..... 35	00
PAYMENTS TO EE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. The Second Session opens on the 1st of February. For further particulars address
REV. W.	<7., President.
Ji. Ring’s ^cndcmg,
ISTotre Dame, St. Joseph Conntju Indiana, .
TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND,
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educational house. In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers are secured.
TERKS, $20 0 PER ANKUS7.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the “ Twelfth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866-7, or address
Superioress
Notre Dame Post Office, India ia.