’Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 24, 1881.	Numbers.
Country Life.
BY EUGENE 0. ORRICK.
“Behold, fond man I
See here thy pictured life: pass some few years, Thy flowering Spring, thy Summer’s ardent strength, Thy sober Autumn fading into age, And pale concluding Winter comes at last;
And shuts the scene.”	1	:
—Thompson, Seasons.^
The beneficial results of country-life have been little thought of—so it would appear, at least, from the continued growth of our already over-crowded cities, such as New York, Chicago, and St. Louis, much to the detriment of the health and welfare of our people. A farmer is looked upon by city dandies as a gawky, .greenish person nearly allied to a fool; but to the man of sense, the man who takes the trouble to inquire into the subject, how different is his idea of the farmer, the man upon whom everybody depends for the food on which he lives; the man proverbial for his honesty and uprightness; the man whose cheek has the rnddy glow of health, the result of pure air and untainted food, whose step is firm and elastic, giving evidence of the congeniality of country-life with human nature. Look at the farmer in his country home! See him there amid his green fields, looking with pride upon the results of his toil, and in joyful anticipation of the time when everything shall be garnered away, and he shall have time to rest and to devote himself to his own improvement and that of his family. Yonder, in his pastures, we behold great herds and flocks grazing peacefully upon the verdant green. His home is half-buried in a cluster of trees that give off from their blossoms scents that, mingling with the pure air, give one an idea of Paradise. We see his well laid-out gardens teeming, the one with beautiful flowers, the other with wholesome vegetables, while the fruit-trees in his orchard groan under the weight of luscious fruit. The farmer regards all these with pleasure. It causes a thrill of joy in his breast to think of the happy times that he and his family will have in the dreary winter months, far away from the noise and smoke of those dens of iniquity, the cities.
The farmer spends his time away from the corruption of the city, and we may therefore easily see that if the city is in no small degree a den of iniquity the country is a better place than the city; and the pleasure of the farmer must be of a better kind, if not much greater, than that of city gentlemen. That the city is not the holiest place in the world, and that what has been said with regard to the country is true, may be seen by comparing the lists of crime in the city with those of Ure country. The country
sees no such fearful mob-gatherings and such wholesale destruction of life and property as has been so frequently the case in some of our most law-abiding cities. Who can have forgotten the Louisville and Pittsburg riots, and the numerous others that have taken place from time to time ? Such things are never the curse of country-life. But there is still another source of sin and corruption, and for which the country people ought to thank God every day of their . lives for not permitting them to have, and that is the abominable and detestable class of theatres or low playhouses that constitute the bane of every city, and which cause the destruction of many thousands of people every year, if not physically at least morally. These playhouses lead to another and worse class of houses of which nothing had better be said here. Then there are the innumerable liquor shops, the evil effects pf which are so well known that what could be said will do as well unsaid. The tenement houses, too, are one of the evil consequences of city-life, and present most fearful scenes of crime and misery. They are, literally and truly, factories of noxious gases which gradually destroy the lives of the persons occupying them. If the corporal death of these victims of the city were all, it would be bad enough, but the moral degradation which they induce makes life under such conditions a thing horrible to be thought of, for their inmates frequently die to God as well as to the world. Compare this state of things with what has been said of country-life. Notwithstanding all the advantages attendant upon the latter, it is maintained by some that it produces only ignorant persons, capable of nothing but manual labor and staring around them when visiting the cities. Let us cast a glance over the history of the world, and see if this be true, and if all the heroes of ancient or modern times came from the city. Among noted patriots and warriors we find Cincinnatns and Washington. Cincinnatus, who was many times supreme ruler of Rome, was but a simple fanner; once when waited upon by a deputation from the Senate, he was found ploughing, and left the plough sticking in the furrow to save Rome from her enemies, the Augui. In Washington we have another example of the height to which a country gentleman can reach. Having dissipated the dark clouds of destruction and despair that were lowering over the American continent, it was chiefly through his instrumentality the sun of Freedom now shines in all the fullness of its splendor, and Washington, the farmer, is beloved by all the American people as a father. What two greater examples than these could be given? What two warriors did more for their country than these two, simple farmers, so like each other in all respects? In literature who have we? Let us take two examples, Virgil and Burns; the former, one of the , greatest poets of antiquity; the other, one of the most
34
THE KOTfiE t)AME SCHOLASTIC.
pathetic and pleasing poets of modern times; the former, whose works will live as long as a love for the classics exists, and the latter, whose works will always be dear to all English-speaking people. And Virgil and Burns were simple farmers, tillers of the soil. Many other names could be cited in every branch of science, literature and art, and every one of these names amongst the most celebrated. In our own country, especially, we have seen farmers elevated to the greatest dignities. Amongst them may be named many of the Presidents of the United States.
Some of the greatest men the world has seen have been farmers, have followed that life which above all others harmonizes better with human nature. Than farm-life none other is better, because it is in that sort of life that we are free from the contact and taint of those vices which are the bane and curse of all society. Physical health as wel as moral health is an accompaniment of farm-life. In the country the lungs are filled with pure air and the stomach with wholesome food, and the contagious diseases festering in the crowded cities are avoided. Country people can apply themselves unremittingly to any task in which they are engaged, without being disturbed by those nuisances so abundant in the city. Sports and pastimes are not want ing in the country. Fish and game being abundant, the rod and gun furnish means of healthful recreation and luxuries for the table. With plenty of fish and game, the country is supplied with everything that is desirable to an untainted mind, everything that goes to make life pleasant and “ drive dull care away.” With a sufficiency of social intercourse to make spare time pass pleasantly, the night is not turned into day and the day into night, raining the health and clogging the true enjoyment of life. There are in the country the very elements of health; plenty of opportunities for exercise by which to retain health, and plenty of amusement to enjoy life when healthy.
Vocation.
In the drama of life every man has a part, for, if God has given to the brute creation their special functions, He could not have forgotten man, and as man performs his duties, so is he judged. Vocation may be scoffed at by those who seem talented, but, like religion, it is nevertheless true. Who has not seen men begging for bread, who, had they used their talents in the right way, would become marked men of the day ? Go to any large city and you will find them.
In life’s race, one man has as good a chance as another; Vanderbilt was once a poor sailor; Garfield was a canal boy; Grant, the son of a wood-chopper; and should we make use of our gifts in the way God has ordained, we may become as great in our own sphere as others are great now in theirs. But to make a proper use of our talents, we must first ascertain, as nearly as possible, to what station in life we are best suited; when this all-important step is decided, all our energies are bent to reach the goal towards which inclination leads us; after your vocation is decided, think of the ultimate end of all your endeavors: happiness. For this, money is accumulated, and power is sought; but with both power and money, happiness is not always, and is even seldom, found, and why? Because, though we may have made good use of our talent and time, we practise not our true vocation. There is >
no real happiness but in doing good, and to be truly happy we must work for the general good.
Life is precisely what we make it. Some have all the opportunities that wealth can give, others are restrained by poverty. But it is not often that the one born with a ‘‘silver spoon in his mouth” is the most successful in life. Though the beginning of everything is hard, by constant practise eveitything becomes easy. Many have been sadly mistaken by expecting a fortune to come to them, but success is seldom missed when striven for in earnest. Would one become a lawyer like the great ones of the day, he must quality himself for and earn the position; if a soldier, he must prove himsell by his valor; if a merchant, he must keep his mind closely on his business. There is no better preparation for the world than the college: there we come in contact with all classes; there we have a miniature world spread out before us; there, if we are not able to take care of ourselves we soon learn that no one else will take 'care of us, and ’tis there we learn the effects of good and evil company. How many bright, promising lads, who, through bad companions have been led away, and ended by expulsion; and from that time forth all sense of shame was lost.
A person generally ranks in the world as he stands at college. A bright student, an earnest boy, seldom ranks low in the world, if he has followed his true vocation. But, above all, at college we receive the finishing touch to our character, and were it only for that alone, a good; Christian college is a godsend to a boy. Our character gives to life its beauty or its sadness. Happy is the man whom circumstances suit, but far happier he who suits himself to circumstances. Before entering on the real, earnest work of life, a pause should be made. Up to a certain point, kind parents or friends assist us, but when we once pass that threshold into the world of business, then in reality life is what we make it; and though prospects are bright, clouds may hang threateningly over us. A friend once told me a story, and I repeat it as he told it me, it has haunted me ever since. He was the son of a wealthy New York lawyer. After graduating from one of the best colleges in the country, he studied law, which was apparently his true vocation; attracted, however, by the pomp and glitter of the army, he enlisted, which so displeased his parents that they disowned him; taking an assumed name, he went out to the far West The following vacation I went home, and hearing that a man, whose history was unknown to any one and who jealously guarded his every word and action, was sick in the hospital, I went to see him; next day I took some little delicacies to him, which he refused. I became much attached to him, and visited him often. At last, he told me his story, but would not tell his name: he 'had too much honor,’ he said, ‘to desert after he had sworn to remain for five years, so to end his life he had taken poison.’ That night I heard an unusual noise, and running to the sick-room I found that he had driven the nurse away, and had severely wounded himself. He died about an hour later.” What a lesson! “All that glitters is not gold," and if we are fitted and competent for one thing in life, we should never forsake it for that of which we know nothing; and if earth be all, and heaven nothing, then thrice-mocked fools are we.
—To a generous spirit there is nothing so disheartening as to discover treachery where it has reposed confidence and friendship.—Irving's Columbus.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35
I
American Antiquities.
Although little is known of them, America, as well as her older sisters can boast of ruins which, although they cannot be compared with those of Egypt, Rome, Greece, and other ancient countries, in grandeur and magnificence, yet tend to show that this continent must have been inhabitated by a race or tribe of people in a far more advanced state of civilization than that in which Columbus and the early discoverers found them. In many parts of the country are found ruins which go to prove this. In New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and many other States, are large mounds which appear to have been used as burial places. In these mounds are found many relics and coins which apparently had gone out of use before the arrival of Columbus. Some of the largest ruins are found in the far West. In the towns and great canyons of Colorado, Arizona, and New Mexico are dwellings and temples of a race of men who had mastered some of the arts of civilization. In the plains, are pastoral villages built of stone and mortar, for both shelter and defence. The houses are quite large, sufficient for a number of people to live in, with a court-yard in the centre. There are no side entrances, and ingress was had by ladders over the walls and into the court-yard. These cities or towns contain circular towers of great strength, constructed with circular walls, and a court in the centre. The walls are joined by radial partitions, thus strengthening the whole. Most of these towers are very much dilapidated, so that it is impossible to ascertain whether they were roofed or not. It is thought that they were entered by a secret rock-cut passage, as at least one such passage has been discovered. It has also been thought by scientific men that these towers were temples of the Sun, in the centre of which the eternal fire was kept burning, and it is even quite probable that the towers might have been used for defence in sore extremity, the people entering them by the secret passages. The double and sometimes triple walls would discourage an enemy armed as they were in those days with nothing but bows and clubs. As dangers thickened about these people, or perhaps in their earlier history, fortified dwellings were grouped in the caves formed in the soft rocks in the perpendicular cliffs of the canyons. These cliff dwellings must have been constructed with enormous labor, as the stone and earth was either carried or hoisted from below. The approaches were by steps cut in the rock, and were very dangerous. In the outer stone walls are a few small square openings for air and light, while the mode of entrance was by ladders over the wall. The cliff fortresses are of great antiquity. The cedar-wood used for beams is, however, well preserved. Scattered about these ruins may be found great quantities of broken pottery. The mortar with which the stones are laid is still firm, and in some places are seen the prints of human hands made when the mortar was first laid on. The true history of these ruined towers and fortresses will in all probability never be known. It is some satisfaction, however, to know that America has ruins of great and valuable interest.
—It was one of the maxims of St. Francis de Sales—and good men and women in all lands might well adopt it as their motto—“A judicious silence is always better than truth spoken without charity,”
Art, Music, and Litertaure.
—New York is slightly nervous over Boston's orchestral prospects.
—Mr. Francis Parkman, the historian, is making rapid progress with his work on Montcalm.
—The number of variations made in the Gospels and Acts by the revisers number 14,601, and in the whole volume 36,191.
—There are said to be seventy-nine American composers at work upon comic operas. Junk-dealers are happy.— Musical Record.
—Munkacsy contemplates painting “ The Crucifixion ” on the same scale as his “ Christ Before Pilate,” bout fourteen by twenty feet.
—The appointment of Mr. Millais as Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery, in place of the late Dean Stanley; is undoubtedly fortunate.
—The third volume of the Comte de Paris’ “History of the Civil War in America,” which is nearly ready, describes the Virginia campaigns. .
—Miss Patrice Boucicault, daughter of the celebarted actor and dramatist of that name, is possessed of a fine soprano voice and is studying with Garcia, in London.
—The poet Longfellow has gratefully accepted a copy of “Erin—verses Irish and Catholic,” from the learned and accomplished author, the Rev. Matthew Russell, S. J., of Dublin.
—Miss Margaret Hicks is said to be the first lady who has adopted the profesion of architecture. She was graduated recently from the course in architecture at Cornell University.
—Mr. Edmund O’Donovan, the plucky correspondent of the London Daily News, who was recently a captive at Mery, is on his way home, and will write a bookabout the Turcomans.
—The London Quarterly has a very fair article on “ St. Thomas Aquinas,” and acknowledges that he was an intellectual giant, and that his “Summa” is a bulwark of Christian Doctrine, and a logical triumph.
—The Boston Catholic Union oilers a valuable prize for the best essay on the subject, “ How Can Our Catholic Young Men do the Most Good For Society?” The prize must be competed for by members of societies in the archdiocese of Boston.
—In Dr. R. P. Stebbin’s “Study of the Pentateuch,” shortly to be published, that eminent Unitarian clergyman takes up the cudgel against the Dutch Biblical critics, and presents the positive evidences of the antiquity and Mosiac authorship of the five books.
—Mr. Edmund O’Donovan, the plucky correspondent of the London Daily News, who was recently a captive at Mery, is on his way home, and will write a book about the Turcomans. It is said the leading London publishers are bidding heavily against each other for the book, and that more has already been offered for it than Mr. Stanley received for “ How I Found Livingstone.”
—The Catholic World for October says of Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly’s last book of poems, “ Crowned With Stars,” —published to aid in placing on the dome of the new / University of Notre Dame a colossal statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, crowned with twelve stars: “ Crowned With Stars is one long hymn of praise to the Blessed Virgin— a pure, sweet strain, whose sweetest and strongest notes are the echoes of the divine songs of the Church.”
—Jean Ingelow’s life is more beautiful than her poetry. Her face is well known among the wretched poor of London, and three times a week she gives a dinner to the sick poor and the discharged convalescents from hospitals who either are unable to work or have not yet found employment. She once said, “I find it one of the great pleasures of writing, that it gives one more money for such purposes than falls to the lot of most women.”—Boston Transcript.
_Mr, Lawrence Barrett’s book on Edwin Forrest being the first volume of the “American Actor Series,” announced by Messrs. J. R. Osgood & Co., of Boston, will
36
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
be published this month. “ The Jeffersons,” by William Winter, will appear in October; “The Elder and the Younger Booth,” by Mrs. Asia Booth Clarke, will be ready in November; and the volume on Charlotte Cushman, by Mrs. Clara Erskine Clement, is promised for December.
—Miss Kellgog speaks in terms of the highest praise of Miss Van Zandt, at whose debut in the role of Mignon she was present lately in Paris; also of Stella Bonheur, whom she saw at Milan in the character of Carmen. She expresses herself as greatly disappointed however, in her estimate of the much lauded Materna, whom she heard in Alda, she describes her as a fine-looking woman, with a clear, sweet, musical voice, but possessing little or none of that soft Italian warmth or its equivelant German breadth or strength of dramatic power which she expected to find in her.
—“Jenny Lind, or Mrs. Goldschmidt, is living in London, near the Buckingham Palace, at a place called Pimlico. Her marriage was rather romantic. Goldshcmidt is a Jew. They studied music together and when she came to America she sent for him to come as a pianist, and he used to play at her concerts. It was her arrangement, and she paid his salary. She thought he was a great musician, and used to get into one of the private boxes and applaud his pieces. Although she was older than he, she loved him, and was bound to marry him. He renounced his religion in order to be her husband.
—Rejected contributors are sometimes avenged. A Scotch newspaper, the Greenock Advertiser, has ceased to exist, after a life of seventy-eight years. This paper will be remembered for one thing only. It rejected Campbell’s poem of Hohenlinden, on the ground that it was “not up to the mark.” Campbell himself thought lightly of the poem, it is said, until he was assured by Sir Walter Scott that it was one of the finest things of the kind he ever read. Since that time the poem has been worn out by the myriads of schoolboys who have spoken it in public on the stage. Charlotte Bronte’s chief novel met with a similar reception. “Jane Eyre” was written in the gray old parsonage under the Yorkshire hills; the rough notes, sketched hastily in pencil, were transcribed in a neat hand as legible as print, and the manuscript, in its brown paper wrapper, was sent off from the station-house at Kleighley to publisher after publisher, only to find its way back again, “returned with thanks,” till the packet, scored all over with publishers’ names, and well-nigh worn out by its travels, found its way into the hands of Messrs. Smith & Elder, with a stamped envelope inside for a reply. The story of “Jane Eyre” is, with authors who cannot find a publisher, one of the standing sources of consolation, and it is a very striking instance of the loose way in which publishers’ readers now and then look through manuscripts that find their way into other hands.
Exchanges.
—The Catholic Herald, published at Boston and Lawrence, Mass., is a new addition to our exchange list, and a most welcome one. The Herald is one of the best Catholic papers that we receive, is well supplied with news, and carefully edited throughout. It is now in its fourth year. Offices of publication, 630 Washington Street, Boston, and 239 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass. Price of subscription, $2 a year.
—Macmillan's Magazine for September has this table of contents: “The Portrait of a Lady,” by Henry James, Jr. Chap. XLVII-XLIX; “The July Anniversaries,” by A. M. Sullivan, M. P.; “Bormus,” a linus poem, by Ellice Hopkins; “How I Found the Doterel’s Nest,” by David Bruce; “Arthur Penrhyn Stanley,” by Augustus J. C. Hare; “ Curzola,” by E. A. Freeman, D. C. L., LL. D.; “ Weeds,” by Miss Laffan.
—Beginning with the October number, the publishers of the Catholic World will issue an extra edition of 5,000 copies for Great Britain and Ireland, the well-known pub-Jighing house of Burns & Oates, London, acting as agents
for the United Kingdom. The subscription rate being twenty shillings per year, it will be the cheapest Catnolic magazine in Europe, and its circulation will, no doubt, be all the larger that many of its writers are English Catholics.
—The October number will complete the first series of Scribner's Monthly which hereafter will be known as The Century Magazine. Some of the leading features of The Century for the coming year will be, a novel by Mr. Howells on American subjects; Mrs. F. H. Burnett will contribute a story of Washington life; Mr. G. W. Cable, “ Studies of the Louisiana Creoles ”; Mr. E. C. Stedman, a continuation of his “Poetry and Poets of America”; Mr. W. H. Ride-ing, a series of papers describing scenes in Thackeray’s novels, to follow those on the scenes of Dickens’s novels.
—The September number of the Magazine of Art has the following table of contents: “The Last Day of a Condemned Prisoner,” from the painting by Michael Mun-kaesy; “ Our Living Artists: Michael Munkacsy ”; “ Christ Church, Hampshire—II.,” by Prof. T. G. Bonney ; “ Remarkable Copies and Copyists,” by Alfred Beaver; “ The Salon of 1881—HI.”; “The Woman’s Part in Domestic Decoration,” by Lewis F. Day; “The New Natural History Museum”; “Proportions of the Human Figure”; “The Career and Works of Flaxman ”; “ On the Banks of the Meuse”; “Artist and Wife”; “On the Choice of Subjects in Landscape Painting ”; “ The Duet.”
—The Rev. Phillips Brooks contributes an article on “ Dean Stanley ” to the October number of The Atlantic Monthly. This is the first magazine article that Mr. Brooks has ever written. Mr. Howells continues his story of “ Dr. Breen’s Practice;” Col. Higginson writes in regard to Carlyle’s Laugh;” Miss Sarah Orne Jewett, under the the title of “ River Driftwood,” contributes a fresh, simple, New England article; Richard L. Dugdale writes of the “ Origin of Crime in Society;” Miss Phelps an essay, “ Is God Good?” H. H., “Katrina Saga;” Richard Grant White writes of “The two Hamlets;” Henry James continues his “ Portrait of a Lady; ” “ A Tropical Sequence,” by Charles Warren Stoddard, is a brilliant travel paper; Poems, by Mrs. Julia C. R. Door, Mrs. S. M. B. Piatt, and Dante Gabriel Rosetti, and a varied Contributors’ Club, complete this number of the Atlantic. '
—We congratulate our friends of the Monmouth College Courier on their good luck in securing “ the interest of an unsolicited and somewhat peculiar endowment fund,” which “ enables the Courier at the beginning of this year to appear before its readers in a new gown.” We could wish some generous person or persons would give the Scholastic a lift and a new dress, but as no such good luck seems in store for us we sincerely congratulate our more fortunate confreres. We thank our friend of the Courier exchange department for the kindly interest he takes in us, and assure him the feeling is reciprocated, cordially and heartily reciprocated. We have a friendly feeling for all our confreres of the College press, and if we occasionally differ from them upon certain points we hope they will take our opinions in as good part as they are given. Difference of opinion there will be; it could not be otherwise; and we make it a point to express our opinion candidly. The Courier exchange editor says:
“ Exchanges are scarce this month. Our beloved friend from Notre Dame is the first to greet us. We were really anxious about the Scholastic, wondering how it was getting along this warm weather. It has been a hard summer for those who have been in the condition of our friend. But our contemporary looks better—in fact as well as couid be expected under the circumstances. Pulse is now normal, respiration 17, and temperature 90. Appetite (for ex’s) is moderately good, and by careful treatment the patient will pull through. We sincerely hope so.”
Thank you, friend; we are feeling as well as could be expected.
—The Argo for July (Williams College) has just been received. It is a pleasant task to glance over its handsome pages. “ Ephraim,” formerly the popular exchange editor of The Athenceum, is still editor-in-chief of The Argo, and from first to last has made of it a first-class college paper. We agree with the editor of The C. C. H Y. Argus in the remark that “ the Argo is a very creditable affair, and that it is gotten up very handsomely—indeed we
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
37
would rank it only second to the Spectator." It is not because The Argo pays the Scholastic a compliment that we say this—and by the by, The Argo may not be as well pleased with the Scholastic in the hands of the present board of editors as it was with the Scholastic of last year, though we hope it may have no reason to change its good opinion. Here is what The Argo says of the Scholastic :
“Notre Dame Scholastic is a peculiar paper,—all of the journals from the Catholic Colleges have certain odd features, not observable in the papers of the Protestant institutions. For example, we think that few of the latter would agree with the Scholastic when it expresses its astonishment that Union College should not be willing to play baseball on a Sunday. To a student of a Protestant college, the editorial in question sounds very strange; it is evidently so sincere, and so painfully astonished that anyone could question the propriety of Sunday baseball. The Scholastic goes largely outside of college life for its news, containing a column of scientific information, and Art, Music, and Literature notes. Let it not be supposed that we mean to say such things are out of the province of collegians! far from it! But one usually sees such notes as the Scholastic’s in the daily papers, rather than college journals. Altogether, we consider the Scholastic an excellent paper, and very unique; in all the college press there is not just such another.”
In the Williams commencement programme, published in a supplement to The Argo, President Garfield is booked for an address on behalf of the Trustees. Alas, fate had ordained otherwise; the two oldest sods of the President, who had been at Williams College, have since had to return to attend the obsequies of their lamented father.
—The American Catholic Quarterly for July is a superb number. To those who are at all acquainted with the prominent Catholic writers of the day, it will suffice to say that St. George Mivart contributes to this number a long and exceedingly interesting paper entitled “ The Soul and Evolution ”; that Dr. Corcoran reviews in his usual masterly manner “ The Latest of the Revisions ”; that Dr. John Gilmary Shea gives a paper questioning “The Right of the Federal Government to Mismanage the Indians ”; that “ Catholic Colonization in the West ” is reviewed in its various phases by one who has made it a special study, namely, William J. Onahan, A. M., late President of the Public Library of Chicago. As will be seen, these are leading questions, and are therefore of interest to everybody. Besides these articles, and the usual book-reviews, we are treated to an interesting sketch of “ Richard Crashaw ’’ and his works, by Joseph A. Nolan, M. D., Ph., D.; a paper on “ The Irish Land Bill,’’ by Mrs. M. F. Sullivan, and one on “ Biology, or the Principle of Life,” by Riv. This. Hughes, S. J. Mr. St. George Mi-vart’s paper is not, as might be inferred from its title, such a ponderous matter that no one but scientists or scholars can handle or take an interest in it; by no means. Although the writer is a Fellow of the Royal Society, and possesses the privilege of appending to his name titles enough to use up a large portion of the alphabet in recounting, he yet knows how to write in a simple and agreeable style, captivating boys and girls by his stories of lower animal life as much as he does the savants and scientific world by his great erudition. We regret that we have neither time nor space for a review of this or the other papers in the Quarterly, but we cannot pass Dr. Corcoran’s paper on “ The Latest of the Revisions ” without a few words. It is a remarkable article on a remarkable . subject—a subject which has, in fact, engrossed the mind of the Protestant world for months back, and which probably will not be dropped for months to come, and which at the hands of the great Catholic linguist and biblical scholar receives such a thorough shaking up that we can imagine the dry bones of the early corruptors of God’s Word rattling in their unhallowed graves. Dr. Corcoran praises the revisers and their work. He says:
“One of the greatest benefits conferred by the revision on the English Protestant world—though very few, or none, seem to realise it—is that all the wicked translations, whether by falsification of meaning, or by interpolations, or by foisting of glosses into the text, that we have mentioned above as existing in the Presbyterian Bible, and retained by King James, all, without exception, have been ruthlessly swept away by the critical besom of the revisers. And why ? Solely on the gronnd that they were corruptions. They do not explicitly.say sectarian corruptions, nor need we insist on their saying it; but they recognized them as such; and every honest man, every friend
of religious truth, must be thankful that they have with unsparing hand driven these unholy abominations out fo the Book of God’s revelations. This proves that their honesty was wholesale, not partial or interested.
“ They have, further, done homage to true science and honored themselves by the honor they have rendered, indirectly at least, to St. Jerome and our Latin Vulgate. It is a noble gloss, though from Protestant hands, on the text of the Tridentine decree, which declared the Vulgate authentical. The early translators in their ignorance and conceit railed at the Vulgate, and by implication at the oldest and best copies of the original whence it was drawn; and this railing has continued with more or less virulence down to our day. But see what wonders time and the progress of science effect! Every new discovery of old biblical texts, every impartial scientific research in biblical lore has brought about more and more the persuasion that the genuine text can be recovered only by receding as far back as possible from the Textus Rec eptus(or Corruptusjthat underlies the Protestant version. What is this but going back to the Vulgate? Science, then—true science—has in this case done what it always has power to do: it has led them out of the shameful hereditary error to which they had clung for centuries, and has brought them—shall we say to our feet ? God forbid that we should indulge in such idle, sinful boast! No! but it has led them, willing captives, to kneel at the feet of Truth. And for such result, though it come not up to the full measure of our hopes and prayers, we heartily thank God.”
Dr. Corcoran promises for a future number some further remarks upon the more important changes made by the revisers, and those who have read the present paper will look with interest for the one that is to follow. The annual subscription price of The American Catholic Quarterly is §5; single numbers, §1.25. Published by Hardy and Mahoney, 505 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.
CoHege Gossip.
—“ There are two boating Associations here,” wrote a Japanese student home, “ called Yale and Harvard. When it rains the members read books.”
—The resignation of Mgr. Nameche as rector of the University of Louvain, has been accepted, and Professor Pieraerts has been nominated in his place.
—The Trustees of Columbia College have enacted some radical changes in the marking system. A grade of sixty per cent., or above, is necessary for a Junior or Senior to pass in any department, and low-water mark for Sophomores has been raised from thirty-three and one-third to fifty per cent.
—The Rev. W.-Byrne, President of Mount St. Maiy’s College, Emmetsburg, Md., reports that the financial troubles of the institution have been settled. The members of the faculty have stood by the college, and the alumni have responded liberally to the appeal for their aid. The total debt, including mortgage, has been reduced by sale of property and voluntary abatement of claims by creditors to about §86,500. Deducting mortgage of §25,000 to be carried, tlie debt to be paid in full is §61,500. The sum of £42,200 has already been subscribed, leaving §19,300 to be raised, and more than half of the alumni are yet to be solicited. The Archbishop of Baltimore will act as treasurer of the fund.
—It may interest the well-wishers of St. Laurent College to learn that William J. Kelly, of Taftville, Conn , one of its students, has not only passed most successfully a severe examination for the Baccalaureate of Arts, but also secured, in a general competition of all the advanced students of the Catholic Colleges of Canada, what is called the “ Prize of the Prince of Wales.” This high-valued prize is so named on account of a grant of a thousand pounds made several years ago to the University of Laval by His Highness the present heir apparent of the throne of England,—the interest of which sum serves as an annual prize to be awarded to the advanced students among the various colleges affi'iated to the above-named University who makes the best composition on some special subject Considering that this is the first year of its affiliation to the world-renowned Laval University, St. Laurent seems to be advancing with rapid strides towards becoming one of the chief places among the educational institutions of Canada.
38
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 24, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and. others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame. •
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer* favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—A friend informs us that we had better be careful as to what we put in the Scholastic, as people outside look upon the paper as a representative of the sentiment and literary status of the University. The editors of the Scholastic have lately had similar hints thrown them by some of the college papers, but as the exchange editor of this paper explained the real state of the case it was supposed that no mistakes would be made in the future. If, after all that has been said, people choose to set up the Scholastic as the work, or chiefly the work, of the College Faculty, we can hardly disabuse them of the notion, them. We will repeat for their benefit, however, that the literaiy efforts in the Scholastic are mainly the work of students; the editors-in-chief of the paper have been, for some years at least, students; all the late contributors, with two exceptions, were students; so if people outside choose to attribute work to members of the Faculty that they have never done, they do a double act of injustice: they do the real editors and contributors injustice by robbing them of the merit—if there be any ___of their labors, and they do the members of the Faculty injustice by attributing work to them which they would, most likely, not be willing to father, and which they had not seen until it appeared in the Scholastic. Students and amateur writers could hardly be expected to turn out work sufficiently mature to reflect credit on the Faculty, and, such as it is, the real writers are willing to bear the praise or the blame attached to their efforts.
Members of the Faculty have often been invited to aid the Scholastic with their pens, but so far the invitations have seldom met with any response. We hope this will not be the case in the future, and that all will help us
occasionally to make the Scholastic what it ought to be.
A word more. There has been little effort to make the Local department a very select one—and in our opinion it is best to give the Preps, a certain latitude in regard to the “Locals ” sent in by them. We wish to give them a personal interest in the Scholastic and encourage them to higher efforts. If, therefore, the locals are, occasionally, not just what they ought to be, the “critics ” will know that this department is free to all, the youngest as well as the oldest, and is, therefore, not exactly a fit subject for criticism. We believe we have spoken plainly, and hope that once for all we are understood.
—For the second time in the history of our country we are called upon to record the most dastardly of all crimes, namely, parricide. It may seem strange that we should speak of parricide; but strange as it may seem, and opposed as we are not only to think of, but merely to mention the name of parricide, still we have a duty, and a solemn duty, to perform, in regard to the life and death of our late lamented Chief Magistrate.
We are but a college boy, but our father, and our grandfather before him, stood on the campus, on the rostrum, and on the field in defence of the liberties which certain politicians of our own day would seek to destroy in order to attain their own selfish ends. We earnestly wish that we might speak in milder terms, but the necessities of the hour and of the times need stringent measures and stern men. •
Would to God that to-day we could place ourselves in jeopardy before all nations and so place ourselves that the hour and the time came to bring forth fruit worthy of the cause for which the Republic was formed.
’Tis true we are students and our ideas are as yet crude; we need the forming hand of time and experience to draw us into the real vortex of worldly experience. For ourselves, we value personal opinions at a very low figure, but we look further ahead than the generality of persons give us credit for, and in this connection we can simply say that for political questions and matters we are undoubtedly behind the ages of Roman and Grecian barbarism. And why? Our Chief Magistrate is dead, dead by the hand of an assassin; and why ? Simply because we have not come to that standard of manhood which true Americans should aim at. Petty politicians of a day can aim at and strive for certain political preferences and prerogatives, and that is their chief end and aim; of this there can be no doubt.
Our few short years of experience have taught us the sorry lesson that our politics and our politicians are a honeycomb of corruption. They seek self. Home, country, honor, all things in life (and in death, if it were possible,) are sacrificed to personal ends. In closing, we have but a word to say, and it is this: Among the prominent politicians of the day there are some who need a little more of independence, of manliness, and of true disregard for the opinions of men, who can stand before the world as our present honored dead did, all for the country, by and with the country: We could continue cur article but not with credit—truthfully speaking—either to ourselves or our country. Our last Chief Magistrate but one was, in matters of justice, a failure (vide the McDonald whiskey frauds) and at the bottom of our great grief to-day lies a strata of this same political rottenness which should be stamped out now and without further delay. We see the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
39
danger; let us in God’s name avert it. Let the ballots of the forthcoming election send out a voice, and a not uncertain one, that we are at least awakening to a sense of our duty.
Personal.
—Frank Bloom, ’81, is studying law.
—Jules Rodgers, ’79, of Mount Vernon, Ohio, is clerking for his father.
—Robert M. Anderson, we are pleased to note, has returned to Notre Dame.
—J. H. Burns (Commercial), ’81, is keeping books for his father, at Columbus, Ohio.
—Thomas W. Ewing, Class of’69, is Librarian in the State Department, at Washington, D. C.
—Lieut John Murphy, IT. S. A., of Beaver, Utah, who is on recruiting service, is spending a few days here.
—Geo. H. Kahmann, of ’69, is in business for himself, proprietor of a pipe manufactory, in Washington, Mo.
—Eugene F. Sugg (Commercial), ’75, is in business with his father at No. 400-408 South Canal St, Chicago.
—C. H. Kahmann, Esq., of Washington, Mo., was among the visitors here the past week, having accompanied his son, Joseph, to the College. Mr. Kahmann, together with Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and Brother Vincent, the venerable patriarch of the same order, were with the great American pilgrimage to Lourdes in 1875, and of course Mr. Kahmann visited his old confreres and had a chat with them on the pleasant reminiscences of that memorable occasion.
Local Items.
—New arrivals every day.
—Sam Perley has returned.
—The Buckeyes hold the colors.
—A new student from Santa Fe.
—“ Nick ’’ returned last Monday.
—There are at present 113 Seniors.
—Browne has the key of the Bastile.
—11 Ajax Jones ” wishes to be a Cadet.
—“Charlie Ross ” is a Senior this year.
—Bro. Thomas is doing a good business.
—We are blessed this year with another Plato.
—We are to have a skating rink here this winter.
—The Telegraphy Class is unusually large this year.
—Band rehearsals were in order during the past week.
—Physiognomists should study the head of our Colfax.
—Ask the “ Boston man ” if he wants a job as a carpenter.
—Bro. Bernard has been reappointed to his old position at the College.
—The Bostonians were badly beaten in that game for the watermelons.
—’Tia thought that if some one had saved his eyes he need not wear crape.
—How about the Senior that was taken in by the sign : “ Wanted a Carpenter?”
—“Set em up?”—“Can’t; just gave all my money for the suffering ‘ ’Ganders.’ ”
—The singing class was organized last Monday evening, under the direction of Prof. Paul.
—The name of Master B. Powell was omitted, by mistake, from the Minim Roll of Honor last week,
—“Say, how do I look now?” said a new Fresh, who had just had his four weeks’ moustache shaved off.
. —Most of the Seniors have crape on their hats, as a token of sorrow for the death of the President.
—The Seniors have sent to Chicago for a foot-ball. The Juniors will not monopolize the game in future.
—“ Say Ed., lend me your pipe, tobacco, and matches and I’ll do the smoking.” Thus spoke a young Freshie.
—The Seniors wear crape for our lamented President. Would it not be well for all students to wear the armlet?
—The Juniors who drill will have to change some of their tactics; nonsense will not be tolerated during drill time..
—A second game took place last Wednesday, between? the Bostonians and the Buckeyes. Score 4 to 3 in favor off the Bostonians.	.
—Masters Guthrie and Grever were head servers at the-Solemn High Mass last Sunday; Master Albert Browne-was censer-bearer.
—To-morrow. Missa de Angelis will be sung, p. 42 off . the Kyriale. Vespers of the Common of a Martyr, p. 40i Hymn, Iste Confessor^ p. 49.
—The Senior Military Company made a most creditable-commencement on Wednesday. A little more interest in filling up the company is now in order.
—The Hoosiers and Corncrackers had a very severely contested game Wednesday morning. The Hoosiers came out second best; so did the watermelons.
—Bro. Leander received a letter from a student, who was a Junior two years ago, requesting him to keep him a long bed, as he is now six feet three.
—The Curator gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a. choice collection of specimens from the Pennsylvania, mining regions, donated by Mr. J. C. Larkin.
—Twenty-four new desks have been ordered for the Junior study-hall. There are more students, even at this early date, than there were at any one time last year.
—We need new type and a new dress for the Scholastic. When the staff is re-organized, look out for a boom,, and several changes in the general get up of the paper.
—The Lemonnier Library will be open Tuesday and Saturday evenings; students wishing to procure books can? do so by obtaining a bill from the Prefect of Discipline.
—Very Rev. Father General misses from his library two volumes of the work entitled La Grandeur de Marie-Whoever has these books should return them without delay.
—Bro. Lawrence, accompanied by about sixty Juniors,, took a walk out in the country, last Wednesday; they returned in the evening with a large quantity of grapes and apples.
—Greenwald, of ’79, while seeing some friends off lately at theWestern Union depot, saw a red light coming up the-walk and is anxious to learn from some of his friends here-what it was.
—The cadets will be notified in due time as to the kindl of uniform decided upon. We think that Brother August can attend to all matters of that kind in a manner suitable even to the most fastidious.
—The baseball nines of the Senior department were organized Wednesday last. The captains chosen were-F. W. Gallagher and F. T. Dever. There is promised two-strong nines to play for championship this year.
—The students contributed liberally to the “Relief Fund ” for the Michigan sufferers. The amount collected from Senior students was §30.00—that is right, young gentlemen; always be charitable; God,loves the cheerful giver-
—The Minims now number 47. They have just organized four baseball nines, known respectively as the Sorin,, the Dwenger, St. Edward, and the St. Aloysius nines. We hope soon to have the pleasure of witnessing an interesting game between the young gentlemen of the different clubs.
—Crew of Hiawatha: F. Kuhn, stroke; T. Kavanagh, 2d; M. McEniry, 3rd ; W. Schofield, 4th; E. Arnold. 5th ? F. Devoto, bow; J. McIntyre, coxswain. Crew of Minnehaha: F. Kindle, stroke ; M. J. McCue, 2d ; W. Arnold, 3rd; C. Van Dusen, 4th; M. Healy, 5th; E. McGorrisk, bow ; R. M. Anderson, coxswain. Captain of the “ Hiawatha,” F. Kuhn; Captain of the “ Minnehaha,” C. Vam Dusen.
40
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
’ —The Curator of the Museum tenders his best thanks ■ to Mr. Aug. Pein, superintendent of Black Jack Mine, ■Galena Ill., for a valuable and interesting collection of specimens donated to the Cabinet of Mineralogy. Among the specimens contributed are some unusually large and •well-formed crystals of Galena, pure and encrusted. Mr.
; Pein is not only a practical mineralogist of great and varied experience, but also a gentleman of rare scientific attainments. His private collection of minerals is unique, and is probably one of the most valuable of its kind to be found anywhere.
—Very Rev. Father General has entered into a new compact with the Minims of this year; he has promised them another Parisian dinner, more sumptuous than the ■one of last June, when their number reaches seventy-five. He says that, judging from the new arrivals every day, it ••will not take long to complete the number; We hope so, for the sake of the small boys, for we know how much a banquet, such as Very Rev. Father General gives, is to them; but it is pur conviction that unless the Fort Wayne ‘Minim comes again to their assistance and swells their mumber by bringing a few companions with him, that din-mer will be in jeopardy.
, —Rev. Father Zahm speaks in the highest terms of the courtesies shown him during vacation by the managers of the popular “ Pan-Handle Railway.” He expresses him-'self as particularly indebted to Mr. Henry Monett, Chief-■ Assistant General Passenger Agent, Pittsburgh, and Mr. Frank M. Caldwell, District Passenger Agent, Columbus, O., for favors done him and the students who accom-.panied him from Ohio. These gentlemen (as also all others connected with the road) have shown themselves invariably kind^and obliging to our students, and, for this reason, :—aside from the fact that it is the best, the most convenient «nd most comfortable road that can be taken—we recommend the Pan-Handle above all ethers to parents and students coming from central Ohio.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh called a special meeting of the Sorin .Literary and Dramatic Association on Thursday, Sep. 22d, for the purpose of reorganization. The election of officers resulted as follows: Honorary Directors: Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, D. D., and Very Rev Edward Sorin, Superior-’General, C. S. C.; Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; General Critic, Rev. J. M. Toohey; President, Prof. Jas. F. Edwards; Promoter, Bro. Francis Regis; 1st Vice-President, D. E. O’Connor; 2d Vice-President, Donn A. Piatt; Sec-.retary, W. T. Berthelet; Treasurer, J. H. Dwenger; Corresponding Secretary, J. A. Ruppe; Librarian, J. J. Mc-.Grath; 1st Monitor, Jose S. Chaves; 2d Monitor, H. F. Nester; 3d Monitor, D L. McCawley; 1st Censor, W. T. Prindiville; 2d Censor, C. P. McGordon; 3d Censor, C. Metz; 4th Censor, Francis Ignatius Otis; Marshall, J. E. Nash; Standard-Bearer, Reue Papin.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-fhean Association took place Sept. 13 th. The following are the officers for the ensuing session: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Assistant Director, Rev. J. M. Toohey; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Hon. President, Prof. J. F.z Edwards, LL B.; Promoter, Bro. Leander; 1st Vice-Presi/ dent, G, Rhodius; 2d Vice-President, C. Rose; Historian, A. Coghlin; Recording Secretary, E. Fishel; Correspond-'' ing Secretary, W. Mahon; Treasurer, N. Nelson; Moni-y tors, P. Grever, A. Browne; Censors, G. Castanedo, J.' Ruppe; Librarian, J. Fendrick; Sergeant-at-Arms, W/ Coghlin; Marshal, J. Heffernan; Prompter, C. C. Echlinp, Charges d’affaires, H. Sell, W. Keenan. D. B. Toomey, C. S. C., will act as general critic; Prof. Howard, A. M., will lecture during the session on Political Economy. Public readers for the coming week are: G. Rhodius, C. < Rose, E. Fishel, A. Browne, G. Castanedo, J. Ruppe, J.I Fendrick.	■
—A special meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception took place Sunday evening, Sept. 18th. The regular exercises were suspended on account ■of the election of members. After a few remarks from-'the President, the election of new members commenced.': The following were elected: H. Campau, R. Hess, C.1 Porter, H. Porter, E. Howard, H. Snee, H. Kitz, W. Hana-vin, C. C. Echlin, J. Devine, M. Murphy, I. McGrath, J. Courtney, F. Farrelly, P. Yrisarri, D. Taylor, W. Jeannot, J. McGordon, W. Keenan, M. Dolan, M. Gooley, C. Zieg-y
ler, F. Kahmann, E Gerlach, J. Deschamp, H. Hibbeler, W. Graham, C. Schmitt, J. Zuigely. The following were appointed to read papers at the next regular meeting: H. M. Coghlin will explain what the Archconfraternity is, and the benefits derived from being a member; N. Ewing will explain how persons should assist at Mass, and the benefits gained by assisting at Mass worthily; J. Guthrie will explain the devotion of the Rosary. After a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
—A game of baseball between the Bjstonians and Buckeyes was played Wednesday afternoon, resulting in favor of the Bostonians. Game called at 4 p. m. The Bostonians started out with a white-wash; the Buckeyes ditto. Game very closely contested. Positions: Buckeyes—F. Dever, Captain and pitcher; Baker, catcher; McGorrisk, 1st base; F. Clarke, 2d base; F. Zuttler, short-stop; J. Monahan, 31 base; R. Flemming, left-field; H. Steif, centre-field; M. Healy, right-field. Bostonians: F. W. Gallagher, Captain and pitcher; Florian Devoto, 1st base; J. Johnson, catcher; W. Arnold, 2d; Henry Morse, short-stop; Kinsella, 31 base; E. Eager, left-field; F. Chilinni, rightfield ; J. Marlett, centre-field.
Umpire—W. Cleary.
Time of game, 45 minutes.
—St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana, is performing an excellent work in the introduction of “Domestic Science” as one of the studies of the institution. Regular hours for sewing are allotted to all the pupils, so that they may keep their wardrobes in perfect order. The sewing circles are placed under the direction of competent teachers, who give full and careful instruction to the pupils entrusted to them. Weekly instructions are given in politeness and etiquette, and all that constitutes correct, ladylike deportment. Instructions are also given in the art of Domestic Economy, in all its branches. The Senior classes are required to spend a portion of their time in the kitchen of the institution, acquiring a practical knowledge in this important department. Ana here is something else which shows how well the good Sisters in charge of the Academy understand the training of girls. The Catalogue of 1881 says: “To prevent all future mistake, parents and guardians are hereby informed that a white dress is the proper costume for the pupils at the closing exercises of the Annual Commencement. No silks, expensive laces, or jewelry to be worn. Pupils in the Graduating Class form no exception to this rule. Any expensive or extravagant dress worn by pupils at the closing exercises will cause a pupil to forfeit her claim to Academic honors.—Boston Pilot.
—Last Thursday, Prof. Lyons presented the Juniors with a football, and next day, Frank Campau, Captain of the “ Reds,” and Dick French, of the “ Blues,” met, and made arrangements for an old-time game of football. They chose sides, and one hundred and twenty, by actual count, joined in the contest; a few timid individuals, who had neither the nerve nor the pluck of their companions, preferred to be spectators. Campau, Captain of the “ Reds,” won the toss, and chose the western goal; The ‘Blues” kicked off, but the ball was stopped by the “ Reds,” forwarded, and worked down into their grounds; gradually it neared the goal line, and then played into right-field and worked in an oblique direction towards the eastern goal, but was forced back after a severe struggle, and again approached the “Reds’” grounds, when Devoto, taking the ball from a pass back, drove it with a drop kick within the goal. Time, forty-five minutes. A breathing spell of ten minutes being taken, the game was again resumed. The second kick-off went over the forwards and was played for a time on the “Blues’” grounds; by starts it approached the goal, but the ball sailed through the air a few feet outside the goal line; it was started out, but back again it came, and moved from east to west, the play being generally on the “Reds’” ground, now and then it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was kept in the centre; the “Blues,” encouraged by the spectators, worked harder, and were rewarded for their efforts by getting the ball within a short distance of their goal; here a struggle took place, almost every member of the “ Blues ” rushed to the struggle, and forced the ball within the goal. Caswell, a Chicago boy, is given credit for the kick that won the bout. The “ Blues ” cheered in triumph, and tossed their caps in the air, some turned hand springs, somersaults, etc., to the amusement of the spectators. Time, forty minutes. The third, or winning bout was commenced, and it was plain to be seen that both teams were pretty well jaded out, and that the two preceding games told heavily upon them; both teams struggled hard, however, and were determined to win the trophy, which consisted of two barrels of apples, presented by the President of the University; for a time, it looked as though the “Blues" would win the third bout, but the “Reds” rallied, and saved their laurels, so the struggle continued for thirty minutes, when both teams agreed to a draw game, to be decided at some future time. The game was witnessed by Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., and the College Faculty. All agreed that the game was a very exciting one and well played. Many of the newcomers play well, and we hope to see many good games during the year. Among the best players we might mention Dick French, Captain of the “Blues also W. Cogh-lin, Guthrie, Devolo, M. Coghlin, F. Fishel. C. Murdock, Muhlke, Heffernan, Brown, Barron, and Bailey, of the “ Blues. In the “Reds,” the Captain, T. Campau, Gibert, Dolan, Casseu, Castenado, Kolars, Zeigler, Orchard, Ludlow, Courtney brothers, Ruppe.
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. A. O’Connor, J. H. Dwenger, B. L. Powell, C. P. McGor-don, C. Metz, J. S. Beall, T. Ellis, P. E. Campau, C. E. Campau, M. E. Devitt, C. D. Brandon, W. J. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, W. P. Devine, J. L. Rose, Donn A. Piatt, J. 8. Chaves, J. A. Ruppe, J. J. McGrath, A. P. Roberts, J. F. Coad, G. Price, F. I. Otis, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, W. T. Berthelot, D. L. McCawley, W. J. Miller, J. F. Nester, F. Nester, E. S. Chirhart. M. Byrne, E. P. Nash, C. Quinlan, J. Tong, J. A. Frain, J. F. Kelly, L. P. Graham, H. C. Dirkmeyre, A. J. Otis, Rend V. Papin, Paul F. Johnson, W. Walch.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading. Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free iu this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]	’
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, W. Arnold, E. Blackman, F. M. Barron, H. Bailey, E. J. Bryant, W. J. Browne, F. J. Baker, J. F. Browne, W. B. Berry, J. M. Boose, F. M. Bell, W. S. Bolton, R. Becerra, S. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, C. V. Chelini, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, C. Coughanowr, J. C. Concannon, W. W. Cleary, C. E. Cripe. F. T. Dever, A. D. Dorsey, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, B. Eaton, E. Eager, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrel, T. F. Flynn, J. M. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburn, J. J. Flynn, H. Gramling, F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, A. Golonski, H. A Hagan, T. D. Healy, M. T. Healy, A. Jones, A. T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindle, A. Kuntsman, J. Larkin, Geo. Metz, J. McFrlain, F. M. Monahan, A. Myer, F. Murphy, W. J. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, J. Millett, C. McDermott, J. McIntyre, H. W. Morse. J. F. Martin, E. McGorrisk, W. B. MeGorrisk, W. McEniry, Jno. Nash, H. H. Noble, John B. O’Reilly, Jos. P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, F. 0 Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J.N.Osher, E. A. Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, Stewart Pillars, S. S. Perley, Lincoln Proctor, F. A Quinn, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, A. P. Schindler. J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, B. S. Schofield, Jas. Solon, W. E. Smith, A C. Schiml, H. Steis, C. A. Tinley, E. J. Taggart, C. B. Van Dusen, Frank Ward, J. A Weber, J. E. Walsh, F. S. Weber, E. D. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A. Zahm.
’ JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. J. Byrne, W. F. Bacon, Ed Bailey, W. H. Barron, G. C. Castenado, J. M. Courtney, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, A. M. Coglin, J. A. Devine, G. L. Deschamp, H. F. Devitt, C. De Voto, M. Dolan, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, E. F. Feulon, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, Harley Fisher, F. C. Felix, Jacob Friedman, J. M. Flynn, L. G. Gibert, H. E. Gilbert, W. M. Graham, M. S. Gooley, E. B. Gerlach. J. W. Guthrie, A A. Gall, J. L. Heffernan, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, F. J. Hurlev, E. A. Howard, G. J. Haslam, W. J. Hanavin, W. E. Jeannot, W. H. Johnston, C. C. Kollars, Oscar Kempf, J. F. Kallmann, G. C. Kipper, W. D. Keenan, S. Lipman, F. C. Lund, O. L. Ludlow, Jos. Livingston, H. M. Metz, G. A. Molander, J.S. McGrath, T.E. McGrath, F.X. McPhillips, C. L. Murdock, 8. T. Murdock, W. H. McCarthy, C. J. Messenger, M. E. Murphy, J. T. Neeson, J. P. O’Donnell, Felix Or-singer, W. 0. Pinkstaff, J. M. Powell, H. P. Porter, C.F. Porter, T. C. Ryan, Sig. Rosenheim, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, Lincoln Rogers, H. C. Snee, C. D. 8a-viers, G. H. Schafer, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, A. T. Taggart, Thos. J. Williams, J. E. Warner, C. C. Warner, P. J. Yrisarri, J. E. Zaehnle, Chas. Ziegler, F. B. Farrelly. S. Katz, E. J. Schmitt, A'fred J. Wendell, J. Hal.igan, G. C. Knight, N. J, Neisop, J. W. Whelan.
O’Connor & Co.,
CHEMISTS AND DKTJG^&ISTS Royal Pharmacy, PRINCE ARTHUR’S LANDING,
LIKE SUPERIOR, ONTARIO, CANADA,
Dealers in • Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price,.........gilt,	$1.25; plain, 1.00.
Address
STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana,
42
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“THE GREAT ROOK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to the following REASON'S WHY-if about to make a Journey to the GREAT vVErt'r-you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered nsoneof the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive atdestination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that It is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesuf the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en mute to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in tho United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
REME3IBER, this is the most direct route for al! points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address	•
H. CABLE,	3EJ. ST. JOSW,
Vico Prcs’t ami Genl Manager, Chicago.	Gen’l Ticket and l’ass’r Agent.
"Weeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSE, an excel-
lent Catholic and family newspaper, published every Thursday. Terms, $2.5(1 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager and Editor, 117 Erie treet, Cleveland, Ohio.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. L. Clause, of 70.
THE A. V Jfcl MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Zubscrip-tlon price, $2.50.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1870.
	♦Mail	•Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - • “ Mich. City -“ Niles - - - - -“ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit		7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 83 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 85 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo --“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City-- Ar. Chicago		7 00a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	950 p m. 1245 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 530 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 8 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and SoxitH Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. » N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING 80UTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentworth, H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mich.
G. L, Ebrgorr, Agent, South Bend, lnfl.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. 7, 1880, TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5. Limit Ex.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,		12.05 a.m. 1.15 “ 3.30 “ 5.00 “ 6.55 “ 7.25 “	9.15 a.m. 10.10 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m.
Alliance,								10.25 p.m.
Orrville,						
Mansfield,.......					
Crestline,.'	Arrive				1.40 A.M,
Crestlin		Leave Forest	 Lima......		7.50 a.m. 9.25 « 10.40 “ 1.15 P.M. 3.46 “ 7.00 “	6 35 p.m. 8.18 « 9.30 “ 12.08 A.M. 2.50 “ 6.00 *'	9.55 p.m. 11.28 1232 A.M.	1.45 a.m.
				
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth				2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 8.00 “	5.35 “ 7.16 “ 9.40 “
Chicago,..... .Arrive				
GOING EAST.				
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn. Ex.	No. 4, Atlan.Ex.	No. 6, N. Y. Ex.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,............	9.40 pai. 2.50 A.M. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.08 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “ 2.35 p m. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 p.m. 9.25 “ 12.15 A.M. 2.38 “ 3.55 “ 5.30 “	3.30 p.m.
Ft. Wayne,...........				8.35 p.m.
Lima,	•					
Forest,					
Crestline,	Arrive				12 35 a.m.
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,			12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.30 p.m. 803 “ 10.06 “ 11.45 “ 2.04 a.m. 3.15 “	6 40 a.m. 7.20 “ 9.23 “ 11.25 “ 2.10 « 3.15 p.m.	12 40 a.m. 1.15 “ 2.57 “ 4.25 “
Orrville,..'					
Alliance,					
Rochester,					
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive				730 a.m.
Trains Nos. 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others dally except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and Now York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
G. R. WOOD,	E. A. FORD,
Gen. Pas. & Tkt. Agt., Phil., Pa. R, R, Pittsburgh, Pa,
THE tfOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	43
(Removed to Boston, Mass.)
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL IN 12 LESSONS, FOR $1.50.
The growing interest in Phonography has created a demand for a Periodical to teach the Art, in a series of Lessons comprehensive, detailed and thorough. The
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND WRITER,
taking the initiative, is the only Magazine in the World that teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises of all Learners
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAIL
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circuiar.
ROWELL & HICKCOX,
BOSTON, MASS.
Please mention the paper in which you saw this advertisement.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Bailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its Chicago, st. Paul and Minneapolis line is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freepoit. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
PROSPECTUS
OF
Browne’s Phonographic Monthly
AND
REPORTER’S JOURNAL, New York, FOR THE YEAR 1881. ORGAN OF THE REPORTING PROFESSION*
This publication is now in its sixth volume. A course of lessons is being given by the editor, which will embrace all the latest improvements of the art as adapted by reporters during the past twenty years’ reporting A s all instruct ion books are years behind the practice of the art. and do not contain any of the new principles introduced, these lessons will be found invaluable to all students.
Fac-Simile reportikg Notfs of leading stenographers will show word-forms and phrase-signs not to be found elsewhere, that will be useful as showing how little attention practical reporters pay to the expedients, devices, and contractions put down in the old instruction books and recommended by authors.
Portraits and Skeiches will be given, which will be useful as showing what have been the struggles, trials and success of men eminent iu the profession. In this way an acquaintance will be made with these gentlemen that will be of lasting Interest to old stenographers as well as to young men about to take up the art.
Besides being the only shorthand publication in America published promptly on time (the 15th of each month ) it contains news, notices of new books, personal doings of stenographers, and communications from reporters throughout the world.
A Premium Holiday Number considerably enlarged and beautifully illustrated,-will be Issued in December This number will be sold separately for St.00. but to regular yearly subscribers, who pay thesubscription price of §2 00. this number will be included without extra charge. To get the benefit of this splendid offer, subscriptions should be sent in now for a year’s numbers, and S2.oo must be forwarded to pay for the same in advance. Specimen copies of a late number will be sent to those desiring to see the publication before subscribing, by simply forwarding address to the publisher with a request for the same.
D. L. SCOTT-BROWNE,
Conductor and Publisher.
23 Clinton Place, New York City.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.
May 15,1881. Local and Through Time Table. No. 22.
Going1	North.	STATIONS.		Goins’	South.
1.40 p m.	4.20 p.m.	Arrive	Leave - - Michigan City, - -		9.35 a-m.	S-ft. 1^8 ajao
1.00 “	3 35 “	- - - - La Porte, -	*	10.23 “	
-2.35 “	3.14 “	- - - Stillwell, -	* *	10.41 “	9.20 “
-2.14 a.m.	2.53 “	- - - - Walkerton, -	* *	11.00 “	9.42 “
1.42 “	2.23 “	- - - Plymouth, -	• —	1135 “	10.21 “
0.49 “	1.30 “	- - - - Rochester, -	_ •	12.27 p.m.	11.20 p.m.
-0.12 “	12 51 “	- - - - Denver, -	• •	1.06 “	11.57 “
9.50 “	12 30 p.m.	- •- -	- Peru, - -	* *	1.45 “	12.25 a.m.
9 23 “	11.50 “	- - Bunker Hill, -		2.05 ”	12.48 “
8.50 “	11.18 “	- - - Kokomo, - • -		2.40 “	1.30 “
8.09 “	10.41 “	- - - - Tipton, -	*	3.16 ••	2.07 “
7.25 “	9.57 u	- - - Noblesville, -	~ -	4.00 “	2.48 “
6.25 p.m.	8.50 a.m.	Lv. - Indianapolis, -	Ar.	5.00 “	3.45 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches ran between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,
Gen’l. Manager, Indlanopolis.
Chas. H. Rockwell, Gen’l. Pass and Ticket Agent.
THE NOTRE i>AME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, Ac., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EOWA.BDS.
Nothe Dams, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MA.UKICE F.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Thrice, $1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2.30 p. m.
Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.	_	‘,
11 05 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m
12.16 p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. in., Cleveland, 10.10 p. m
Buffalo, 4 a. m.	„ _, „ „	•
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.2» a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5*05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
0.93 a. m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
1.16 p. m. Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. m.; Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4.50 p. m.,., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.38; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
. WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Grand Crossing		7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m.	3 30 p.m.
	9 32 “			12 32 “	
OKa		.....	**	9 47 “	11 02 “	7 32 “	12 52 “	
	10 06 “	1120 “			
South Bend	 “	10 08 “ 1105 “ 1115 “	1122 “ 12 16 p.m.	8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “	120 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “	5 38 “ 6 21	“
Elkhart	Arrive	1140 « 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	12 50 “	9 45 “	3 00 a.m. 9 50 “	6 45 “ 10 50 “
Cleveland			 Buffalo	 ‘ New York..-	 M		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “	2 55 p.m. 8 15 " 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	2 00 a.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.