PUBLISHED WjEEZELLY JlT NOTRE I>^MJE.
to the interests at the > inflate.
“ LABOR OjMDVILA. VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME, IND,, FEBEUAEY 20, 1869.	. No. 24.
Music.
An Essay read by a youthful member before the St. Cecilia Phil-omathean Association, Master V. Hackmann, of St. Louis, Mo.
Of all the arts, Music is the most natural to man; for each nation, even at its beginning, must have possessed, it to a certain extent, differing only according to climate and other circumstances. Man has been so constituted by his Creator as to receive pleasure and delight from the perception of sweet and melodious sounds. The first idea of musical sounds must have been received from nature; and therefore it is right to infer that the origin of music began with the creation. Is there not music in the hum of the industrious bee as it wanders from flower to flower? in the warblings of the thousands of the feathered tribe that make the dismal forest appear like paradise ? Who is there that cannot recognize in the balmy breeze, as it sighs amid the stirring leaves, sweet sounds, whose melody has such a pleasing effect upon the imagination? Which one of us here would not say that there is something wonderful, and at the same time fearful, in the loud notes of the rolling thunder, or in the deep moanings of the expansive ocean ? In a word, all nature is music; and it would be hard for me to describe nature’s music as I should.
Music is both a science and an art; or, in other words, it is theoretical and practical. Few of us as yet know much about the theory of music; we cultivate it more as an art than as a science. It is from music as an art that- toe derive all the pleasures we enjoy under its heavenly influence; we seldom think of music as a science; and the reason is very plain; music as such is too difficult for most of us to comprehend; but as an art it is within the reach of nearly every one. Most of us Can learn to perform on same instrument, but very
few ever attempt to apply themselves to musical composition, or to the abstract principles of the science. It cannot be denied, however, that he who cultivates music both theoretically and practically, derives more pleasure and benefit than one who studies but a single department of the science. The better we know and understand music, the more we can appreciate and esteem it; and a love of genuine music is one of the surest tests of a refined and elegant state of society.
Music is also distinguished as vocal and instrumental. Vocal music is used in opposition to instrumental : the latter being applied to music composed for instruments, the former to music written especially for the voice. It is unnecessary to dwell upon these divisions of this science, for we all understand what they mean. Both have their advantages, their beauties, and their varied effects. Each pleases and gratifies in its own peculiar way; while the union of both produces the effect of all that is sweet, harmonious, grand and majestic in music. Music as an art, should be cultivated by all; not because of the pleasure we derive from the study of it, but of the higher, holier ideas it gives us of God. It was He who endowed us with that wonderful mechanism that produces effects sweeter than the song of birds; and while He made the ear to receive the impression of the articulate voice, rendered it susceptible to musical intonations. The whole theory of musical sounds gives us the clearest evidence that they were designed by the Almighty for the pleasure and benefit of man. If then we have been formed with such superior advantages, it is only right that we should employ them to the purposes for which they were intended. Were there no other reason than this, it would be sufficient.
It would be a bard task for me to describe or enumerate for you what effects music has upon us. A musician is one in whom is centered all the fine and delicate feelings of man; he gives us, little by little, new ideas of beauty. He speaks and writes


186	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
in the native tongue of the angels; with him, music is a language that is more interior and universal than that of the greatest poet. It speaks to him in the gentle whisper of an innocent child, or it can represent to him all the emotions that have ever entered into the breast of guilty man.
Every person strongly touched by music feels that its effect is not confined to the ear, but is felt all over the frame and rules the inmost affections of the heart, disposing us to joy and thankfulness op'the one hand, and to sorrow and devotion on the other. Of all the fine arts, music is that which has the greatest influence on the passions ; it always touches the feelings, and is more effective on the mind than a good moral book. Hence it is that we should cultivate so heavenly an art; we who are under the banner of the Blessed Cecilia, Patroness of Sacred Music.
In our Society there are several departments; such as the Literary, Historic, and Dramatic. Each has its uses and object; they are all good in their own way. But when we unite to these the divine art of music, they receive a new feature and become doubly attractive; it makes them work harmoniously together; it throws new life into each of them without depriving them of their own individual attraction. What a beautiful thing it would be were we all acquainted with this most loveable art! How., many happy moments of union could we enjoy in its harmonious precincts! Thousands of idle hours might be rendered useful and agreeable.
I do not wish to infer that we have no musical talent in the Society; nor do I wish to say that this talent is kept altogether in the dark, for I am convinced too well of the contrary. There are many among you who are aspiring musicians; some who perform excellently on the piano, others who bring sweet sounds from the flute, others again who “rosin the bow” with no small amount of skill. Who indeed can say that we are not a musical society ? We can challenge any other Society in the College in that department. Among those who are listening to me now I see the musical talent of the University. All that is necessary to convince the public of the same is time and opportun,ity, to show that we are not wanting in musical ability. Our Association is not only replete with instrumentalists, but also possesses most of the vocalists of the Junior Department. I say, then, that we have the means as far as material is concerned: all that we need is encouragement and assistance from our reverend Director and kind President. They can and ought to help
us in making the Musical Department an active one. When they shall have done this, then indeed can we look to them as benefactors, who have added another happy link to the varied interests of our college life.	'
We claim St. Ceceila as our patroness, and indeed she is the patroness of all musicians. Under her banner we have assembled as a Society. Now why was she chosen as patroness of this Association ? Is the title to be used in vain ? No. We are a musical society ; we always intend to form one harmonious band that shall always meet in concord, always dwell in unison, and live for the enjoyment of everything that is heavenly in music. It is a happy thought to think that we are followers of St. Cecilia; we should cherish this thought and always remain her musical children, for no doubt she will give us a share of the “ harmony, heavenly harmony ” that she now enjoys in heaven. I will close this essay by repeating what I alluded to elsewhere, namely : that it should be the endeavor of all to see that this department of the Society flourishes and prospers, and that it is considered as a necessary element among us. We all can aid in accomplishing this end, either directly or indirectly, and therefore we should take advantage of every favorable' circumstance that presents itself to us. When, we will have done this, then indeed will the name of St. Cecilia be an appropriate and significant title to the Philomathean Association of the Junior Department.
Classes for the Second Session.
[continued.]
Preparatory Department.
First English Grammar and Composition, Sr.— This Class, the highest of the preparatory course, prepares the Senior students for the course of Rhetoric. It is always largely attended, and the students who belong to this Class are expected to be promoted to Rhetoric at the end of each Session. This Session, Messrs. John Costello, James Montgomery, Jos. Harrison, Joseph Mader, C. M. Wenger, F. Nicholas, T. Downing, T. Kinsella, E. Fitzharris, J. F. Ryan, J. Wilson, C. E. Sage, John McHugh, John Gavit, L. B. Logan, were promoted to Rhetoric. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Professor.	'	■
Second English Grammar, Sr.—Whose sphere of

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. -	187
study is especially the Syntax, with a thorough drilling in the principles of parsing and analysis, was attended last Session by thirty students. We place great expectations in that Class for the present Session. The students who are promoted to the 1st Class are Messrs. L. Dupler, E. Gambee, Jos. Garharstine, D. Diemer, T. O’Bryan, W. A. Lence, L. Reswick, H. Schnelker, Thos. Lappin, W. Bird. F. X. Derrick, S. S. C., Professor.
Third English Grammar, Sr.—Will review Etymology and go through Syntax during the Session. This Class is well organized and is expected to compete with the 2d for the number of promotions in June. The students promoted to the 2d Class at the last examination are Messrs. T. Heery, C. Ilgenfritz, J. Dunnavan, M. Carney. C. J. Lundy, Professor.
Fourth English Grammar, Sr.—A large Class, of some thirty members, all beginners. We have several reasons to believe that in this Class much will be accomplished during the new Session. Were promoted, Messrs. J. Roby, John.Korb, C. Stewart, F. Bish, B. Mathers, J. Leunig, S. Spil-lard, R. Power, Jos. Klotzle, T. E. Dechant, J. C. Lacey. Wm. T. Johnson, A. B., Professor.
. First Arithmetic, Sr.—This • Class, attended by at least forty students, deserves all the praise we we can give it. It has done remarkably well, as may be seen by the following list of the members who are allowed to discontinue: Messrs. J. Mader, T. E. Downing, E. Gambee, J. Eisenman, J. Wilson, J. Montgomery, C. Sage, R. Aikin, M. Wen-, ger, J. Gavitt. The studies of this Class, for the new Session, will be from Percentage to the end of the book in Robinson’s Higher, if time permit. Wm. Ivers, A. M., Professor.
Second Arithmetic, Sr.—Will begin in Robinson’s Higher and review from the first principles of Arithmetic to Percentage. The Class is composed of about thirty members; are promoted to 1st Arithmetic: L. Reswick, W. Lence, A. Menard, T. O’Neill, H. Schnelker, M. J. Spellman, Stephen Corby, F. Wood. A. J. Stace, A. M., Professor. .
Third Arithmetic, Sr.—Will begin at Percentage, in Robinson’s Progressive Practical, and go through the book. Although time did not permit this Class to pass the oral examination,' still the written examination sufficiently told its proficiency ; are promoted to the 2d Class: Joseph -Garharstine, J. Leunig, John Costello, Francis Bish, J. Coffey. The Class numbers some thirty members. Bro. Joseph, S. 8. 0., Professor.
Fourth Arithmetic, Sr.—A beginning Class
which gave much satisfaction last Session by the good application of its members. It is now divided into two Classes, the more proficient going fast ahead into the intricacies of Fractions. The less advanced will devote their entire time to the first principles. Bro. Alban, S. S. C., Professor.
First Geography.—Will continue its lessons; a few of its members are allowed to discontinue for the sake of other studies to which they have to pay greater attention.- .Bro. Francis de Sales, S. S. C., Professor.
First Reading and Elocution Glass.—Are allowed to discontinue : T. Heery, L. B. Logan, F. Frittz, R. Coddington, D. Coonce, J. Leunig. F. X. Derrick, S. 8. C., Professor.
Second Reading.—Are promoted to 1st: L. Gaynor, G. Chane, B. Mathers, Jno. Ryan, E. George, H. Schnelker. Bro. Francis, S. 8. C. Professor.
First Orthography.—No change. W. T. Johnson, A. B., Professor.	•	’
Second Orthography.—Are promoted to 1st: B. Mathers, Wm. Orr, L. Gaynor, M. Spillard, L. Towne, T. Dechant, H. Schnelker, R. Campau, F. J. Campbell, L. Hurst, P. Walter.
First English Grammar, Jr.—The Class will continue its lessons during the new Session. It is a well-trained, deserving Class. Bro. Benjamin, S. S. C., Professor.
Second Grammar.—No change in this Class. The same industrious and lively disposition which animated its members in the past bids well for the next five months. Bro. Joseph, S. S. C., Professor.
Third Grammar.—A good Class of intelligent youth. We were glad to notice their improvement at the examination. It was taught last year by Mr. John Lauth, S. S. C. Wm. T. Johnson, A. B., Professor.	-
Fourth Grammar.—The largest of the Junior department. The first principles of Grammar, as well as the dread of the study, gave mueh occupation to the interesting members of this Class. Some marked proficiency was acquired by the most studious.
We hope to hear frequently from the Grammar Classes, and will publish all the reports they will send us.
First Arithmetic.—Changes its text book for Robinson’s Higher and will begin at Fractions. Are promoted 1st Arithmetic, Sr.: Messrs. E. O’Bryan, R. Broughton, Jas. F. Ryan, J. Broder
'
188	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
ick, M. Branock, N. Mitchell, Chas. Marantette. Bro. Joseph, S. S. C., Professor.
Second Arithmetic.—Will begin at Percentage in Robinson’s Progressive Practical. No change in this. Class, whose members are equally proficient. Bro. Benjamin, S. S. C., Professor.
Third Arithmetic.—Composed of nearly fifty members of excellent spirit, and resolved to accomplish more than any Class of the same order. No change ; all progress equally onward. W. J. Ivers, A. M., Professor. -
Fourth Arithmetic.—Inferior to others in rank, and equal to the best in application and progress. It is composed of some thirty members. No change in this Class. Wm. J. Ivers, A. M., Professor.
First Orthography.—Continues its lessons as usual. Every one of the members of this Class is expected to finish this Session. Bro. Benjamin, S. S. C., Professor.
. Second Orthography.—change. The Class is large and good. Mr. H. Gallagher is allowed to discontinue. Bro. Alban, 8. 8. C., Professor.
Third Orthography.—Remains unchanged; great expectatious are.placed in its members.
Geography and United States History.—Good Class; will finish this Session. No change or promotion will take place till June. Bro. Benjamin, S. S. C., Professor.
Rhetorical Reading and Reclamation Class.—The proficiency of this Class has been often remarked. It is the best Reading Class at Notre Dame. Mr. Staley, who deserves special mention, is allowed to leave, off.. .Those who have distinguished themselves particularly are: E. J. Burdell, L. Hayes, EL Hayes,- J. Fally, F. M. Curtis, T. Id-dings, H. O’Neill, T. Arrington, G. Redfield, F. Spencer, P. Tinan, Jas. Maguire, D. Bland, M. Wellington, Geo. Combs, G. Spaids, Jos. Roberts, E. J. O’Brien and G. McCartney. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Professor.
Second Reading.—Worthy of commendation for the great progress made during the Session. It will be an excellent Class in a short time. Bro. Benjamin, S. S. C., Professor.
Third Reading.—Some good readers in this Class. Close attention and an earnest wish to improve will accomplish wonders during the Second Session. Bro. Albert, S. S. C., Professor.
First and. Second Catechism Glasses.—Will be discontinued during the Second Session. Catechism will be taught three times a week in the church. Those who have not made their first Communion will attend a special Classevery day.
.	. Modern Languages.. •	.
First and Second French Classes.—Have been united, and form now a good and well-spirited Class, whose members have already acquired an excellent accent, and we hope will be able to talk French by the end of. the present Session. Professor M. Colovin, LL. B., taught the French Classes during the past Session. Rev. Father Le-monnier, 8. 8. C., has now taken charge of the French Classes.
Third French, noio Second.—Composed of young beginners. It will be remodelled, and with-the additional members, whom we hope to see join the Class, two divisions will be made to suit"the proficiency of the students.	•	-
We need not call the attention of those who follow the regular courses of the Classical and Scientific Departments to the importance of the French language, which every scholar ought to be able to speak and write fluently.
First German, Sr.—The text books of this Class are, ‘“Meuwsens Deutsche 8prachlehre,” in connection with “ Adler’s Reader ” and “Woodbury’s New Method of German.” German is spoken by the Professor and students; however, for the sake of clearer explanation, the most difficult points are occasionally explained in English. P. Lauth, S. 8. C., Professor.
Second German, Sr.—This Class has been increased by hard-working students from the 3d German. A laudable desire of practising what has been learned, prevails in it, and great progress is made in speaking German. The authors used are “Woodbury” and “Adler.” John Lauth, 8. 8. C., Professor.
Third German, Sr., (1st Riv.)—The members of this Class, originally eighteen in number, have been studying only five months. During that period they have seen about sixty exercises of “ Ahn’s New Method,” besides translating twelve Reading Lessons. In the theoretical part they went as far as the Passive Voice. For the present Session “Woodbury’s Shorter Course” has been added as text book. The spirit and ambition of this Class is excellent. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Professor.
Third German, Sr.—It began last Session and has progressed rapidly. It uses “Ahn’s Method.” Jacob Lauth,. S. S. C., Professor.	.
Third German, (2d Rind—This Class commenced during last Session, and is composed of members of the. Senior and Junior Departments, whose good training we are glad to-notice; Bro. Claude, S. S. G., Professor.
THE SCHOI Fourth German, Sr.—A beginning Class. Rev. Father Ruthmann, S. S. C., Professor. First German, -Jr.—“ Meiiwsen’s Sprachlehre ” and “ Drittes Lesebuch fur Katholische Schulen Nord Amerikas,” are the Class books. German is spoken exclusively. Particular attention is paid to letter-writing. Rev. Father Lauth, S. S. C., Professor. Second German, Jr.—The members of this Class have just completed their 3d Session of German. During the last Session they have studied “ Woodbury’s New Method of German ” from the beginning to page 139, and the Etymology of the same book, from page 362 to 398; in addition they have used “'Adler’s German Progressive Reader” as text book, of ’ which they translated forty-two pages. For the next Session, “ A. G. Meiiwsen’s kleine Deutsche Sprachlehre ” has been added as text book. The theory of the language is well understood by the young gentlemen of this Class, and their “Copia Verborum” is already sufficient to enable them to travel in Germany with profit and pleasure. The members at the beginning of last Session numbered fifteen. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Professor. Third German, Jr., (2d Div.)—This Class commenced its Teutonic course about the middle of last Session. Large in number and of promising talents, joined with indefatigable diligence, it makes its way through Ahn’s excellent Method of German. Rev. Father Lauth, S. S. C., Professor. Fourth German, Jr.—This Class consists of beginners, who are very promising students. “Ahn’s Method” is used. John Lauth, S. S. C., Professor. A vulgar performance took place in the city of South Bend, on Thursday, 11th inst. It was little dignified, we declare, little intended to inspire a visitor with anything like a good opinion of the paraders. Such a low exhibition will bring to its actors the reward it deserves—the contempt of intelligent and generous men, and the pity of those who were injured.		iASTIC YEAR	189 CoLLEGJE EtJIZUETHV.
		Arrival of Students at Notre Dame. February 12. Peter Barrett,	Roanoake, Ind. February 15. Lewis B. Maguire,	St. Louis, Mo.	■ February 17. David Fitzgerald,	Kildare, Wis.	. Herman M. Greene,	Chicago, Hl. February 19. P. Bermingham,	Chicago, Ill. * ■ . Tables of Honor..	. • Senior Department. B. Vocke, J. Eisenman, C. Stewart, J. Zahm, R. Power, 'W. Wrape, S. Corby, M. Carney, Jos. Harrison, J. Wilson. .... Junior Department. W. B. Clarke, Jos. Rumely, H. Gallagher, P. J. ‘ O’Connell, J. Alber, H. Hayes, C; Marantette, A Wile, J. Echlin, J. Nash, J. Morrison. Minim Department.	- J. Bennett, H. Jones, Geo. Lyons, C. Whitney, S. W. Hopkins, E. DeGroot.	. Honorable Mention, . Minim Department. Orthography and Reading.	" First Glass.—G. Berry, G. J. Gross, G. Lyons, E. Lyons, G. Jenkins, M. Smyth, G. Trussell. Second Glass.—H. Jones, W. Byrne, J. Chando-nai, C. Blaizy. Third Glass.—H. Fear, C. Jenkins. Fourth Class.—A. Cressner, J. Wilson. \ "• ’ * 1 * Washington’s Birthday. Programme of the Grand Exhibition, Feb. 22d, 1869. Introductory March	Band Overture—“ Tancredi ”—Rossini.		Orchestra Oration	J. Cunnea Chorus			    .Philharmonics Address			D. J. Wile Chorus				 • Philharmonics Recitation	=	M. Foote Solo and Chorus	“The Bright Ionian Sea”
m. §. & A. I. Going Leave. South Bend, 8:35 a. m. '	“	“	11:10 a. m. “	8:06 p.m. «	“	12:19 a.m. •	Going Leave South Bend, 6:12 a. in. “ .	' “	6:40 p. m. “	“	2:42 a. m. “	“	4:10 a. m. -—.—		RAILROAD. East: Arrive at Toledo, 4:26 p. m. “	“	5:00 p. m. “	“	1:55 a. m. “	“	6:15 a. m. West :	■ Arrive at Chicago, 10:00 a. m. “	“ 10:00 p. m. “	’ “ 6:30 p.m. “	Laporet, 5:48 a. m.	

190
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
National Air..........................Band
Overture—“ Cenerentola”—Rossini...: Orchestra
COUNT DS MOOK.
A Tragedy in five acts, by the Thespians.
Dramatis PersonzS. Chas, de Moor....................M. S. Ryan
Francis de Moor................J. M. Moriarty
Count de Moor....................AV. Rhodes
Julius......................... J. Eisenman
Herman...........................A. B. White
Switzer..........................L. B. Logan
Roller...........................J. O’Reilly
Spiegelberg.......................  H.	Keeler
Schufterle.........................S. Corby
Kazman...........................J. S. Gavit
Grimm..........................H. P. Morancy
Daniel.......1'.'.'. 1.'..... I. ... ^.W. Roy
Commissary.................. A.	W. Arrington
Kozinski...........1.............J. Fleming
National Air.........-...........'..... Band
0 verture....................     Orchestra
A RACE FOR A DINNER.
A Comedy in One Act.
Dramatis Persons.
Sponge	J... . ....H. B. Keeler
Feed well ... ; ..............W. Rhodes
Doric.........................A.	B. White
Measureaton.................J.	M. Moriarty
Dalton............        A.	W. Arrington
Lovell ....... ..;............R.	L. Aikin
Francis,......................J.	O’Reilly
Gammon...............4.........;	S. Corby
United Scientific Association.
Cabinet of Natural History, . | Notre Dame, Feb. 16,,1869. f
Editor Scholastic Year.—The sister Societies having made their reports in your last number, we think it is about time for the U. S. A. to say a few words for itself and its doings during the past session. We cannot, it is true, boast of any “ mean work ” like the St. Aloysius Philodemics, nor do we think it necessary to mention, like the good little boys of St. Edward’s, that we never “go to detention”—(we may remark, however, just en passant, that ever since its organization, the Premium of Honor has invariably been given to the U. S. A) We haven’t got a Seal, although if one of our numerous polar correspondents would be so kind as to catch us one, and send it down
by express, we will receive it with thanks, have it stuffed by our accomplished taxidermist, Bro. Ferdinand, and give it a conspicuous place in the Cabinet of Natural History. Speaking of the Cabinet of Natural History,—our meeting-room, we must digress to remark how consoling it is for men of science to hold their intellectual conferences surrounded by wild beasts, birds of prey, and poisonous reptiles, which have-been rendered perfectly innocuous by the fair hands of Science herself, by the simple operation of stuffing them. Oh that the reign of Science were extended throughout the whole earth! Oh that all the abominable creatures in the world were stuffed!
But to our point. Last September, the affairs of the Association seemed in a deplorable condition. On our return from vacation we found our winter bottom gone, and our pillars collapsed. Ender such circumstances how could our affairs be expected to turn out ? If our edifice did not turn out a keeler, at least it suffered a catastrophe quite as bad,-and was only saved from destruction by being braced up with the aid of stays. As for the “milkof human kindness,” the very sources of it were cut off, and what we had left seemed for a long time to have turned sour. Eventually, however, the Association arose like a phoenix from its ashes, and re-assumed the lofty flight for which it has been distinguished ever since its foundation, in the spring of 1868, for the prosecution of scientific researches. It is divided into three departments, devoted to Natural History, Physics, and Mathematics, presided over respectively by Rev. Fathers J. C. Carrier, S. S. C., and T. L-Vagnier, S. S. C., and Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M. It is composed of students of the Senior Department, and numbers twenty-five (of whom seventeen are active) members.
The Exercises of the Association consist of Professorial lectures, delivered by, the Heads of the Three Departments, with debates and lectures entirely on scientific subjects by the active members. The Association holds its meetings every Wednesday evening in the Cabinet of Natural History. The present-officers of the Society, in addition to the Heads of Departments already mentioned, are as follows: Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C., Director; Mr. J. A. Dickinson, Secretary; Mr. W. P. McClain, Treasurer; Mr. F. Crapser, Librarian. The Library of the Association consisting of seventyseven volumes, thrown open to its use by the kindness of the Rev. Director, is ample for purposes of scientific reference, and three solid scientific periodicals are received. „ .

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
191
I
It
>
The exercises of the Association were inaugurated on the evening of Oct. 21st, by the Rev. Director, who read a highly instructive lecture, entitled “Leaves from a Bug-Hunter’s Journal.”' This lecture, which was the first delivered before the Association, was the result of close personal observation. Since then the Association has had the pleasure of listening to fifteen fine lectures, mainly upon Zoology, Geology, and Mathematics, delivered by its members
On the evening of Jan. 6th, a subject connected with Entomology was brought forward for debate, Messrs Reilly, Buddeke, and Dickinson taking the affirmative and Messrs McClain, Cunnea, and Crapser, the negative. After a spirited discussion of more than two hours, during which many fine arguments were produced on either side, the Rev. Director, having carefully summed up the whole, gave his decision jn favor of the negative. *
As the winter season is not favorable for scientific explorations, only one expedition of the society has, as yet, taken place this scholastic year. This was the excursion to Niles, Mich., during the Christmas holidays, the members of the Association being attended by a numerous body of their fellow students, who derived great entertainment, not to say instruction, from witnessing their performances. The Committee on Physics applied themselves principally to the solution of Problems in the Composition and Resolution of Forces, as exemplified in the propulsion and rotation of ivory spheres on a horizontal plane. The Committee on Civil Engineering went down to inspect the new bridge lately erected and still in course of completion. One of their member's avers that its arched supports are constructed in a true catenary curve. A cat and nary curve was also observed on the old bridge. The cat, however, did not appear to be an insepparable adjunct’ of the bridge, as shortly afterwards they observed a goose swimming down the river, and the cat sitting on her tail. The Committee on Natural History devoted their attention chiefly to certain mollusca, which were found totally deprived of their shells, no doubt owing to some geological catastrophe. -They were obliged to discuss a great number of specimens before they could arrive at any. satisfactory conclusion concerning them. A great affinity for Tomato Ketchup was detected in all of them. The Committee on Geographical Boundaries report that on passing from Indiana into Michigan the line of demarcation appeared to consist mainly of a rail fence, which by reason of its angularity,
projects alternately into each of the States, something like the Binomial Theorem with its signs alternately plus and minus. They were inclined to refer the negative signs to Michigan, as the vicinity of Bertrand precluded the possibility of any positive signs of improvement in that unfortunate (but respectable) State.
Speaking of Bertrand puts us in mind of another boon to the students of the University, for which they may thank the U. S. A. It may not be generally known that the design of the beautiful entertainment by which every one was so amused on New Years’ night emanated originally from the Cabinet of Natural History—inspired, no doubt, by the wild beasts, etc., before alluded to. It was mainly carried out by the members of the U. S. A., assisted by a numerous body of kind friends, which their gentlemanly deportment and obliging manners always earn for them wherever they go. The gentlemen engaged in that entertainment still regard themselves as an organization, and under the appropriate name of the “Silver Jubilee Club”—(derived from the happy year:—the twenty-fifth of the College foundation—on whose First Day they made their first appearance)—hope to appear again before their intellectual and appreciative audience. But of this more anon. The “ Silver Jubilee Club” is to the U. S. A. what the Two-Penny Club is to the Philodemics, only more so—as much more as silver is more than copper,“or brass.
Having set before you, in this brief but categorical report, the various and urgent claims of the U. S A. on the gratitude of your readers, I. shall leave them to form their own conclusions, and remain, Mr. Editor, yours, etc.
. - > J. A. Dickinson, Bec. Sec.
p. S.—A Zoological discussion on the “Literary Seal” mentioned in a late number of your valuable paper^ is soon to take place. It is likely to be very warm, as some are inclined to think that» the Seal in question is only a specimen of the celebrated Asinus vulgaris, mathematically (but incomprehensibly) raised to the nth power.
Thespian Society.
At a meeting of this Society, held on the 1st inst., the following officers were elected'for the present session:
Director, Prof. M. T. Corby; President, H. B. Keeler; VicePresident, A. W. Arrington; Secretary, A. B. White; Treasurer, W. P. Rhodes; Stage Managers, M. S Ryan, J. M. Moriarty; Ushers, J. A. O’Reilly. J. J. Flemming, R. L. Akin; First Censor, L. B. Logan; Second Censor, J. Wilson.
.	A B. White, Sec.

192	THE SCHOLASTIC-YEAR.
Jmint WaRY'S JUademy.
St. Mary’s, Feb. 9, 1869.
On the 4th inst. the pupils at St. Mary’s enjoyed a fine banquet of venison, furnished by the kindness of our good friend, Mr. Pr J. McNamara, of Omaha City.
Very Rev. Father General had sent from Paris some chocolate for the use of the children, with instructions that the Sisters provide a fine mammoth cake with a ring baked in it (Twelfth Cake), to be served with the chocolate on the Feast of the Epiphany; but the letter reaching us too late for that day, the banquet was deferred until the 4th inst.
According to ancient usage the fortunate individual whose share of the cake contained the ring was proclaimed Queen for the evening. This royal dignity fell upon Miss Winifred Corby, who was instantly greeted by the enthusiastic acclamations of her loyal subjects. It certainly would have delighted the hearts even of children of larger growth, to have witnessed the hearty, unrestrained mirth that prevailed among the pupils. The refectory was on this occasion truly a banqueting hall.
Supper over, the Queen, her Maids of Honor and Pages, retired for awhile that she might reappear in regal state. When her subjects had been put in order by the ringing of the Prefect's bell, “Her Majesty” entered, escorted by her Maids of Honor, Misses Crouch, Bertrand, O’Brien and McManaman; two Pages, Ada Garrity and B. Wilson, held her train. The Queen being conducted to her throne, received the petitions of her subjects in the most gracious manner: Petition No. 1, “A coronation ball;” No. 2, “An hour’s extra sleep the next morning;” No. 3, “ Some more ball on Monday No. 4, “ A continuation of the same programme on Tuesday.” Her Royal Highness very graciously assented to said petitions, much to the delight of her subjects and the consternation of the suspended authorities, who began to wonder to what length her Majesty would extend her royal prerogatives.
The Coronation Ball was opened by the Queen and continued with great vivacity till 9 o’clock. At the close of the entertainment the pupils declared themselves highly delighted with the whole afiair, and expressed many thanks to Father General and their good friend Mr. P. J. McNamara, who had so generously aided in giving them such a pleasant entertainment.
February .16. Arrivals.
I	—
Feb. 11.—Miss E. Williams, Sturgis, Mich.; Feb. 12.—Miss L. James,Kokomo, Ind.; Feb. 15. —Miss K. Moore, Chicago, HL
Tal>le of Honoi', Sr.
Misses E. Longsdorf, A. Carpenter, M. and L. Chouteau, T. and M. Vanhorn, L. Barnett, M. Rumely, F. and R. Fox, A. Dinges, E. Spillard.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class:—Misses L. and. L. Tong, K. Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea.
First Class Sr. :—Misses J. Hynds, A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, A. Radin, N. Tabor, E. Kirwin, M. Morrill, M. Claffey, E'.’ Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, L. Lewis.
Second:—Misses M. Edwards, S. Thomson, E. Bland, C. Foote, L. English, A. Bryson, N. Leoni, M. King, N. Sherburn, E. Carr, A. Heckman, W. Corby, K. Armstrong, L. Chamberlain, B. Gardner, E. Smith, K. Young, H. Neil, E. Rogers.
Third:—Misses M. Tuberty, E. Ruger, M. Kirwin, M. Shirland, K. Kent, S. Beebe, R. Joslin, F. Stevens, M. Dillon, E. Hill, U. Gill, L. Ram-stell.
First Preparatory Sr.:—Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, M. Foote, E. Darst, E. Lonergan, E. Henry.
Second:—Misses A. Sprochnle, A. Minnick, N. Burridge, M. Minor, J. Denny, L. Blaizy, M. Clune.
Third:—Misses C. E. Hoerber, A. Matthews, J. Davis, E. Seiler, J. Kent, M. Rumely, N. Whitfield, E. Price.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses L. McNamara, A. Woods, A. Metzger, L. Thomson, F. Taylor, M. Bader, M. Nash, M. O’Meara, M. Gildersleeve, N. Longley, A. Byrne.
Honorable Mention.
Second, Preparatory Class:—Misses L. Neil, L. Jones, M. Durant.
Third:—Misses J. Walton, M. Letourneau, J.
Wilder, A. Robson, M. McNamara.
First Junior Class:—Misses M. Roberts, J. Byrne.
Second:—Misses B. Henry, B. Wilson, N. Strieby, R. Canoll, K. Forman, N. Price, M. Rupalds, A. Garrity.