■;	■	Li -7 i
'i	(-i-	' •	■■ ■
C	' O 'i • • * . - \
v • / 2 £ . 3	......... < ■'•
/^7 q -	:	: .-.^ .
\ Notre Dame Scholastic.
I ’■'/ ‘	___
।	Disce quasi semper viotmais; vive quasi eras moriturus.
I	Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGUST 23, 1879.	Number 1.
i •».

[Selected.]
Time Flies.
Time Ilies:
But with, what wings?
With -wings of butterflies.
To joy it clings, Now here, now there—Who sighs For joy, finds joy, and dies.
Time flies:
But with what wings ?
With wings of bees it hies:
Who works and sings In rich content all day, Will bear bright gold away.
Time flies:
But with what wings ?
With wings of birds to skies Where sunlight flings Wide open heaven’s door, Life! light! who cares for more ?
Time flies:
But with what wings ?
[f	With angels’ winss it tries
*	To lift low things
Up from the heavy sod, Up from earth’s griefs to God.
-----------1	I----------
।	The Study of St. Thomas.
t- In the scientific and religious movement which characterizes our epoch, the return to the study of St. Thomas is >. one of the most consoling signs of progress in theology and philosophy. The Angelic Doctor has the merit of reuniting in wonderful harmony all that there is true in y pagan science- without neglecting the speculations of Christian wisdom. At each step we find in him Aristotle, the most remarkable representative of ancient philosophy, and St. Augustine, the chief founder of Christian philosophy. With him, reason is not astonished to be subject to faith, science does not reject tradition, natural truths are interwoven with supernatural truths, and form one vast concept—the eternal glory of thomistic doctrines.
Later centuries, however, so fruitful in errors, had pro-x fessed a great contempt for scholasticism and its rigid dialectics. In the name of rhetoric and scientific progress, it had relegated to the rank of superannuated books the writings of the doctors of the schools. Philosophers of good faith, drawn away by the spirit of novelty, fascinated by a vain hope of liberty, believed that in an instant they could discover better than that which the wisdom of all ages had
amassed. Others, through hatred against the Church, were unwilling to owe anything to her; they recalled the impious words of Luther: “ Tolle Thomam el disstpabo Ecdesiam." They sought to realize it.
Then from all sides there appeared philosophers who rejected all tradition; freeing themselves from all authority, they vaunted the independence of reason and mocked at the ignorance and barbarism of ancient times. They alone possessed knowledge, they were the new lights of the world; for them no more of the past, they were to discover all truth. St. Thomas had, more than once, proclaimed the true power of reason; more than once, did he speak of the utility of revelation even in the order of natural truth; but St. Thomas had left philosophy the servant of theology, he was none other than a commentator of Aristotle; to these new philosophers was reserved the glory of recalling the human race from the sepulchre of death, from the darkness of faith, to the life of intelligence, to the light of reason.
At once the work of destruction commenced; ruin increased, and a confusion up to that time unknown was produced. Each one created his language, and concealed, under unintelligible formulas, ideas still more obscure. Henceforth there were to be as many opinions as philosophers—everywhere doubt and hesitation. From the experimental philosophy of Bacon, Locke deduced his materialistic and sensualistic theories; from the methodical doubts of Descartes, from his famous principle—ego cogito —differently interpreted, proceeded scepticism, idealism, pantheism. Among the disciples of the same master, some denied the existence of bodies which others deified. Leibnitz was pleased to call his system, the method of demonstration and sufficient reason; scarcely is it formulated than human liberty disappears, all natural, social and religious right is destroyed, humanity groans under an inexorable destiny, German rationalism is founded, and from Kant and Hegel there is not more than a step to the last of the pantheists. Then the true, eternal, immutable, absolute God is confounded with man himself.
From speculation the step was soon made to practice. Morals became corrupt, the social order was overturned ; everywhere trouble and revolution and an anticipated hell was the image of a world without hope and without God. Such was the fruit of this new philosophy. It boasted of satisfying all intellectual and moral, wants, and it cast the mind of man into an abyss of anxiety and doubt; it wished to cause humanity to progress, and it must confess to its shame that, under its guidance, reason has singularly retrograded. Still these innovators were wanting neither in talent nor activity; full of zeal for their principles, they cultivated them for more than two centuries, but in vain. The more they sought to render them fruitful by their
2 :	.V.: TSOS-It&TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. # ® ® •• • ••••••
speculatisi^J *t$e mojq’-disahftdui wer&tjle qofisequences drawn ffdm them............ * ”
' At the present time all honest minds recognize the want of a complete restoration of philosophy. They have erred in separating themselves from the ancients: it is necessary, then, to retrace their steps. A little hesitation was shown at first. It was believed sufficient to return to Descartes; some philosophers sought a remedy for all these evils in the explanation and correction of the author of method; they hoped to accomplish the work of Saint Thomas on Aristotle. But it was an illusion. Pagan philosophy could be purified by the saving waters of baptism, and it was; it was a germ which required to be vivified; but how render Christian a science which was born after rejecting the Christian idea? Here the principle of life is wanting; there is no question of a germ, but of a corpse. Was it not more just that the stone rejected by the authors of the new systems should become anew the corner-stone, that the fathers and doctors of the Catholic Church should become the base and foundation of the grand edifice of truth ?
Among Catholics, some yielded to the torrent. Without losing for the Angel of the Schools the respect and veneration due to him, they abandoned his method and philosophical doctrines. Suddenly, finding themselves deprived of arms against heretics, and incapable of replying to the errors of the times, they returned eagerly to St. Thomas, sure of finding in his writings a triumphant defence. Her-‘etics themselves, fatigued with the confusion reigning in their different sects, read with avidity the Angel of the Schools, and wished to find in his works the truth which would unite them to the Catholic Church. Finally, far from considering it a glory to proceed without regard to St. Thomas, all modern systems have sought to establish themselves on his teachings. Gioberti, Malebranche, the traditionalists, etc., have sought for arguments for their systems in the Summa.
The Apocalyptic Enigma.
To read the last canonical book of the Sacred Scriptures aright has been the labor and the despair of the learned in all ages of Christianity. The inspired writer himself pronounces a blessing on the careful student of his work, and challenges ingenuity to interpret its most mysterious passages, particularly that relating to the “ Name of the Beast,” and the number thereof, which is therein given as six hundred and sixty-six.	.
The early date at which efforts were made to solve this enigma may become evident from the fact that the name of the Emperor Nero—already dead when the book was written—is one of those from which the mystic number has been elicited. But here, perhaps, we ought to explain two things—first, how numbers are found in names, and secondly, how Nero could be the subject of a prophecy written after his death.
Most of the ancient numeral systems were founded on letters of the alphabet. The Roman numerals, being still extensively used, are well known, and contain only the letters I (J) V (U), X, L, C, D and M. All other letters in a Latin name count for nothing. The Greeks, on the contrary, use their whole alphabet, and three marks (episema) besides, making in all 27 characters, the first series running from aZpAa=l, to t7ieta=$; the second, from io<a=10, to Tcoppa—90, and the third from rAo=100, to sarapf=900.
Consequently, the “ arithmetical value” of a name is very different in Latin from what it would be in Greek. The name Joseph, for example, in Latin contains but one numeral letter, the first, and its arithmetical value is =1 ; while in Greek it adds up as follows:
iota = 10
omega=800 sigma =200 eta = 8	-
phi =200	'
1518
Now, in Hebrew it will not amount to quite so much : jod = 10 vau = 6 samech = 60
i pe = 80
156
So you perceive at once that a great many very various numerical results may be obtained from the same name. Besides, the number of letters in the name is sometimes added in, which would make for “Joseph” a total of 1+6=7 in Latin, 1518+5=1523 in Greek, and 156+4=160 in Hebrew. Again, if you are figuring on the name of one of a long line of kings, the number attached to his name may be thrown in or left out as you think best, so that for the Emperor Joseph II you may add two more to the total.
Moreover, the position in Roman numerals counts for something. Let us illustrate with the name Julius (IVLIVS). By the usual method:
1= 1
V= 5
L=50	<
1= 1
V= 5
8= 0
62
But you may take it this way
IV= 4
L 50 IV= 4
•	S= 0
58
So that in view of the latitude allowed in these computations, it is not surprising that the mysterious number should have been evolved from the name of nearly every man that has arisen to obnoxious prominence since the Apocalypse was written. We subjoin two of the most simple: the first in Latin. Ludovicus, the Latinized form of Louis, Clovis, or Ludwig, a name borne by heroes and commonplace folks, by saints and sinners, by kings and people shows the “cloven foot” without any violent straining thus:
L = 50
V= 5
D=500
O = '0
V= 5 1= 1 C =100	.
V= 5
- 8= 0
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3
To which of the gentlemen, good, bad, and indifferent, who have borne this name, the “number” applies, we cannot pretend to say, but we will venture the opinion that of the thousands who have received it, few, if any, have felt its arithmetical weight as'an oppression.
The name of Mahomet or Mohammed, the various orthographical forms of which render it a tempting arithmetical study, at least to Christians, affords an example of the same numerical combination in its Greek form. In Latin, it . would never do; for, spell it as you would, you could hardly leave out the M, which is valued at 1000, and would “ bust” the whole thing, as we say in pin-pool. But one of the Greek forms of the name is Maometis, which adds up as follows:
mu = 40 alpha = 1 omicron = 70 mu = 40 epsilon = 5 tau =300 iota = 10 sigma =200
666
Now, to return to the Emperor Nero, one would think he was tolerably safe, for his name in Latin is of no numerical value whatever. Turn it into Greek, and you can’t spell it with omicron, because that would make it of the neuter gender. It must be spelled with omega=800, and there you are again. But a trifle of this kind would never discourage an arithmomancer. Take the Greek form, Kaisar Neron, and turn it into Hebrew. That does away with the vowels, all except a pointed nau for the long o, and the result is
Koph =100 Samech= 60 Resch =200
360=Kaisar.
Nun = 50 Resch=200 Vau = 6 Nun = 50
306 .	360
666=Kaisar Neron.
You see it is a trifle more difficult to stretch the first of the anti-Christian Emperors on this bed of Procrustes, than either the false prophet of Islam or the royal saint of France. Yet it can be done; and the accessory evidence is pretty positive, or so it seemed to the Christians of the time of the destruction of Jerusalem, in “ favor ” of Nero. It was the fifth head that was wounded unto death, and Nero, then reputed as dead, was the fifth Emperor of Rome, counting from Augustus, and the first whom the judicial authority of the Senate and people of Rome had condemned to death. He was as yet the only emperor who had persecuted the Christians, and although the report of his death had been made sufficiently public, yet it was by no means universally believed. There was an opinion prevalent among Christians, as well as others, that Nero was not really dead, but was in the East, whence he would return with an army of Parthians to conquer and destroy Rome (Tacitus, Hist. H., 8; Suetonius, Nero, cap. 57, Dio Chrysostom, Or. xxi). The sibylline oracles
| agree with this interpretation. In those belonging to the earliest centuries of the Christian era, we find the current belief that Nero, having fled beyond the Euphrates, should return with an army to perpetrate further cruelties in Rome. This, then, said the Christians of that epoch,—this is the beast that was and is not—the fifth fallen head—one of the seven; the eighth, because he should reappear after his deadly wound was healed. Leaving out Galba and Otho, whose reigus were brief, such an interpretation would suit very well the age of the destruction of Jerusalem, at which time the heads of the beast would be: 1, Augustus; 2, Tiberius; 3, Caius; 4, Claudius; 5, Nero; 6, Vitellius; 7, Vespasian, after whom Nero was expected to reappear. But all attempts—and their number is incalculable—that have been made to expound the mysteries of the Apocalypse, have been found deficient in some vital point The efforts of the learned, the pious and the devoted of all ages have been foiled by this wonderful book, and we have little reason to believe that the marvels it relates will be fully made manifest to us until the light of a better world illumines our spiritual power of vision.
S.
An Historical Incident in The Life of Pere Marquette.
Hon. M. L. Hopkins, editor of the Mackinac (Mich.) Register, says in his issue of that paper for August 13th: “Father Jacker, of Point St. Ignace, in his address to the Marquette meeting on Friday presented a point in history which we had not read, or before heard mentioned, and which is of much interest to the historical student of the early settlements of the Northwest—or what we have heretofore called the Northwest.
“The worthy Father said the establishment of the missions at Sault Ste. Mary and Point St. Ignace, at that early date, prevented a coalition of the northwestern tribes with the Ircquois, then the dominant Indian nation, and the allies of the English. The consolidation of all the tribes, and wedding together their strength in one compact mass, would have constituted a danger which would have prevented the colonies from declaring their independance of Great Britain. The Indians saw with alarm the encroachments and growing power of the whites, whether French or English, and no treaty formed with them would restrain them from hostilities when an opportunity, really or seemingly favorable, presented itself for an outbreak.
“ There is no doubt that a consolidation of the entire Indian .strength of the northwest would have constituted a formidable menace. The Jesuit missionaries in holding the other tribes aloof from the Iroquois, divided the aggregate Indian strength.
“ The result was not foreseen. The establishment of the mission of St- Ignace was more than a hundred years before the Declaration of Independence was made, but the numbers and strength of the Indian tribes had not decreased, in the northwest, in 1776. The French, by becoming allies of the Colonies, could exert their old-time influence over the Indians, and the division caused by the establishment of the missions—or rather, the prevention of consolidation of the tribes,—freed the Colonies from a fearful-foe on their borders.
“ Thus the labors of Marquette, and his associates in missionary work, formed one link in that chain of circumstances leading to the birth of our nation. The subject is
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
not the less interesting because political ends formed no part of the purposes of the single-minded and self-sacrificing missionary.”
A Visit to South. Bend and Notre Dame.
[Hundreds of visitors come here every year, but of these only a few are heard from through the newspapers. The following extract from a letter of one of the latter to the Sandusky (Ohio) Daily Tribune of July 25th will, we think, prove worthy of reproduction in the Scholastic. We could wish to publish the entire letter, as it gives many interesting particulars about Notre Dame and South Bend.]
Sooth Bend, Ind., July 22.—We were just about “alive” after ascending and descending the two hundred and seventy-six steps, that led nearly to the top of the South Bend standpipe, which looks very much like the pictures I have seen of of Cleopatra’s needle. It is two hundred and fifty feet high. The water-pipe is two hundred and forty feet high and five feet in diameter. This is enclosed by a thick brick wall, with windows every little way. Between the wall and pipe is the special stairway leading to the top, from which a fine view of the city and surrounding country can be had. Mr. E. L. Abbott, the gentlemanly Supt. of the Water Works, gave our interested “Senior” a full description of the machinery used. They have three pumps, run by water from the St. Joe River. The capacity of each pump is fifteen hundred gallons a minute.
After resting, we took a carriage for Notre Dame, which is nearly two miles out. This, including Saint Mary’s for ladies, half a mile away, is the great Catholic College of our country. The college building, which was burned in April last, is being rapidly rebuilt, and is to be larger and handsomer in every respect. It is of white brick. They have already four stories built, and are now to put the ‘ ‘ French roof”* on, and expect to finish so as to be able to receive students in September. Their magnificent church, which stands very near, was fortunately uninjured by the great fire, the wind taking the flames in the opposite direction. This church has been building for ten years and is not finished yet. By the kind guidance of Brother Francis, who has been there twenty-two years, the beauties and mysteries of this grand edifice were revealed to us. There are fourteen large oil paintings on the walls, representing “The Journey to Calvary.” Each of these is handsomely framed and worth $150. These, with the splendid frescoing on the ceilings and walls, which also represent scenes in the life of Christ, were painted by Gregori, an Italian artist, who was engaged three years on the work. He has since been awarded a gold medal in .honor of it. He painted a portrait of Pope Pius IX, from life, in the Vatican, and brought it with him, and it hangs in front of the great organ. He also brought from Rome a Madonna by Murillof which is elegantly framed and hangs over one of the altars. This was in the room where and when the Pope died. Before the great altar hang seven beautiful lamps. The one just in front was a gift to Notre Dame by the “Children of Mary ” throughout the United States. It is set with jewels and cost four thousand dollars, and is kept continually burning. I cannot describe its beauty. We saw the jewelled crown sent by the Empress Eugenie to the statue of the Blessed Virgin. The windows are beautifully painted to represent scenes in both the Old and the New Testament, no two alike and each costing two hundred dollars. Brother Francis led the way to the tower where hangs the great bell, weighing fifteen thousand pounds. This bell was cast in the city of Mans, France, and cost seven
• This, of course, is a mistake. There will be no Mansard roof on ihe College.
t This must be a mistake. We think it is not a Murillo; but the writer says truly that it came from the room of Pope Pius IX.
thousand dollars. It is six feet and a half in diameter and six and a half inches thick. Still higher and higher hangs the chime of twenty-four bells, played by weights and cylinder. They were set for four tunes, which were played for our benefit. From this height we get as nice a view as from the stand-pipe. We enjoyed this visit very much, and feel greatly indebted to the kind gentleman who was so willing to show and explain everything. Driving around and through this city showed us its many attractions and beauties. It is quite a manufacturing place. We saw the immense Studebaker Wagon Works, which are the largest in the world. The Oliver Chilled Plow Works, ditto. We visited the South Bend Chilled Plow Works, and went all through them, and know more about plows now than we ever did before. Here is employed, as foreman of one of the departments, our genial host, Mr. B. B. Harris. These works occupy the old Methodist college building at the head of Washington street, and this year turns out twenty thousand plows. On the upper floor there were about a hundred being finished for the fairs. Two gentlemen were painting them beautifully with little landscapes and scroll work, etc., and they were handsome enough for any parlor. The Singer Sewing Machine Company have one of their three immense establishments located here. Then there are woollen mills, paper mills, stone mills, etc., etc. We passed the four elegant residences of the Studebakers; also, the pleasant home and grounds of Hon. Schuyler Colfax, whom we saw in conversation with a gentleman.
The Keokuk Bar.
We take the following, extract from an editorial in the daily Gate City (Keokuk, Iowa) of April 22d:
“ ’Tis a question, not of invidiousness, but of proper local and professional pride: “Is the junior bar of Keokuk as strong, in promise at least, as the senior ? Dsour young attorneys promise to maintain the high rank heretofore held by the Keokuk bar ?” There have some men gone out from the Keokuk bar by death or removal, who leave no successors to match them. On the whole, however, we believe it is the opinion of competent judges that the legal profession was never, in its entirety, stronger and better equipped in the practice of the law than now. The younger men and the new men have been counterparts of their elders in professional acumen and force. We have referred to more than one of these younger men. Before returning to the seniors, we will make note of some others of them.
“John Gibbons was admitted to the Lee County Bar in 1869. Born in Ireland, getting his scholastic training at a private academy in Londonderry, at Broad Street Academy in Philadelphia, and Notre Dame University, in Indiana, he was so thoughtful and apt as a pupil and made so good use of the keys of learning, which are all that the schools can give, that his Alma Mater at Notre Dame kept him in attentive remembrance, and in 1877 made him, by honorary degree, a master of arts. Reading law in the office of Wm. H. Martin, of Philadelphia, he turned to the courts ■ as the proper place to continue and perfect himself in that study. Every hour that he has been a lawyer he has been a student: he has been at once practitioner and pupil. The fact deserves recognition, as the method deserves praise. Seeing his capacity and his promise, his new legal friends at Keokuk, with that esprit de corps which makes the law the most magnanimous and admirable of professions, solicited and obtained for him, shortly after his coming to Keokuk, the appointment of Assistant Prosecuting Attorney. He held the place until he resigned it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	5
nearly five years later. By the way, that was an office made and maintained by our county board so long as the district prosecutor was a Democrat: so soon as the prosecutorship passed to a Republican, the board abolished the office. Did they mean thereby that they had made and maintained it as a perquisite and superfluity of partisanship, needful for the party but needless to the public? There would seem to have been impropriety in making and maintaining it then, or no propriety in its abolition now. We do not discuss or even complain of the fact here, we but narrate it. Certainly Mr. Gibbons was a good official: efficient and serviceable, and earning all that the county paid him. From 1873 to 1876 he was also City Attorney, kept in the place by the vote of both Republicans and Democrats. Some of the most noticeable and distinguishing work Mr. Gibbons ever did was in this capacity. The city was a debtor at once compromising and defendant. Many nice and intricate points under the law of contract and debt, complicated by intruding elements of federal law, were involved in or arose under these city cases, taxing alike the ingenuity of counsel and the research of courts. Many of these points, at once practical and obscure, refined but germane, were enlightened by the originality, developed by the industry and made cogent by the capacity of Mr. Gibbons. Elected to the Legislature in ’76 as a member of the most brilliant and probably the best delegation Lee County ever had in the general assembly, he was put at a disadvantage at the outset by being, if not the youngest, the least known, and so at the start did not fare so well as his associates in the assignments to committee work. But the test of the work of a session showed the qalities of the man. Before the Legislature adjourned he was conceded to be the highest authority in in the house upon questions of constitutional law. The nourishment then given his influence by his ability secured for him a year later the nomination of his party for the Attorney Generalship of the State. Successful as a practitioner, it would yet seem a fair presumption that Mr. G’s. highest qualities and capabilities are judicial. That if he had opportunity he would win his highest possible distinction and do his best work as a judge. Speaking of judges in the shell, of heirs apparent to the bench, of presumptive jurists whose fame rests on our conjecture but where the conjecture is made plausible by a fair analysis and estimate of their qualities, we want to group along with Mr. Gibbons the two other juniors of our bar to whom we propose to restrict the present paper—Mr. Wm. Collier and Mr. Joseph G. Anderson. After all, we don’t know just how fully well-founded is our own and the general opinion that the young lawyer of whom prophecy can make the most successful judge is he whose mind runs to general principles, who is metaphysical and speculative, who is discursive, ratiocinative and analytical. For in our own experience there never seemed a man more the born jury lawyer and less the born judge than H. C. Caldwell. It seemed his forte to talk on the floor, not to write opinions from the bench. Yet, being put upon the federal bench, he has become one of the ablest and best judges in the United States. However the test of trial might confirm or disprove our presumption as to their judicial qualities, the subjects of this paper, Mr. Anderson, Mr. Collier and Mr. Gibbons, are younger members of the bar who by their performance and their promise help to maintain the high intellectual status of the Keokuk bar.”
Art, Music and literature.
—A new edition of Chevalier O’Clery’s “ History of the Italian Revolution ” is now before the public.
—The writings of Cardinal Newman have again been published in a selected form by Lilly, of England.
—A “Life of Pope Leo XIII” has been written by the Rev. President of the St. Louis University, Mo., and elegantly printed by the Benzigers.
—Dr. Joyce of Boston, author of "Deirdre” has written a new poem which"will be published in the present year. The scene is laid in the Isle of Man.
—Rev. Father Bagshawe’s “Credentials of the Catholic Church” is just the book for a Protestant who desires information about the Mother Church. '
—Rev. Father Brennan, of New York, the distinguished Catholic writer, has received the degree of LL. D. from the Faculty of St. Francis’s College, in that city.
—The Catholic Societies of Working Men have conceived the idea of founding at Lille a Catholic school of arts and handicrafts. The buildings are in course of erection.
—The historian Gregorovius is engaged on a life of Pope Urban VIII, and has collected many important documents elucidating the policy pursued by that Pontiff during the Thirty Years’ War.
—Mr. Millais is reported to have sold his portrait of Mr. Gladstone for §4,000. It again changed ownership, and has now become the property of the Duke of Westminster at the price of §20,000.
—“ Harding, the Money-Spinner,” is a first class romance by the distinguished Catholic writer, the late Miles Gerald Keon, now becoming known in this country as the author of “Dion and the Sybils.”
—“Men and Women of the English Reformation, From the Days of Wolsey to the Death of Cranmer,” by Mr. S. H. Burke, should be read by all who desire a true knowledge of those troubled times.
—The fourth volume of the “Life of the Prince Consort” has recently been published by M. Theodore Martin. This book will give “ foreigners ” a good idea of what the Queen s has to do with the English Government.
—The famous Abbe Liszt, the celebrated pianist, has just been named Honorary Canon of the Cathedral at Albano. His nomination is said to be due to the influence of his friend ’Cardinal Hohenlohe, newly-elected Archbishop of Albano.
—The new Cathedral at Norwich, Conn., is expected to be ready for occupancy by October 1st. It is entirely of the finest Monson granite, is one of the largest, and is said also to be the most finely finished church edifice in New England. Up to this time the cost of the building has been about §400,000.
—The Brothers of the Christian Schools, who had been expelled from Germany, and had established themselves at Verviers, in Belgium, have been cited before the courts at Brussels, and ordered to leave the country. They pleaded for a delay of six months, but M. Bara will not give them longer than the 15th of August, when the vacation begins. Their only crime is that “ they, being members of a Religious Congregation, have opened an educational establishment, Catholic and free, frequented by numerous pupils.”
—Messrs. Bentley have published “A Victim of the Falk Laws,” a delightful narrative by a priest who was a victim, and who is equally full of earnestness and humor. He was for six months shut up in one of those dismal retreats, where “ more than six Bishops and some hundreds of priests of the Prussian Empire have suffered, or are now suffering, during long months or years, for the Faith.” This book can be equally recommended as a statistical account of “Falk” horrors and as an entertaining and even elevating “story.”
—Professor Blackie reports the close of the subscription for the endowment of the Celtic chair, the sum being £11,937 5s. It has been agreed, on the suggestion of his com
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mittee, to postpone the appointment of a professor for twelve months, in order that the capital fund may be increased. The title of the Chair is to be “ The Chair of Celtic Language, History, Literature, and Antiquities”; and the professor holding it is to be bound to teach the Gaelic language practically, as long as it is "a recognized medium of religious instruction in the Highlands.”
—Messrs. Gill, of Dublin, have republished a little book called “Two Bibles; a Contrast,” by A. M.; which is intended to indicate that “ the Catholic and the Protestant interpretations of the Bible are not two interpretations, but two Bibles.” I observe that the Freeman's Journal, in criticising this little book, says of it, “ It bubbles over with exquisite humor, incisive logic, and the keenest satire. The ‘ Two Bibles ’ deserves a place in every Catholic library, and will be found a most useful help to those who are engaged in the work of teaching and preaching. Its style is clear and vigorous, and, while its diction is elegant and accurate, it is simple enough for the most ordinary intellect.”
—The buildings of Georgetown College, located on a high hill just west of Georgetown, and where the Potomac begins to increase its breadth, commands a conspicuous position. The group has long been a landmark, and the large, handsome new structure lately erected at a cost of over $100,000 will make this institution of learning equal to any in the country. The first building, still standing, was erected in 1789, and the one just north of this in 1795. Congress chartered the institution as a university in 1815, and in two years later the first scholastic degrees were conferred. In 1831 the extension on the original building in the west was begun, and it was occupied the following year. In 1842 the astronomical observatory was erected on one of the eminences in the college grounds, and in 1848 the infirmary building was enlarged. In 1854 the extension of the original building on the east, for the accommodation of the younger students, was made. In 1851 the medical and in 1870 the law departments were organiz d. The new structure adds much to the picturesque grouping of the buildings, and produces a charming unity of effect. It outflanks the older ones to the south as well as to the north, being 112 leet long from wail to wall. It was commenced in October, 1877, and is now nearly finished.
—Composers differ as much as authors in their manner of working. M. Gounod is one of those whom composition throws into a very fever, and who can bear no interruption or domestic sounds about them while they sit at the piano thumping the keyboard with one hand and noting down the score with the” other. Poor Madame Gounod once drove him wild by coming to ask him for her thimble while he was endeavoring to link two phrases of an aria. Meyerbeer used to compose methodically, sitting down to his piano as a business man to his desk, and never showing the least irritation if called away from a work which he seemed able to lake up and drop with the utmost ease. Rossini composed best lying on his back in bed; and if once he was in the vein, he would lie abed all day, humming his airs to himself until he had learned them by heart, and scoring down a whole act at a time after he had hummed and rehummed it to his satisfaction. His musical memory was prodigious, but his voice was so untuneful that once an Italian inkeeper, in whose house he had hummed for three whole days at a stretch, ran up to beg that he would desist, for that his “noise” could be heard through the open window and disturbed some English tourists dining down-stairs. Auber, up to an advanced age, used to derive musical inspiration from a glass or two of champagne, and Wagner can only compose with the assistance of suits of satin clothes of divers colors, which he dons or puts off according to the style of the thing at which he is working. For instance, when he is spinning off a pastoral duet he will array himself in primrose satin; when he comes to a martial chorus, quick he bolts off to his dressing-room to don a pair of scarlet satin pantaloons, with tunic and cap to match. These delightful antics were made known to the public through the very distressing circumstance that the author of the “Tannhauser ” was sued by his milliner for the cost of his composing vestments, and was made to pay an extremely long bill. Among those whom we may call minor composers M. Lecocq is the most happily endowed, for he can forge solos
and choruses, anywhere and at any time—in trains, in a hot bath, on top of a ‘bus, in the rain, or in a dentist’s drawingroom while waiting to have a tooth drawn. M. Vasseur, who is an organist by profession, contrives his liveliest melodies by allowing his fingers to run wild over the keys of his large organ, and he is a fertile workman. M. Offenbach, on the contrary, though he has composed so much, is only prolific during the spring-time of the year and while residing by the seaside. If he tries to compose elsewhere and at other times of the year, his works are worth little, according to his own testimony.—McGee's Illustrated Weekly.
—The Figaro, of Paris, publishes some useful authentic statistics of the unauthorized teaching religious congregations in France. There are of women 125, and of men 16, total 141 unauthorized congregations, the former having 560 and the latter 81 establishments. There are 4.898 religious women and 1,556 men employed in education. There are 41,174 pupils in the schools conducted by religious congregations of women, and 20,255 in those conducted by men; and since their foundation 491,527 have passed through the former, and 178,438 through the latter. 6,087 girls and 3,426 boys enjoy burses, either partial or entire. The annual value of these burses is 1,186,076 francs. The Jesuits have 11,144 pupils under their instruction, and in ten years 6,878 of their pupils have passed the examination for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. If the religious are deprived of their right to teach it will cost the couutry eighty millions of francs to supply the void created.
Scientific Notes.
—The latest sensation in the way of materia medica is the cockroach. Bogomolow, a Russian, is the name of the person who has investigated'!!. The insect, dried and powdered, is given in doses of four and a half grains in Bright’s disease, chronic or acute. It has also been used with great success in various forms of dropsy.
—Grease spots can be quickly removed from paper by scraping a little pipe clay upon both sides of the paper, and then putting a flat iron over them, taking care that it is not so hot as to scorch the paper. Another method is to wet the grease with ether, and then put a bit of white blotting-paper on each side of the paper, and apply the hot iron. If a stain remain after the grease has been extracted, dip a camel’s hair brush into the pure spirits of wine and draw it over the edges of the spots.
—The editor of the London Truth, after observing that probably not one in twenty of the persons who indulge in boating on a holiday can swim, proceeds to tell his readers how to acquire this accomplishment. “Nothing,” he says, “ is more easy. When the air is out of the body its owner sinks; when the air is in the body its owner floats. Let anyone slowly draw in his breath as he draws back his legs and pushes forward his arms, retain it while he is preparing the stroke which is to propel him, and slowly allow it go through his lips as his arms are passed back from before his head to his sides and his legs are stretched out. The action of the stroke should not be quite horizontal, but should be made on a slight incline downwards. The real reason why people take weeks to learn how to swim is because swimming professors either do not know or do not choose to teach the philosophy of breathing, so as to render the body buoyant. I would engage to make anyone a tolerable swimmer in an hour, unless he be a congenital idiot.”
—Avoid bathing within two hours after meals, is the advice of the Royal Humane Society of England, or when exhausted from fatigue or from any other cause, or when the body is cooling after perspiration, and avoid bathing altogether in the open air if, after being a short time in the water, there is a sense of chilliness, with numbness of the hands and feet; but bathe when the body is warm, provided no time is lost in getting into the water. Avoid chilling the body by sitting or standing undressed on the banks or in boats, after having been in the water, or remaining too long in the water, but leave the water immediately if there is the slightest feeling of chilliness; The vigorous and strong may bathe early in the morning on an

<i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
i	empty stomach, but the young and those who are weak
I	had better bathe two or three hours after a meal; but the
)	best time for such is from two to three hours after break-
7	fast. Those who are subject to attacks of giddiness or
faintness, and who suffer from palpitations and other sense of discomfort at the heart, should not bathe without first consulting their medical adviser.
£ .	—Prof. J. R. Seeley delivered a lecture in London re-
। cently upon writing history, in which he said he could not ■:	but think that Macaulay’s historical method ought now to
be as much out of fashion as the old stage-coach. Mr. Buckle’s opposite theory of a scientific history, in which the political element, the development of political constitutions and of national freedom, the actions of Kings and Ministers, must make way for considerations of climate, soil, food, the conditions of social phenomena and industrial life, was dealt with more tenderly. Buckle’s book was the greatest hit since the publication of Macaulay’s “ History,” but it delighted general readers far more than students, and was not much talked of now. Since the ;	Greek times the political factor had always been the chief
i	one in history, and so it was with the great writers in the
seventeenth century,—Hobbes, Locke, Montesquieu, and '	Rousseau. Buckle was right in calling attention to the im-
•	portance of the social and economical elements, but not in
I	depreciating the political, which must always be of primary
moment. Prof. Seeley ridiculed at the same time the fashion of making every seventh chapter or so of a history a , resume of the philosophy, theology, literature, art, and science of a period, all which subjects required very special knowledge in the writer to be treated to any purpose. A .	true science of history must, at the risk of being thought
;	heavy, like such books as the “ Principia ” and the “ Wealth
of Nations,” treat history as the biography of States. Nothing could be more absurd than that a self-governing people should neglect such knowledge, which was one of the Iq, • most crying wants of the times. History must be built on ' nothing but solid, prosaic fact, and it would thus become true science, a science which would grow into the most practical in the^world by being made the basis of politics. At present our study of history was neither scientific nor practical.	•
—From his place in heaven I trust Father Secchi looked (£ down last Tuesday, the 2d, upon the dastardly act—an outrage to justice, and a desecration of that sanctuary of God-illuminated study and consequent great results to science "	—his Observatory. To his own beloved pupil and untir-
ing assistant in his scientific vigils, Father Ferrari, S. J., he left that monument of the generosity of Pius IX and the heroic sacrifices of the Jesuits. And leaving it in good, deft, and faithful hands, he died at rest. What was more, the proximity of the Observatory to the hallowed rooms of St. Aloysius and of the Blessed John Berchmans caused ' those sanctuaries to be hitherto respected, not because they 1 y	were such, but because Science next door ,'would be dis-
1 *	turbed. I will tell you the rest in the matter-of-fact way
of a secular daily, the Italie: “ Padre Ferrari, director of the Astronomical Observatory of Rome, having been informed that on this day (June 2d) the Ministry of Public Instruction would take possession of the Observatory, had addressed a petition to his majesty the king, begging him to ask the Ministry to await the sentence of the tribunals, before putting its decision into execution. In fact, the case । y is pending before the tribunals, and the Hon. Mancini (the ex-clerical thunderbolt manufacturer!) defends Padre Ferrari. Yesterday his majesty sent the request of Padre Ferrari, to the Ministry recommending it to examine the affair attentively, and avoid every act that might seem arbitrary. Spite of the recommendation of his majesty, this morning a chief of division of the Ministry of Public In-t _ tsruction presented himself with some employes of the Ob” servatory, in order to take possession thereof. Padre Fer-„ rari, assisted by his advocate, protested. The representa-' i tives of Public Instruction called the guards of Public Se-; curity, who, accompanied by a delegate, took Padre Ferrari by the arms and walked him out of the Observatory.” The parasite—one Tachini—who wanted the office, and who, by the by, had received many a favor from the illustrious Secchi and his worthy disciple,'Ferrari, assisted at the outrage. The Observatory was built and furnished on the magnificent scale which is now the admiration of
the scientific world and the glory of Rome at the joint expense of the glorious Pius IX and the Order of the Jesuits. —Homan Cor., Phdaddphia Standard.
Books and Periodicals.
—One of our horticulturists tells us that the American Agriculturist for August is up to the usual standard of excellence of that most useful publication. The Agriculturist, now in its 38th year, has attained, and deservedly, a high position among the best publications of its class, and farmers and people residing in the country will find in it so many useful hints for the farm, garden, parks, and stockyard that they should not be without it. Although nominally the Agriculturist, it does not confine itself to the bounds of that title, but takes in the various branches of horticulture as well,—in fact everything of interest to those who live in the country. Published by the Orange Judd Co., 245 Broadway, N. Y., at §1.50 a year.
—The Ave Maria, published at Notre Dame, now in the 15th year of publication, seems week by week to improve in matter and to grow in popular favor. It contains interesting articles on the recurring Festivals, original stories, essays and sketches from some of the best writers both at home and abroad, poetry far above the common and frequently of a very high order of merit, miscellaneous articles on matters of interest, a well-edited department of Catholic news, a weekly bulletin of the Archconfraternity of Our Lady of Lourdes, etc., and a “ Children’s Department” (the first established, we believe, in any English Catholic periodical, but which of late, we are glad to see, has found many worthy imitators). The Ave Maria gives 20 large doublecolumn pages (imperial octavo) of reading matter every week—making 1040 pages a year—for $2.50, which makes it one of the cheapest periodicals in the English language. The Ave Maria has reached a circulation of nearly 14,000 and is constantly increasing.
—The September number of the Catholic World is freighted with the usual variety of excellent articles. “ Is Life worth Living?” discusses a subject to which William Hurrell Mallock called marked attention lately in the Nineteenth Century, showing the results to which the dereligionizing process has been carried without satisfactory results even to the most positive among positivists, and that while endeavoring to bring the exact sciences to bear on theological questions they have in reality been endeavoring to abjure exact thought. “Pearl,” which is a pearl among stories, keeps up its interest, and will prove a charming half-hour’s recreation during the dog-days. “A Mission Mass”—poetry—contrasts the station Mass in a New-England log-hut of long ago, with the solemn functions of to-day —the log hut being replaced by a stately church whose crosscrowned spire points the pilgrim his true home. “ The Tomb of Magdalen” is an interesting companion-sketch to the “ Sainte Baume ” in the preceding number. The other articles are: “Souvenirs of Madame le Brun;” “The Bridal Ring of Our Lady at Perugia, and the Pardon of Saint Francis at Assisi ”; “ The Major’s Manoeuvre,” the latter by the author of “ Pearl,” we should say, judging by the ease and brilliant dash of the writer; “An Archbishop of Canterbury in the 19th Century ”; “ The End of Man,”— poetry; “AMartyr of Martyrs”; the initial paper, evidently, of a series on “ Christian Art ” begins with Murillo—it bears the mark of a studious mind devoted to its task, is given in pleasing style, and must awaken interest in the series. Then follow “ The Catholic Church and Modern Liberties ”; “A Legend of Saint Paschal Bayion ”— poetry; “Current Events”; New Publications. This number closes the XXIXth Volume of the magazine. Those wishing to subscribe for the coming volume may address the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York. Subscription, $5 a year.
—An ingenious wife tells her oppressed sister how to come it over the tyrant, man. “ When I want a nice snug day all to myself,” she says, “I tell George dear mother is coming, and then I see nothing of him till late at night. Try it.”	.
1
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, August 33, 1879.
will huny back here so gladly this September, on looking upon this beautiful edifice, will reverently bless
“ The Eternal Art, educing good from ill.”
Notre Dame, so loved, so beautiful, so welladapted to the welfare of its students, has been suffered to burn only to become more dear, more glorious, and better fitted for the -culture of its troops of generous students. A more splendid future is awaiting us.
We this week send a copy of the Scholastic to all our last year’s subscribers and hope they will renew for the coming year. The cost of a year’s subscription is only §150, paid in ' advance if possible. Whether they have concluded to continue or discontinue, they will confer a great favor by informing us. A postal card addressed to the Editor of the Notbe Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind., will suffice.
The New Year.
Six weeks ago to-day the last Scholastic of the old year was issued, and we left the toilers of Notre Dame to work away in silence, fashioning the new house of learning. Here it has been a busy time indeed, but to the outside world the New Notre Dame has arisen as noiseless as Solomon’s Temple. Centre, rotunda, wings, and front ex tension, story after story, have gone upward from basement to roof, until the whole structure, like a picture under the hand of an artist, has assumed the full beauty and proportion of its form.
But are we ready—will all things be in readiness for the opening of the new year, one week from next Tuesday ? Yes, we are ready. This is what the student will find awaiting him on his arrival here on the second of September,—Study Halls finished and well dried, Class Rooms the same, also Dormitories, and Refectories. That is, all the essential parts of the College will be ready. As for parlors, libraries, museums, etc., they have had to wait until the necessary parts were first finished, so that they will not be in readiness for a little while longer.
It was at first believed that all the building could be completed in time to have the Dedication on the eight of September, but that was found impossible, and the Dedication has been deferred. Due notice of this festive occasion will be given; but we re-assure our readers that the College will be in readiness for the reception of students on the first Tuesday of September, as originally announced.
From the lithograph which has been sent out, our readers are no doubt familiar with the general appearance of the new building,—its gothic form, varied outline, lofty iron-capped windows, galvanized cornice, slate roof, numerous spires, and lofty dome. And from the description which accompanied the engraving, the student has likewise become acquainted with the interior arrangements,—the wash-rooms or lavatories supplied with hot and cold water, . the trunk-rooms adjoining the lavatories, the whole building lit with gas and heated by steam, the perfect ventilation of eveiy room, the convenient desks and seats in the study-, halls, the class-rooms on the same floor as the study-halls, and the greater quiet, warmth, healthfulness, and comfort of every part of the new edifice. The studious youths who hurried away from here so unwillingly last April, and who
The Infirmary Building.
This building has been entirely remodelled and elegantly finished. It is now complete, and is itself a respectable college building capable of accommodating a large number of students. Even if the college building, through any unforeseen accident, should not have been ready, this building could have temporarily accommodated nearly two hundred students. During the completion of the old College, in 1865, this was done, and it could be done even better now, but we are glad to say it will not be necessary. The new College is ready, and the Infirmary building can be left for its own uses. It is covered with slate, and is most beautifully and substantially finished throughout.
The Feast of the Assumption at Notre Dame.
The Feast of the Assumption was celebrated at Notre Dame with the usual pomp and splendor.' Very Rev. Fr. Granger celebrated High Mass, assisted by Father Fran-ciscus as Deacon and Father Collins as Subdeacon. After solemn Vespers a procession was formed which wound its way out of the church, along St. Joseph’s Lake and through the surrounding groves, to the tomb of the Blessed Virgin on the grounds of the Scholasticate. Here an antiphon was chaunted and an appropriate prayer said, after which the procession returned to the church, where Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given by the venerable celebrant. It was indeed an edifying and beautiful sight to see so many persons of all nations assembled by a common Faith to do honor to the Blessed Mother of God. Before the procession started out, Rev. Father Hudson delivered a characteristic and eloquent sermon explanatory of the devotion to the Mother of God and the ceremony of the day.
The preacher showed how beautiful and reasonable is Catholic devotion to the Blessed Virgin, the Mother of Jesus—she who in the designs of God had been selected from all eternity to be the Mother of the world’s Redeemer, and who, therefore, was saluted by the Archangel as “full of grace.” (St. Luke, i, 28.) He showed how incongruous was the reasoning which, while pretending to accept the dogma of the Incarnation, deprived the Blessed Virgin of the honor which would really be given to the mother of any great and good man. Alike unreasonable was the assertion that the honor we give the Mother detracted from that due to her Divine Son, for what son would feel slighted at seeing his mother honored, and more especially when that honor was given through regard for himself? Therefore it is that Catholics honor the Blessed Virgin; and she being the Mother of God, they endeavor to honor her proportionately. For Christ in taking upon Himself our human nature never for an instant ceased to be God, and as the Blessed Virgin begot Him according to the flesh, she is therefore the Mother of God. What an

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	9
honor, then, was hers! Who, that believes Jesus Christ to be God, can say that the Catholic Church honors the Blessed Virgin too much! Devotion to the Blessed Virgin naturally leads to devotion to her Divine Son, and where she is । > loved and honored there and there only is Christ wor-shipped “ in spirit and in truth.”
After the sermon the procession was formed. It was headed by a seminarian carrying a silver cross, and by two acolytes with lighted candles in massive silver candlesticks. Then followed the students and apprentices, carrying beautiful banners of blue and white, properly deco-rated with embroidery and paintings of saints and angels. Next in line were the Brothers of the Holy Cross, about * one hundred and fifty in number, with uncovered heads, repeating the prayers of the Rosary. These were followed by the Minims, in crimson cassock and lace surplice, carrying banners of various colors, preceding the Rev. Clergy, i who accompanied the dignitaries of the Congregation of I the Holy Cross, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the whole Order; Father Granger, Provincial of the United States, and Father Corby, Local Superior. The centre of the procession was occupied by a pure white I statue of Our Lady on a pedestal of silver and gold, carried I	by four young Levites in lace surplices and white gloves.
r •	Then followed the Children of Mary, pupils of the neigh-
boring Academy, some in white, others in blue dresses, * with white gloves, veils of rich material, and four hundred Sisters, professed and novices, from Saint Mary’s Convent and the neighboring religious institutions. The procession was closed by hundreds of the pious laity from South Bend, Lowell, and other parishes. The line of march was spanned by arches decorated in beautiful and chaste design. The one facing the entrance to the church was the most beautiful of all, with its festoons of natural flowers and blue and white drapery. It was in the form of a * quadrangle, surmounted by a dove and a statue of the Im-maculate Conception, and was the work of the apprentices * of the Manual Labor School.
Personal.
—J. Montgomery, of’76, is doing well at Loogootee, Ind.
—Tobie Knorr, of ’76, is in the grocery business at Pittsburg, Pa.
$	—Jas. Callery, of ’73, is in the dry-goods business at
Pittsburg, Pa.
'■—Edward Shields, of ’67, is editor of the Monitor Journal, Seymour, Ind.
—Jos. McTague, of ’76, is in business with his father in Philadelphia.
*	F. Neidhart of ’76, is in business with his father at
Marquette, Mich.
*	—Jos. D. Murphy, of ’69, is engaged on the Philadelphia
Press, Philadelphia, Pa.
—Ivo. W. Budcleke, M. D. (Scientific), of ’72, has a good practice at Memphis, Tenn.
V-Dr. Jas. Van Dusen, of ’74, is practicing his profession at Fremont, Washington Territory.
h-- ^Chauncey Nichols (Commercial), of ’74, is with his uncle at the St. James Hotel, Peru, Ind.
sJ; s^Rev. J. A. O’Connell, A. M., C. S. C., of’67, occupies the chair of Philosophy at Notre Dame.
—Chas. Bowman (Commercial), of ’73, is foreman of the basket manufactory at Benton Harbor, Mich.
"S^-Dr, Michael J. Skilling, of ’70, has a large practice in Philadelphia. His address is 18th and Christian Streets.
<	—Our devoted Director of Studies is now in Boston
■ attending to business connected with the department.
—Patrick Gibbons, of the Centennial Year, is in business with his father at No. 2500 Grace Ferry, Philadelphia, Pa.
Jno. O’Rourke, of ’77, is studying law with Major Monteith of Pittsburg, Pa. He will be admitted to the / bar this fall.
| —Louis Burridge (Commercial), of ’72, and Porter Johnston (Commercial), of ’73, are engaged in mercantile pursuits at Benton Harbor, Mich.
—W. M. Fowler of ’76, has been seeking his fortune in Kansas for the past two years, and intends to take a trip to Notre Dame next September.
—Rev. Father Kelley "is now in Ireland visiting his friends in the interest of the University. We wish him success and a pleasant voyage home.
r—James J. Walsh, of’68, is prosecuting attorney for the Slate at Greenfield, Ind. .He is also corresponding Secretary of the State Temperance Association.
—We had the pleasure last week of a visit from Rev. Father Guido, of the Passionist Order, who conducted the retreat for the Sisters of St. Mary’s Academy.
—Messrs. H. J. Hanford and E. G. Logan, of Louisville, Ky., paid us a visit the past week. Mr. Logan is the news editor of the Louisville Courier Journal.
—Signora and Signorina Gregori visited the College on the Feast of the Assumption. They are spending a few days with their friend Mrs. Byerly in South Bend.
—Mr. Castanedo came from New Orleans a few days ago to visit his son, Gardiner, who has remained here during the vacation. He reports all well in the Crescent City.
—Eugene F. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., (Class of’78), graduated in the Law Course at Georgetown University on the 27th of June. We wish him success in his chosen profession.
—G. W. Darr, of ’71, who is touring in Europe, is now at Feldkirk, Austria. He has written to learn all particulars about the fire. From Feldkirk he will go to Switzerland, thence to Rome.
X^-Rev. E. B. Kilroy, A. M., D. D., of ’52, has placed an item in his will to the effect that his magnificent library shall be given to Notre Danie. He has also sent a donation of books to the Lemonnier Library.
—We had a call from P. J. Hagan a few weeks ago, and he was glad to see the new College towering up so soon in the place of the smouldering ruins which but a few weeks before marked the site of the grand old building.
—Rev. Thos. Carroll, of ’57, has charge of a large congregation at Oil City, Pa. His church is a model of neatness and beauty, and the good Father is noted for his kind hospitality to visitors and disinterested devotedness to his flock.
—Charles Cavanagh, of ’78, and Thos. Quinn, of ’77, were seen at their homes in Philadelphia by a member of the Faculty lately visiting that city, who says “ Notre Dame has no better friends in the Quaker City than Tom and Charlie, and none more devoted to their Alma Mater."
^/-Prof. Ackerman, who frescoed the old University refectory twenty-five years ago, has been engaged to repaint the views of St. Peter’s and other scenes from ancient and modern Rome which were destroyed by the fire-fiend last April. He will also teach a class in drawing and painting.
—Prof. Luigi Gregori, who was decorated two years ago with the grand gold medal of the Art Department of Notre Dame University, has been engaged to paint several large pictures for the Cathedral of Baltimore. If report speaks truly, the Cathedral is already in possession of some fine pictures, notable among which is a Descent from the Cross. We have not heard the name of the artist. Many sacred memories linger around this venerable pile, the first Cathedral church in the United States, and those are yet living who remember to have often seen Most Rev. Archbishop Carroll officiating there, and many of the Revolutionary heroes and high dignitaries, among them Charles Carroll cf Carrollton, Lafayette and others of Revolutionary times, at Mass there. We hope Most Rev. Archbishop Gibbons will receive generous aid from those who cannot but be glad to see the venerable old Cathedral of Baltimore renovated and painted.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Bon jour!
—Busy times.	-
—Toledo is ahead.
—Pleasant weather.
—Don’t forget the Library.
—Great demand for Catalogues.
—Edbrooke is a master architect.
—Seventy-five carpenters driving nails.
—The main building is admired by all.
—Now is the time for your “apple-sass.”
—The dome will be built early next spring.
—Every student should join a literary society.
—Bro. Columbkille is head chamberlain, as usual.
—The Preps, have a jolly time catching bullfrogs.
—Who will get on the Roll of Honor oftenest this year?
—Boys, get ready, as September is stealing swiftly on us.
—Our weather-prophet stole the moon one night last week.
—Start out with the determination of carrying home a first honor.
—Some of the old boys are collecting specimens for the new Museum.
—Where, oh where is that barrel of ink ? Echo answers, “ Where------”
—Very Rev. President Corby will be glad to see all his old boys again.
—There is nothing like “ apple-sass ” for all the ills that flesh is heir to.
—Bro. Albert is the first Prefect of the Minims, assisted by Bro. Onesimus.
—Father Superior will take temporary quarters in the Infirmary building.
—A large number of visitors are around every day viewing the new College.
—Insure your property in the companies represented by Mr. Wile of Laporte.
—Brothers Leander, Lawrence and Hugh are the Junior Prefects for next year.
—Nothing better serves to cultivate a literary taste than access to a good library.
^-Father Zahm still directs the Scientific Department, assisted by Father Kirsch.
—Father Robinson has been appointed one of the professors for the ensuing year.
—Some very exciting games of hand-ball take place every evening among the workmen.
—Toe visitors will be glad to find their old friend Bro. Assisi in his usual place the coming year.
—All the prefects have returned home and speak of the kindness shown them by the old students.
—Carpenters are at work upon the Juniors’ pavilion, which will be placed on the site of the old one.
—Several teams are kept busy at present, removing the rubbish from the grounds about the new building.
—No serious accident has happened to any of those engaged in the reconstruction of the New Notre Dame.
—Professors Lyons, Howard, Tong, Ivers, Stace, Edwards and Coleman hold their old positions in the University.
—The Juniors who remained during vacation are under obligations to Prof. Lyons for a barrel of water-melons.
—Before resuming your studies place yourself under the protection of St. Aloysius, model of innocence and purity.
—Brothers Theodore, Marcellinus and Timothy will have charge of the Senior Department for the scholastic year ’79-80.
—The procession took place as usual on the Feast of the Assumption, and was largely attended from the neigboring parishes.	.
. —The new seats for the study and recitation rooms are to be of an improved style, and they are the finest we have ever seen.
—Mr. Boyle, of Watertown, Wis., who fell some time ago from the second floor of the new buildidg has entirely recovered.
—The white finish and ornamental work will not be put upon the brown coat of plaster until the walls have had time to settle.	’
—The boys remaining attend class from 8 to a. m. Some of the boys are so studious that they rise at 5 o’clock to prepare their studies.
—The Grotto of Lourdes, west of the church, was profusely decorated with natural flowers and plants on the Feast of the Assumption.
—The ex-politician “Pete” is still engaged on the water gang, and, like the yellow-fever sufferers, the change of weather is a relief to him.
^/—Fathers Corby, Walsh and Condon, assisted by the prefects of the three departments, make an efficient body for the government of the College.
—Prof. Stace has surveyed the site for the new Music and Exhibition Hall, which will be a pendant to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—It is said that those persons who cleaned brick during vacation intend to adopt the “whole-arm movement” in penmanship when class resumes.
—Brothers Philip and Alexander, Messrs. Rogers, Mor rissey, Hagerty, Kollop, McNamara, Scherer and Rosen are members of the faculty for this year.
—Jupiter Pluvius, after threatening for several days to pay us an unwelcome visit, finally left the neighborhood, to the relief of the College contractors.
—Brother Leander returns his sincere thanks to Thos. Quinn, Richard Doherty, Jno. Rourke and Charlie Cavanagh for favors received during his visit East.
—Rev. Father Zahm has the thanks of the Minims and of those who have charge of them for the use of Science Hall, which they occupied since the memorable 23d of April.
—Applications for Catalogues are pouring in to President Corby from all parts of the country. Present indications promise a large attendance of students for the coming year.
—We have received letters from a great number of the students of last year all, of whom seem anxious for Sep tember to arrive, when they can return to their dear old , Alma Mater.
—The dormitories and study-halls were plastered long before the other- apartments, so that they are now thoroughly dried and there is no danger of any one suffering from dampness.
—Those of the Juniors who remained here since the fire seemed to enjoy themselves well. What with studying, fishing, boat-riding, swimming, etc., the time passed off very pleasantly.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin enjoys the best of health, although he has done more work during the past two or three months than would have undermined the constitution of many a younger man.
—When travelling, never pass the Lake Shore Dining Hall at Laporte without stopping to take a meal. There are no better caterers in the United States than the gentlemen who have charge of this model hotel.
—The amount of material delivered daily from the depots and brickyards is about as follows: Loads of brick, 65; lumber, 27; lath, 3; lime, 3; sand, 840; slate, 24; cut -stone, 2; iron, 2; making in all, 966 loads.
j/^Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger of Fort Wayne has contributed several valuable volumes to the Lemonnier Library.
Four or five of these are enriched with the autograph of his saintly predecessor, Rt. Rev. Bishop Luers.
—Members of the community here or on the missions who have copies of No. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 23, 24, 25 and 26 of the current year’s Aoe Maria will please send them to the editor as soon as possible. They are needed to complete sets.
t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
11
—Last week the Minims removed back to the same building they occupied before the fire. The increased space allotted for their accommodation and the beautifully ■ finished interior excite the admiration of everyone.
—Father Condon, late President of the College of Our ' ,1 Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., has been appointed Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame. He is well and favorably known to the students of ’71, 2, and 3.
—“Dick” is a great favorite. He can be seen frisking about with the boys at all times. He accompanies them on their walks, and when they go bathing he is sure to be the first in, as he dispenses with the usual bathing dress.
r-	—Three distinct Departments at Notre Dame, entirely in-
dependent of each other: Minim Department, for boys un-V der twelve; Junior, for lads above twelve and under seventeen ; Senior Department, for young men of seventeen and upward.
. —Libraries form in every stage of society the standard by which literary progress may be estimated. The more i . highly civilized a people have become, and the more de' voted they are to letters, the more will their libraries be multiplied.
_ ,.	—He- hasn’t been seen with an umbrella ever since, for
the reason that he doesn’t want to have his name associated with a little episode described below. This precaution is wholly unnecessary. No one has the faintest susi . plcion who the party is.	.
J	—Since the late fire which destroyed Notre Dame Uni)	’ versity on the 23d of last April, quite a number of dona-
tions, some small, some larger, have been received—a faith-1 ful record of which is kept here, and due note of each will be made in the near future.
—The Juniors, accompanied by Very Bev. A. Granger, Bros. Marcellinus and Leander, and Messrs. Morrissey and Coleman, visited the St. .Joseph Farm on the 7th inst. They arrived home at 8 in the evening, and speak of having had a good time generally.
—We regret to learn from the South Bend papers that }	Dr. Humphreys, an old and highly esteemed physician
t	of that city, and known by many of the former students
1 here, lies in a very precarious condition; but faint hopes I are entertained of his recovery.
—A Solon Shingle was “bobbin’around” after his “ bar’l ! . of ink”—our bar’l of ink—last week, which, like that ' with the “apple-sass,” had evidently fallen into the wrong . hands. Printing ink is not unlike apple-butter except in color, but if they had tried it for the latter article—oh, my!
—Mr. Coleman, Bro. Leander, and the Juniors who remained during vacation spent a pleasant day last week on A St. Angela’s Island. They brought provisions and cooking utensils along, and had what they termed a “ boss square V meal.” Payro was chief cook and—excuse me, there were no bottles.
•	—The Minims who have remained here during vacation
i	made an enjoyable trip to the St. Joseph Farm on the 16th
:	inst. A most hospitable reception is always extended to
: -	them by those at the farm, hence the little fellows always
i	look forward to a trip there with the most pleasurable an-
* tici pations.
—A writer in Blackwood's Magazine says Blois has what, ; to the honor of France, every city within her borders has; and what, to the shame of England, every city within hers i -	has not,—a public library, full of curious, useful, and
I •	agreeable volumes, all accessible to the public, and espec-
rally accessible to the stranger.
—In the “Valedictory ” by Miss Bussell, published in the k- V last number of the Scholastic, occur a few errors which ■ we desire to correct. In the first line, for “sweet” read bright. In line forty-seven, for “with” read not. Inline sixty-four, for “ It will ” read T'loill. In the tenth line from the last, for “classmates”read schoolmates.
i	—Dr. Neyron, who was a surgeon under the first Napo-
t	leon at Waterloo, and is now Professor of Anatomy at Notre
I	Dame, lost his collection of skeletons in the late fire. He
is now making arrangements for a new set of “ bones,” and expects to lecture this year to a large class of medics. The cemeteries hereabout should be well guarded.
—Our friend John A. Gibbons, of South Bend, paid us several visits during the vacation, and seemed to take a great interest in inspecting the new College. John anxiously awaits the opening of school. He has had several letters from his Junior friends of last year, and reports them all as doing well, and longing for the opening of classes again in September.
—The daily Iowa State Register. published at Des Moines, in its issue of July 16lh, said: “The new Notre Dame College buildings, at Notre Dame, Indiana, are magnificent. We were shown cuts of the old and the new yesterday. The burned structure was dear to the hearts of thousands, but the new would delight them equally, it is so much handsomer and more capacious.”	’
—The twelve Minims sojourning here during vacation spent the time pleasantly and profitably. They say they are surprised to think September is so near! What with a couple of hours’ study in the morning, a daily bathe in the lake, an occasional tramp through the country, with sundry other amusements, there was no time left to get the blues or to long for the time that would bring back their companions to make the campus lively with shouts and merry games.
—Our musicians are grieved over the loss of a large number of manuscript Masses, cantatas and sacred hymns, the original compositions of a late director of our Musical Department, Prof. Max Girac, Mus. Doc., LL. D. It was the intention of this maestro’s friends to have his works published in suitable form to hand down to posterity as a monument of the Professor’s genius, but the fire destroyed in a few minutes those works, which were the fruits of a long and active life.
—Bad books and papers are now universally acknowledged to be one of the greatest evils of the age. Therefore it should be the aim of all those interested in the education or advancement of youth to do all they can to counteract this evil influence. Good books elevate the general tone of thought and feeling; hence the Lemonnier Library Association keep nothing upon their shelves but such works as will promote among the students a high standard of moral, intellectual and literary culture.
—German printing ink must have a suspicious look about it, judging from the fact that the local customhouse authorities here a few weeks ago detained a barrel en route for us. Perhaps they thought it contained illicit spirits. No, gentlemen; a spirit different to any ye wot of is chained up in that barrel; better let it go; have nought to do with it or it may play you a naughty trick. Gunpowder or dynamite is nothing in comparison to the explosive properties of the contents of that barrel.
—The thirty-fifth annual Catalogue of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., is at hand. The Catalogue is from the press of the University, and is one of the finest specimens of artistic job printing we have seen in many days. The composition is tasty, the margins even, the press work faultless, and all about the pamphlet denotes skill and good taste. The Catalogue contains an engraving of the new structure now being erected, and which is to be the finest college building in the country.—Dubuque Daily Telegraph.	r
—The. Western Citizen. Indianapolis, says there are thirty-six delinquents to the college fund there, and the Auditor of the State threatens to make a sale of delinquent college fund lands. Elsewhere in.the same paper we read: “It is thought that had there been no disturbance at Butler University there would have been an attendance of 150 students next year from this city alone.” It seems the mania for creating disturbances is making the round of the nonCatholic colleges. Some time ago it was Yale, then Princeton, and one or two others in succession.
—Mr. Willis A. Bugbee, who was down in Michigan last week, says that about four miles below Buchanan, on the west bank of the St. Joseph river, in a ravine, is a small cliff formed of calcareous tufa, over which flows a little cascade about twelve or fifteen feet in height. The cliff or bank is about fifteen or twenty feet in height, and extends along the ravine about forty or fifty feet in length. At its base are small openings, and a small grotto capable of accommodating several persons in a siting posture. It is a miniature

. 12
THE KOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cave with stalactite roof and stalagmite floor, and is an interesting place to visit. If it were more accessible it would have many visitors.—South-Bend Tribune.
—The Hanover, (Kansas) Democrat of July the 25th had the following among its local notes: Prof. Schnurrer, who came to Hanover a few weeks ago and purchased the Dr. Moll property on the east side of the square, has refitted the same in excellent style for a drug store. The Professor comes to us well recommended from Notre Dame, Indiana —in which institution he had held for a number of years a professorship—as a gentleman of integrity and excellent business qualifications. He comes to stay and be a permanent citizen of our city, and as he has a nice fresh stock of drugs, and carefully fills prescriptions day or night, we bespeak for him for him a share of the trade.
—On Wednesday last the Juniors, accompanied by Bros. Leander, Francis Regis, Hugh and Florian, and Messrs. Coleman, Devoto and a few others, betook themselves to St. Angela’s Isle, situated just below St. Mary’s, where they had quite a pleasant time. What with fishing, jumping, pitching quoits, etc., the day passed off quickly and indeed pleasantly. At noon a splendid repast was prepared for the boys and their invited guests under the supervision of Master Armand Payro, who showed that he understood his business well. At five o’clock the boys started for home, well pleased no doubt with their trip to the Island, and hoping that it would soon be repeated.
jj/—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Library has received betters from a large number of students who promise to bring him books when they return in September. If each student would bring one, two or three books, the whole would make quite a respectable number. Many persons who cannot give money for the rebuilding of the College could spare a book or two from their small collections and thus become sharers in the benefits to be derived from the perpetual daily Mass, besides assisting the cause of education. Books of all kinds and languages, except sensational novels, will be thankfully received. All donations should be directed to Prof. J. F. Edwards, Notre Dame, Ind.
—We have just seen a copy of the Twenty-Fourth annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy of the Immaculate Conception, Notre Dame, Ind., (better known among visitors to Notre Dame as simply “The Academy,”) and must say that the Tribune Company, of South Bend, who did the printing, deserve credit for getting up the Catalogue in such fine style. It is evidently printed from new types throughout, and the make-up and press-work reflect credit on the artists in these departments. Among the many Catalogues we have seen, from all parts of the country, St. Mary’s is one of the most creditable, both for the matter it contains and the manner in which it is gotten up.
—The enterprising and successful publisher, Mr. E. Steiger, of this city, has lately presented to the directors of Manhattan College two beautiful globes, one to Archbishop Lynch, of Toronto, and one to the Very Rev. Father Sorin, of Notre Dame College, Indiana. We are proud to see our business men so spirited and liberal in the cause of education. The gift to the College of Notre Dame is especially deserving of recognition. The library and philosophical apparatus of that institution were recently destroyed by fire, and no doubt the beautiful and valuable gift of Mr. Steiger will be gratefully received. Such actions and in such a cause deserve a continuation and increase of public patronage—New York Tablet.
—On the 23rd of April the College was burned, on the 23rd of June we had our half sad but hopeful Minim Commencement, and now on the 23d of August, in the brightest spirits, we send out the first number of the Scholastic for the new year. Did the Astrologer remark the number 23 in his predictions for 1879? We fear for the reputation of our Bickerstaff. It has been whispered to us that he is himself past the age of 23; and as astrologers look forwaid and not backward, ergo, he could have known nothing of this number 23. We shall be sorry to accept this view of the matter, for the reason that it admits something of fallibility in the Scholastic Astrologer—but if no better explanation is forthcoming we shall be forced to accept it.
—The following is clipped from the editorial items of the Iowa State Register of July 20“ Probably no single college
in the United States outside of Iowa can claim more graduates in Des Moines than the University of Notre Dame. On the 23rd of last April the building was destroyed by fire. The insurance was §45,000, one-fourth of the original cost of the buildings destroyed. With this money, and other aid, the community went to work to rebuild, and the last number of The Notre Dame Scholastic contains a description and steel engraving of the “New Notre Dame.” It is a magnificent building, a great improvement over the old institution, and while former Des Moines pupils glance with an eye of regret at the picture of the old building, around which so many happy memories cling, they can view the picture of the new college with a feeling of pride.”
—Parents and guardians are about these times, choosing schools, academies or colleges for their children and wards. Our advertising columns will easily direct the enquirer where to find the most popular institutions of learning in the West. Here in Columbus and vicinity there are several fine academies for young ladies, whose courses of study and training are much admired for their thoroughness. But where parents are able to make use of the advantages offered by older institutions that have gained a national reputation, of course they can do so. Beyond all question Notre Dame University is the institution for our Western' boys, and even those from the classic East frequently find advantages there they could not obtain elsewhere. Especially convenient is this institution for parents educating boys and girls, for only one mile from Notre Dame University is the famed Academy of St. Mary’s, for young ladies, where a most thorough education is imparted, in all the branches that make up a good English, Classical or Musical education. The advantages of these sister institutions, then, form a weighty consideration for the parent or-guardian.—Catholic Columbian.
—The following editorial notice appeared in The Chicago Evening Journal of August the 16th: “We published in our advertising columns to-day the announcement of the rebuilding and reopening of the University of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame, Ind., which was destroyed by fire only a few weeks ago. The work of reconstruction has been one of characteristic American “ push,” and a fine edifice, a cut of which is given in the advertisement, has taken the place of the principal building of those d-stroyed. The new College year will open September 2d, under very flattering auspices, considering the calamity which so recently befell the institution. The new structure is of the modern Gothic style of architecture, with a frontage of 224 feet by 155 in depth, with a wing which will make the total frontage 320 feet. Height, four stories and a basement, a dome extending eighty feet above the roof, with a rotunda under it thirty feet in diameter. The interior of the edifice is planned with special reference to the practical necessities and comfort of the school, due regard being given to heating, ventilation, lighting and general convenience. Notre Dame will thus enter upon a new career of educational work, really none the worse for having passed through its ‘ordeal of fire.’ The Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C., continues to be the President, assisted by an able faculty of teachers and disciplinarians.”
—Many encomiums have been passed upon the neatness and taste displayed by the printer of the Catalogue for 1878-9, and we must admit that although the material was much of it old and well-worn, we are not ashamed of the job as a home production. The paper on which the Catalogue is printed (and St. Mary’s also, we understand,) is from the old and well-known manufactory of the Peninsular Paper Company, Ypsilanti, Mich., of which ex-Mayor Lambert A.‘ Barnes is the gentlemanly President. Anyone who knows Mr. Barnes, or has had anything to do with the Company which he represents, knows that a more accommodating gentleman or a more trustworthy company cannot be found anywhere. Having dealt with them for years, we can scarcely find words to express the high esteem in which we hold them for their promptitude and business integrity, our gratitude for the many favors received from them, and the unexceptional excellence of their productions. This is saying a great deal, but not more than they deserve. So fine a reputation have they built up that they have not for years solicited an order, their productions being in favor even among Eastern publishers, in New York and elsewhere, and yet Mr. Barnes and his confreres
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	13
are not a bit proud, but more obliging than if they needed orders.	*	-
—The following letter from our excellent friend, F. X. Brandecker, the able and gentlemanly editor of the Kath-olisches WocheiMatt, of Chicago, is characteristic—just such as one might expect from such a whole-souled Catholic as Mr. Brandecker :
Dear Sir:—We have received the “ cut ” of the new College. Thanks. It has been published with a description of the new building in No. 33. May Heaven preserve Notre Dame from further accident-; may its scholars become missionaries of Christian thought, sentiment, and action, each in his own sphere, and our entire country be converted into one vast “Notre Dame,” a land of Our Lady. What we need is Catholic merchants who will not play the part of infidels and sharpers in their stores, and who will not confine all their religion within the walls of the church. We need Catholic barristers, doctors, bankers, etc. Christian national economy based upon the principles of our dear Catechism would be a most timely and appropriate item of the higher cursus in our colleges. You will please excuse this well-meant suggestion.....
I am, respectfully and gratefully, yours,
F.	X. Brandecker.
—A copy of the Waukesha (Wisconsin) Democrat which contained the following notice reached us but lately: “We confess we were a good deal shocked when we read, a few months ago, of the burning of the buildings of the University of Notre Dame. We had but a short time before been conducted through their hundreds of rooms and through the magnificent church (which fortunately was not burnt) by an old friend, who is one of the able professors in the University. It should not matter to non-Catholics that this is a Catholic institution. For it is one of the most distinguished and valuable places of learning in this country. It was never doubted for a moment that it would be rebuilt, but it is gratifying to know that already preparations are well advanced for its immediate rebuilding. It will be on an improved plan, and larger. It is expected to occupy the new building in September. Funds of course will be wanted to finish it, which the liberal of all classes are expected to help to raise. The good people of Waukesha will have an opportunity to contribute. Mr. Patrick Bannon is authorized to receive subscriptions for this purpose; indeed he has already received a goodly number. Let the work go on.”
—A certain individual, whom it will not be necessary to name, took it into his head one morning about two weeks ago to climb up to the third story of the new college to see where his room was going to be. He got up the first ladder all right, and, supremely unconscious of danger, was taking a promenade down the main corridor. He had not gone far when he felt himself sinking, and to his amazement saw the plank upon which his feet rested rising proportionately on the other side. He wasn’t any way slow in starting for the ladder, but somehow failed to make connections and was precipitated a distance of twelve feet to the floor below, retaining the perpendicular for obvious reasons. His hat and umbrella parted company in the fall, going in opposite directions. Though unhurt, our friend was visibly frightened. Casting a furtive glance at the treacherous plank, now balanced, and muttering a few un-complimentory remarks about the carpenter who placed it there, he retired to a secluded corner to adjust his wearables. Having recovered his hat and umbrella, and after making some precautionary observations to the bystanders, who were entreated not to relate the occurrence in the Scholastic, our friend left the building. He didn’t find out where his room was going to be.

—A friend in New York requests us to announce to the many readers of the Ave Maria in that city and vicinity that tickets for the grand picnic of the Young Men’s United Catholic Association, in aid of the University of Notre Dame, at Jone’s Wood Colosseum, on the 27th inst., may be had at the Catholic Review office, No. 11 Barclay St., of Messrs. Benziger Bros., 311 Broadway, and ofMr. J. B. McGrath, the zealous director, at 139 Broadway. We take the following notice from the Weevly Union : “ Scarcely three months have passed away since the sad news reached us that Notre Dame University—that home of Science and learning—had fallen a victim to the devouring, relentless fire king; that the labors and the hopes of years in which
zealous priests had devoted their talents and energies to the imparting of Christian knowledge—that all had become the prey of the terrific flame, all succumbed to its ravaging sway. This sad news cast a pallor over the Catholic community, and many a student of that famous institution looked back with tear-dewed eyes and recalled to memory the time when his dear Alma Mater, now in ruins, stood forth grandly and proudly to the world, casting rays of brightness on every walk in life by sending out well-trained representatives to battle with the world, and to lighten the burdens of fellow-beings. “Notre Dame in ruins,” rang through the land, awakening the tenderest of sympathies wherever it was heard. It is in response to this shrill cry that the Young Men’s United Catholic Association, directed by a student of Notre Dame, have decided to contribute to the rebuilding of that great college, the proceeds of their grand picnic, which will come off at Jone’s Wood, Wednesday, August 27th. Arrangements, unprecedented in their completeness by any event of the kind, have been perfected, and certainly the affair deserves generous support and success. Let every reader of The Union, in this city, endeavor to contribute to this praiseworthy object, knowing, as they may, they are doing a positive good. Here are the uames of the officers: President, J. J. McGrath; Vice-President, Thos. E. Powers; Sec., J. McNally; Fin. Sec., Jno. H. Sheldon; Treas., T. F. McHugh.—Ave Maria.

—The painters and carpenters have been busy renovating the Convent and Academy.
—The old pupils will be delighted to find that Notre Dame College is again visible from St. Mary’s.
—Sisters and pupils are eagerly awaiting the return of the old pupils, who may be assured of a loving welcome, and all will endeavor to cheer the new comers.
—On the Feast of the Assumption seventeen novices made their religious profession in the Convent Chapel, and five postulants received the habit of the Order of the Holy Cross. Very Rev. Father General officiated, and the learned Passionist, Father Guido, who had preached the retreat for the Sisters, gave an eloquent sermon.
—The closing of the Annual Retreat of the Sisters of the Holy Cross is always a pleasant feature of the vacation, for then the pupils have the privilege of meeting many of their former teachers who have returned from the different missions, North, South, East and West. This year, atleast three hundred Sisters made their retreat at St. Mary’s.
—The vacation has passed very pleasantly. Beautiful weather and a pleasant circle of about twenty-five old pupils, with the addition every week of one or two new pupils, have kept up the cheerfulness of the vacation programme. The many kind, loving letters from the absent pupils have been most affectionately answered. A great number of persons have visited the Academy during the vacation, among them Major Dallas, U. S. A., and wife. The enjoyments during vacation were all calculated to promote health, and so the vacation pupils are now full of vigor and energy, eager and ready to begin their earnest work of the coming scholastic year.
—All who have ever lived at St. Mary’s must remember the sweet-toned convent bell, that summoned every one to the various duties of daily life. This bell was the gift of Very Rev. Father-General Sorin, who had it imported from the celebrated Bollee’s Foundry at Le Mans, France. In June last, owing to the bad arrangement of the belfry, it was broken, much to the regret of all, who had for many years linked with its silver tones sacred and beautiful memories of convent and school life at St. Maiy’s. Very Rev. Father General at once determined to repair as far as possible the loss of this bell, by having it recast, and now it again rings out as clearly and sweetly as ever. This will be a pleasant item for the pupils of ’79, for as they deplored the loss they will be glad to know that “The Convent Bell ” has again a joyful, musical tone.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisana, Mo..........3 40 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line 8 00 pm
Sringfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via Main Line.................................7	30 am
Peoria Day Express......................  3	40 pm
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex..........7 30 am
Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express.......8 00 pm
Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex3 40 pm
Leave.
12 30 pm 9 00 am
9 00 pm
9 00 am
9 00 pm
9 00 am
12 30 pm
9 20 am
Joliet Accommodation
_____	5 00 pm J. C. McMullin ,Gen.Manager. J. CHABLTON,Gen. Pass. Agt.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 IGu. m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Actommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m. Way Freight.	‘
F. C. Raff. Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt. Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
0 ft
M A
P 0 ®

ft A ft
For information in regard to rates and time, address । C. P. ATSORE, Gen’l Pamper & Ticket Apt. Louisville, KyJ
0
ft
H ft 0 IS
ft ®
0
0
“4/LROAD LINE
^ND WjrH SPEED UNRIVALED
K ft
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY LINE C. I?. A.TMOBE, General Passenger aud Ticket Agent.
Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s stu- ; dents and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
*	D. A. Clabke, of 70.
THE A. Ve NIAKTA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.	.

Civil Engineers & Surveyors
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ’l ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind. -
Hotels.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop., Niles, Mich igan. Free Hack to and irom all Trains for Guests of the House
THE WATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Mattereon.
Book Binders.
DWARD I*. E LYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-bin er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CA.IjLJ!VG CARDS-no two alike, with AO neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic AO Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
^•1
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of *72) Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Bra^y St., Davenport, Iowa.
TH ONI AS B. CLIFFORD fof ’62). Attorney a
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the Stites, 20 Broadway tcor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.

<
FANNING <fc HOGAN ID. J. Hogan, of ’74), Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ash'and Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts, Chicago, DI.
JO TUN U. McIIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE at DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of '74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN [of ’61), Attorney at Law, No-ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
Me BRIDE at Mli/LARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors tn Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CLARKE [of ’74), Attorney at Law.
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
JANIES A. O’ B EILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, t27 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOTUN T>. McCORM ACK— of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DA-3NIEIL 15. HIBBARD, Jr,, (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Speeiai attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	15
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
NOV. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaB.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 " 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 P.M. 2.55 “ 5.31 “ 7.11 “ 9.2C “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima.	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 pat. 3.50 “ 7.00 «	540 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 ‘ 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, AtlamEx.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	.........	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 ‘‘ 11.30 “ 1.30 a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “		
Forest,					
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 1L15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 a.m. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M. 3.30 “
Trarns Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest cnrrent rates.
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YORE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS,	3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York. Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Bailway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE . is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee. PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W.Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. :
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, , Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877,
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express	♦Night Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 10 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	515 p m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a-m. 3 35 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jackson Express.		
					
	♦Man	♦Day Express.		+ Pacific Express	♦Evening Express.
			5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45p.m 4 30 a. m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 3f> “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 253 “ 4 24 “ 547 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 940 “ 1235 a m 238 “ 415 “ 645 “
Niles and Soritti Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame—8 52 “ 6 38 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 pan. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So-Bend—745 “ 4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Hbnby C. Wentworth,	H. B Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G.	L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
. Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES. FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
NT. E, Cor. LaSalle «fc Monroe Sts.
Henry Styles, Manager.	Cliicagro.
f22-ly_________________________
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa. La Salle, Geneseo. Moline. Kock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau J unction to Peoria ; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton. Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney. Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington. Bonaparte. Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get-
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
PALACE CARS ure run through to PHOBIA.,DES MOINES; COVNCIX* BLUFFS, ATCHISON' and LEAVENMORTH;	’
Tickets via this Hine, known ax the “Great Kock Island Koute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada. For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address, Jk. KIMBALL,	’	E. ST. JOHN.
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt. and Pass’gr AgL,
Chicago, Ill.
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs. Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. IL CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines forthe East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne A Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati A St. Louis IL IL	-
At La Salle, with Illinois Central IL IL
At PEORIA, with P., P. A J.; P., L. A D.; I. B. A W.; Ill. Midland; and T.. P. A W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R.R.and Rock Island A Peoria Railroad.	•
At Davenport, with the Davenport A NorthWestern IL IL	.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.	-
At Grinnell, with Central IL R.'of Iowa.
. At Des Moines, with D. M. A Ft. Dodge.lL R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. A Mo. R. R. IL (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington.Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IL IL of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City A Northern and C.. B. A O. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and SL Louis. Keokuk A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. A C. B. R. IL At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka A Santa Fe: Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. IL Rds.