t.
^otre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper vlctni’us j vive quasi eras moritixrus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME,'INDIANA, MAY 17, 1879.	Number 36.
To Dear St. Francis Xavier, PATRON OF THE DIOCESE OF FORT WAYNE.
In thy care, in thy care,
. Great St. Francis! in thy prayer, In thy zealous patronage Which shall wondrous power engage, I this hour, as a flower, —A celestial, priceless flower, Planted on a fruitful soil,—
Place the-hope of Notre Dame.
Now she lies, sadly lies
Prostrate under fair, blue skies: Ash<s smoulder round the dome Of our Blessed Lady’s home.	.
Yes, this hour, like a flower, Crushed by some fierce, frightful shower,
Yet ’round which fond gardeners toil, Lies she, dear, dear Notre Dame!
She shall rise, she shall rise, Fairer, nobler, to the skies, For there are in this broad land Thousands who with heart and hand Claim the right to requite Fostering care with loving might
In this hour which calls for aid For dear, struggling Notre Dame.
Are there not, are there not Souls who on that favored spot Learned the golden road to heaven; Souls from whom life’s chains are riven, Who to-day plead and pray Where no joys can ne’er decay,
Where no ruthless fires invade, Souls who pray for Notre Dame ?
Mary saw, Mary saw Tears of love and tears of awe, As her statue wrapped in fire Fell before its kindling ire.
And we know she will show Pity in this overthrow;
Her sweet image shall once more Crown the site of Notre Dame.
Like a flower, rarest flower, Lily bloom,'ajieavenly dower, Ere September’s harvest crowns All the fair and fertile’grounds She shall stand, firm and grand, Mistress of the glowing land:
Stand bright as she stood of yore, Treasured, precious Notre Dame.
In thy care, in thy care, -	.
Great St. Francis, in thy prayer, In’thy zealous patronage
Which shall wondrous power engage,
I this hour, as a flower
—A celestial, priceless flower Planted in a fruitful soil—
Plant the hope of Notre Dame.
M.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Comments of the Press on the Fire.
[From the “ Western Home Journal ” (Detroit), of May 1st.]
- Last week we had barely time to publish the dispatch announcing the burning of the University of Notre Dame Ind. Later particulars, given elsewhere, increase our sorrow for the calamity. The University was one of the best in America, and its loss is not alone that of its conductors, but affects the cause of true education throughout America. We hope that arrangements may be made to speedily rebuild this once splendid seat of learning and religion. But to do this will require money. The small amount of insurance will not go far towards it. Small contributions from those who have the means, would be of great assistance just now. There are many old students of the University living in Detroit or elsewhere in Michigan who should be proud to assist their Alma Mater in her distress. That these will now come forward with substantial assistance we do not doubt. Friends of the cause of true education everywhere will also be found willing to extend prompt aid. The loss, as we have said, falls upon us all. Let all help to repair it.
[From the Spanish of the “ Kevista Catolica,” Las Vegas, New
.	Mexico.]
The University of Notre Dame, Indiana, one of the first Catholic Institutions in the country, has just been destroyed by fire. The news will cause great sorrow amongst those who support Catholic education. In our territory there are many who will grieve over the catastrophe as if the calamity had befallen themselves. Several of our young Mexican gentlemen have received their education at the University of Notre Dame. In the Catalogue of 1875-6 you will find the names of the following gentlemen: Valerio Baca de Las Vegas, Miguel A Otero, Page Otero de Granada, Jose L. Perea, and James Perea. This is the only Catalogue in our possession. How many other names of the first families of New Mexico might we not find in former Catalogues! Now, if we always remember with affection the place of our first education, the friends of . our youth, we cannot hear without deep regret of the calamity which has befallen the Catholic University of Notre Dame.
This Institution was founded in 1842, by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, now Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. In 1844 it was incorporated by the Legis-
554
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lature of the State of Indiana, with the power of conferring degrees. It has continued to flourish ever since its foundation. Its costly edifices were magnificent. Its classical course embraced seven years of study; the Scientific Course, four years; the Commercial Course, two. The University had complete Courses of Law and Civil Engineering, with a Preparatory Course of Medicine; Phonography, Telegraphy, Drawing, Painting, Music, etc.
The Catalogue which we have of the University for the year 1875-6 contains a faculty of no less than 45 Professors and teachers, with 324 students. Considering the flourishing condition of the University, and the serious loss sustained by Catholic education, it behooves all generous hearts, and all old students of Notre Dame particularly, to show by their now much needed aid their affection for their dear Alma Mater.
[From the “ Catholic Standard,” Philadelphia, May 3d.]
The destruction by fire of the magnificent buildings of Notre Dame University, Indiana, is a misfortune of no ordinary magnitude. The pecuniary loss, direct and indirect, will probably reach two hundred thousand dollars. The College building, six stories in height, the Infirmary, Old Men’s Home, Music Hill, Minims’ Hall, and Library were all entirely destroyed. No lives were lost. The origin of the fire is unknown.
In addition to the direct loss of the property, there is also the inconvenience and loss which we presume will result from the temporary disbanding of the University students, and the discontinuance of their studies.
The institution was founded by the Very Rev. Father E. Sorin, Superior of the Order of the Holy Cross, and has attained a high degree of prosperity. The Very Rev. Superior and the Rev. Fathers of the Order have our sincerest sympathy under the misfortune which has befallen them. We doubt not, however, that through their faith and energy, Notre Dame will quickly rise from its ashes, enlarged and with greater splendor and usefulness than before. They have, we are sure, the sympathies of all Catholics and of the friends of Christian education everywhere, and we trust they will have their active assistance and help also.
[“From the Catholic Columbian,” Culumbus, Ohio, May 1st.]
The destruction of Notre Dame University, at Notre Dame, near South Bend, Ind., is a calamity that Western Catholics cannot well bear. This famous institution of learning, directed by the Order of the Holy Cross, was the pride of the Church in the West, and no priest in America is more respected than its venerable founder, Father Sirin. Only a few days before the burning he left for France, and, on leaving, urged the students to labor hard, as he expected to have many improvements in the college during the coming year. How sad must he have felt when the message reached him at Montreal that this centre of his earthly affections had been destroyed! But his wonderful confidence in the Blessed Mother of God will encourage him, and by the assistance of the good Priests and Brothers of the Order, Notre Dame will rise from her ashes. We will go further, and anticipate for Notre Dame a glorious future, made more brilliant by its recent fire, etters of sympathy are being received by the kind-earted President, Father Corby, from all parts of the country,^and amongst the foremost was a feeling, sympa
thetic dispatch from the venerable Archbishop of Cincinnati, who, in the midst of his own afflictions, forgot not others.	•
[From the “ Catholic News,” Springfield, Hl., of May 3d.]
Last week we announced the sad intelligence of the destruction by fire of the buildings of this University on Wednesday a week ago. The institution was in charge of Fathers and Brothers of the Holy Cross, whose members have not only erected in the northern part of Indiana a noble building, now burned to ashes, but they have imparted a thorough education, classical and scientific, to hosts of youth, coming year after year, from the States of the Great West. They have also sent forth members of the religious order to different places to labor in the educational ranks; four of the community have charge of the Boys’ Department of Saint Mary’s Schools, adjoining the Church of the Immaculate Conception, of this city.
Connected with the institution at Notre Dame were two Catholic publications; one, the Ave Maria, which in its weekly visit to the Catholic circle, we have ever found a cordial welcome from the lovers of Catholic literature, and especially those whose hearts are warmed by devotion to the Blessed Virgin; the other, the Scholastic, published by the students and designed to encourage them in their studies. Well, then, may the Catholic press, not only of this but of foreign countries, express a deep regret at the loss sustained, the interruption that has occurred, and hope that within a few months new buildings will be erected, so that next fall will find the institution thronged with students, with minds prepared to gather that knowledge fitting them for citizenship and all the relations of life.
[From the Catholic Citizen, Milwaukee.]
This was the sad news to hundreds of its former pupils, which the telegraph brought to this city on Thursday, April 23d. Many a pang of sorrow will this cause to the Catholics of the Northwest. The sons of Notre Dame College fill honored and high positions in the Church and the other professions of life. But no sooner had the last timber of the noted Institute been reduced to ashes, than the bold resolve is made to rebuild at once, and have the College in readiness for the opening of the scholastic year, which will be the first of next September. The Fathers of the Holy Cross have heretofore exhibited great zeal and industry in making “ the wilderness blossom as the rose,” by their College buildings. With their well-known zeal and ability, we can safely predict that they will succeed in their expectations in being able to open the institution for the next scholastic year. While we sympathize with these good Fathers in their loss, we hope they may prosper in rebuilding.	,
Rev. Father Condon arrived at Notre Dame just in time to witness the late terrible catastrophe. He was on his way to the College, on business no doubt, but he must have been sadly disappointed in seeing the work of almost half a century on the part of his community destroyed in a few hours. Father Condon declares he never witnessed so heart-rending a scene—one which time cannot obliterate from his memory.
[From the “ Catholic Union,” Buffalo, N. Y.; May 7th.]
We hope it is not too late to give expression to dur pro
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	555
found sorrow at the calamity which has befallen that noble seat of virtue and learning, Notre Dame. This University, established and built up by Very Rev. Father Sorin and his indefatigable companions, has long been regarded as the pride of the West; and now the destruction wrought by the fierce flames has entailed almost irreparable loss. Our Lady’s weekly journal, the ever welcome Ave Maria, and the ably conducted Notre Dame Scholastic, were issued from this institution; but we trust this sad accident may not even temporarily deprive us of these interesting publications.
Aid for Notre Dame.
[From the “ Fort-Wayne Daily Sentinel,” May 12.]
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. 0., Professor of Physical Sciences at Notre Dame, Ind., is now in the city soliciting aid for the rebuilding of the University, destroyed by fire on the 23d ult. He will call upon the old students and friends of the institution during the week, and hopes to find all prepared to do something towards repairing the great loss that has been incurred. The following characteristic letter from Very Rev. Father Benoit, V. G., speaks for itself:
The bearer of these few Jines is the Rev. J. A. Zahm, a member of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Notre Dame, near South! Bend, St. Joseph’s County, Ind. The Rev. Father is soliciting help to rebuild the University of Notre Dame, which was .destroyed by fire and reduced to ashes on the 23d of April last."
So many young men of Indiana, and of other States, have re-ceived their education in that grandpnstitution, and have been benefited by it, that it should not be suffered to remain in ruins; but every one should be proud to contribute towards rebuilding It and making it more glorious thanjt was before.
J. Benoit, V. G.
Fort Wayne, May 12,1879.
oldest families in this portion of the ancient French dominion. The following is a copy of the letter of recommendation of the Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess to Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau:
Detroit, May 5,1879.
The University of Notre Dame, in South Bend, Ind., having recently been entirely destroyed by fire, the Very Rev. Father General of the Community of the Holy Cross has delegated Rev. Father L’Etourneau to call on the many friends of the Community in this city and State for the purpose of soliciting aid for the rebuilding of the University. In this we give him our permission, and take pleasure in recommending him to the generosity of the Catholic public and the friends of education.
•J« C. H. Borgess, Bp. of Detroit.
[From the Western Watchman of May 10th.]
Rev. James Gleeson, of the University of Notre Dame, near South Bend, Indiana, lately burned to the ground, is in town, a guest of Father Henry, of St. Lawrence O’Toole’s Church. The Archbishop has permitted the Rev. Father to solicit subscriptions in the diocese to aid in the building of the new institution. He will, as far as possible, visit the charitable in person, but if any who wish to contribute should fail to see him, donations left with Father Henry, or with Mr. Fox, the bookseller, on Fifth Street, will be most gratefully .acknowledge.
Father Gleeson arrived here on Saturday of last week. Many of our readers may be acquainted with him, as some years ago he was connected with the Cathedral in this city. His stay in St. Louis will be prolonged two weeks, and from this city he will go to Southern points. The Rev. Father has paid our sanctum a visit this week, and expresses himself very well satisfied with the way he has been received this far. He is most confident that by September the College will again be under headway.
[From the “ Western Home Journal,” of May 8th.]
We direct attention to the appeal of Very Rev. Father Sorin, 0. S. C., which we publish elsewhere. Rev. Father L’Etourneau, C. S. C., is in the city soliciting aid for the institution. He has received a letter from his Lordship Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, of which the following is a copy:
“ Detroit, May 5th, 1879.
“The University of Notre Dame iu South Bend, Ind., having recently been entirely destroyed by fire, the Very Rev. Father General of the Community of the Holy Cross has delegated Rev. Father L’Etourneau to call on the many friends of the Community in this city and State for the purpose of soliciting aid for the rebuilding of the University. In this we give him our permission, and take pleasure in recommending him to the generosity of the Catholic public and the friends of education.
“ 0. H. Borgess, Bishop of Detroit.”
The many alumni and other friends of this celebrated institution of Catholic education in this city and Diocese will need few words from us in addition to the recommend-ation'of our Rt. Rev. Bishop. As we have said before, the loss of the Fathers of the Holy Cross is not theirs alone, but affects the entire Catholic community. We hope to see a generous response to the appeal of Very Rev. Father Sorin.
[Fromthe “ Detroit Free Press,” of May 7th.]
The announcement has already been made that Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, C. S. C., is empowered to solicit aid in rebuilding the College of Notre Dame. Father L’Etourneau is a Detroiter, by birth and is descended from one of the
Letters, etc.
Fort Wayne, May 5,1879.
Rev. E. Sorin, Gen’l. C. S. C., Very Rev. Dear Old Friend: Faith will transport mountains, and it will make your University grow from its ashes. Faith has the very best of banks to draw upon; its coffers are always fully replenished, and it never fails. Faith can send checks on the Bank of Providence at any time, and to any amount, and they are always honored.
Fear not, therefore; say: Credo, Domine, adjuva incredu-litatem meam, and all will come in good time. Accept this first installment—it is all I have at present—other installments will come in time.
Yours,	J. Benoit.
[Very Rev. Father Benoit’s letter inclosed $100—since then he has sent $200 more, making his donation $300.]
Stratford, Ont. May 12,1879.
Very Rev. Father Sorin, Notre Dame, Ind.:
I will give one thousand dollars towards rebuilding my Alma Mater.	E. B. Kilroy, D. D.
[Very Rev. Father Sorin, bids us acknowledge the receipt of $1,000 from his old friends Messrs. Thomas and Peter Donnelly, of Michigan City, Indiana. These gentlemen, he says, have with characteristic modesty said that they wished no public acknowledgment made of their benefaction,—they gave the money for rebuilding Notre Dame, and all they wish to know is that it was received. God bless the generous-hearted donors!]
Carondelet, May 3,1879.
Very Rev. Father Sorin:
Dear Sir:—Please find here inclosed five dollars as a slight token of my deep and sincere sorrow for the great
556	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
misfortune that befell you in the destruction of your dear University, Notre Dame. Meanwhile, I wish you a courage superior to the accident, that a new University may rise speedily over the ruins of the former.
I am, Very Rev. Sir, your humble servant in Christ Jesus, Rev. J. M. J. St. Cyr.
[From Prof. B. King, the well-known Shakespearean Reader.] Chicago, May 5,1879.
Dear Father Corby:—Permit me to add my mite to the flood of sympathetic notes you have no doubt received since the destruction of your noble University building. Its loss is a temporary national calamity,—I say temporary, because I know it will not be long before its lofty walls will again be reconstructed, and pupils from all parts of our common country will again be recipients of its superior educational facilities. How many happy hours I have spent in the dear old building! and lam glad to know that none of the noble men who constitute its Faculty—or of the heroic Brothers or students—were lost in the conflagration.
Permit me to suggest the propriety of my friend Prof. Lyons getting up a monster entertainment at South Bend, consisting of music and declamation, as a benefit to the reconstruction fund. Plenty of first-class talent will only be too willing to contribute their assistance, and permit me to say my own poor services are at your disposal.
Very respectfully,	Robert King.
South Bend, Ind., May 10,1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin.	'
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—Knowing, as I do so well, the more than thirty years of earnest effort and tireless labor you have given to the building up of Notre Dame University, I can realize how its recent destruction by fire must have shocked and saddened you, and how ardently you must desire to see it rebuilt as soon as possible. It has assisted in causing the name of our city to be as widely known in the Old World as it is in the New. And although from my absence from home so much I have not yet been called on by those collecting subscriptions, I write you to say that I will very cheerfully contribute fifty dollars to your rebuilding fund.
Respectfully yours,	Schuyler Colfax.
Elkhart, Ind., May 5,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Father:—Bro. Eusebius called this morning, asking aid toward rebuilding the College. I subscribed ten dollars, but I hope I shall be able to contribute more than that amount. I regret that my action in this matter must be limited to my own circumstances and necessities. I have no words to express the sorrow I feel for your great disaster, or the admiration for the fortitude and hopeful courage with which you have met it.	■
'	Orville T. Chamberlain of (’62).
Neenah, Wis., May 12,1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby:
Dear Sir:—Enclosed please find postal order for ten dollars; it is little towards the reparation of your loss, but should every Catholic in the country, who is able, contribute a little, and give it speedily, you would soon be all right again.
Yours very respectfully,	James Conlan.
Reading Pa., May 8,1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. Dear Father General :—The news of the great calamity that had befallen your beloved Notre Dam* filled my heart with the most profound sorrow. I have just received a copy of your appeal for aid in rebuilding the noble institution, and sincerely hope that it will be responded to, promptly and generously. You say, in course of the address, that “ it will not be amiss to mention, for the sake of those who love our sacred Faith, that as benefactors they will all share in the benefit of a daily Mass to be offered up here forever.” We, whose names are appended, desire to be regarded as “benefactors,” and to become sharers in the benefits of the Holy Mass, and ask that our names may be placed upon your list The amounts we offer are as follows, viz.: by George J. Gross, $100; George J. Gross, Jr., $10; Amanda Ellen Gross, $10; Mrs. Mary E. Felix, $5; Mrs. Maria Louisa Jackson, $5.
In payment please find my check enclosed, to your order,	•
for the amount.
With my heartfelt sympathy for you in your troubles; with kindest regards to Father Corby and Father Granger,	.
and commending myself to your good prayers, I beg to subscribe myself, as ever,	•
Very sincerely your friend, George J. Gross.
Wheeling, W. Va., May 6,1879.	\
Dear Sister Angelina.—With heartfelt grief I sympathize with the good Fathers in their great affliction.	1
Surely they are feeling the weight of their glorious title,	|
“ the Holy Cross” ! Ever since the first news of the fire	'
reached here I have been thinking of what I might do to prove my sympathy in their loss and my earnest wish for a speedy restoration of Notre Dame. During the past few months my mother has met with considerable pecuniary losses, and hard times have diminished my musical profits, so that it is utterly impossible for me to make an offering according to my inclinations. However, I enclose five dollars, which you can present in my name. I send it to Father Corby because he was especially kind to me last	-
summer, and I never had the pleasure of meeting Father General. Tell Father Corby I am very sorry it is not five thousand, but I hope all who have ever visited Notre Dame will remember the generous hospitality they have * received, and return it now to the fullest extent of their	I
means.	_
Yours affectionately, Mary Regina Jamison.
Carroll, Iowa, May 7,1879.
Rev. Father Maher, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Father:—I had to leave home the morning I received a telegram announcing the destruction of your beautiful College. I hope it will not be too late now to offer you my sincere sympathy in your great loss. Would have written to Very Rev. Father Corby, but I know he is so overtaxed with work that I deemed it imprudent to add more to his suffering by writing to him.
1 hope the College will rise from its ashes more glorious than ever, and that Notre Dame will once more be the pride of Catholics in America, as a religious institution for the education of the youth of all nations. Again tender my sympathy to Father Corby.
Yours very sincerely,	P. M. Guthrie.
Chicago, April 24,1879.
Dear Sir:—With feelings of the deepest regret I have learned of your sad loss. Still, it is quite a consolation that no lives were lost. Without being a prophet, I can yet confidently predict that the old grounds will soon be cov- -ered with buildings of brick and stone. Like Chicago after the fire, I am sure that Notre Dame will come forth from her trial grander and more prosperous than ever.
'	C. C. Connolly.
St. Joseph’s Orphan Asylum, Lafayette, Ind., May 5,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby:
Very Rev. and Dear Sir :—The destruction by fire of Notre Dame has been a great calamity to you and your . community. I greatly sympathize with you in this hour	J
of trial. I consider it a privilege to offer my mite for the	9
rebuilding of Notre Dame. Please put me down for $25.	*
I am, dearjFather, yours sincerely, Rev. B. Hartmann.	‘
Dayton, Ohio, May 5, 1879.
Rev. Dear Father—With profound sorrow have I learned of the destruction by fire of our dear Alma Mater, and I now take occasion to express my deep and heartfelt sympathy in the great loss you have sustained,
With sincere sympathy, I am, very truly, yours,
Wm. L. Dechant.
New York, May 6,1879.
Sister M. of the Ascension:
Dear Sister:—Your letter of 26th nit. at hand. I feel very much that Notre Dame is in ruins, particularly the home of the dear old people for whom you have done so much.
Although we are much in need of money ourselves, now that we are on the eve of building our new home for homeless and destitute children, I hasten to enclose ten dollars, as my mite towards rebuilding the great institution that

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
557
has done so much for souls in the West. I regret I cannot make my subscription more: but accept the will for the deed.
I ask your prayers, and those of all the good souls in Notre Dame, for me and mine, and my work, particularly during this month of our lovely Queen of May, as you will participate in all my Masses, and other devotions.
Yours, in the Sacred Heart,
Rev. John C. Drumgoole.
The following letter Is one of many of the same class that reach us every day from last year’s students. It is published because .Master McCarthy’s contribution reached us first. The letters—one and all—breathe the same spirit of devoted affection for Notre Dame:
Boonville, Mo., May 5,1879.
Rev. Father Maher:—I wish to contribute ten dollars to the College-fund. I feel almost ashamed to give so little [Master McCarthy is »too modest. Nobody knows better than Father Maher what a sacrifice a boy is'making when he contributes ten dollars out of his own pocket-money—Ed. Scholastic], but it is all I have at present. In this case you must accept the will for the deed, for I would like to give a good deal.
I will be back in September, and will do my best to bring others with me. With best wishes for yourself and Notre Dame,
I remain, affectionately, yours,
W. J. McCarthy.
Brooklyn, N. Y., April 29th, 1879.
My Dear Bro. Fidelis :—It is with feelings of the most sincere sympathy that I send you these few hurriedly written lines, occasioned by the heart-rending account of the terrible calamity that has befallen old Notre Dame, which I read in the Catholic Review this morning. The details, indeed, are heart-rending. The grand dome and statue of the Blessed Virgin and the other appendages destroyed is melancholy to contemplate. To you, the Rev. Editor of the Ave Maria, and the saintly Father Granger I send my heartfelt and most sincere sympathy, and hope that Notre Dame will rise from its ashes grander and nobler than ever.
Yours sincerely in J. M. J.,
Peter J. McNally.
[From the Chicago Sunday Times.]
NOTRE DAME’S NEEDS.
1 hey Were Discussed by a Meeting of Prominent Citizens On Last Evening.
And as a Result His Honor, the Mayor, has Appointed a Committee on Subscriptions.
In Order to Re-Establish the Undoing of the Fire-Fiend.
A meeting was held in the club-room of the Grand Pacific Hotel last evening to take some action in behalf of Notre Dame College, the buildings of which were lately destroyed by fire.
The meeting was called to order by the Hon. Thomas Hoyne, and Mayor Harrison was called to the chair. He stated the object of the meeting, the vast losses sustained by the College, and the reason why Chicago should show sympathy with all losers by fire.
On motion of Gen. Torrence, Aiderman Daly was elected secretary of the meeting.
The Rev. Father Corby, of Notre Dame, was invited to make a statement of the losses of the institution. He expressed his gratitude to the gentlemen present for meeting
in behalf of the college. The origin of the fire he said was a mystery to all. It began in the dome, seven stories above the ground, when there was no fire in the building. The building was reduced to ashes in three hours, and with it went four other important buildings. The loss had been taken in a Christian spirit; the Fathers felt that no one was to blame, and they took their affliction as a blow from God, and put in practice the Christian resignation that they preached.
■ THE HON. THOMAS HOYNE
said he learned of the loss with great regret He had known the institution from its earliest days. At that time Chicago was a small village, with hardly any schools. Chicago had sent so many students to Notre Dame that the loss was peculiarly felt here. The founder of that college was one of the most peculiar characters conspicuous in the educational history of this country. With a spirit of enterprise like that of Marquette and Hennepin, he turned his attention to the unpeopled West. This venerable man lives to-day in a green old age, and Mr. Hoyne hoped he would live to see the institution he had founded re-endowed with buildings and apparatuses. The heaviest loss was not of the buildings, but of the Library, Herbarium, works of art, geological cabinets and other collections.
There must be‘some means of reaching the public and securing a liberal donation towards re-establishing the college. He suggested that a committee be appointed to take this matter in hand, and that some gentleman come here from Notre Dame and devote himself to the collection of the funds.
MR. S. s. HAYES
said he knew the institution and its faculty, and he sympathized with it in its misfortune. Father Sorin had rivalled the early French missionaries in his zeal. He had crossed the ocean thirty-six times in working for education, morality and religion. He had founded forty-one houses of his Order here. The speaker had bad two sons graduate there, and he felt grateful to the faculty for their kindness to his sons. In 1871 Chicago received help from Notre Dame. He wanted Chicago to manifest practical sympathy with Notre Dame. He indorsed Mr. Hoy ne’s suggestion. Contributions that ran over a term of years would prove very acceptable. The college was an honor to the country, and he thought that the people of Chicago, irrespective of religion, would help it
Mr. Hoyne moved that the Mayor appoint a committee of five or seven to take this matter in hand.
EX-MAYOR COLVIN
said he could assent to all that had been said, and he would be gratified to contribute to an institution where his children had been educated. He had long known Father Sorin, and he never knew any person who* knew Father Sorin and did not love him.
MR. JOSEPH S. BONFIELD
was called on. When a boy of 14 he entered Notre Dame as a student. At that time the college had no rival in the West. It was an asylum and a charitable institution as well as a college. It was not to be regarded solely as an educational institution. We had not, and probably never would have, an institution doing the charitable work of Notre Dame. That institution took charge of orphans and reared them to intelligence and usefulness. We could not get along without'such an institution. He suggested that the committee should thoroughly canvass the ground
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
before appealing to the public. The committee should publish a history of the institution and an account of what it had done for the Northwest.
Mr. Hayes suggested that donors of money receive certificates that would be received at the college in payment of the education of the donors’ children.
MR. W. J. ONAHAN
was invited to speak. He expressed his veneration for the college at Notre Dame. Its graduates were scattered all over the United States and Canada. It would be hardly possible to adequately state the nobility of Father Sorin, or the usefulness of the college he founded. Notre D ame was almost a part of Chicago. The people of Chicago had always felt a deep interest in the institution, and this interest had been deserved. He didn’t believe there was a city in the country with merchants of such generosity as the merchants of Chicago.
Mr. J. J. Healey made some remarks, and expressed his regrets that more persons were not present, and he thought it might be well to have another meeting.
Mr. Hoyne offered the following
resolutions:
Resolved, That this meeting deeply sympathizes with the faculty and the venerable founder of the University of Notre Dame in the recent loss which they have met in the destruction of their buildings by fire, and that they recognize the duty as well as the public necessity which demands the speedy restoration of the accommodations necessary to continue the valuable work in which they have been engaged.
Resolved, That in order that the people of Chicago may be appealed to and collections made to forward the work, that the Mayor select at his convenience a committee of nine, including a representative of the institution, to carry out the ob-j ect of this meeting.
These resolutions were adopted, with the provision that the committee should have authority to appoint sub-committees.	.
The meeting then adjourned, to meet on the call of the committee appointed by the chair.
On second thought the meeting was recalled, and the Mayor appointed
THE FOLLOWING COMMITTEE:
Hon. Thomas Hoyne, Hon. S. S. Hayes, Hon. H. D. Colvin, J. F. Torrence, William J. Onahan, Charles Henrotin, J. S. Bonfield, and the Rev. Christopher Kelly.
The committee will meet at the Grand Pacific Hotel Monday evening, at 8 o’clock. Friends of the University are invited. ____________________________
[From the Sunday Tribune, Chicago, May 11.]
Notre Dame.
THE MOVEMENT TO RAISE FUNDS TO REBUILD THE COLLEGE.
A meeting of representative citizens was held at the Grand Pacific Hotel last evening for the purpose of aiding in the restoration of the buildings of Notre Dame College, recently destroyed by fire.
Thomas Hoyne formally called the gentlemen to order: and Mayor Harrison was called to preside, and Aiderman Daly was chosen as Secretary.	'
His honor stated that the meeting was called to aid the College, and said that Chicago should show her sympathy with all losers by fire.
The Very Bev. Father Corby made a statement of the
losses of the College. He expressed his gratitude to the gentlemen for their interest in the matter, and also spoke of the fire and its destructiveness. The affliction was taken as a blow from God, and the Fathers of the College were resigned to it.
Thomas Hoyne said he had known of. the College from its earliest days, when Chicago was a village, and with but few schools. The loss was felt here greatly. The founder of the institution was a peculiar character, prominent in the educational history of the country, and lived to-day in a green old age. The speaker hoped he would live to see the College restored again and re-endowed. He suggested that a committee be appointed to take the matter in hand, and that some gentleman come here from Notre Dame and devote his time to the collection of the funds.
*
S. S. Hayes said he was in full sympathy with the institution, and he spoke particularly of the Rev. Father Sorin, whom, he said, rivalled the early French Missionaries in his zeal. In 1871 Chicago had received help from Notre Dame, and the people, irrespective of religious belief, should help it.
THOMAS HOYNE
moved that the Chair appoint a committee of five or seven, whose duty it should be to take the matter in hand and devise ways and means to aid the College.
Ex-Mayor Colvin said he would be gratified to contribute to an institution where his children had been educated, and he would approve of the action the gentlemen might be pleased to take.
J. F. Bonfield spoke of the College as a charitable as well as an educational institution, where orphans had been trained up and made useful men. He suggested that the Committee thoroughly canvass the ground before appealing to the public, and that a history of the College and an account of what it had done for the Northwest should be published.
Mr. Hayes suggested that donors receive certificates that would be good at the College for the education of their children.
W. J. Onahan was invited to speak, and showed how closely Notre Dame was allied to Chicago, and what a deep interest the people of this city felt in the institution.
Mr. J. J. Healy suggested that it might be well to have another meeting.
Thomas Hoyne offered
THE FOLLOWING RESOLUTIONS, which were adopted with the understanding that the Committee should have power to appoint subcommittees :
JOesolved, That this meeting deeply sympathize with the Faculty and the venerable founder of the University of Notre Dame in the recent loss which they have met in the destruction of their buildings by fire, and that they recognize the duty as well as the public necessity which demands the speedy restoration of the accommodations necessary to continue the valuable work in which they have been engaged.
Resolved, That in order that the people of Chicago may be appealed to and collections made to forward the work, that the Mayor select at his convenience a committee of seven, including some representative of the institution, to act as the agents of this meeting.
The Mayor announced the following gentlemen as the Committee: Messrs. Hoyne, Hayes, Colvin, Torrence, Onahan, Charles Henrotin, Bonfield, and the Rev. Christopher Kelly.
The meeting then adjourned, subject to the call of the Committee: and it was announced that the latter would
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	559
meet to-morrow evening at the Grand Pacific Hotel, when it desires that the friends of Notre Dame be present.
I
i
“First in Peace.”
A couple of weeks ago we called attention to the fact that Mr. Robert King, of Chicago, well known as a teacher of elocution and a dramatic reader, had received from his friend McRae, of New York, fifty copies of his splendid engraving, “ First in Peace,” in advance of the issuance of the work anywhere else. The scene represents the landing of Washington at the Battery. New York on the 23d of April, 1789, previous to his inauguration as the first President of the United States. It is painted by Rivey, Paris, from a cartoon by Brueckner. The moment chosen says Lessing is that when the boat containing the nation’s chief approaches the pier. A triumphal arch, its canopy decorated with appropriate emblems, stands on the shore at the point of reception. On one side of it is the pine-tree flag of colonial New England, denoting the origin of the new government, and on the other side the national ensign. Under that arch are seen George Clinton, the Governor of the State of New York; Robert R. Livingston, the Chancellor of the State, who was to administer the oath of office to the Chief Magistrate; and David Provost, D. D., Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of New York, who had been chosen Chaplain of the National Senate. On the right of these is seen a group of distinguished persons, among whom are Alexander Hamilton, the first Secretary of the Treasury; his father-in-law, General Philip Schuyler; Marinus Willett, one of the early “ sons of liberty ” of New York and now its Mayor, and others of less note, with a group of ladies. On the left of the landing, musicians are seen, and a crowd of citizens welcoming the President with huzzas. Near them is the prow of a merchant vessel, with a figure-head representing Peace crowned with a garland, bearing in one hand the olive branch, and with the other holding in her lap a basket of flowers, denoting her task to be the filling of the land with beauty and plenteousness. On the deck is a group of merchants, the whole illustrating the joy of Commerce at the return of Peace. This vessel is gaily decorated with the flags of all nations, denoting the friendship of the New Repuolic for all the world. More in the distance is seen a foreign ship of war firing a salute in attestation of the acquiescence of Europe in the new order of things in America, and a reciprocity of the friendship offered to the Old World by the New Republic. Beyond and above all these animated scenes, the clouds of war are evanishing and allowing the bright sun of peace to illuminate the land. Following the barge in which Washington is borne is a ship of war, its figure-head a Gladiator, but with a brokensword indicative ofthe close of the contest. On its deck are seen Commodore Barney and other naval commanders. Floating over the end of the bowsprit is the flag of the Republic, and near it those of France and Great Britain, denoting the amity then existing between the three nations. At the door of the beautiful pavilion of the barge, whose figure-head is Liberty, are seen two notable characters, who were beloved by Washington. One is the venerable Charles Thompson, the Secretary of the Continental Congress, and the other the elegant Colonel David Humphreys, then Washington’s Private Secretary. In a barge adjoining that of the President are seen other distinguished men, including the Committee who had formally received the President in behalf of the National Congress. Among these were John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States; General Henry Knox, the first Secretary of War; Samuel Osgood, the first Post-Master General, and Ebenezer Hazzard, then acting in that capacity. In the immediate foreground is seen a boat with some sailors in it, also a canoe bearing an Indian warrior, mother, and child, indicating the fact that the hand of the savage, which had been active during the war, was now stayed from violence, and that the red man was at peace with the white man on American soil. The event was a memorable one. The landing took place at the ferry stairs, Murray’s Wharf, near the foot of Whitehall street, and not far from the great battery of Fort George. The shore in the vicinity was covered with tens of thousands of people,—men,
woman, and children,—dressed in their best attire; and from a hundred points in the city the flag of the Union was displayed. All the vessels in the harbor, but one, were superbly decorated with flags and banners. The exception was the Galveston, a ship-of-war of the professedly friendly power of old Spain. There it lay in sullen silence and grandeur, with only its own proper colors visible-while everything else quivered and glowed with excite, ment. Its marked difference created surprise and mortification, and occasioned many severe remarks. Then there was a sudden change. As the President’s barge touched the wharf, the eighteen heavy guns of the Battery, under the direction of Colonel Bauman, fired a national salute. In an instant afterward, the broadsides ofthe Galveston responded, and at the same moment its rigging displayed every flag and signal known among the nations. The effect was wonderful. Along the shores and over the expanse of waters, wherever there was a human voice, there went out upon the noontide air joyous huzzas for the representative of “His Most Catholic Majesty’’ of Spain, the friend of Washington.
In the midst of these salutes and cheers of welcome, the President ascended the ferry stairs. Tnese were covered with a rich carpet, which extended to a carriage in waiting for him; and the railings of the steps were overlaid with crimson cloth. He was received by his old friend and • compatriot, Governor Clinton, and a host of other worthies of the Revolution gathered around him. Many had come long distances to see the face of their beloved Chief once more; and touching were the recognitions and greetings.
Books and Periodicals.
—Donahoe'8 Magazine for June has just been received. Notices which we had written and in type of Donahoe's Magazine for May, and also of the Catholic World for the same month, have had to go with other things, in consequence of the fire.
—“ Whither Goest Thou? ” is the title of a four-page quarto circular, printed by Mr. John Bennett, of Sunman, Indiana, which will be sent to any address on receipt of a 3 ct. stamp. Mr. Bennett is a convert, a plain, matter-of-fact man, and being often forced into unpleasant discussions by some of his former co-religionists, he has here, once and for all, endeavored to satisfy any doubts that might remain as to the wisdom of his choice.
—The new eight volumes Acme edition of Chambers's Cyclopedia of English Literature is meeting with the largest sale which has probably ever been given to a work having only high literary merit and nothing of the sensational Nearly 50^000 vols. have been sold within the first three months of publication. Volume2, just received, gives the history and epitome of our literature, from the days of Queen Elizabeth to 1700, giving in its 416 beautiful pages biographies of and choice selections from the writings of all noted authors of that period. The work is of such well-known excellence that every person of literary taste possesses or desires to possess some edition of it. This edition is complete in eight handy volumes, excellent in typography, paper and binding, revised to date, and sold at prices so low, that a common question which the publishers have to answer is, “ whether the price is for each volume or for the entire work?” It is sold only to subscribers direct, the large discount usually given to dealers and agents, being allowed to the subscriber instead. The publishers make special inducements to early purchasers, the eight volumes complete being sent to those who subscribe this month, elegantly bound in doth for $2.50. Specimen pages are sent free on request, or a specimen volume for examination, post paid for 43 cents. American Book Exchange, Publishers, 55 Beekman Street, New York.
[We hope that those publishers who sent us books during the past two weeks will kindly excuse our failure to notice them. At the time of the breaking out of the fire which destroyed the College and surrounding buildings, several notices were in type, and since then our office affairs have been more or less confused, and matters of the greatest moment have crowded out everything else.]
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 17, 187'9.
The New Building.
We have just seen the plans of the new College building ■which have been adopted. We have not time this week to give our readers a suitable description of them, but assure all that there is a treat in store for every reader of the Scholastic next week, when we hope to present a full and detailed description of the New Notre Dame. The plans adopted are drawn by Mr. W. J. Edbrooke, a distinguished architect of Chicago, and that our readers may have an idea of the magnificence of the new edifice we will say that the total frontage will reach about three hundred and twenty feet, and the depth one hundred and fifty-six, not counting porticos or steps.
From an inspection of the ground-floor and front elevation we are delighted with the prospect, and have no hesitation in announcing that, besides being far more commodious, the new University will be altogether a more beautiful structure than that which we have lost. To-day (Thursday) we found the architect, Bro. Charles, and Prof. Ivers running lines and driving stakes to mark the foundations, which will extend from the fountain in the garden north to a line twenty-five feet from the kitchen, and from Science Hall (which must be removed) east to the line of the old Music Hall. The students will make up their minds to become inmates of one of the most beautiful and convenient colleges in the country on the first day of next September.
Our Workshop.
In his annual message to the Common Council of South Bend, Mayor Tong recommends the establishment of a workhouse, on humanitarian and economical grounds. We are persuaded that his honor obtained this idea from contemplating the scene now presented at Notre Dame. The Are changed the University into a heap of smouldering ruins, and now stout hearts and strong hands have turned the ruins into a workshop. “The school and the workshop,” the thinker and the toiler, have often been spoken of as distinct, but here we find them one. From this point of view the work now doing here is an interesting subject of study. The question presented is not, what is the relation of the thinker to the toiler, but how has the thinker become the toiler and what will be the outcome of this new experiment ? Will the searcher into the depths of philosoph -ical truth be able to hold his own in clearing brick and stone from the old foundations and building up the same brick and stone from the new foundations? Will the faultless master of drawing and penmanship be able to draw the lime covered brick so that it may fit into the graceful lines of the new building? Will the prefect of young students make successful director of toiling workmen? Will the young theologian be able to build up a house to the honor and gloiy of God? Will the mature t *acher be able to prepare his own class-room ? Can the ichool be turned into a workshop? The answer to these
questions come quickly. What is, can be. The school is turned into a workshop, and as the unused muscle hardens from day to day, the scholars of Notre Dame will develop into a set of skilled workmen of whom their Alma Hater will be proud Indeed. It is a holy work these religious are doing, and they feel that it is. It reminds us of what we read in history, when the monks cleared up the waste places of the land, and there with there with their own hands, planted churches, schools, and monastries, the fountain heads of modern civilization. Even so it is here, and men will in future refer to the work of these days as we do now to the work of heroic ages. Great deeds are done around us and we do not notice the presence of the saint and the hero. But they are with us and the future will recognize them. Success then to this school turned into a workshop and may God bless those who are so eager to help them selves and to labor for His honor and glory.
A Letter From the Minims to Very Bev. Father Sorin.
We are permitted by Very Bey. Father-General to publish the following characteristic letter, recently received by h;m from his favorite little students, nearly forty of whom are pleasantly located in Science Ha1!, pursuing their studies and preparing for the c’ose of the year, as if there had never been a fire at Notre Dame.
The Minims of Notbe Dame, to Very Rev. Father General, Greeting:—
Venerated and Dear Father:—We have waited until this time to address you, because being but little fellows, we thought it flitting that we should keep quiet until older and more important people should first tell you of the sorrow which we know all persons feel for the loss of your dear Notre Dame. You know that we were the first to see the College on fire, and as we felt sorry at once you see that we have suffered for a longer time than any one else; and we do believe our sorrow has been very great all the time, although one paper wickedly remarked that we were whistling and singing on the evening of the fire. Yes, Very Rev. Father, if we have waited for older persons to speak before us it is not that they can feel any more keenly the loss that you have sustained, or the sorrow of your heart than we do; for as we have heard that a South Bend paper has said that “the Minimshave always been the favorite children of Father Sorin,” and as we ourselves know that we are the dearest of all to you, therefore we believe that none can sympathize with you as we do. Otherwise we should be ashamed of our own ingratitude. A speaker at a meeting for Notre Dame in Chicago, said that “no one could know Father Sorin and not love him,” how then could we not love you who know you so well ? And that all the world might know how well we love you and your own Notre Dame, we have staid here while Juniors and Seniors have gone home; we have staid to pray with yon and for you, to continue the students here, to prepare ourselves to take our places some day in the new Col lege which is going up, and to witness this second great work ■ of yours, the re-building of Notre Dame. ’
We have heard of your great activity in former years, your days in the log house in the woods, on the banks of St. Mary’s Lake. These stories always seemed like fairy tales to us; but now we shall see you ourselves do this great work over again. We have already seen you bless the corner-stone; we shall, please God, see you lay the first brick on the foundation; and when we are men we shall be able to relate the story of the wonderful summer when the magnificent New Notre Dame arose from the ashes of the old.
Another reason for writing this letter to you is to thank you from our hearts for the beautiful department you are preparing for us, a College for your Minims, capable of holding one hun
-1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	561
dred of us little fellows; and we have heard, dear Father, that you are going to make it as beautiful as a palace. Now, they tell us that you are going to place a statue of St. Joseph over the principal door of the University, and this has suggested to us that we- should like to have a statue over the door of oub College. Your thirty.seven minims present (and we know the absent ones will join us in this when they return) have chosen to have youb patron, St. Edward, as the protector of the Minim Department, and you will do us the honor of allowing us to pay for the statue ourselves; for we are exceedingly rejoiced that our own college building is to be finished at once, without waiting even for the great college buildings.
And now, Very Rev. and dear Father, although this is only a letter from your Minims, will you please have it published in the Scholastic, that every one may know that though we are small boys, we have true hearts, and that the affections of even such a man as Very Rev. Edward Sores are not thrown away on us!
Your Own Loving	Minims.
Notbb Dame, Ind., May 14,1879.
Local Items.
—Work is rapidly advancing on the old Infirmary building.	,
—Bev. Father Zahm left Notre Dame for Fort Wayne on Saturday, May 10th. He will be absent for a few weeks.
—Bev. Father Stoffel will spend part of the summer in Dubuque, Iowa, where he has a large number of friends.
—Vice-President Walsh, having had exercise enough on the brick-pile, has gone to New York city, where he will spend a few weeks.
—Although twenty-one days had passed since the University buildings were burned, the smoke issued from the piled-up debris yesterday.
—Occasionally a small piece of stalactite or a remnant of some formerly valued mineral from the cabinet is found among the ruins of the College. They have, generally, lost their original shape and appearence, having been reduced almost to a liquid state by the fire.
—The progress made in reducing the mass of ruins has been so great as to attract the attention of every one who has been away for a few days. The unsightly heap will now very soon be entirely gone and the ground left bare, as when it was cleared off over thirty years ago to lay the foundations of the old College—long before many of us were born.
—The fine old maple near the Infirmary that resisted the nibbling of horses for so many years has finally yielded to the force of fire. While all the maples along the avenue and on the park are dressed out in the rich soft foliage of the May-time, not a leaf has appeared on the multitudinous branches of the ancient tree whose shade was so grateful to the invalid of other summers.
—Wednesday forenoon, and again in the afternoon, we were visited by most welcome summer showers. They were especially grateful to the dust-covered, lime-covered, soot-covered and overheated workmen at the still smoking pile of ruins. The hose gladly withdrew its insignificant spouting, and the glorious torrents descended from heaven to the delight of every one. Everybody can take a good wetting with satisfaction under such circumstances.
___Many persons have been attracted by the curious appearance of the burnt books from the College Libraries, volumes in many cases could be picked up entire, or in peat part; the leaves could be turned over, and the smallest print read, although the paper was burned to a jet black and at the slightest pressure would crumble into dust. We are not aware that any one has attempted to preserve any of those black-paper and black-letter books, although we think it could be done.
___On Tuesday a pile of plates still red hot was found covered with charcoal and rubbish in a closet next to the Junior refectory. Hot plates are appreciated on the breakfast-table of a winter’s morning, but these were pi
ping hot,—too hot, indeed, for comfort. So a friend of ours thought, when soon afterwards he reached out to pick up a sugar-bowl from the same closet—it is needless to say the sugar-bowl was dropped at once, without any regard for crockery or the price of sugar.
—We would say to all those friends of Notre Dame, whether traveller from the mother-House, former visitors or students of the present or of other years, who are now sojourning far from us, we shall receive most thankfully any personal or other items of interest concerning Notre Dame. Dear old students, the “ Scholastic Box ” is burnt up and you can no.longer drop your welcome contributions into its capacious interior, but remember the Scholastic itself is not burnt up; it escaped, and is cheerful as ever. So send us items.
—It is three weeks since the fire, and yet the smoke still rises from the huge mass of brick resulting from the falling in of the several walls. The hose is still in constant use to prevent the flames from bursting forth as the workmen carry away the rubbish. Hundreds of loads have been already hauled off and made good use of, by building up a solid road towards the lower lake. The great mass of brick over the burning timbers made a perfect charcoal-pit, and barrel after barrel of the finest charcoal has been already gathered. So even the cinders will be turned into good use.
—Since the suspension of the Notre Dame Scholastic, consequent upon the destruction by fire of the institution, we would suggest that the Ave Maria devote a small section, at least, of its space to local news of Notre Dame. The friends of the University are anxious to learn of the progress made in re-building.— Catholic Columbian.
Our valued iriend the Editor of the Columbian is hereby assured that the Scholastic has not suspended, and, God willing, will not suspend, but will come out as usual every week and give to all the friends of Notre Dame all items of interest concerning the rebuilding of the University.
—From our valued friend, Hon. W. C. McMichael, formerly foreman of this office but now holding a responsible position in the Government Printing Office at Washington, we have received a private letter in which he expresses his earnest sympathy with the Bev. Father Sorin, and through him with all the community of Notre Dame, in their great affliction. Our friend has confidence that Notre Dame will rise with the brightest lustre from her ashes and become better known and more useful than ever —an honor to the State and to the nation. In this case the wish is certainly father to the thought, and we join our confidence with that of our friend that the future of the University will be more brilliant than the past.
—McGee's Illustrated Weekly.—We have just received No. 1, Vol. VI, of this admirable periodical, which shows marked improvements to which we would call the special attention of our readers. It is printed entirely from new types and will in future contain each week an original cartoon. It is the ambition of the enterprising publisher in making these improvements to place his journal in the very front rank of illustrated weeklies, and taking the present beautiful number as a specimen we are of opinion that he has already succeeded in his praiseworthy design. Mr. McGee has displayed an enterprise and good taste in the conduct of his admirable journal which entitled him to the hearty support of the Catholic public, and we are gratified to know that he is receiving it.
—The Minims are amongst the fortunate ones. They may say of their own sweet selves “ It is a bad wind that blows good to no one!” for they are actually better off than before the fire. Their study-room in Science Hall is a fine room, where they are pursuing their studies with the same regularity as if the whole world was as happy as they are themselves. They are also fortunate in another respect. Their own building is rapidly being renovated, and new walls built in, and soon the floors will be laid and the roof put on, and the whole fitted up in an improved shape for the use of the Minims. No private rooms will be occupied in this building hereafter, and the additional rooms thus obtained will make the accommodations ample for one hundred of these favorite little students.
—The following circular, calling a meeting of the friends of Notre Dame in Chicago, was received too late for dur
562
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
last issue. Although our readers have elsewhere an account of the meeting, from the Chicago daily papers, we nevertheless think it right and proper to publish the circular, with the appended names, for a fuller record in the columns of the Scholastic.
Chicago, May 7, 1879.
Vert Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.:
Dear Sir:—You are respectfully invited to attend a meeting to be held in the Club Room of the Grand Pacific Hotel, Saturday evening, 10th instant, at 8 p. m. The meeting is called by, and at the request of, a large number of the friends of Notre Dame, to take such action as may seem fitting in the view of the great misfortune which has overwhelmed the venerable Founder and the President and Faculty of that great institution of learning.	.
The calamity that has destroyed the noble University of Notre Dame involves not only the loss of the buildings, but the destruction of the greater part of its extensive collections and treasures of art and literature, including the invaluable contents of a fine Museum, Laboratory, the Music Hall, etc.
This unexpected blow has aroused the sorrow and moved the sympathy of the country.
Notre Dame has long been regarded as one of the representative educational institutions of the West, and Chicago, especially, felt a pride in its welfare and prosperity, almost in the same degree as if it were located within the corporate limits of our city. Hundreds of our young men, now occupying leading positions in the professions and in the business circles, were educated at Notre Dame, and still feel towards it an affection, now the more strongly intensified by the sad disaster that has swept away the material Alma Mater which once sheltered and educated them. It is believed that all these, as well as the citizens of Chicago in general, would not be content to let the work of reconstruction, already begun, go on without taking a hand and part in it.
Chicago, itself, has been the victim of a like overwhelming disaster, and the material aid and active sympathy of Notre Dame in that dire distress is not forgotten.
The life of the venerable and honored Founder of Notre Dame, Very Rev. E. Sorin, will be restored; he has already, with characteristic energy, laid down the foundation of the new University with his own hands, but Chicago must aid in the great work.
Hence this meeting, to which all the friends of the University are invited, in order to procure prompt and fitting action in the premises.
His Honor, Mayor Harrison, has kindly consented to preside.
Yourself and friends are respectfully invited to attend the meeting.	.
[Signed.]
H. D. Colvin, Thomas Hotne,
W. J. Onahan, Charles Walsh, ’ B. Callahan, J. T. Torbence, J. J. McGrath, Kaspab G. Schmidt.
P. L. Garrity.
Chicago and Notre Dame.
In the Chicago dailies of Wednesday and Thursday we find the following, which speaks for itself:	-
At the meeting held at the Grand Pacific Hotel on last Monday evening to devise ways and means for the reconstruction of the Notre Dame University, recently destroyed by fire, it was decided to select a number of appropriate committees to raise funds in this city towards that end. The committees have finally been arranged and are as follows :	.
Railroads and Transportation Companies—Hon H. D. Colvin, Gen. J. T. Torrence and W. P. Rend.
Manufacturers—J. H. Brown, C. B. Swain and Carlyle Mason.
Public Officials—Thomas Hoyne, W. J. Hynes, T. Brennan, J. J. Healey, C. Walsh and P. Cleary.
Lawyers and Professional interests—J. Bonfield, J. Ward, J. F. Asay, Dr. E. Schmidt and J. Boland..
Bankers and Brokers—C. Henrotin and W. Schweisthal.
Grocers—M. A. Farwell, J. Schmaul, J. B. Inderriden and P. J. Towle.
Publishers and Stationers—E. T. Jansen, G. W. Lyon, W. A. Amberg, J. W. Sheahan and John F. Finerty.
Commission Merchants—M. O’Connor, P. Moran and J. J. McCarthy.
Brewers, Distillers and Liquor Dealers—O. Cavanagh, EL G. Schmidt and H. J. Tenzen.
Educational Interests—W. J. Onahan and W. Jones.
Packers and Provision Dealers—W. T. Ball, D. O’Connor and Nelson Morris.
Hardware—Crane Brothers and E. Hunt.
Coal and Iron—W. P. Rend.
Hotels and Restaurants—J. B. Drake, M. Rourke, Alvin Hurlbut and J. Woodcock.
Dry Goods and Notions—T. Hoyne and J. O’Connell.
Hats, Caps and Millinery—J. P. B. Dileyand V. Henrotin.
Tanners and Leather Dealers—D. Mergentheim.
Paints and Oils—T. Nelson, W. H. Mulligan and H. D. Colvin.
Boots and shoes—T. J. Shay.
Miscellaneous Contributions—P. L. Garrity, J. E. McMahon, H. Fitzgibbon, A. J. Wright, C. C. Conley, and J. Cochrane.
The following gentlemen composed the executive committee : Rev. C. Kelly J. A. Lyons, T. Hoyne, General J. T. Torrence, and W. J. Onahan. Any of the persons named are authorized to receive subscriptions to the general fund.
The committee appointed at the meeting of citizens held on Saturday evening last, to raise funds in aid of the University, met last night at the Grand Pacific Hotel, with Rev. C. Kelly in the chair. Each member of the committee was assigned to the district originally allotted him, and received the credentials necessary to the prosecution of the work in hand. A meeting of all the committees interested will be held at the same place on Tuesday evening next.
• From the new Bishop of Marquette.
Very Rev. Father General having sent his congratulations to the Rt. Rev. Jno. B. Vertin, lately appointed Bishop of Marquette, has received the following dispatch in reply:
GratiasI Memento mei quid faciendum. Accipe dolorem meum pro calamitate universitatis.
J.B. Vertin.
RoH of Honor.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Chaves, H. C. Snee, C. Long, J. 8. Courtney, C. Crowe, F. Parsons, N. Nelson, G. J. Rhodius, A Chirhart, G. Tourtillotte, J. M. Courtney, W. Rea, P. Fitzgerald, E. Howard, J. McGrath, J. B. Crowe, H. Bachmann, L. Young, H. Kitz, A. Coghlin, W. A. Coghlin, C. Young, C. Welty.
Class Honors.
G. J. Rhodius, N. Nelson, W. Coghlin, H. Snee, C. Long, C. Perry, H. Kitz, J. Chaves, E. Howard, G. Tourtillotte, G. Woodson, J. J. Gordon, J. McGrath, W. Rea, J. M. Courtney, H. Parsons, A Chirhart, H. Bachmann, I. McGrath, C. Welty.

St. Mary’s Art Department.
PRIZE MEDALS.
Doctor Toner, of Washington, D. C., who gave last year the prize gold medal in St. Luke’s Studio, has again generously donated the same handsome prize for competition in that department. In addition, this year, the Doctor has presented a silver medal, of the same size as the gold one, to be held for competition by the pupils of the General Drawing Class, outside of the Studio, with the view of rewarding and bringing out latent talent, which might be revealed by offering such an inducement to its members, from the Senior to the smallest Junior, or Minim even. The pupils have entered fully into the view of their generous patron, and no object of beauty in the landscape surrounding. St. Mary’s but is portrayed, with the hope of meeting his approval.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
563
—On Sunday, the monthly Adoration. Those precious hours will soon be over for many devout souls.
—The devotion of the Six Sundays, in honor of St. Aloysius, the Patron of students, has commenced, and may the participants obtain his spirit of purity of intention.
—The weekly Academic reunion was presided by Very Rev. Father General. Miss Ida Fisk read “ The Cleansing of the Leper,” by Willis; Miss Walsh read, in German, “ Das Schloss am Meere,” by Ludvig Uhland.
—At the May Devotions, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Hudson and Shortis preached. How beautiful the thought that we are united with the millions spread over the globe, in the fulfilment of the Blessed Virgin’s prophecy: “All generations shall call me blessed” I
—On the Feast of St. Michael, Very Rev. Father General officiated in Loreto at a reception of the Children of the Holy Angels. Father General loves to be among the little ones of his Divine Master, Jesus Christ, and his words of advice, on the “Necessity of Good Example,” will be long remembered. Full members—Mary Cox, Celestine Lemon-tey, Ellen Lloyd, Sophie Papin. Aspirants—Hattie Arlington, Angela Watson, Elise Papin, Sabina Semmes, Isabella Hackett, Elise Lavoie, Manuelita Chaves.
—Visitors during the week—Mr. E. Douglas, Chicago; Mrs. Hebarr, Mrs. Newmann, Michigan City, Ind.; Mr. C. H. Swain, Mrs. John McGrath, Chicago; Miss Leyden, Niles; John P. Canavan, Susquehanna Depot, Pa.; Mrs. Barick, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mr. King, Mr. Kreg, Indianapolis; Mrs. Rapp, Mrs. Fox, South Bend; Mrs. Buchanier, Columbus City, Iowa; Mr. Michael Buchanier, Columbus City, Iowa; Mrs. Babcock, Jessie Babcock, Mrs. E. D. Corell, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Gatill, Mr. C. Gatill, Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. Barkley, Laporte, Ind.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Eisk, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly.
1st Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Net-eler, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin, Annie Woodin, Mary Casey, Mary Birch.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Danaher, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Annie Cavenor, Adella Gordon, Ellen Galen, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Harriet Buck, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Alice Farrell, Catharine Lloyd, Angela Ewing, Mary Plattenburg, Mary Brown, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Pauline Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Alicia Donelan, Angela Dillon, Adella Geiser, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Agnes Joyce, Martha Wagoner, Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Lucie Chilton, Annie Jones, Ellena Thomas, Mary Usselmaun, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Feehan, Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas, Ollie Williams, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Linda Fox, Caroline Gall, Della Mc-Kerlie, Mary English, Julia Barns.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lillie Lancaster, Annie Orr, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Johanna Baroux, Margaret Cleghorn, Edith Botsford.
2d Div.—Misses Bridget Kelly, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrents, Sarah Purdy, Mary Cox, Effie Pearson, Ellen Kinzie, Annie Loescher, Julia Butts.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Julia Wells, Sabina Semmes, Maud Casey, Matilda Kildaire, Celestine Lemontey
1st Jr. Class—Misses Ada Clarke, Elise Lavoie, Elizabeth Consadine, Mary Chirhart, Elise Papin, Jessie Pampel, Mary Paqutte, Minnie Fisk.
2d Jr. Class—Misses Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmermann, Isabella Scott, Mary Fitzgerald, Manuelita Chaves.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LATIN.
Misses lorantha Semmes and Pauline Hills.
FRENCH COMPOSITION.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Alary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, lorantha Semmes, Ella Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Ewing, 100; Martha Wagoner, 100; Mary Casey, Emma Shaw, 95.
3d Class—Misses Mary Brown, 100; Annie Cavenor, Louisa Neu, Annie Cortright, Annie Maloney, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts, Linda Fox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Ollie Williams, Annie Ryan, Johanna Baroux, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Wells, Anne Orr, Ada Clarke, Sophie Papin, Mary English, Elise Dallas, Alargaret Cleghorn.	_
2d Div.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Josephine Mitchell.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselman, Caroline Gall, Annie Loescher.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Walsh, Adella Gordon, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Minna Loeber, Ina Capelle, Alice Farrell, Catharine Claffey, Louisa Kelly, Catharine Hackett, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Alice Donelan, Catharine Hoadley, Martha Pampel, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Maud Casey, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Edith'Botsford, Matilda Kildaire.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Mary Taggart.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells, lorantha Semmes, Catharine Martin.
2d Drv.—Misses Ann Leydon,.Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire, Catharine Claffey.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Drv.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster, Mary Tam.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Glass—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves, Angela Watson.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Celestine Lemontey, Annie Loescher, Harriet Arlington.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
Elementary Thorough-Bass Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Alice Farrell, Mary McGrath, Mary Usselmann, Annie McGrath, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best notes for the week— Misses Caroline Gall, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Rosing, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Annie Hermann, Catharine Danaher, Martha Pampel, Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Mabel Hamilton, Eleanor Thomas, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Casey, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Emma Shaw, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Claffey, Pauline Hills, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Alicia Donelan, Lucie Chilton, Linda Fox, Philomena Wolford, Annie Orr, Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Elise Papin, Ada Clarke, Catharine Ward, Manuelita Chaves.
Technical Exercises—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw, Anna Hermann, Angela
564
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ewing, Martha Pampel, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Mary Taggart.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice FarrelL
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Mary McGrath, Emma Shaw, Zod Papin, Anna McGrath, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing, Harriet Buck.
5th Class—Misses Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, lorantha Semmes, Mary Plattenburg, Ella Cavanagh, Ina Capelie, Katie . Martin, Laura.French, Martha Wagoner, Anna Loescher.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Mary Taggart, Mary English, Sophie Papin, lorantha Semmes, Angela Ewing, Maud Casey, Minna Loeber, Sarah Purdy, Ellen Mulligan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLOBS.
2d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, EUena Thomas, Laura French, Mary Campbell.
3d Class—Miss Elizabeth Schwass.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Hambleton, Harriet Buck, Agnes Joyce, Sarah Moran.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Plattenburg.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Pampel, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Wagoner, Mary Fitzgerald, Ina Capelle, Annie Jones, Mary Campbell, Ella Cavanagh, Bridget Kelly, Lucie Chilton, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Laura French, Catharine Campbell, Maud Casey, Sophie Papin, Annie McGrath, Julia Wells, Linda Fox, Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte, Van Namee, Matilda Kildaire, Mary Hackett, Ella Mulligan, Genevieve McGrath, Johanna fiaroux, Elise Dallas, Mary Lyons, Ada Clarke, Mary Feehan, Jessie Pampel, Lillie Lancaster, Mary Paquette, Annie Orr, Manuelita Chaves, Elizabeth Consadine, Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Belle Scott, Annie Leyden, Angela Watson, Mary Garrity, Blanche Garrity, Minnie Cox.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman, Bridget Kelly, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Elizabeth Schwass, Mabel Hamilton, Angela Dillon, Ellena Thomas, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Teresa Kilelea,
2d Div.—Misses Agnes Joyce, Minna Loeber, Marie Plattenburg, Mary Casey,-Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Annie Woodin, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Caroline Gall.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanore Keenan, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea, Emma Lange, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner lorantha Semmes, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Angela. Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Agnes Joyce, Pauline Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Ollie Williams, Catharine Martin, Mary Tam, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Mabel Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, Effie Pearson, par excellence. Misses Zod Papin, Mary Casey, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Birch, Harriet Buck, Alice FarrelL Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Sullivan, Grace Glasser Adella Geiser-Anna Cortright, Ella Thomas, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagoner, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Margaret Piersol, Mary Hake, Ida Torrents, Sarah Purdy, Edith Botsford, Effie Attwood.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Ellen Hackett, Lillie Lancaster, Annie Leydon, Maud Casey, Sabina Semmes, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadine, Jane McGrath, Isabella
Hackett, Manuelita Chaves, Isabella Scott, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Chaffey, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte Van Namee, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Julia Wells, Marie McN. Garrity, Sophie Papin, Matilda Kildaire, Hattie Arlington, Ada Clarka, Elise Lavoie Mary Fitzgerald.
Critical Notes on William Cowper—1731-1800.
The principal part of William Cowper’s literary productions consists of letters written to his numerous relatives and friends. Though of a truly poetic temperament, and having every opportunity of displaying his powers, he yet wrote but a few short poems until he had almost attained his fiftieth year, when the dormant powers of his genius were suddenly awakened.
Perhaps the strangest feature of the poet’s writings is the absence of any allusion to the frightful melancholy which so frequently cast its shadows over his mind. Whatever mental sufferings he endured, he refrains from introducing them into his writings; this is directly the opposite of what one would naturally expect from a person of his sensitive disposition. Most of his productions are characterized by tenderness, and sympathy for the sufferings of others; but the poetic feature which we particularly admire in him is his possession in the highest degree of that most necessary qualification of all true poets, namely, an ardent love of nature. To him everything in nature was beautiful, and his descriptions of even the smallest objects are glowing with admiration.
“The Task,” which is considered the masterpiece of Cowper’s poetical efforts, contains sufficient proof of the poet’s skill in illustrating the scenes of rural life. The First Book commences with a description of the numerous inventions which preceded that of the sofa. This poem is written in blank verse, a change from his usual style, which is the rhyming couplet. In this poem there are some examples of violent ellipsis, also a few rather abrupt transitions, but the sense is not obscured; and considering the license taken by other poets of his time, one cannot but admire the clear style in which it is written. We are amused by the author’s humorous manner of tracing the different steps of progression that were made from the time that
“The hardy chief upon the rugged rock
Washed by the sea, or on the gravelly bank Thrown up by wintry torrents, roaring loud— Fearless or wrong, reposed his weary strength. There barbarous ages past, succeeded next The birthday of invention; freak at first, Dull in design and clumsy to perform, Joint stools were then created: on three legs Upborne they stood. Three legs upholding firm A massy slab, in fashion square or round, On such a stool immortal Alfred sat And swayed the sceptre of his infant realms ”— until the increasing desire of comfort supplied a back and elbows, which, though rude and uncomfortable, were long endured by “our rugged sires, and might have remained the same had not
“The ladies first ’gan murmur, as became the softer sex Ingenious Fancy, never better pleased Than when employed to accommodate the fair, Heard the sweet moan with pity, and devised The soft settee, one elbow at each end,	-
And in the midst an elbow it received.
United yet divided, twain at once,	'
So sat two kings of Brentford on one throne, And so two citizens that take the air Close pack’d and smiling in a chaise and one.
But relaxation of the languid frame, By soft recumbency of outstretched limbs, Was bliss reserved for happier days. So slow The growth of what is excellent; so hard To attain perfection in this nether world. Thus, first necessity invented stools, Convenience next suggested elbow-chairs, And luxury, the accomplished sofa last.”
From these lines it is not difficult to detect the powers of sarcasm which the poet will display when speaking of the love of ease and the luxurious habits which have done away with the simplicity of former generations.
Though Cowper had perfect command of those three weapons—wit, humor and sarcasm, he never employed them in such a manner as to wound or offend modesty—a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
565
trait of character that is worthy of imitation. Refined as he was both by birth and education, he cared little for luxury; his chief pleasure consisted in contemplating the bauties of nature. With him, there was nothing unworthy of admiration, from the tiny flower which sprung up by the wayside, up to the lordly oak. There is the greatest reverence displayed in all his descriptions of the Creator’s work, which proves that he was a Christian in sentiment as well as a poet by nature; but, sad to say, his theological views were of such a gloomy nature as to render his life one of cruel mental distress. In reading “The Task,” we not only have a description of the river “ winding through a level plain,” the groves and “blooming hedges,” the “scattered villages,” the “tall spires,” the quiet scenes of rural life, but we can see them as if represented on canvas by the most skilful artist. The simplicity of his language renders his reading easy and interesting; his style is original and devoid of pompous expressions and complicated sentences, which were so frequently employed by writers of that age. His language is always appropriate to his theme, and it is this which lends an additional charm to everything he has written.
Cowper possessed a wonderful imagination, but he never allowed it to soar beyond the bounds of truth. His representations of the real and the ideal are not exaggerated, and it has been truly said of him that “he never riots amidst the exuberance of his conceptions, his economy displays his wealth, and his moderation is the proof of his powers.!’ Equal to his love of nature was his love for mankind, whose sufferings he was always ready to alleviate as far as he had power, and it is against the oppressions to which they were subjected that his satire is chiefly directed. His sympathies for those who suffered, either physically or mentally, were sincere; for his own life was one of pain and sorrow, and therefore he could the more easily understand and console those who were similarly afflicted. But deep as were his sympathies on this point, he regarded afflictions and trials with a truly Christian spirit of resignation, as the following beautiful lines will show:
“The path of sorrow, and that path alone, Leads to the land where sorrow is unknown ; No traveller ever reached that blest abode Who found not thorns and briars in his road. The world may dance along the flowery plain, Cheered as they go by many a sprightly strain ; Where nature has her mossy velvet spread, With unshod feet they yet securely tread ;
Admonish’d, scorn the caution and the friend, Bent on all pleasures, hebdless of its end.
But He who knew what human hearts would prove, How slow to learn the dictates of His love,— That hard by nature and of stubborn will, A life of ease would make them harder still,— In pity to the souls, His grace designed To rescue from the ruins of mankind, Called for a cloud to darken all their years, And said, * Go spend them in a vale of tears!’ O balmy gale of soul-reviving air !
O salutary streams that murmur there!
These flowing from the Fount of grace above, Those breathed from lips of everlasting love.”
It would be difficult to find a graceful or amiable trait of character that Cowper did not possess. His genius, his benevolence, and his affectionate disposition, combine to win admiration and respect. His sincere affection for his friends is best shown in his letters, which are models of epistolary correspondence, although he has frequently expressed his sentiments in the form of sonnets and poems. The following extract from the poem written on receiving his mother’s picture is full of tenderness, and proves the depth of feeling which be possessed:
“ My mother ! when I heard that thou wert dead, Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed ? Hover’d thy spirit o’er thy sorrowing son ?
Wretch even then, life’s journey just begun.
Perhaps thou gav’st me, though unfelt, a kiss— Perhaps a tear—if souls can weep in bliss.
Ah, that maternal smile, it answers—yes. I heard the bell tolled on thy burial day, I saw the hearse that bore thee slow away, And turning from my nursery window drew A long, long sigh and wept a last adieu.”
Did we not know that the humorous and pathetic are closely allied, we would never suppose the authotAof the above touching lines capable of producing such an exquis
itely humorous poem as “ John Gilpin’s Ride,” which is, in fact, one of the most generally known of Cowper’s poems. But with all his high poetic qualities, Cowper will never be appreciated by the majority of his readers, for the minuteness of detail in which he indulges is apt to tire the mind, unless it can readily follow the writer’s train of thought. However, he will always find admirers, and his rank among the popular poets will remain unchanged until some one surpasses him in delineating the various scenes of domestic life.	* * *
St Mary’s Academy.
Civil Engineers &> Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ 1 ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Strt, Elkhart, Indiana a Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. ST A. CE [of ’61], County Surveyor for JA. St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weelulv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published weekly a’ Columbus, O. Sub-cription* from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. CLARKE, OF 70.
THE AVE IMCA-RT A., a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price. $2.50.
Hotels.
THE BOND HOU^E, a. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
TELE MATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, 1,1. Alt Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson
Book Binders.
EDWARD JP. F Li Y YIN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
.TC AT.LIPfGr CARDS —no two alike, with Ct tJ neatly printed for 10 cents. E. A. Wilkie, Mishawaka, Ind.
QK CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic CltJ Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72), Atto-nejS at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD tof ’62). Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Uommiunoner for all the States, 2t6 B oadway icoi. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJVDinNTG- & HOGA.N (D. J. Hogan, of ’74), Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts, Chicago, LI.
JOHN F. MellUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «5t DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61),
Attorney at Law, No-ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Mam St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
.’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
556
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOL'ASTIC
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOijaNAL
quoted to the ^onor of tfe ^teed jjirjm.
(20 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY BATHER, PIUS IX, CONBMED BY POPE LEO HI And Encoubaged by Many Eminent Prelates,
Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad con-tribntors to the pages of the Ave Maria, among whom may be mentioned Rev. Fathers Lambing and Adams, and others of the Rev. and Rt. Rev. Clergy; Henri Lasserre, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrey de Vere, the Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars,” Kathleen O’Meara (“Grace Ramsay”), John O’Kane Murray, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Dunnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Misses Howe, “ Marie,’ ’the Author of “ Ty-borne,” and others.
TEE.MS :
One Year (postage free)...........................$250
Two Years............................................ 4	50
Six Months....................................... 1	30
Five Years.......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and upward, at the rate of §2 eaeh, with 1 free
Copy to the one getting up the Club), §20.
Yearly Postage to Europe, 4s. 6d., or §1.04 per copy. Single Subscription and postage to Europe. 12 shillings per annum.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
E^”In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railway, | embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is. the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Uah, Nevada, Cal.fornia, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minn.sota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	•
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
is the only rou’e between Cnicago and E'gin, Rockford Freeport, and all points via Freeptrt. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE . is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evans'on, Lake Foieit, Highland Park. Waukegan, Raciue. Kenosha and Milwaukee. PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all thtough trains of this road.
New York office, Nx 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Offic?, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to .
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.				
	•Mail Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express	tNight Express.
Lv. Ch’cagn - - -“ Mich. City -H 'Mil. a	.	7 00 a m 9 00 a m 9 25 “ 11 10 “ 10 45 “ 12 15 p. m 12 33 p m 1 4'i •* 3 45 '• 4 05 •* 6 48 “	6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 *• 10 00 •*	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 12 50 a.m. 3 35 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
“ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - -Ar. Detroit - -				
		•Jackson Express. 5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45 p. m 4 39 a m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
				
&	" Mall *Day Express.		+ Pacific Express	tEvening Express. 6 20 p m 940 “ 1235 a m 2 38 “ 415 “ 645 “
Lv. Detroit - - - -“ lackson	 “ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City • - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 to a. m 9 35 a m 10 2D '• 12 ’5 p.m 1 13 p. m 2 33 “ 3 05 “	4 07 “ 4 3' “	5 20 “ 6 55 “	7 4o “		9 50 pm. 12 45 a.m. 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	
Niles and Soritli Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH Lv So' Bend—8 45am. 639p.m “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “		•GOING SOUTH. Lv Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. *• N. Dame—7 40 “ 4 48 “ Ar. So- Bend-7 45 “ 4 55 “
•Sunday excepted.	tDr’y. ’	^Sa+urday and Sunday excepted
Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B Lbdyabd
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich' G. L. Eluott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
567
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10,1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,		No.l Fast Ex. 11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	No. 7 Pac. Ex. 9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	No. 3, Night Ex 1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	No. 5, Mail. 6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Alliance,							
Orrville,					
Mansfield,					
Crestline,^	Abbive				
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 700 “	5 40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. KOO “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12 25 a.m. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ “		 			
				•••••••••
Ft. Wayne,					
Plymouth,		;					
Chmafrn		AwpTxrn«				
W AW	. AA	— V	A	VMM	--				
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan-Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave v	Plymouth,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 A.M. 2.33 “ 4.05 “		 			
*	Ft. Wayne,					
Lima,						
Forest,					
Crestline,	Abbive				
				
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	415 a.m. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M’ 3.30 “
■	Orrville,					
Alliance,	,					
Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Abbive				
Trams Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T. A
. INMAN LINE.
ROYAE MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YOBE to QEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. BALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf ZLa Porte, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Une, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Une, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 16 n.m. Special New York Express, over Air Une; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Une. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4. 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST. .
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
3	OS a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4	SO p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 am, Ac:ommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and S’03 a.m. Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt. Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 1, 1879.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a m. 12 55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 pm. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “ .	3 20 p.m. 2 30 “ 2 08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 » 9.56 “ 913 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abbive	Leave - - Michigan City, - - -	- - - La Porte, - - -- - - Stiillwell, - - - -	- - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - -	- - - Rochester, - - - - - - - Denver, - - - - - -	- Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton, - - - - - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - - - - Cincinnati,- - - -- - Louisville, - - - - - - Saint Louis, - - •	9.35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11 47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 •’ 3.00 “ 3.38 “ 4 25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 •* 7.30 a.m.	8.05p.m 8.55 « 9.20 “ 9.47 " 10.33 “ 11.32 « 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 *• 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANOPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9 35 a.m. “	“ 9.00 “	- . -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
&TBirths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis. Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison stree bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via. Jack-
sonville, Ill.,and Louisana, Mo...3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line 8 00 pm 9 00 am
Sringfield, St. Louis andTexasFastEx.via
Main Line.........................  30	am 9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express..................3 40 pm	9 00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex....7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express.8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator, Wenona,Lacon andWashington Ex3 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation................9 20 am	5 00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen.Manager. J. CHABLioN,Gen. Pass. Agt.
568
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W- S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. JS. Cor. JLaSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manager.	Chicago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WXL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST J
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs ana Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, ana Des Moines, (the capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington. Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella,Monroe, andDesMoines; DesMoines, to Indianola and Wmterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth! between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and FiftyCents;. and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points, Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaur ant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Rating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed byithis line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.__
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCmCAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.	-
At ENGLEWOOD, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern andPittsbnrg, Ft.Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.	-
AtLA SALLE, with Illinois Centra! R. R.
AtPEORIA, withPoP. & J.;P.,L. &D.; L B. & W.; Ill. Midland; and T-, P. & W. Railroads.
At ROCK island, with Western Union R. R. and Bock Island & Peoria Railroads.
_At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R.R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Bapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa. aides Moines, withD. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R. At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R. At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) AtCoLUMBUS JUNCTION, with Burlington. Cedar
Rapids & Northern R.R.	'
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis,Kan.City&NorthernandC., B. & Q. R. Rds. At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union PaciflcR. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA, UES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the ‘ Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all
Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.	-
For information not obtainable at yowr hone ticket offlee, address,
A._ KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN.
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gcn’ITkt.andPass’gr Act.,
Chicago,'.Uh