Votre Dame Scholastic.
I>isce qtiasl semper victui'iis; vive qiiasi eras moriturus
Volume XIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 18, 1880. Number 14.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ‘81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83. '
W. B. McGorrisk, '82.
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Simms, ’83.
J. P. Hagan, ’81.
R. E. Fleming,' ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.

The Ballad of the Freshmen and the Professor.
A LESSON IN GOOD ENGLISH.
I.
It is the college freshman, ■
AU full of fun is he;
“Come, boys,” he says, “into my room,
• A merry time you’ll see.
IT.
“ The lights, they should be out at ten, We'll bum them there ’till three;
The paper pack and euchre deck
You all shall share with me.”
ni.
“ What, ho ! what ho! my merry lad, Full well surprised are we;
Can you turn our professors blind ? ’’
“ Come, freshmen, you shall see!”
IV. '
It is the merry freshman’s room;
0, what a sight we see!
The merry bow] is flowing full, While wit runs fast and free.
y. ■
Full many a jolly song is sung, How glad these freshmen be!
The lights, they should be out at ten, They burn them there ’till three.
VI.
Fast runs a freshman’s life away,
Fast is the fun we see,
When suddenly there comes a knock !
Alas, can such things be!	,
VII.
“ What do you want? ” the freshnien shout, “ Whoever you may be! ”
“ O, let me in,” the voice replied:
“ My dearest boys, it’s me.”	,
. .'	Vin.	.
“ Who’s me ! ” they shout, deriding him, .
Whose voice they knew to be	'	.
That of the dread instructor grim, ' Learned Professor C.
’	- .	. ix.	.
“ Who’s me! what need have you to ask?
Why, ‘me ’s’ Professor C.! ”	.
Then laughed the freshmen long and loud, -.	•
And said: “Can such things be?
“You lie! you lie, you shameless fraud!
Were you Professor C.,	.
You’d say, °Tis I! ’ not grammar kill By saying, ‘It is me!’”
-	XI.
Ashamed and sore he left the door, .
The stem Professor C.,	- •	.	-
Taught by the boys he tried to teach, •	.
He let those freshmen be. . t ~	'
XII.	.	- .
Fast flowed the wine, loud rang the song, -. The wit ran fast and free;	■
Th e lights should have been out at ten, •
Yet they were burned -’till three.	. -
Eliot Ryder.
Charles Fox.
BY H. C. SIMMS, ’83.
England has produced many illustrious statesmen and orators, but none, perhaps, has ever exceeded in brilliancy of debate and nobleness of heart the subject of this sketch. He has been rightly styled a Demosthenes, who had all the attainments of his predecessor added to his own. To speak of him simply as an orator would require greater space and more time than I have at my disposal. Everywhere natural, he carried into public life something of that simple and negligent exterior which belonged to him in private.
Charles Fox was born in London, Jan. 24,1779, and received the rudiments of his education at a private school in Wandsworth, but afterwards went to Eaton and Oxford, where his proficiency in classical literature attracted considerable notice. It was his father’s intention that Charles should occupy a prominent position in the political world; but through the mistaken indulgence of his parents this wish came near remaining ungratified. When about fifteen years old his father took him to France, where he contracted habits which were the source of much future-
210
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
unhappiness to them both. After wasting three months in idleness abroad, he was sent home, and, at his own re-, quest, went back to school. He left school when a boy, and now returned to it with all the follies and fopperies of a young man. A letter from his mother at this time, show, ing what he had to contend with, says: “You need not interrupt your amusements with too hard study.” Acting upon this miserable advice, he again left school and accompanied his parents to the south of Europe; and there, although he freely indulged in the pleasures peculiar to his age, yet he seems to have applied himself to study, especially to that of the Italian language. Acting plays and writing poetry were his favorite amusements at this time; but, unfortunately, the habit of gambling, which he had contracted on his former visit, now took hold of him so strongly that he was noticed for this more than anything else His losses were such as to easily ruin his private fortune ; but so firmly had the habit taken hold of him that he could not force upon himself to abandon it until the year 1791, when he paid his debts, and renounced gambling forever.
He was not of age when elected to Parliament by the Tory party, but his liberal views led him to join the Whig opposition, of which he afterwards became the most brilliant leader. Notwithstanding his talents and the reputation he had acquired in the House, the levity and want of decorum of private life, and the embarrassments in which he was involved, prevented him for some years from obtaining that weight and consideration due to his views, the offspring of his extraordinary abilities and exertions. He bitterly denounced the British Government, with regard to the taxation of the American Colonies, and became the recognized head of that mighty phalanx of orators who opposed the Government in the House of Commons. He continued to remain under engagements to no party until nearly the close of the Revolution; and although not absolutely in party connections with the Whigs, he had determined, on no account, to abandon their principles, having by a cool consideration of his own character already made up his mind as to the course of action which he would ultimately adopt. “ People flatter me,” he says, in a letter to Mr. Fitzpatrick, “ that I continue to gain rather than lose the character of an orator; and I am so convinced that this is all I shall ever gain, unless I choose to be one of the meanest ofmen, that I think of no other object of ambition. I am certainly ambitious by nature, but I think I have totally subdued that passion. Great situations I never can acquire; and if acquired, keep, without making sacrifices that I never can make.” With these lofty sentiments it is not to be wondered at that he rejected the many overtures made to him by Lord Weymouth to join the Administration. With his powerful talents, the unexampled force and vehemence of his eloquence, and the inflexible steadiness of his public conduct, he gradually won the perfect confidence of the “Whigs,” and was at length looked upon as the leading man of the Rockingham party in the House of Commons. Mr. Burke said of him at that time that he witnessed with pleasure, unmixed with envy, the progress and elevation of his pupil, and cheerfully resigned to him the position he had himself so long occupied in the party. But the day that was to show his character finally arrived.
A resolution against further prosecution of the American war was finally carried in the House. Ministers, with fear of a direct vote of censure, were compelled to resign. The king, whose pertinacity in the support of his
favorite principles of Government was the chief, if not the sole cause, of the apparent reluctance of his ministers to retire from office, was at length compelled to yield to the wishes of his Commons, and formed a new Administration; but, in so doing, he contrived to sow the seeds of discord in its bosom. The opposition to the American war was composed of two parties, united in their disapprobation of that contest, but disagreeing on many other points of exter-
1 nal, as well as internal, policy. Both parties called themselves Whigs, but Whigs of different schools. The old party, educated under Burke, were led by the Marquis of Rockingham; the other were the friends of Lord Chatham, and were under the leadership of the Earl of Shelburn. Lord Rockingham demanded full power to recognize the independence of America, and authority to bring forward a bill for reducing the influence of the Crown, by abolishing offices, excluding contractors from the House of Commons, and depriving revenue officers of their votes at elections. The king, considering this matter, conferred with Lord Shelburn, and offered him the treasury, which he declined, saying, that no Administration suited to the present emergency could be formed, unless Lord Rockingham was at the head of it. The treasury was then offered to Lord Rockingham with full powers to treat both men and measures, with one restriction only, viz.: the king to be one of the Secretaries of State. Many fatal consequences ensued from the negotiations taking this course, and passing through the hands of Lord Shelburn, no direct communication took place between the king and the Rockingham party (who composed the majority of the cabinet), with respect to the measures to be pursued, till after the Administration had been formed. Lord Thurlow, a decided partisan of the old system, an enemy to every species of reform, was retained as Lord Chancellor. • Lord Shelburn prevailed upon Mr. Dunning to wave his pretentions to that office. When Mr. Fox learned of this arrangement, he remarked that “ he and the Administration would consist of two parts, one belonging to the king and the other to the people.” The Administration was short-lived. The death of Lord Rockingham dissolved the ministry over which he presided. The treasury was again offered to Lord Shelburn, on the pretext that having refused it before it now naturally devolved on him to accept it. His acceptance of it destroyed the former balance of the par-lies in the cabinet, and completely upset the balance of power in the Government. Mr. Fox and Lord John Cavendish immediately resigned,,and were soon followed by Lord Keppel. Mr. Fox has been severely blamed for his haste on this occasion; yet it was one that could not long be deferred. The public was disappointed, because it had expected a firm and united Administration on the part of those who opposed the' American war; but to those who judged rightly, the cause of the elevation of Lord Shelburn to the treasury was an utter extinction of those hopes. The whole cause of the truth may be laid at the feet of that minister, and not .be attributed to the haste and impatience of Fox, as many have done.
It will be impossible to follow with the same minuteness the remainder of Fox’s life. I have dwelt more particularly upon this portion of his history because it is the most interesting to Americans. In 1784, he was re-elected for Westminster, in the very teeth of the court and Mr. Pitt’s ministry, and became, in ’88, one of the managers of the trial and impeachment of Warren Hastings. Three years later he warmly espoused
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-211
the cause of the French Revolution, which step Estranged him forever frcm his former friend, Mr. Burke. In 1806, on the restoration of the Whigs to power, he returned to his former post as Foreign Minister, and was the leading spirit of the Government' till his premature death in the same year. The measures which he supported or opposed may divide the opinions of posterity, as they have divided, and still do divide, those of the present age. But he will most certainly command the unanimous reverence of future generations, by his pure sentiments towards the common wealth; by his zeal for the civil and religious rights of all men; by his liberal principles,"favorable to mild government, to the unfettered exercise of the human faculties and the progressive civilization of mankind; for his profound reverence for that free constitution, which he is universally.admitted to have understood better than ally other man of his age, both in exact, legal and comprehen; sive philosophical sense. As an orator, identified as chief of the great triumvirate—Fox, Burke, and Sheridan—he was, in his day, the most popular man in England; idolized by his friends, respected by his political opponents, and, doubtlessly, cordially detested by his sovereign •George the Third.
The Study of History.
There are few subjects of more importance to manr and which should consequently receive more time and investigation, than history. A knowledge of -the past, of the rise and growth of nations, the methods adopted for promoting their general welfare, the causes that eventually led to their downfall, and the effects produced by the intermingling of the conquerors and the conquered, can be made a powerful influence in modern polity, and in directing and perpetuating the nations of the present day.
. History has recorded for our benefit the effect produced by certain enactments and laws, and we are thus enabled to direct legislation in such a manner that the greatest possible benefit will be derived, and certain evils and misfortunes avoided. Tnus it becomes instrumental, from age to age, in strengthening and perpetuating the bonds of society for the benefit of future generations.
Many are the changes that have taken place in the progress and development of man’s condition since the primeval days of his existence, and which now influence his course for the future. During this long period, many nations have risen, which for centuries dazzled the world with their splendor and renown, when suddenly a speck appears upon the political horizon, gradually increases, and a storm arises and bursts with all its fury, marking its course with the shattered remains of a once powerful and glorious empire. From the confused and disorderly mass of ruins other states and kingdoms have been fashioned, and after a career not less glorious than their predecessors, have given way in their turn to others, or to different forms of government.
Here we have the world’s record from the beginning; and as we investigate it, diligent research brings to light the fact that these great reverses and revolutions, and modifications have had a marked influence on the character and standing of succeeding ages.
We see recorded in mute but eloquent characters the deeds and omissions of those, who long directed the af
fairs of state; we view them in all their bearings in a calm and impartial manner, and are thus enabled to pronounce a just judgment. These records will enable us to grasp the living problems of the age, and to ascertain their probable tendency and influence. If we neglect the history of the past, fail to profit by its warnings, refuse to be directed by its counsels, a demoralizing and shameful effect will soon follow. Taking the past as a standard, we are enabled to form a correct opinion of our present insfr tutions and governments, and foresee their effect upon coming generations.
By this same standard we can know to a certainty whether we are in a position to proceed onwird in the march of civilization, or whether our present condition is such as to give us apprehensions concerning the future. Should a subject having such influence in dir.-cting the course of whole nations, one which enables them by its timely warning to avoid those calamities by which other nations have been visited, be disregarded and considered as not worth study and investigation? Are we to be persuaded that because a nation once powerful, and foremost in directing the destinies of millions, has ceased to exist, its history should not be made the object of careful study and thought? Such would seem to be the opinion -of many of out youth who give this all-important subject scarcely a glance, deeming it quite unnecessary.' They do not consider the fact that to be enabled to enact wise and advantageous measures for the present a legislator must the thoroughly acquainted with the history of nations long since passed from the world’s stage.	‘
The historian who is true to his calling searches the records of past ages, and lays before us in a clear and impartial light, as the results of his research, all that has occurred in that particular nation of which he constitutes himself the historian. All the soul-stirring scenes, the heroic deeds of self-sacrifice, in striving to break the bonds and fetters of slavery, are narrated and brought vividly before the imagination, presenting a grand and lasting picture. Here we find narrated some incident from which many national blessings resulted; there, some course has been adopted which failed in its object from some cause or other; again, we listen to the history of a man who, by his mighty genius and powerful influence, directs the affairs of his country, firmly grasping the reigns of government and wielding the sceptre with a firm and unwavering hand, leads his country onward to the very highest position of glory and renown. Not unfrequentiy do we find mention made of men who, by some stroke of policy, placed themselves in a position which they held by usurpation, supported by armed force, plunging a whole nation into revolution, and deluging with blood many a fair province— these scenes of anarchy and confusion being terminated only by the formation of a new and different system of government. These historical events, trifling as they may now appear, have been the occasion more than once of rending asunder the bonds by which society was preserved; they have been the cause of a nation’s sorrow, and have brought with them the greatest miseries. Terrible, indeed, is the spectacle which a nation on the point of a revolution presents. We behold society rent in twain by rival factions, each defying the law, and at the same time about to engage in a terrific strife for justice and right.
Man was destined for society—he, in conjunction with his fellow-men, forms it. For its preservation, and for his own welfare, governments and laws are necessary. In
212	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
order that these governments and laws may work the greatest possible good, they must be enforced and re spected; and to do this each individual member of society must do all in his power to protect them. He finds before him the future with its uncertainties; the past he cannot improve or change, though he cau profit by the examples it has given him, thereby shaping the course of his present actions. Nowhere can we find the record of governments and laws that were, save in history—the world’s diary; hence the great necessity of a thorough acquaintance with it. Greece, which was at one time the cradle of learning, art, and oratory—what remains of her greatness today? Naught, save a few fragments of her literature, and a few crumbling columns—sad relics of a once great nation. Borne, the once mistress of the world, whose conquering arms struck terror into the hearts of nations; the mandates of whose rulers were heard, respected, and obeyed in every clime; whose literature and art reached a high state of perfection under the care of able masters; whose laws and government were the perfection of wisdom —where is she? Dead! Her ruin was brought about by the licentiousness and tyranny of her rulers, whose infamous lives and tyrannical exactions severed the last bond of friendship between sovereign and people, fomented civil discord and strife, and finally left her an easy prey to barbaric nations, who trampled her underfoot, and overthrew the last remaining vestige ol her splendor and power and magnificence. Though we delight in reading of the greatness, grandeur, and perfection to which she had attained, still we cannot but detest the manner in which her rulers violated the important trust committed to .them, thereby ignoring the right of millions of subjects.
Such are the scenes presented to our view in scanning the pages of history. It presents to us a panoramic view of the past, enabling us to ponder over its varied and everchanging scenes; and by learning the cause of the dissolution of nations once, as prosperous and extensive as our own, we can steer clear of the shoals upon which they went to pieces. Nothing is more important to the statesman than a thorough knowledge of the history of nations long since passed away; for from their sad experience he can enact wise measures for the government of his own country. The records of the world show that the wisest statesman is he who can prognosticate the effect of the enactment of certain laws upon his country. This he can do only when in complete possession of the workings and influence which certain laws exercised over the nations of antiquity; from taking them as a.criterion he can easily demonstrate the utility or futility of the laws about to be made. And for the private citizen, what will enable him to act intelligently in promoting the cause of liberty and iustice, if not a knowledge of history? From it he learns the vital importance of resisting any and all the encroachments of tyranny and usurpation, and the necessity of cherishing and protecting the liberties of present institutions. He will learn to reason, to act independently for himself at all times, and not be guided by those who, by false principles, endeavor to advance their position at any sacrifice, not hesitating to reject all honorable means in the attainment of their ambitious object. When these men are met by opposition on every side; when their bad plans and principles are well known, and their fallacies exposed, they shall be obliged to give way to those who are actuated by principles of justice and integrity, which are the only sure means of securing civil and religious liberty. X.
The Dangers of City Life.
BY B. J. MATHA.
Full many a promising and innocent youth have we known to bid, in an unguarded moment, an eternal adieu to to his rural, paternal mansion, intent on seeking his fortune amid the swaying, boisterous throng of some larger town or city. He quits the happy family circle with a conscience pure and unsullied as the sparkling dews of morn, in blissful ignorance of the seething mass of human corruption through which he will have to plod his weary way ere reaching the ephemeral happiness his deluded fancy paints in the d’S'ant horizon. City life seems to him a paradise of unexplored delights, down whose placid stream his bark will glide securely, amid the choral symphonies of sylvan, feathered songsters, with which bis poetic imagination lines its fairy banks. Alas! he will but too soon find his glittering dreams of happiness dissipated like the shortlived, evanescent mists of a summer morning, when the bright harbinger of day flings off the sable robes of night, and limns the Exstern skies with his vivifying rays. As long as his scanty store of greenbacks las's, all goes well and joyful as a marriage bell; but very soon, like him who went down to Jericho, he falls among thieves, or evil companions, who lead him into all the bypaths of sin. He then rapidly descends the slippery, inclined plain of immorality and drunkenness; until at length he finds himself the degraded companion of
“A hnngery gang of roving tramps,	•.
With toes protruding from their vamps;
All jerking up their drooping pants, .
And numerous as a nest of ants ;
Though not so thrifty you may bet, If bread to beg or steal they get.”
This is no exceptional or imaginary case, for hardly one simple country swain out of a hundred ever realizes his rose-colored, sanguine expectations in a large city. Were these young people to consult me on the mxtter, I would say,- young men, bear in mind that hills are green far away—you are really happy now, and do not know it. Know you not that the country is the natural abode of man? There he is in constant communion with nature; undisturbed by the turmoil and perplexing cares of trade and commerce, unenslaved by the tyranny of ever changing fashions, unpolluted by the corroding vices of a degenerate populace, he walks and toils and passes his happy days amid hills and fertile valleys, flowery meads and waving crops of golden grain. In a word, he is surrounded by all those incomparable beauties of nature, so highly calculated to elevate the heart to God, and inspire gratitude and devotion to the Giver of all good.	■
“ Romantic sceneries there we see,
Bold cliff and shore and forest tree, Wild glen and stream and mountain blue Alternate burst upon our view;
The gay, the beautiful, the grand, Commingling o’er the fertile land, Until our eyes can ask no more Than meet our gaze the country o’er.”
Our theatre-poing city folks have no idea of the thrilling emotions that, pervade the honest bosom of the husbandman when lovely June, like a blooming bride, full of blushes, trips gaily over hill and dale ter golden locks laden with aromatic treasures .culled in the inexhaustible
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
213
store-house of a beneficent Creator; when lilacs sway lightly to and fro along the garden walks, and the ariole’s cosy nest is cradled by ambrosial breezes; when the placid surface of the sylvan lake is freighted with waxen lilies, and the silent aisles of the towering forests look like j abodes designed from creation’s dawn to be the blissful : prominades of fairy queens and blonde sultanas.
In the silent seclusion of a country home man has frequent opportunities—nay, invitations—to look into his own heart, to commune with his own spirit, to develop and strengthen his native powers; in a word, to train and discipline his whole physical, moral, and intellectual nature. The farmer is unacquainted with the violent passions which disturb the peace of families in crowded cities; nor does he trouble his head about the ambitious projects of politicians, or wars and rumors of wars among the potentates of earth; his sole ambition being to embellish and fertilize his pleasant domain, and enrich his native land by honest labor. The simple child of nature, he delights in the charms of a rural life. In his blissful seat of repose, he sows, he plants, he cultivates; his fields are covered with plentiful harvest, and his forests abound with inviting game. On one hand,,he beholds a far-spread shady grove, which invites him to repose; on the other, he espies delightful, fragrant meadows, watered by murmuring rivulets, which, meandering in a thousand windings, fertilize the whole land. If wishing for a little innocent relaxation from the monotony of his daily occupations, how exhilerating it must feel for him
“ When morning beams o’er sylvan streams, With dog and gun to go
Where merry horn wakes the morn To chase the bounding roe;
- And when the game has bit the dust To hear loud cheers arise, While woodland echoes mock
Until the thrilling cadence dies.”
He beholds his flocks multiplying daily with the blessing of Heaven, and awaits with ineffable delight the coming of autumn, which rewards his labors with its richest fruits. How thankfully he then raises his eyes to heaven with love and gratitude towards that bounteous God who deigns to shower down such abundant blessings upon him!
Away, away, young happy swains, with all hankering ’ after imaginary city pleasures, when you already enjoy such ineffable delights. How, then, can any sane man decry agriculture? It contributes more than any other pursuit to the riches and happiness of a country. Without it, would we now witness the great abundance that reigns in our fair land of liberty ? Without it, what would become of our commerce, of which it is the principal support ?
I	Even those who attempt to disparage it are forced to give
it its well-deserved praise, by seeking with avidity its most precious gifts. What is it that nourishes them, that clothes them, that defends them from the severity of the winter j	season ? What is it that preserves their lives and renders
them so agreeable ? The fields, covered with divers kinds of grain and fruit; the meadows, lined with flocks of every description; the forest, which at every step opens to our view the theatre of the farmer’s labors, answer these questions. Allow me to ask you, brave sons of noble yeomen, who are yearning for the Dead-Sea fruit of city pleasures, what possible enjoyments of city life can compare with that which you enjoy when standing on those flower-clad hills, inherited from your honest ancestors, you gaze on the
soft and brilliant landscape lighted up from heaven by sweetest sunshine? Or, when calmly viewing, with ecstatic delight that liquid sea of golden glory, the setting sun, beneath the hues of whose inimitable touches you could almost dream that there floated isles of paradise, whereon the blessed spirits of your departed progenitors were chanting an eternal Te Deum to the Lamb who redeemed them? O happy seclusion of the country! What wonderful charms have not the greatest sages of both ancient and modern times discovered in thee! Thou hast captivated the Pauls, the Antonies, and the Jeromes of the olden time, as well as the Allreds and Washingtons of our own times. In corroboration of my statements, I will here give an extract from a speech delivered in Congress by our late Minister of agriculture: “ The great and wonderful changes in the aspects of American affairs are due to the statesmanship of the plow more than to the wisdom.of legislators or the skill of financiers. It has rescued our Government from all its embarrassments, and raised its credit from a point lower than that of the Turks, until it now proudly stands higher than that of any nation on earth It draws immense wealth from abroad, and holds out cheering hopes of a glorious and lasting future.” Agriculture has always been considered, next to the saving truths of the Gospel, the best and holiest means of civilizing the most barbarous nations, and making them truly happy and powerful.
In conclusion, young gentlemen of the country, instead of exposing your precious souls to the many temptations and dangers that will beset your paths and stare you in the face at every street-corner, I would honestly advise yon to send the following dispatch to all your city cousins. Oh you foolish votaries at the shrine of city life and fashion, who are vegetating in an unhealthy atmosphere, with a greenish-pale complexion, like so many rare exotics in a dark cellar, come out in the open air and warm sunshine of the country, and add lustre to your eyes, bloom to your cheeks, elasticity to your steps, and vigor to your frames. Oh you screwed-up, puny, lean, lank, theatregoing, consumption-mortgaged sons of fashion and idleness, come out in the country
“And view Dame Nature’s sunny smiles O’er landscapes vast and grand, Her treasures lavish pouring forth With an unsparing hand.
Her cheeks aglow with early dawn Of rosy morn so fair,
Will cheer your hearts and banish thence ‘ All sorrow grief and care.”
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mrs. Greenoush, the wife of the sculptor, has written a poem entitled “ Mary Magdalene.”
—Salvini, the great Italian tragedian, arrived at New York last week. He will open the American season at Philadelphia.
—Boito’s opera, “Mephisofele,” was presented the first time in America at the Academy of Music in New York city, Nov. 24th. It was a success.
—Mr. Louis Maas, until recently a teacher in the Leipsic Conservatory, has arrived in New York. He is known as a composer and pianist of no little merit.
—The two novels which at the moment are engaging attention in England are “ The Clerk of Portwick,” by
r
!
214.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHODASTiO,
George Manville Fenn, and “The Two Dreamers,” by John Saunders.
—Early in the new year S. P. Putnam’s Sons will issue, by arrangements with the author, “A Romance of the Nineteenth Century,” by W. H. Mallock, author of “ Is Life Worth Living?”
—That the Cincinnati College of Music is in a flourishing condition is evidenced by the fact that it will give an operatic festival in February with Mapleson’s artists, when the choruses will be sung by 300 students of the institution, who have been under the training of Maestro Max Maretzek, who is the right man in the right place.
—The scatfoldings are still up around the towers of Cologne Cathedral, and the Cologne Gazette says that it will be necessary to keep at work upon them all next year; and much, too, has to be done in the matter of glazing windows and forming and fitting artistically wrought doors. The Gazette puts ’he whole cost when completed ai §G,-500 000, which was about the cost of St. Paul’s in London.
—The paintings by Puvis de Chavannes, repiesenting the life of Louis IX, and by M. Cabauel that of St. Genevieve have already been placed on the Pantheon, and Bonnat’s" Martyrdom of St. Denis,” DMauney’s “Attila Marching on Paris,” and the works by Henry L-vy, Jean Paul Laurens, Baudry, J. Blanc, etc., will be installed as they are completed. M. Bonnat’s “ Martyrdom of Sc. Denis” will, however, first appear at the Stlon of 1881. The sculptors Paul Dubois, Antoinin Mercifi, Guillaume, and Chapu are at work on statues or groups for the interior decoration of the same building.
—A recent visitor to Baalbec, and the ruins of the great temple of Baal, doubts if any modern architect could rebuild the temple in its ancient grandeur. Three huge stones, sixty-four feet long, thirteen high and thirteen wide, • stand in a wall at the height of twenty-feet. Nine other stones, thirty ieet long, ten high and ten wide, are joined together with such nicety that a trained eye cannot discover the line of juncture. A column still stands in the quarry, a mile distant, which is completed, with the exception that it is not detached at the bottom. It is sixty-nine feet long, seventeen high and fourteen broad, and one cannot understand how it can be separated at the bottom from the quarry without breaking. The ruins of this vast temple inspire respect for the genius of former ages.
Scientific Note®.
—The Leeds Mercury some time ago chronicled a rather amusing incident that was witnessed in the Scarborough Aquarium. The keeper, while ingaged in cleaning out the tank occupied by the octopods, was suddenly seized by the leg (fortunately he had sea-boots on) by the largest of the octopods, which fastened four of his tentacles round the leg of the boot, and with the other four held firmly on to the rocks forming the back of the tank A struggle took place, dun ng which the man found that he could not disengage himself without killing the animal, and finally hit upon tine expedient of slipping his leg out and leaving the boot in the water and beating a retreat. The hungry octopod stuck to the boot for twenty minutes, then it relinquished its hold.
—The Magnet suggests that while telegraph wires in city streets may be objectionable, they perhaps render valuable service as a safety valve in conveying atmospheric electricity to the earth, and thus protecting from lightning strokes. It is certain that very few buildings are struck by lightning in cities where overhead wires, each of which is directlyconm cted with the earth, are numerous. Buildings like those of the Western Union Company in this and other cities, in which hundreds of wires centre, are seldom if ever struck by lightning, and there is no doubt but their immunity is largely due to the fact that the heaviest charges of atmospheric electricity are through them harmlessly conducted to and dissipated in the earth. —Journal of the Telegraph.
—There is apparently no apparatus so liable to be inter
fered with by what we may call natural causes as the electric telegraph. Fish gnaw and mollusks overweight the submarine conductors of the subterranean wires; while there is at least one instance of a frolicsome whale entangling himself in a deep-sea cable, to its uiter disorganization. It is staled that within the three years ending 1878 there have been sixty serious interruptions to telegraphic communication in Sumatra, by elephants. In one instance, these sagacious animals, most likely fearing snares, destroyed a considerable portion of the line, hiding away the wires and insulators in a canebrake. Monkeys of all tribes and sizes, too, in that favored island, use the poles and wires as gymnasia, occasionally breaking them and carrying off the insulators; while the numerous tigers, bears, and buffaloes on the track render the watching and repair of the line a duty of great danger. In Australia, where there are no wild animals to injure the wires, which are carried great distances overland, they are said to be frequently cut down by the scarcely less wild aborigines, Who manufacture from them rings, armlets, and other varieties of barbaric ornament. It has been suggested as a means of protection in this case that the posts should be constructed of iron, when the battery could be used to astonish any native climbing them with felonious intent. —Scientific American.
----------1	I	■-
Exchanges.
—The Chicago Newspaper Union, a monthly journal devoted to the newspaper and printing interests of the Northwest, is filled with interesting matter; we read with pleasure the choice, pieces, both solid and light with which the -editor knows so well.how to fill it. That editor is a lively fellow, and must have an abundant slock of phosphorus on hand, or rather in his composition. (We are not straining for a pun-) Perhaps he lives on fish; not that his stories are fishy, or scaly, but they- are luminous—not luminous enough to be read in the dark, it is true, but they throw light on diverse subjects.
—The exchange editor of The Williams Athenceum says that “the exchange column has become a permanent feature of College journalism, but its nature and scope have not yet been clearly defined. The original and most common idea seems to be that it should be a medium for criticism entirely or chiefly. But several College papers have lately declared their intention of printing characteristic selections from the columns of their exchanges, thus making the department of interest—at home—rather than abroad. Arguments can be adduced for both methods. But it seems to us that something better than either of these can be obtained. That somewhere between these two extremes must lie the golden mean. Therefore it is our effort to make this column interesting to all our readers here or elswhere. We shall make frequent extracts from our exchanges, trying always to give our readers the cream of College literature. We shall also indulge in a moderate amouut of criticism on our cotemporaries. ‘To see ourselves as ithers see us ’ must be often pleasant, and always beneficial. We feel that we have been benefited by the criticism of others, and shall endeavor by a careful and judicious consideration to repay the favor.” The editor puts his new-formed resolve into execution by “ doing up ” the Tale papers and magazines.
—The following quotation is from a notice of our paper in The College Mercury, Racine College, Wisconsin:
“ One of the papers that we always receive with- pleasure is The Notre Dame Scholastic. We are glad that the editors have decided to let their names be printed, as we now feel somewhat acquainted with them. The sonnet, ‘Childhood,’on the first pane, is very creditable. The article ‘Rural Happiness’ is very smoothly written, very original, and pleasurable to read. There is something solid about the Scholastic; and we like it thoroughly, although we cannot coincide exactly with some of ‘ thim doctrinal things.’ The Scholastic has a department on art, music and literature, which is unique in little details of news in these branches. But the exchange column is the portion of this paper that is especially attractive to an outsider. The editor of this department seems to write just ESter he has had a good dinner. He feels good, evidently. We rather feel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as if we were acquainted with the gentleman, for, if he is not the same person who wrote the exchange column of the Scholastic last year, he must be some relation. Last year the Amherst Student and the Scholastic ‘had it out,’ so to speak, in a theological discussion. The Amherst Student desires ‘ to clasp hands over the bloody chasm,’ but the Scholastic is not quite ready to ‘clasp.’ Well, keep the ball rolling. If you write down all you say about religious doctrine, you will not waste as much breath as you might otherwise, nor will you be so apt to ‘ talk wild.’ ”
Ah, now, friend Mercury, you go too far in trying to set two friendly editors by the ears. We have no desire to indulge in theological discussions, nor do we think the editor of The Amherst Student entertains any wish to indulge in them. But, however unpleasant religious discussions may be, we think it is as you say, that breath is not so likely to be wasted upon them. The Amherst Sludent and Scholastic have had their turn; others may now take theirs, and try their hand'at it. There are discussions on much less important subjects in nearly all our college papers, from time to time. The preparation of means for the providing of bread and butter will, of course, take up much of a man’s attention,—but, after all, our chief business in this life is our eternal salvation; in this we are all concerned.
—The editorial matter of The Brunonian is varied, racy, and business-like. Athletics are, very properly, given due space and attention, and do not exclude matters equally, or perhaps more, important. We are told in the last number that “Agricultural Zoology” is removed from among the electives, “ and reserved as a required study for those holding State scholarships.. .. The long-transmitted traditions of Henry Clay and cows must now descend to the favored few alone, who, ‘on the nomination of the General Assembly, by the Governor and Secretary of State, in conjunction with the President of the University,’ are destined to become the curators of the next generation of museums. . . . With the disappearance of the graceful undulations of the back campus, and with the introduction of a real lawn-mower, let us hope that Psychology will take the place of our departed and cherished friend, and appear in our next catalogue as an elective study. Meanwhile we may exhort those honored by the* State and University to do their duty, and in the midst of physico-psychical problems, never forget the glorious examples of . by-gone days.” It is also announced that an attempt is being made at Brown “ to effect a change in the custom, so long an almost unendurable burden, of requiring the graduating class to pay for the Alumni dinner. It is confidently expected that something will be done to lighten the tax, if it is not entirely abolished. It is thought that on the occasion of the first Alumni dinner in Memorial it will be well to inaugurate the change. Action should have been taken in the matter long ago, for it has come to be little more than an outrage to make the Seniors pay for a dinner for the crowd of Alumni and friends who annually congregate. There seems to be no reason why each man who participates should not pay for the privilege, and certainly he ought to be the better able to pay a small sum than the Senior to pay a much larger amount at a time when he is heavily taxed for the other expenses incident to his graduation. The number of Alumni is now very large, and too large to be treated to a free spread annually. We are very glad that the matter is to be considered by the authorities, and also pleased to know from the librarian, who is on the committee of Alumni, that there will certainly be a reform in the matter.” The Brunonian is always a welcome visitor.
—It is said that consistency is a jewel; it must be a very precious and rare one, too, for tew seem to possess the genuine article. Many who think they have it will find, on consulting skilful lapidaries, that what they believe to be the coveted gem is but a poor imitation of it. Here is a sample :
“The Notre Dame Scholastic publishes a roll of honor, a new, and we tnink an objectionable feature in a college paper. It includes ‘the name of thoses students who, during the past month, by their exemplary conduct have given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.’ The locals are tedious, and much of the contents of the paper is lacking in interest, even to its subscrbcrs. The essay on Prescott, and the able article on the advantages of collegiate studies partially redeem it from the imputation of dryness—The Volante.
h new feature in a college paper! Why, bless you, Vo
lante, the Scholastic published rolls of honor before you came into existence, and they have been published at Notre Dame University for nearly half a century! Besides, they are popular here, among the students. On looking over tne editorial columns of the same number of The Volante containing the above, we come to the following item on “ prizes ” and “ honor ”:
“We congratulate the University on the introduction of prizes, by Dr. Anderson. We believe in prizes. We believe that they almost universally have a healthy, stimulating effect. We know that a great many students, when in a contest, claim that they don’t care for the paltry prize nor the empty honor, but that they are working for higher aims. And it may be that a few students-souls of the rarest diligence and piety have reached this state of sanctification; but nevertheless we have noticed that the great majority of the students work with much more interest and energy when there is a little money or honor at stake. What we wish especially to say here, is, that we hope the good work may go on. At present both the Seniors and Sophomores have prizes offered them, but the Juniors none. Yet, it is generally considered in college that the Junior exhibition is the most Important contest of the course. Funhermore, we emphasize the suggestion that Dr. Anderson should not be allowed to carry on this work of advancement single-handed. In. short, we think that a wealthy trustee or patron of the school who wishes to do something to advance the interests of the University and does not feel that he can raise the debt, can find no more feasible or inviting plan than that of establishing a prize for the highest standing at the Junior exhibitions.”
“ But, nevertheless,” says The Volante, “ we have noticed that the great majority of the students work with much more interest and energy when there is a little money or honor at stake." Precisely so. Now which is which, and which is t’other ?
—“ The Lariat ” and “ Notre Dame Scholastic ” meet and interchange the compliment—“Hello! never heard of you before ; who are you, anyhow!” The “Lariat” pluckily claims for Wabash the first place amonglndiana Colleges, and refuses to back down.—'University Press.
Wabash may be entitled to the honor, and it may not. We do not know enough about Wabash to deny the claim; and although the rather bold way in which an institution we had seldom heard of, and then only through the columns of our college exchanges, claimed the honor, rather surprised us, we were neither prepared nor inclined to assert the contrary. What we said was, that, if its claim was good, Wabash College was an extraordinarily quiet, modest, and retiring place. Only one number of The Lariat came to us, with a request to exchange, with which request we complied, and sent our paper regularly; having received none in return, however, we do not know what our contemporary said i n rejoinder. The Lariat might have claimed for its college that it is the first educational institution in the U. S. and we could not dispute it. Perhaps it is through au oversight The Lariat has not been sent to us.
College Gossip.
—“The real estate and personal property of the University of Michigan is valued at §681,4.42.
—A Freshman thinks Haven is derived from Heaven. He has never been at Yale.—Princetonian.
—Two large brick additions have lately been added to St. Mary’s Academy for young ladies, near Notre Dame.
—“ Will you name the bones of the head?” “I’ve got them all in my head, Professor, but I can’t give them.”— Ex. '	.
—Professor James G. Watson, who-won renown as an astronomer at Michigan University, died on the 23d inst., at Madison, Wis.
—" Shall I help you to alight ? ” said a Beloit Senior, who was preparing to jump from a carriage. “Thank you, sir,” said the girl, “but I don’t smoke.” —University Press.
—One of our Eastern colleges has a cross-eyed professor. A few days ago he called out: “ That boy at whom I am looking will please stand up.” Twenty-seven boys stood up in answer to the summons.
—A professor of science says that the skulls of the African negroes are dolichocephalic, mesocephalic, prognathous, platyrrhine, mesoseme. Who dares to say, after that, that the Africans are not an intellectual race?
216	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Danie, December is, 1SSO.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and'others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the FourteiiNth year of its ex.sience, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support ot the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a he.ping hand.
- 'THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, E^ays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
- Editorials on qn-suons of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Vo st paid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana
If a subscriber fails to receive tbe SCHOLASTIC regularly be will confer a favor by sending us notice Immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers and wish to have tbe complete volume for binding, ran have hack numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but tew copies In excess of the subscription list are printed
—Before another issue of tbe Scholastic that time looked forward to with so much joy wilt have arrived, bringing in its train untold of happiness and joys indescribable. We mean the merry Christmas times, during which many, perhaps the m jority, of students in the various colleges and universities of the world will be permitted to spend a few happy days with those who, of all others, are most dear to them—their parents and other near reia’ives. The nujiritv of Notre Dime’s students will be of the number. To them, and t > all at Notre Dame without exception, we wish a thrice merry Chris>mas. We hope that they will experience nothing but joy and happiness, whethi r they remain here or res' lve to spend the happy days at home. To those who stay here during the festive time we would say: Be merry, be happy; do everything in your power to make the time pass off as pleasantly as possible; organize holiday amusement clubs; give scrub <xhibitions, impromptu entertainments; decide upon what shall constitute your in-door and oui-door, your morning and evening amu-ements; in a word, leave nothing undone which may in any way contribute to your happiness and amusement during these joylul times.
We have sometimes noticed that there in an inclination in some, who are not peimitted to spend this vacation at home, to become mr-rose and disagreeable. This'we look upon as the acme of foolishness, sheer nonsense; and-reminds the person witnessing such sullenness of a,pouting baby. Let individuals thus inclined shake off these' disagreeable feelings and resolve to have.a good time, come what may, remembering that the great secret of spending a merry Christmas anywhere is to be merry. Again, -
A Merry Christmas to All.
—We spoke some time since upon the advisability of starting a German Association in the University. At that time we but suggested in our local column the formation of such an Association, saying that it would undoubtedly receive the indorsement of the President and Faculty and the hearty support of our German-speaking students. Since that time several have spoken to us concerning the matter, and are unanimous in opinion to the effect that the best interests of the German students require such an organization. Such being the case, we have not been a little puzz'ed to notice that no action, beyond a v> rbal approval of the idea, has been taken in the affair. Upon inquiry, we find this inactivity attributable to disinclination, or rather neglect, on the part of interested parties to take the initiatory step in the socfety’s formation. This can be easily’ remedied; for we are sure that there are one or more members of the Faculty who will be found both willing and capable of effecting and perfecting tbe organization, if they be requested to do so.
There are other c dirges where such societies exist, and contribute not a little towards perfecting the German students in their mother-timiiue. Of all foreign languages, there is none whose usefulness to business men and students is so great as that of the German. So well aware of the importance of knowing this language are men en-gaued in mercantile pursuits that, when they find it necessary to hiie assistance, a German spt-aking clerk is found t<> be one of the ii dt-pem-able assistants. Such being the importance of an acquaintance with the German toneue, we cannot see why such a vast field lor improvement as would be afforded by th- establishment of a German Association, and the facilities which it would present for learning the language thoroughly’, should not be seized and utilized. Such a society existed here in former years, and was at that time in a very fl >urishing condition. It fell thr ugh, simoly because there was no iffirtmade at reorganization. Like everything of a similar nature, it needs some one to commence it; this being done, all things will go on naturally and smoothly until the Association is as it should be. We trust that somebody will take the matter in hand, and see that this society is organized at the earliest opportunity.
—It is a well known fact that while every sectarian and State institution receives liberal endowments from its wealthy patrons, CaTholic institutions do not receive a cent, either by way of endowment or for the purpose "f establishing" scholarships and burses. And although Ca'holic-colleges can give as good an education as a sectarian institute of learning, yet, for want of abundant means, it cannot go on and make those many improvements which would in a short time place it on an equality with either S’ate or sectarian institutions This state of affairs is surely not because there are not thousands and thousands of wealthy Catholics in our land who could give five or ten thousand dollars to our leading Catholic colleges or universities. No: we must attribute the'factof there being no endowments for Catholic colleges to the fact that our most wealthy and influential Catholics are either ungenerous or are not alive to their dearest interests. Every day we. read of such or such a sectarian institution being endowed ; we have yet to read of an endowment being settled upon any Catholic college. Did Catholic colleges but
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	217
receive half the material assistance given to other educational institutions, they would iu a short time be equal to the best in everything pertaining to science and art. There is a brief but well-written article on this subject in the Niagara Index of Nov. Lt, which is so much to the point in connection with this subject that we cannot but reproduce it in full. The Itldex says:
“ It is a truth universally admitted that without a competent revenue, it is sheer nonsense to attempt to run successfully any institution devoted exclusively to the interests of education. Deprived < f an adequate income, our colleges gradually lose their importance, and, in course of time, sink to the level of academies or high schools. It is an open secret that not a few Catholic colleges are so burdened with debt that their very existence is seriously endangered. Year after year they toil on, and if at the close of each session they be able to meet the interest outstanding on borrowed money they are more than satisfied. Then, too, despite unavoidable drawbacks which, in no small measure, tend to destroy the efficiency of Catholic colleges, the unreasonab’e objection is ureed that,-instead of advancing and improving, these colleges are slowly retrograding. We will be told that this college is in every respect, on account of situation and the number of attending students, well calculated to meet the wants of youth seeking after knowledge; but-------and it is this.provoking but that does the damage. Undoubtedly, the argument runs, such or such an instituton boasts of learned professors, specialists all of them in their chosen branches of instruction. But the apparatus necessary for the prac ical appl.ca'.ion of text-hook theories is wanting. In the laboratory are empty jars, dismantled air-pumps, retorts showing- unequivocal evidence of having been struck by lightning. Yet ti»e college advertises among its attractions that it possesses the means of impar.ing a thorough, complete, scientific course. Whose fault, then, is it that it is not equipped after the fashion in which it should be? Without hesitation we assert thit the fault must be laid at the door of the wealthier class of Catholics, of that clacs which, while ignorantly belitt lintr the eff rts of their own institutions, find in such criticisms sufficient justification for sending their children to more fortunate Protestant academies.
“If sectaarian and State estblishments be so prosperous, it is owing to the fact that their patrons vie with each other in contributing to their material progress. Very frequently endowments are settled upon them. Persons interested in their welfare appropriate for their benefit hundreds of tnousands of dollars, and the results are well known. Wealthy Catholics, on the & ntrary, while fully a ive to the wants of institutions kept open for the special benefit of the sons and daughters of Catholic parents, p>efer rather to carp at their shortcomings than to generously donate a portion of their riches to their improvement. If you ask tl em why it is that they do not send their children to Catholic schools, you will be met with the answer that in their appointments they are far inferior to Yale or Harvard Mr. So or So institute, or the N- rmal School around the corner. Not for a moment do they refl ct that this inferiority is d;rectly traceable to their own lack of interest, th>-ir nigeardlim-ss, or their want of faith. We would be loth to admit that higher Catholic education compares unfavorably with the education imparted at. sectarian establishments. But w^ cannot shut our e\es to truths, the drift of which even he that views may, with dullest vision, discern.
“ Candidly, then, the wealthy Catholics of America have not done their duty in the matter of advancing education. By sending their children to schools other than Chatholic they are depriving Catholic schools of revenues which of risrht belong to them. This is a reproach upon the character of leading Catholics—a reproach, too, which it is in their power to blo-out. The means are ready at hand. Let Catholic colleges be well patronized. More than this: let our co-religionists occasionally make an endowment. Money, we know, is, in the Scriptural sense, the root of many evils; but money is, after
all, the most important factor in the world’s material progress. Endow our leading colleges; establish scholarships and burses, and within ten years Catholic higher education will have so far advanci d as to be, by us of to-day, barely recognizable.”
We hope that our Catholic friends will consider this subject well, and prove that they are fully alive to the cause of Cai b<>lic education by giving pecuniary assistance to our Catholic colleges and universities. Let this subject be agitated by the Catholic press throughout the country, and then perhaps our wealthy Catholics will do their duty.
—We are sure that all were pleased with the Entertainment given by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association in Washington Hall at 7:30 Thursday evening. The Cecilians have had the reputation of being the best dramatic Society in the University; and judging from the manner in which the play passed off, we are sure that that well earned and justly-merited reputation was not imperilled in the least on Thursday evening. Moreover, when we state that Professor Lyons, A. M., was the personage under whose supervision the Entertainment took place, all feel that its success was insured; for, as all are aware, the Professor ncoguizes not even in a “Recognition” the word fail. Being a thorough elocutionist himself, and an indefatigable and successful instructor in the art, each and every young gentleman who.took part was made to appear to the best advan'age in his respective role.
The following, which we take from The American Elocution, is a key to the plot, and will render its conception more easy and the play less difficult to follow:	.
“ The plot of the play is simple, as it turns on the recognition of a son after several years’ separation from his father. The scene is laid in Italy, in the fifteenth century. The Duke of Spoleto, indulging in one. of those feuds which seem to have been the greatest luxury of the “ bold old barons” of the time, had an idea of waging war against the Prince of Macerata, who, in case of the death of the duke’s son, would be the legal heir to the duke’s possessions.
“ T he first scene of Act First opens immediately after a battle between the troops of the prince and those of the duke. The duke lost the battle and his son; to prevent the prince from becoming his heir, he gives out that his son was only wounded, and seizes Antonio, the son of Count Bartolo, whom he conveys to one of his castles, persuades the boy that Count Bartolo, his father, knows where he is, and in course of time tells Antonio that the Count is dead, and that he. Antonio, must thenceforth take the name of Julio and be his (the duke’s) adopted son. Count B.trtolo all this while is searching for his son Antonio, and, convinced that his son is in the hands of the duke, he takes sides with the Prince of Macerata.	*T”.
' “ The chances of war go against the prince ; he is forced tp’re- ‘ tire to the city of Macerata, is then killed, and Bartolo succeeds • him in command. In the meantime, Antonio is take prisoner -by Bartolo’s men, and cast into prison without being seen by Bartolo, who supposes the captive boy to be the duke’s son. Hoping to check the duke, Bartolo sends him word to retire or else his son will be put to death. The duke, instead of withdrawing, presses forward more eagerly, thinking he can take the city and capture Bartolo before the injured father can see his captive son.
“ But Bartolo sends for Antonio, whom he takes to be Julio the duke’s son, and of course, when Antonio appears, he is at once recognized by his father and all present. At this time the duke rushes in with his soldiers, attempts to seize Antonio, is frustrated in his design, receives a death-blow, and dies, begging pardon of Bartolo for the injury he had done him.”
Apropos to this, it may not be barren of the desired ef
I
218
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
feet to remark that we cannot coincide with those who would fain have us believe that dramatic entertainments are unproductive of good results, for we know the contrary to be the case. Dramatic entertainments are of immense advantage to those participating in them, both as a means for acquiring that very important factor in a successful public speaker, self-possession, and as an infallible remedy for those oratorical defects so common and palpable in most public speakers, clumsiness and inability to appear otherwise than indecorous.
Some consider the time spent in preparation for appearance in public entertainments as so much time lost, when in reality the time thus spent is most profitably occupied. Others, acknowledging the beneficial influence resulting from participation in affairs of the kind—for they are too intelligent to be ignorant of the fact,—say that dramatic entertainments should take place occasionally, but not frequently. We would be inclined to support such an opinion, did we not, upon receiving an explanation of the terms occasionally and frequently as used by such individuals, find it untenable. By occasionally is meant three or four times a year; not frequently is a synony-. mous term. With us, occasionally would mean once a month; not frequently, no oftener. That would give us ten dramatie entertainments during the scholastic year— by no means, in our opinion, too many. That too much time would be lost in preparation is a weak objection, when we find that in other Universities, where the young men are just as bright, erudite and intelligent as we, more time is devoted to the intercollegiate games of a week than would be required by us in our preparations for a half-dozen exhibitions. Then, again, when we compare results, we find that we have been infinitely more bene-fitted by giving one entertainment than if we had been victorious in a dozen baseball or football contests; for. while in the former we have exercised one of our most important faculties—memory—in memorizing roles, etc., to say nothing of other benefits, such as vocal training, improvement in delivery, gesture, etc., in the latter, irrespective of the recreation and.exercise obtained, we find that we have received nothing save a few bills from the medical fraternity for services rendered in setting broken bones, reducing fractures, or dressing wounds of a less serious nature. Besides, as a rule, more or less ill feeling and misunderstanding, the multiplicand and multiplier, whose product gives us so many of those “ mud slinging ” wars, so frequently and so bitterly waged through the college press, are the natural consequences of intercollegiate athletic contests. All things considered, we believe that from no recreative source are more pleasure and instruction derived than from dramatic entertainments. We are certain the young gentlemen who take part in this evening’s Entertainment will be unanimous in giving a corroborative support to our convictions on this subject.
The play which was given Thursday night borders on the melodramatic, one which was sure to please all, from the most indifferent to the most fastidious. The programme is given in our local columns, and from it all can see what a pleasant time was had by all who had the good fortune to be present We are sure that the young gentlemen who took part were successful in their rendition of their roles, and thereby made the Entertainment a success. One and all followed the advice which Shakespeare the king of poets places in the mouth of Hamlet, addressing the players: “ Do not saw the air too much with your hand, but use all gently; for in the very torrent, tempest and
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. Be not too tame neither, but let discretion be your tutor; suit the action to the word, the word to the action, with this special observance, that you o’erstep not the modesty of nature, to show virtue her own feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the censure of which one must, in your allowance, o’erweigh a whole theatre of others.”
A criticism of the play will appear in our next.
—At a meeting of the Junior branch of the Archconfra. ternity of the Immaculate Conception the following preambles and resolutions were drawn up in relation to the death of R. E. McCarthy, who died at his home in Lafyelte, Ind., November 29:h:
Whereas, It hath pleased the Divine Dispenser of life and death to summon home our late beloved associate, Robert E. McCarthy; and
Whereas, we, the members of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, are desirous of presenting a testimonial of love for our deceased companion; therefore, be it
Resolved, That we have lost a true friend and an earnest, good and pious fellow-member; and while we submit with resignation to the wise and benign decrees of Almighty God, yet we cannot suppress our sincere sorrow now that death hath thus early snatched from us our late fellow-member.
Resolved, that we impart our feeble consolation to the grief-stricken hearts of the parents, friends and relatives of the deceased in this their hour of affliction, and that with firm faith and hope we offer up our prayers and a general Communion for the repose of his soul in Heaven.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread on the paper of our Association, and that a copy be sent to the parents of the deceased, and also published in the Scholastic and Lafayette . Leader.	-
’	(J. P. O’Neill, J. L. Morgan,
Committee-< F. L. Kleine, T. F. Flynn, ( C. J. Brinkman.
The Sorins’ New Statue.
The beautiful life-size statue of St. Edward, which arrived here last week for the Sorin Association, is the work of Froc-Robert & Sons, 38 Bonaparte St., Paris. It is a composition of carton-pierre pasteboard rock, rich and elegant beyond description; it would indeed require an artist to do justice to such a chef-d'oeuvre, and we are not one—but we willingly agree with all who have seen it, and who say that, among all the treasures of art at Notre Dame, there is nothing to compare with it. In ordering it, the Sorins said to their agent, Rev. Father Marine: “Get us the richest and the most beautiful statue of St. Edward that can be made, and we will be satisfied to pay $500 for it” That the Rev. Father has fully satisfied their wishes is evident from the admiration and praise elicited not only from the Sorins, but from all who have seen it. “It is grand! It is magnificent! ” arc the expressions that instinctively fall from the lips of all. Even Very Rev. Father Sorin, whose extensive travels have brought him into close contact with the rarest specimens of art in France and Italy, pronounces it a masterpiece. He says that he has seen nothing to surpass it in richness and elegance of

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	219
design. (IThe costume is superb, consisting of a purple and gold tunic, a scarlet and gold robe, and an ermine-lined scarlet and gold mantle which falls in folds, gracefully and naturally, over the figure. The massive crown is richly inlaid with emeralds and rubies, and beautifully rests on the expansive, noble brow. The expression of the clear, open countenance is serene, and at the same time firm and dignified. The mild, penetrating blue eyes, mirror, so to speak, the great soul; while the expressive mouth and parted lips seem as if addressing some of those kind, loving words which so naturally flowed from them during the sainted king’s lifetime. On the right hand he carries a sceptre, and on the left a church, expressive of his zeal in the cause of religion, and of his title of Confessor. The figure is majestic, and strikes you at once as that of a king; indeed Mr. Froc-Robert may well be proud of h’s workl^ It is certainly a good advertisement for him in the United States, and a specimen of art which does honor to the genius of France. No one looking at St. Edward’s statue could fail to see in it the conceptions of a master-mind, as well as a Christian mind; for while every muscle and nerve seem so perfectly natural that the features of the noble countenance breathe life, they at the same time strikingly portray the brilliant virtues so conspicuous in the life of the glorious King and Confessor.
* The Sorins are exulting in the fact that they have been the first to import St. Edward’s statue into America, and the first to present Very Rev. Father General with the figure of his Patron Saint. St. Edward certainly deserves a high place at Notre Dame, and, next to St. Joseph, should be the Saint of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; for to his illustrious client, under God, it.is indebted for its flourishing condition. We are informed that the statue will be presented as a Christmas gift to Very Rev. Father General by the Sorins. It will be placed in the Sanctuary of the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart until such time as St. Edward’s Chapel, which the Sorins intend to build, is prepared to receive it.
We congratulate Very Rev. Father General on his splendid gift, which is indeed a noble and affectionate testimony of the esteem and veneration which the Sorins entertain for their distinguished namesake.
.——-------♦-------—-----
Personal.
—Send on your personals.
—J. D. Murphy resides in Philadelphia.
—J. Lynch, ’75, resides at Indianaola, la.
—A. Chapoton, ’54, resides in Detroit, Mich.
—F. Pearl, ’74, is doing well in Chicago, Ill.
—D. Vaughan, 63, is in business in New Orleans.
—Mr. P. Rosen, C. S. C., has gone to New Orleans.
—J. Del Vecchio, ’75, is doing well in Louisville, Ky.
—Prof Paul has charge of the N. D. U. Cornet Band.
—0. Wing, ’72, is in the dairy business near Elgin, Ill.
—Frank Smith, ’75, is doing well in Springfield, Mass.
—J. E. Wood, '75, is employed on the Savannah (III) Times.
—Thos. Oldshue, ’67, is practising medicine in Pittsburgh, Pa. ‘	.
—C. Hake, ’76, is in, business with his father at Grand Rapids, Mich.	•
—“ Jersey” Meyers is in the wholesale boot and shoe business, Portsmouth, Ohio.	.
—W. J. Freeman, '66, is in the commercial business with his father in Iowa City, la.
—Rev. John Ford is Director of St. Aloysius’ Home at Notre Dame, Ind. He is in the best of health.
—P. H. Vogel, ’79, is the Junior member of the firm of Lind & Vogel, dealers in dry-goods, etc., Columbus, O.
—Prof. M. A. J. Baasen is residing in Milwaukee, Wis. He desires to be kindly remembered to all his friends at Notre Dame.
—J. M. Howard ’62, Attorney at Law, Logansport, Ind., is visiting Profs. Lyons, Edwards, and other old friends at Notre Dame.
• .—F. McGrath (prep), ’79, is attending college at Fordham, N. Y. He desires us to forward him the Scholastic every week.
—Prof. W. Ivers, writing to the Rev. Editor of the Ate jiTaria, says that his health and that of his family is much improved. We are happy .to learn this, as will, no doubt, be the many warm friends of the Professor here and elsewhere
—Mr. Eliot Ryder, well-known as a young poet of great promise, and, what is somewhat rarely coupled with poetic genius, a brilliant newspaper writer and pointed paragrapher, has just returned from New Mexico, where he has been gathering materials for a work entitled “New Mexico in 1881, with Glimpses of its Past Condition.” The book will be published in a few weeks by the firm of James R. Osgood &«Co., of Boston.
Iiocal Items.
A Merry Christmas to All!
—Rejoice.
—“Bosh!”
—“Moike.”
—Be merry.
—Be back on the 2d.	•
. —Send on your locals.
—Rec. is lively nowadays.
—Rain last Monday night.
—A Noble youth has left us.	.
—Christmas—this day week.
—Mahon knocks “ deadners.”
—The snow is fast disappearing.
—Good skating on Lake St. Joe.
—Don’t forget our Christmas box.
—Christmas is all the talk nowadays.
—Boose caught a rabbit last Saturday.
—The Manual Labor School is all right.
—Prof. Lyons was in Chicago last Monday.
—Is the Scientific Association to te revived?
—Hope that all will have a “ merry Christmas.”
—Patronize the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—The Societies will be given a two weeks’ rest.
—All should return promptly after the holidays.
—Be satisfied with ice seven inches in thickness.
—Good music at the Cecilians’ Exhibition, Thursday.
—Report of the St. Cecilians’ Entertainment next week.
—“Jim’s” busy preparing a speech for Christmas Eve.
—There are two “Marshals” in the Cecilian Association. —Have all thefun you can during the Christmas vacation. —How did you like the St. Cecilians’ first appearance? —Who will be the first to return after the Christmas holidays ?	.
—“Are you going home? ” is the most popular question at present. ,
—The Minims have the most beautiful study-hall at Notre Dame.

220
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Juniors and Minims, we are informed, will have ' Christmas trees.	‘
—Horse and snow-plow did immense work on St. Mary’s Lake, Saturday.
—About one-third of the students will remain here during the holidays.
—The seminarians spend their evening recreations in a very pleasant manner.
—“Tommy” will spend the Christmas holidays with his friends at Notre Dame.
—A mean day is what our friend John called last Tuesday. Mean boy, John.
X—-Two weeks from to day, you will write at the heading of your letters Jan., 18S1.
—The Sorins say that theirs is destined to be the neatest Society-room at Notre Dame.
—Don’t write your names on the walls or desks. Remember “fool’s names,” etc.
—The large ice-house is being rapidly filled, tons of ice being placed therein’ every day. ’
. —Prof. Edwards is having his Society-room much improved in its interior appearance.
—Are we to have a holiday amusement club ? We think it would be a cood idea to have one.	_
—Father Neyron, who was once a surgeon under the great Napoleon, is as lively as a cricket.
—The University Quartette "will, we hope, favor us with some of its enchanting melodies this evening.
—Father Condon may well feel proud of the Porliuncula Chapel. It is the most beautiful at Notre Dame. .
—The Sorins’ Society-room is being calcimined and otherwise improved by Bros. Frederick and Charles.
—Bro. Augustus has made many improvements in his tailoring establishment during the past three months.
—Bro. Celestine’s Telegraphy Class is largely attended. He has already turned out many good lightning slingers.
—We bad the pleasure of meeting Rev. Father Shortis, the Chaplain at St. Mary’s Academy, during the past week.
—Masters Guthrie and Gordon were the head-servers at the High Mass, celebrated by Rev. A. M. Kirsch, on Sunday last.
—Will not the boys who remain here during the holidays manage to get up some sort of a dramatic entertainment?
—“Eight more days until Christmas” was among the locals found in our bcx last week. Thanks, we didn’t know it.	.
—A good time will be had by those remaining here during the holidays. Amusements of every description will be in order.
—It is reported that Amedius Coghlin will spend the coming holidays at “ Notre Dame Bay ” writing essays foreign paper.
—It would be well for “Mede” to remember that box of cigars lost on the presidential election. They would come good just now.
—Why is 1881 like a disorderly man being escorted by two policemen to a station-house? Because there’s one on each side of it.
—"Judy” has not, we are infoimed, been troubled with the epizootic this year. Too m?ch work to be bothered with such things. -	:
—B. says he has not much reverence for roval people; for ever since the last rehearsal of the Glee Club, he has sat down on the “prints of whales?'
—Messrs. Orrick, Tinlev. O’Neill, Brinkman, Fleming, Morgan, Homan, Grever. Rietz, Kleine and Guthrie were the usaers at the St. Cecilia. Entertainment last evening.
—To-morrow, the 4tb Sunday in Advent, Missa Parvu-lorum, page 38 of the Kyriale, will be sung. Vespers, of JtheConunon of one Martyr, page 40 of the Vesperal.
—By Tnistake. W. F. Hanavin’s name was omitted last week from the list of those students of the Minim
department who deserve special notice for improvment in Arithmetic.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau has our hearty thanks for a basket of good apples. Mav the good Father’s stock of apples remain undiminished—except by a basket-full for us now and then.
—A New York editor offered a gold medal and .$500 to anyone who would write a story that would make his hair stand on its end. Many tried for it, but no one got it—the editor was bald.
—The Juniors have a new hand-ball alley, making a grand total of eight in the departmen’. Among the best players in that department may be mentioned Messrs. Grever, Brinkman, Tinley, Woodson, Boose, Brown and Guthrie.
—The Adeste Fiddes will be sung at the Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve by Master C. C. Echlin, of the Minim department. Charley has a sweet voice, and all may expect to hear the beautiful Christmas hymn well sung on that occasion.	~	.
:—Professor: ’ “Mr. B., what would you infer from this passaae in Cicero’s oration Pro Lege Manilia: Ila neque hie locus vacuus unquamfuit, etc.?” Mr. B.: “I would infer that Cicero bad been drinking, or he would not have given himself away with a hie?'
—We are informed that the “ Corporal ” will deliver a lecture on the 28th inst., in the presence of all who remain at the University during Christmas week. We have not learned the subject of the eentleman’s lecture as he declined to be interviewed. We are sure, however, that it , will be a good one, and will be well handled.
—“ Collax,” writing to his friend Bennett, says that his health has greatly improved, desires to be remembered to all his friends at Notre Dame, and signifies his intention of returning to the University after the Christmas vacation. This announcement will undoubtedly be hailed with delight by all who are acquainted with “ Colfax.”
—The students of the Minim department who deserve special mention for improvement in penmanship during the month of November, are: C. G. Droste, A. Van Mourick, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Courtney, H. Metz? W. F. Hanavin, W. T. Berthelet, F. Maroney, H. A. Snee, W. Olds, F. Fischel, J. Haslam, A. A. Chirhart, A. A. Molan-der.	■
—Sancho and Neptune tackled the wrong dog when they assaulted “Fearless” last Friday afternoon. They showed the white flag, or,—what is equivalent in a dogfight—how fast they could run, in five minutes after they began the attack. Brother Bernard bad better look after his cowardly canines, or there will be nothing left of them after a while. “Fearless” is one too many for both Sancho and Nep.
—Several books, periodicals, etc, have been taken from our editorial room within the past three or four months. Such persons as have any of these will confer a favor by returning them to the office as soon as possible, and a still greater favor by not meddling with, or carrying off such articles for the future. Among the books missed are an unbound volume of Brownson's Review, three numbers of The Harp, a copy of Bullions’ Grammar, seveial newspapers, reserved for special purposes, etc. As we cannot as yet pique ourselves on having attained anything like a mastery of the English language, some one will confer a favor by returning our copy, or, rather, oiir borrowed copy otJBullions’ Grammar.	-
-x—The 9th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Dec. 7th. Masters F. Wheatley, A. Rohrback, H Dunn, J. Whalen, A. Browne, A. Mendel, G. O’Kane, E. Munce, G. Woodson, H. Devitt, A. Schiml, G. Schaefer, M. Herrick, E, Cullinane and E. Smith gave declamations. Master F. Wheatley was elected First Vice-President to fill the vacancy occasioned by Start’s resignation, and A. Schmil was elected Corresponding Secretary. A lively debate then took place, after which the meeting adjourned.
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Dec. 11. Selections were given by E. Orrick, C. Tinley, J.-O’Neill, and W. Cleary. A.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	221
r
t'
committee consisting of E. Orrick, C. Tinley, R. Fleming, F. Grever, J. O'Neill and J. Morgan were appointed to dratt resolutions of sympathy on the demise of R. E. McCarthy of Lafayette, Ind. The rest of the time was taken up in rehearsing the play entitled “The Recognition.” Public readers for this week are: E. Fischel, C. McDermott, J. O'Neill, A. Bodine, II. Rose, E. Orrick and R. Fleming.
—Last week Mr. Eliot Ryder, of New York, visited Notre Dame. With some of It is sonnets our readers have already become acquainted. Mr. Ryder is a young man, and we hope he may yet make his mark in the world of h tiers. Mr. Ryder for some years was eugaeed on the New York Sun and other papers, and has gained some leputation as a writer both in prose and verse. Some of his poems, written anonymously, attraced con.-iderable attention. We hope that some day he may decide to collect and publish them in b ok form. When they do appear, winch we hope will be soon, we have no hesitancy in saying that their readers will find in them a rare intellectual treat. In poetry, Mr. Ryder’s style of writing is simple and chaste, and he seems to have the rare faculty of clothing the loftiest themes in simple, beautiful language, and txcellent verse.
—We shall never forget the first Christmas we spei.t at Notre Dame. We were awakened at 11:30 p. m. by the sweet strains of the N. D. U. Cornet Baud, which was playing the Adeste Fideles in the lower hall. Neither since nor before have we heard music which pleased us so well as the Adeste FidAes did on that occasion. It was then that we for the first time assisted at a Midnight Mass, and never shall we forget the impression made upon us at the time. Many who remain here during the holidays will also assist at a Midnight Mass for the first time; you will never forget the grandeur and sublimity of the occasion; the representation of the Infant Saviour in a crib; the altar ablaze with a thousand lights; the rich and costly vestments and altar dress the celebrant, assistants, clergy, choristers, acolytes in rich vestments—all will conspire to fill your souls with sentiments the most holy and sublime.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment given Thursday evening, in Washington Hall, by the St. Cecilia Philomatbean Association :
Grand Opening March (Boccacio).......N. D. U. Cornet Band Address of the Evening...............C.	A. Tinley
Recitation—“Napoleon”........................J. P. O’Neill
“ Cithara Hille Chordarum’’..................E. C. Orrick
Prologue.........................C.	F. Rietz and E. Fischel
Music (Natali’s Waltz)...............University Orchestra
2d Part.
THE RECOGNITION.
A Drama of the 15th Century, in Four Acts. Written Expressly lor the St. Cecilia Philomatbean Association by Rev. A. Le-monnier, late President of the University.
Dramatis Persona:
Duke of Spoleto.............................Chas.	A. Tinley
Riccardo (his Squire)....................Chas? J. Brinkman
Prince of Maccrata .......................Robt.	E. Fleming'
Count Bartolo..............................Jos.	T. Homan
Antonio (his Son)...........................Frank	H. Grever
Balthazar (Arbalester, friend of Antonio).....E. C. Orrick
Stephano (Teacher of Antonio)..............Joseph	P. O’Neill
Fabiano (Governor of Montefalco).............John	L. Morgan
Leonardo (A Soldier).............................A.	Bodine
Gratiano.. i p friends of Antonio f ... James Burns Lorenzo .. f rages’lnends 01 Ant0Dlp- ) Nicholas Nelson Giacomo (Squire of Bartolo)................John	W. Guthrie
Pacifico.......................................A.	J. Hintze
Paolo (An Overseer of Prison) Zucchi (A B.acksmith)........
Beppo........
Alphonso.' .* ”} Attendants of Bartolo.
Piccolo......
Alberto......J
Marco (aSoldier).......................
Andrea (Squire of the Duke)............
Carlo........]
Beraardo,'::::: j Soldicrs 01 tt* Duke.
Almeno.......J
.......Wm. Cleary ...C. J. McDermott f......T. F Flynn | ...A. W. Cogolin j......J. Gordon j......J. Scanlan I ....G. Castanedo [......H. Hake
.....N Ewing ..... .0. F. Rietz f. ...W. D. Cannon j....'....C. Rose
I......J. Ruppe [......E. Prenatt
Orlando (Officer to the Prince)..................F.	Kleine
Silvio (a Courtier).........................J.	...H. L.Ros.e
Reginald (Officer of the Prince of Macerata)....;..Gem Rbodius Anselm.'.' i: } officers of the Prince’s Guard ] G o^l::::::::::} Royai ushers. {:::::"::^eie?
Tableau.
Epilogue......................................J.	H. Grever
Closing Remarks..........................................
Music—March fur Retiring....................N. D. tf. Band
If time permit, “The Mississipj i Mummy,” a comedy in one act, will be given.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfaction co all the membirs of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. W. McGoirisk, F. W. Bloom. J L. Noonan, T. Kavanagh, Geo. E. Clarke, W. B. McGorrick, J. Solon, E. J. Taggart.-R. M Anderson. J. Casey, B. Cas<y, L. E. Clements, E. A. Otis, J. N. O;her, H. S. O’Donnell. F. C. Smith, W. I. Brown, J. F. Brown. J. C. Newman, F. E. Kuhn, R. C. Adams, A. Korty, J. D. De’aney, A. Zahm. C. A. Brehmer, W. J. McCarthy, F. J. Retiig, W. J. Kelly, W. R. Young. G L. Hagan, H. A. Steiz, J. M? Falvey, C. H. Thiele, J. A. McNama a, Thos. Byrne, R. Le Bourgeois, T. F. Claike, L Mathers, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Mclntvre, J. O’Reilly, 8. P. Terry, F. Ward, B. H.’Pollock, E. E. Piper, B. F. Smith. W. E. Hoffman. D. Ryan, A. A. Bo. dine, W. Schofield, D. R. Phelps, J. J. McErlain, A. T. Moran, G. S. Tracy, J. J. Malone. F. Godfroy, F J. Garrity, C. B. Van Dusen, L. M. Proctor, J. Ryan, W. Johnson, E. Troxel, B. Eaton, J. Redmond, P. D. Stretch, H. B. Dulaney, F. M. Beil, H. C. Simms, R. Seeberger.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Brown, J. H. Bennett, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, A Bodine, W. H.Barron, M. Bloch, G. Castanedo, A. M. Coghlin, W. D. Cannon, J. M. Courtney, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, G. De Haven. A. J. Dennis, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, N. H. Ewing, T. F. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, E. Fischel, J. J. Gordon, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, W. W. Gray, T. F. Hurley, H. P. Hake, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, P. Haney, G. J. Haslam, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. Krone, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kollars, S. Livingston, A. Wendel, W. P. Mahon, F. McPhillips, J. P. McClarnon, J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, J. F. Martin, H. W. Morse, Al L; Miller, C. A. Moss, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, J. P. 0 Neill, L. L. O'Donnell, D. G. Paul, G. J. Rhodius, F. A. Quinn, H. L. Rose, C. F.'Rose, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, G. W. Silverman, H, G. Sells, W. E. Smith, C. P. Sm tb, E. E. Smith G. Schafer, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, G. A. Tmschel, C. A. Tin-ey, F. J. Wocber, F. W. Wheatley, W. T. Williams, Bertie A. Zekind, A. Manning,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. A. Kitz, D. G. Taylor, F. M. Moroney, C. E. Droste, C. C. Echlin, E. A. Howard, A. G. Molander, D. O’Conner, T. McGrath, J. A. Kelly, H. C. Snee, W. M. Olds, W. F. Hanavin, W. T. Berthelet, J. W. Frain. L. J. Young, C. Metz, A. H. Chirhart, W. A. Taylor, J. C. Haslam, A. J. Van Mourick, H. J. Ackerman, E. S. Chirhart, J. Ruppe, J. E. Chaves, M. E. Devitt, J. H. Dwenger, W. J. Miller, A. B. Bender, J. McGrath, W. Rea, J. W. Kent, E. McGrath.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
F. Dever, L. Clements, J. Delaney, T. Kavanaugh, J. McNamara, H. O’Donnell, E. Sung, A. Coghlin, P. Joyce, J. Morgan, C. Rietz. J. Scanlan, G. Si verman, J. Falvey, W. Fishburn, G. L. Hagan, W. E. Hoffman, W. Johnson, F. E. Kuhn, W. J. Kelly, R. Le Bourgeois. J. Al McIntyre J. C. Newman, H. Steis, C. Thiele, W. R Yourg, D.Phelps, T. Flynn, J. Guthrie, H. Hake, F. Kleine, J. W. Start, E. Fishel, E. Prenatt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. E .Droste, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Courtney C. C. Echlin, H. C.
222
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Snee, H. A. Kitz, A. G. Molander, J. J. McGrath, W. M. Olds, H. Metz, F. Fischel, F. M. Moroney, W. A. Taylor, A. J. Van Monrick, W. F.' Hanavin, J. A. Kelly, T. McGrath, A. H. Chir-hart, G. E. Tourtlllotte, J. C. Haslam, J. W. Frain, E. A. Howard W. T. Berthelet, D. O’Connor, J. H. Dwenger, J. R. Bender, T.. J. Young, J. E. Chaves, E. S. Chirhart, W. J. Miller, J. McGrath, A B. Bender, W. Rea, J. W. Kent, J. Ruppe, M. E. Devitt, E. B. Bagard, C. Metz, H. J. Ackerman.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list arc those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
.—Reading and Orthography—J. L. Heffernan, A. Morse, E. Fischel, J. F. Martin, W. J. Kelley, W. Johnson, G. Hagan, F. Ward. A. Moran, R. Leeburger, J-. Smith, J. Devitt, A. Schmil; Grammar—J. M. Falvey, F. E Kuhn, W. R. Young, C. Thiele, J. Scanlan, F. Kleine; Geography and History—W. J. Kelley, J. Heffernan, C. Murdock, A. Bodine, F. Kleine, J. More an; Arithmetic—J. Heffernan, H. O’Donnell, J. Ruppe, J. Scanlan, G. Silverman, C. Rietz, P. Joyce, C. Perry; Penmanship—A. T. Moran, R. O’Connor, G. Rhodius, G. Silverman; Book-Keeping------.
The name of W. Schofield was omitted from the List of Excellence for Latin last week. The name of A. Brown should have been mentioned in the same list for Geography and His-toiy.
Robert King,	jj
TEACHER OF	<<
Elocution	and Dramatic Art, ci
(Since 1855,)	i
73 TWENTY-SIXTH STREET,
CHICAGO.
Liberal arrangements made with Colleges and Universities for Dramatic Recitals and Humorous Readings.
Terms sent on application.
oct23 3m
C. & N.-W. LINES.
dUO TO 20 PER WEEK. Agents wanted to canvass qpJL^ for Mcgee's Illustrated Weekly, Box 2120, New York.	n6-7t
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Favorable and Popular Route to all points in the South, Southwest and Wfsi.
Oct 21, 1880. Local and Through Time Table. No. 20.
Going	North.	STATIONS.	Going	South.
1.30 a m.	4.20 p.m.	Abrive	Leave - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m.
12.45 «	335 “	- - - - La Porte, - -	10.23 “	8 55 “
12.18 “	3.14 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.41 “	9.20 “
11.57 p.m.	2.53 «	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.00 “	9 47 “
11.27 “	2.23 “	- - -- Plymouth, - - -	1135 “	10.33 “
10.34 “	W “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	11.33 “
9.58 “	1251 «	- - - - Denver, • - -	1.C6 “	12.12 a.m.
935 “	12.10 “	- - -	- Peru, - - - -	145 “	12.40 “
9.08 “	11.50 a.m.	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.05 “	1.01 «
8.38 “	1121 «	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	2.32 “	1.45 “
7.51 “	10.41 “	- - - - Tipton, - -	3.16 “	2.23 “
7.12 “	9.57 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.00 “	3.04 “
6.10 “	8.50 “	Lv. - Indianapolis, - Ab.	5.00 “	4.00 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for NORTHERN INDIANA and MICHIGAN, and for Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
For Reliable Information and Rates of Fare to all Points, Address
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
GenU Manager.IhdiantpollB.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
The Chicago & North-Wsstsra. Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
Chicago, st. Paul and Minneapolis line. is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA-AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freep nt. Its	»
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lakeshore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman. House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street;. Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’U, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	223
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, .	75 Dearborn St., Unity Block,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission to University of Notre Dame, Ind.
JAMES BONNEY
. THE PH0T0GEAPKEB.
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts,,
SOUTH BEND, - - IND.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -Aisrm □"EWETjK/Y--All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
L. S. & M. $. Railway.
«
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7,1880, trains will leave South Bend ai follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, ar-, rives at Toledo 9 50 a m; Cleveland 2 30 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 OS a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 525 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m;' Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo. 110 p.m.
13 lOp.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
6 21 p m Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10 35 p m; Cleveland, 145 a m; Buffalo, 7 25 a m.	.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
3 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
8 03 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a.m; Chesterton. 947am; Chicago, 1130a.m.
1 16 P m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2 12 p m; Chesterton, 2 52 p m; Chicago 449 p m.
4, 50 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 538;
Chesterton, 615pm; Chicago, 8 p.m.
E. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. ' J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago. CHARLES PAINE,Gen’Ipt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. 7, 1880.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
.	RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3. Night Ex	No. 5. Limit Ex
Pittsburg,	Leave	12.05 a.m.	9.15 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	7.30 P.M.
"Rochester, 		1.15 “	10.10 “	2.55 “	
Alliance,		3.30 “	1.20 p.m.	5.35 “	10.25 p.m.
Orrville,..............	5.00 “	3.18 “	7.13 “	
"Mansfield	-	655 “	5.40 “	9.20 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	7.25 “	6.15 “	9.45 “	1.40 a.m.
Crestlin	Leave	7.50 am.	635 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	145 a.m.
Forest		9.25 “	8.18 “	11.28	• ••••
Til ma			10.40 “	9.30 “	12.32 AM.	
Ft. Wayne,					1.15 P.M.	12.08 AM.	2.40 ‘	5.35 “
Plymouth,			3.46 “	2.50 “	4.55 ••	7.16 “
Chicago,...... Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	8.00 “	9.40 “
at the depots.
Leave.
Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger.... Nebraska and Kansas Express... Rockford and Freeport Express. Dubuque and Sioux City Express Pacific Fast Express..... Kansas and Colorado Express... Downer’s Grove Accommodation Aurora Passenger .........
Mendota and Ottawa Express... Aurora Passenger.... Downer’s Grove Accommodation Freeport and Dubuque Express.. Pacific Night Express for Omaha Texas Fast Express.......... Kansas City and St Joe Express.
,*7:25 a.m. * 7:30 p.m ,* 9:30 a.m. *4:05 p.m ,*10:00 a.m. * 3:20 p.m .*10:00 a.m. ♦ 3:20 p.m .*10:30 a.m. * 3:40 p.m *10:30 a.m. * 3:40 p.m .* 8:25 a.m. * 1:35 p.m .*3:15 p.m. * 7:55 a.m .* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
*5:30 p.m. *8:55 a.m
*6:15 p.m.
.* 9:30 p m. 4 9:05 p.m. .*9:05 p.m. .+ 9:05 p.m.
* 7:15 a.m * 6:35 a.m J 6:55 a.m j 6:55 a.m f 6:55 a.m
GOING EAST.
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2. Morn. Ex.	No. 4, AtlanJSx.	No. 6, N. Y. Ex.
Chicago.			Leave	9.40 pm.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	3.30 p.m.
Plvmonth ............	2.50 A.M.	11.53 “	9.25 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6.55 “	2.35 p.m.	1215 a.m.	8.35 P.M.
Lima,							8.55 “	4.36 “	238 “	
Forest,				10.08 “	5.43 “	3.55 “	
Crestline	Arrive	11.45 “	7.10 “	5.30 «	12 35 a.m.
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.30 p.m.	640 a.m.	1240 a.m.
3ffinsfield,.... ........	12.35 “	803 “	7 20 “	115 “
Orrville,			2.26 “	10.06 “	953 “	2.57 “
Alliance,			400 “	1145 “	11.25 “	4.25 “
Rochester,			6.22 “	2.04 A.M.	2.10 “	
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	7.30 “	3.15 “	3.15 P.M.	7.30 A.M.
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
♦Sundays excepted. tSaturday excepted. ^Monday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Trains Nos. 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
Thia is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale ai all rincipal ticket offices at the lowest current rates. ■
F. B.msss, G. P. &T.A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to the foUowing REASONS WHY-if about to make a Journey to tlie GREAT AV JUST—you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained^ Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. ATCHisoN.or council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purnoses. and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that ' furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered ! as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost. _
0M£ HALF INTERIOR VIEW k cab
mu

■
< <
I I
I
i
Thatt^^nr&mittin?«ireofthe Chicago, Kock Island & Pacific Kailway for the comfort of'its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time the United States, as well as tourists who seek the* pleasantest lines of travel, while cu route to behold thewonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and	the Company
pverv year nuts on sale May 1st. at all coupon ticket ofiices in the United States and Canadas, round, trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Sprmgs°and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.	___
KEMEMBER. this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address	___
Vico Pres’t and Gen’l Manager, Chicago.
Gen’l Ticket and Pass’r Agent.
■ The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IX EUWJkltDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1870.
	. *Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 10 pm 11 30 “ 12 48 a m 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	+Pacific Express	tEvcn’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -" Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City-- Ar. Chicago —	7 CO a.m 10 20 “ 1 15p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a.m 12 15p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles anti Soutli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715“	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. ®o. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaiiy.	tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth, ■ H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. ■ Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, i”-*-
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAUBICE JT. EGAN,
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame
University.
I?rlcc, §1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
BUY THE
CLASS DAY BOOK OF ’80.
Published by the Class of ’80.
Besides containing the Guide and Hand Book to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy, it embraces
“CLASS SOSTG,” POETRY, LITERARY
SELECTIONS, ETC.,
Together With ■
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, ’VERSITY EXCHANGE NEWS, LAUGHABLE ANECDOTES & HUMOROUS EXTRACTS.
For Sale at Students’ Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SINGLE COPT, -	50 CENTS.