Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY 2, 1881.
Number 40.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrisk, ’82.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Sums, ’83.
W. H. Arnold, ’82.
R. E. Fleming, ’83.
J. P. O’Neill, 'S3.
Insatiate.
BY ELIOT RYDER.
Down in the golden Mexic mines we went;
On every hand there shone the glittering ore;
Men labor there with well-assumed content,
And yet their rich gains never till their store.
Day after day the pick and shovel sound, For few men weary of their quest for gold;
Though priceless be the treasures that are found. They wish them greater by an-hundred-fold.
Here, in my attic room, there is a mine
Richer by far than those of Mexico;
Along its walls the glittering gold-grains shine
From glorious books, whose rich-wrought pages glow
With treasures in a never-failing store, Yet, with abundance blest, I yearn for more.
Commencement.
The Class of '81 had a very pleasant Commencement and a year which, we believe, was one of unusually severe study in all the departments was brought to an auspicious conclusion. We think our premise is warranted from the fact that the members of the Faculty have been outspoken in their expressions of satisfaction at the result of the examinations, and this is the real test of the year’s work. Not a disappointed face was to be seen among th studen's when the degrees, honors, medals and premiums were made known. The only exception that might tend to mar the general feeling of satisfaction was the omission of W. J. McCarthy’s name from the honor list when the names were read from the medals. That young gentleman, who stood very high among the honor men of the Preparatory department, had forgotten to hand in his gold medal for a bar, and, in consequence, his name was not read out with the rest. We suggest that hereafter the honors be read from a list^ and not from the gold medals, to prevent a recurrence of such an oversight as that of Mr. McCarthy’s. _
The weather was clear and pleasant during the three days of the Commencement Exercises, and, on account of the well-arranged programme none of the exercises could have been long or wearisome to the visitors. Everything went off happily, and the University Orchestra and Cornet Band—both of which were in excellent training—interspersed the exercises with choice music.
We first assembled in the Rotunda of the University to witness the exercises of the Graduating Class and the closing exercises of the renowned Euglossian Association. These exercises proved to be highly entertaining: they were inaugurated with an overture—“A Night in Granada”— by the University Quartette, which was finely rendered. This was followed by an essay from Geo. F. Sugg (Scientific, ’81. The matter was excellent, and the delivery all that could have been desired. “The Christian Gladiator ” was ably personated by Chas. Tinley, who has long held one of the first places in the Class of Elocntion and who on this occasion even surpassed himself.
Eugene C. Orrick’s “Address to a Country Jury” was one of the best things of the evening. The audience, during its delivery, were kept in constant roars of laughter. The same may be said of Mr. Solon’s “Personification of Logic,” which he so well delivered later in the evening. “Self-Importance” was the subject of Mr. D. Danahey’s lecture. Danahey showed himself to advantage in his “ Selfimportance,” and by his many humorous and witty remarks convulsed the audience with laughter. Then came that which pleased us most of all, for it came just in time. We had been listening to the dry (?) discourses of the Graduates for nearly two hours; our auricular nerves were rendered almost useless by the terrible strain they were required to bear, in taking in the stentorian sounds emitted by Prof. Lyons’s Elocution Class, when “ Barney ” Claggett (’80) came to the rescue, and gave us one of those charming guitar solos for which he had become so famous when a student at the University last year. Mr. Claggett received an encore—he had won it by his excellent playing. After he had responded to this outburst of applause by playing another fine selection, we felt as if we could sit there for just one hour more, when the evening’s programme would be terminated. Mr. Geo. E. Clarke (Law, ’81,) then delivered one of the ablest addresses which we have heard fall from his lips this year—and that is saying much in his praise. “Patriotism,” by J. P. O’Neill, was unquestionably the best delivered declamation of the evening. He was simply perfect in his rendition of the piece. Well worthy was he of the Medal for Elocution which he received last Thursday morning. If Mr. O’Neill continues to improve in years to come as he has in the one :just closed, he will one day have but few rivals in this particular arena.
634
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLA STIC
The Commercial address, by Mr. T. Kavanagh, was a well-written and well-read one. In it he paid a just tribute of gratitude to his Alma Hater. He spoke at length of the advantages and the necessity of a good commercial education, showing conclusively that without a sound commercial training no man can truthfully be called a business man. He concluded his essay as follows: “Fellowclassmates, a place in the ranks awaits us. We have the benediction of a loving mother. The deep solicitude she has always evinced for our welfare here will follow us to our homes; and her prayers, ascending as sweet incense before the throne of God, will be a constant petition in our behalf for every success here and hereafter. Let us not prove ourselves base ingrates, but rather strengthen the ranks of those dutiful sons who surround her to-day, and to whom she points with so much pride. That the heavenly Father may bless and prosper our efforts, one and all, is the sincere and heartfelt prayer of your humble representative.”
W. J. McCarthy delivered the “Dying Soldier” in a pathetic and impressive manner; he highly deserved the vociferous applause given him. Mr. McEniry’s dis. course was an erudite and masterly effort. Mr. McEniry possesses an abundance of that material which should be in possession of all who wish to excel in forensic debate— sound judgment, astuteness, perspicuity, force, and eloquence. We would gladly produce his oration in full in the present issue, if space permitted. For each and every graduate of the Class of ’81 we predict a glorious future— they are gentlemen in the true sense of the word; they have, in Notre Dame’s far-famed classic halls, received an education which will enable them to advance in the battle of life with that high moral and intellectual armor that braves the battle’s fiercest din, and unbroken, undaunted, firmly receives the onslaught of the enemy; its watchword, Victory! Vale, Class of’81 vale.
Very Rev. President Corby made the closing remarks in his own happy style, then all retired in response to nature’s call—to bed.
The Commencement Exercises were witnessed by distinguished visitors from various parts of our broad Republic and by representatives from some of the most prominent of the Western daily papers. Among the latter may be mentioned The Chicago Times, The Chicago Tribune, the Chicago Inter- Ocean, The Chicago Evening Journal, the Chicago Baily News, and the South-Bend Tribune, all of which journals contained, from day to day, full reports of the proceedings, with a general report at the close of the exercises. Rev. D. A Clarke, an alumnus of Notre Dame, represented The Catholic Columbian, of Columbus, Ohio. It is to be regretted that the Inter- Ocean's report was so garbled by the news-editor as to be hardly recognizable. It seems the reporter had sent in a detailed account of the proceedings, both here and at St. Mary’s Academy, but the editor, with the view to condensing, cut off the tail of one and the head. of the other and glued the extremities, thus making a singular body after his own ideas—tacking the young lady graduates at St. Mary’s onto the Notre Dame report, and leaving out altogether the graduates at the latter place. He seems determined to strengthen the idea so prevalent in non-Catholic colleges that Notre Dame is a co-educational institution. It was an oversight on his part, of course, but one that
should not be repeated. The special correspondent of the Times says:
“The first expression that generally escapes the visitor to the University of Notre Dame is: ‘ What a beautiful place!’ A gentleman, who, only a few weeks ago, returned from a tour through France, Italy, and the Holy Land, and who has visited much of our own beautiful American scenery, said, on the eve of Commencement Day at Notre Dame, that in all his travels he had not met with any place more highly favored by nature than it is.
“ A mile or two of an avenue from the south, as straight as an arrow, graded, and lined with shade trees, prepares one in a measure for what meets the eye on the lake side of the University buildings, and beyond, down to the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, whence loom up in the distance the walls of a sister Institution. St. Mary’s of the Immaculate Conception.
“ Amid such scenery, arid with hundreds of visitors present from all parts of the United States, Notre Dame held its 37th Annual Commencement during the past three days. Among the visitors and guests were the Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne; the Rt. Rev. Bishop O’Connor, of Omaha, Neb.; the Rev. Dr. Kilroy (of the Class of ’52), of Stratford. Canada; the Rev. Dr. Riordan, and the Rev. Fathers Dunne, Tighe, Egan, and Carroll,of the archdiocese of Chicago; the Rev. D. A. Clarke (’70), Editor of The Catholic Columbian, Columbus, O.; Rev. Fathers Stile and Kollop, Cincinnati, O.; Rev. Fathers Krull (’66), Halton and Maloney, Milwaukee; Rev. Fathers Shortis (’49), A. B. Oechtering, Condon, Vagnier, Goendling, Christian, Lauth, Czyzewski, Fallize, Hagerty, Saulnier, of the diocese of Fort Wayne; Cappon, Roeper, of the diocese of Detroit; Lambing and Kittell, of the diocese of Pittsburgh; Hayes (’53)', La Faye, France; Gen. Morgan, of the United States Army; Col. Otis, of the 7th United States Cavalry; Clarke, Midshipman, United States Navy; Signor Gregori, the great Italian artist; James McNamara, Jr., of Dexter, Mich.; and Judge W. W. Cleary, of Covington, Ky.
“The members of the Graduating Class of ’81 are: Frank W. Bloom, of Indiana, Valedictorian; George F. Sugg, of Chicago; George E. Clarke, of Cairo, Ill.; D. Harrington, of Boston; Matthew J. McEniry, of Osborne, Ill.; D. Milner, of Portland, Oregon; and D. McCawley, of Chicago. The exercises of this class, together with those of the Euglossian Association, took place in the Rotunda on Tuesday evening. Mr. Sugg read a scientific essay, Mr. Clarke delivered a discourse on the Judiciary, Mr. McEniry one on the Legislative, and Mr. Harrington on the Executive. The Graduates did credit to themselves and to the University.”	’
Then follows the account of Alumni Diy, the Cadets’ dress-parade, the Entertainment in Washington Hall, the conferring of honors, distribution of premiums, etc., all of which are given at length elsewhere, and need not be repeated.	-
The Commencement Exercises at St. Mary’s Academy were very beautiful and interesting. The old exhibition Hall was a frame structure, and being located near the main buildings of the Academy, was torn down last year to cut off all danger from fire, which of late has been making sad havoc at many of the principal colleges throughout the country. Owing to the want of a hall large enough to accommodate all the pupils and visitors, several of the young ladies went home before Commencement day, and invitations were restricted to the relatives of the pupils and ,a few very special friends of the Institution. Still, a large concourse had assembled to witness the exercises. The account of. these published in the Chicago and South Bend papers are so full and satisfactory that we save the trouble of writing, and copy from the South Bend papers. •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
635
From the South-Bend Baily Tribune, of June 23d.
' Notre Dame University.
WHAT WAS DONE AT ITS THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL .	COMMENCEMENT.
Notre Dame University’s class of ’81 has been exceed-* ingly fortunate in having.fair weather, an extremely large attendance of visitors, many distinguished guests, a large and enthusiastic'Alumni, and a programme of events that moved without a hitch. Indeed, Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Father Walsh, Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edwards, and the other members of the Faculty, have good reason to be proud of the 37th Annual Commencement of Notre Dame University.
“It is worth a thousand-mile trip to see Notre Dame,” said a distinguished guest, yesterday, to a group of visitors seated on the broad veranda which rims along the front of the University building, and looking at the scene before them. Near by, enormous fountains played unceasingly, throwing the water in great sprays, which sparkled in the bright sunshine; beyond these are grass plots, flower gardens and tree-lined walks, where the older students sauntered in groups, some saddened at going away and others at having them go. To the left are the play grounds, where the Preps, and Minims flocked, noisy and exultant, as small boys always have been, and always will be, at close of school. On .the right, the stately Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart reflected the sun from its brilliantly-stained windows, while the chimes of Notre Dame, from its tower, sent sweetest music rippling over the broad fields and down the long, maple-shaded avenue which leads to South Bend. When the eye had drank in all this, a turn between the Church and University buildings brought the beautiful lakes into view, with St. Mary’s in the distance. There could be no dissent to this guest’s remark, for in the crowd were those who came twice and thrice as far as he, and felt amply repaid in coming.
The attendance of visitors this year has, we believe, not been equalled by any former year. There were proud mothers and fathers, bright-eyed sisters, watchful guardians, each interested iu some particular student. Among the guests and visitors were the Right Reverend B:shop O'Connor, of Omaha; Right Reverend Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne; Dr. Kilroy, of Canada; Reverend D. A. Clarke, Editor of The Catholic Columbian, Columbus, Ohio; Hon. W. W. Cleary, of Covington, Ky.; Gen. Morgan, of the United States Army; Col. Olis, ot the 7th United States Cavalry, the famous Custer Regiment; Signor Gregori, the great Italian artist; Mr. Lawless, of the Chicago JTews; Mr. J. H. Parsons, Superintendent of the Western Division of the Lake Shore Road, and many others.
X	THE GRADUATES.	■
The members of the Graduating Class of’81 are Frank W. Bloom, of this State, Valedictorian; Geo. F. Sugg, of Chicago; Geo. E. Clarke, of Cairo, III.; D. A. Harrington, of Boston; and Matthew J. McEniry, of Osborne, Ill. The exercises of this class, together with those of the Euglos-sian Association, took place in the Rotunda of the University, on Tuesday evening. Mr. Sugg read a scientific essay, Mr. Clarke delivered a discourse on the Judiciary, Mr. McE iiry on the Legislative, and Mr. Harrington on the Executive. The Graduates did credit to themselves and honor to the University.
THE ALUMNI.
Yesterday morning the Alumni Mass was celebrated at 6 o’clock, Rev. E. B Kilroy, of Stratford, Canada, celebrant ; Rev. D. A. Tighe, deacon, and Rev. D. A. Clarke, subdeacon. At the annual meeting, Dr. Kilroy, of the Class of *72, presided; Prof. Howard read the poem, and Rev. D. A Clarke was the Historian. There were from 50 to 60 members present. The banquet was held yesterday afternoon, and was honored by the presence of Very Rev. E. Sorin, the Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross,, who was elected Honorary President. Dr. Kilroy was chosen President for the ensuing year; Rev. D. A. Clarke, Editor of The Catholic Columbian, first Vice-President; Dr. J. Cassidy, of this city, second Vice-President; ex-Mayor L G. Tong, of this city, Secretary; Prof. J. A.
Lyons, of Notre Dame, Treasurer; Prof. T. O’Mahony, of Lake Forest, Ill., Orator; W. T. Ball, of Chicago, Poet; and Prof. Stace, of this city, Historian.
THE REGATTA.
At the close of the Alumni Banquet, all about the College-faculty, students and guests—repaired to the lake to witness the annual boat race between the Minnehaha and Hiawatha crews. The crowd was swelled by hundreds from our city, who came over in carriages to be present at the Regatta. The afternoon was delightful, and the groves around the beautiful lake were dotted with people on every side. At about 4 o’clock the crews pulled out from their boat-house and were received with cheers from the interested spectators. The boats were manned as follows: Minnehaha—B. Smith, stroke; T. F. Kavanah, 2d and Captain; W. Arnold, 3d; C. Van Dusen, 4th; W. B. McGor-risk, 5th; F. B. Devolo, bow; J. McIntyre, coxswain; color, white. Hiawatha—M J. McEniry, stroke; M. J. McCue, 2d; D. A. Harrington, 3d; G. F. Sugg, 4th and Captain; H O’Donnell, 5th; J. McNamara, bow; F. W. Bloom, coxswain; color, blue. It was necessary,in order to make the required distance, to cross the lake three times, making two turns. Rev. Father O’Keeffe gave the crews the starting signal, and they shot out with steady stroke and kept nearly even all the way to the first turn, and started back in about the same position. At the second turn, the blues lost by running too close to the shore, and the whites started down the home stretch, fully a length and a half ahead of the Minnehahas, and the latter were unable to close up the gap although they buckled into the work with a will, and gained somewhat on the Hiawathas before the home buoy was reached. The crews were quite equally matched, everything being equal, and but for the blues’ loss of time on their second turn, the race would have been very close. Loud cheers greeted the winning crew, and they came ashore to receive the hearty congratulations of their friends. Very Rev. President Corby acted as judge of the race.
THE CADETS’ PARADE.
The next thing on the programme was the parade review of the University Cadets, under command of Capt. Cocke. The Cadets, to the number of about fifty, filed o,ut of the armory at 5 o’clock, and, headed by the College Band, marched past the front portico of the University building, which was crowded with spectators, and then repaired to the Juniors’ Campus, where they went through a series of military evolutions with a proficiency that evidenced careful and thorough training on the part of their Commander. The boys were afterwards brought up in a line before Col. Otis, of the U. S. Army, and put through the manual of arms, obeying all the commands promptly and handling their muskets with the ease and unanimity of veterans. They received approving applause from the assembled spectators and were highly complimented by Col. Otis. Another parade in front of the College building concluded the review, and the Cadets retired to their armory. Capt. Cocke deserves great credit for the pains he has taken to instruct the boys in the military art, and his careful work is fully appreciated by the officers of the University.
THE ■ PLAY.
The exercises in Washington Hall, last night, consisted of an opening march from Boccaccio by the University Cornet Band, an overture from William Tell, by the University Orchestra, and the presentation of the drama of “ William Tell.” The prologue was recited in graceful style by W. J. McCarthy. The drama was presented under the direction of Prof. Lyons, with rich costumes and appropriate scenic effects, and the acting was frequently applauded. G. F. Sugg, as “Gesler,” carried his part well; while G. E. Clarke, as “ Tell,” and 0. Tinley as his son; W. H. Arnold as Tell’s father, and A. Zahm as Emi’s father, carried out their parts with the ease and expression of old actors. The others, in minor parts, did all that was required of them promptly and well. At the close of the play, Mr. Clarke, with his brother graduates, appeared before the curtain, and he spoke feelingly of the past pleasant associations and of the’parting that was at hand. Right Reverend Bishop Dwenger then addressed -the students and audience, and the exercises of the day were over,.
636
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE HONORS.
This forenoon there was a large gathering to witness the closing exercises, which began with an opening march by the Band, followed by a selection from Rossini by the Orchestra. F. W. Bloom, the Valedictorian, spoke feelingly, and with a distinctness of enunciation and a breadth of thought which showed that the honor was worthily conferred. The oration of the day was by Hon. W. W. Cleary, of Covington, Kentucky; and then followed the distribution of premiums, awarding of honors, and confer-ing of degrees. [Here are given the list of candidates for honors and premiums.—Ed.—Scholastic.]
From the South Bend Daily Tribune.
At St. Mary’s Academy.
A RECORD OF HER TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT.
Commencement week at St. Mary’s has been one of the happiest and most fortunate of all the twentjr-five which preceded it. Nature seemed to rejoice in the happiness of the fair students, and the fond satisfaction of parents and friends. With such weather—cloudless skies and balmjr air—brightening the exercises and ceremonies, there was accompanying it the added gratification of a much larger attendance of visitors than in any former year. Really, though, this is but natural to an educational institution that has passed its first quarter of a century, and acquired a world-wide reputation. The graduates of a dozen or fifteen years ago come to-day to visit their own children, who are now Juniors or Minims, and-will, in a few years, call their mothers’ Alma, Mater their own. The graduates of twentj’ and twenty-five years agorie, come back sedate matrons, to see how some favorite'grand-child thrives in the forest-embowered cherishing mother. Surely St. Mary’s Academy is growing old, indeed, when these things are recorded of her. Yet, while growing old in years, she grows in beauty. None realize this more than her graduates of long ago. They find the original building replaced with huge piles of brick and mortar, beautiful in their architecture, roomy, perfect in their convenience and sanitaiy arrangements, and lacking nothing that will contribute to the health and comfort of students. They find the once small lawn spread out until it embraces acres, shaded not only by evergreens, maples and elms planted by human hands, but with forest trees that Nature set there centuries ago. Then there are serpentine walks among flower gardens, past fountains, by rustic seats and arbors, and huge stone vases laden with the richest flowers and foliage "that June can give to summer’s adornment. The rugged river bluff in rear of the Academy, from which the little Chapel of Our Lady of Loretto looks down so peacefully on the sparkling waters of the St. Joeseph River, has been changed by deft hands and artistic eyes to one of the pleasantest resorts of all the many pleasant ones about the place. These are a few of the many changes the old students find, and they could hardly realize that it is their Alma Mater were it not that the same generous-hearted Mother Superior and Mother Annunciata and their companions are there to receive them.
The attendance at the twenty-sixth annual exercises was so large that but a small proportion of visitors could get into the Hall. The others, however, passed the time agreeably in visiting the library rooms, which contain thousands of volumes of books and many cabinets of specimens. St. Luke’s Studio, where scores of oil and water-color paintings by the students were on exhibition, had the most visitors, and the favorable criticisms on the work shown must have repaid the Sisters in charge for their painstaking with the pupils under their care. The departments where needle and fancy work was shown also had plenty of visitors, as well as the music-rooms and s'udy-halls.	„
The following was the programme for Tuesday afternoon .Polonaise in A Flat (Opus 52)..................Chopin
Miss Sullivan.
Essay—“The Spirit of Joy More Precious than Gold,”. ................................................Miss	Smith.
Essay—“Life’s Vista now Open Before Us,”....Miss Ward
Essay—“ Modesty, the Seal of Merit,”........Miss Rosing
“Valse de Juliette,"........................Gounod Faff
Miss Usselman.	'
Essay—“LaFrangais—Perle PrecieusedesLanguesModernes,’ Miss Rosing.
Chorus—“Inflammatus,” (Stabat Mater).............Rossini
Vocal Class.
Solo,by Mademoiselle Godbert—Aecompanied|by Miss Fendrick Essay—“Azure Skies and their Cloud Draping,”... .Miss Buck Essay—“ Clover Blossoms,”...................Miss Farrell
Essay—“The Grandeur of Life,”...............Miss Quinn
Aria—(from Somnambula)...........................Bellini
r	Miss Usselman.
“Impromptu,” (Opus 29)..........................Chopin
Miss Neu. .
Essay—“Des SchieksalsStern inEigener Brust,”..Miss Usselman Aria—(from Rigolette)........................Verdi
Miss Gordon......................
Essay—“ Intellectual Culture,”............Miss Danaher
Essay—“Lives of Great Men all Remind us we can Make our Lives Sublime,”...........................Miss Hackett
Essay—“Love of Pleasure Inherent,”........Miss Cortright
Grosse Sonata, (Opus 32)......................Beethoven
Miss Gordon.
Aria—(from H Trovatore)..........................Verdi
Miss Kirchner.
Essay—“Music, a Science and an Art,”........Miss Gordon
Essay—“Home, the Heart’s Resting Place,”..Miss Sullivan
Essay—“Peace, the Tranquillity of Order,”.Miss Kirchner Andante Spiniata and Polonaise (Opus 22)..Chopin
Miss Buck.
“ Euriante ”—(French Chorus).....................Weber
Vocal Class......................
Solo........................................Miss Gordon
The Graduates of the Class of ’81 are the Misses Harriet L. Buck, Anna H. Cortright, and Henrietta Rosing, of Chicago; Catharine Danaher, Ludington, Mich.; Angela M. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Alice M. Farrell, Keokuk, Iowa; Catharine Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; Adelaide R. Kirchner, Detroit, Mich.; Catharine Quinn, Negaunee, Mich.; Mary Sullivan, Plymouth, Ind.; Susan Smith, Reading Pa.; Catharine Ward, Lockport, Ill.; and Adella Gordon, Cairo, Ill.
All the essays, French, German and English, it is hardly necessary to state, were original, and showed the perfection attained here in these languages.
This forenoon the exercises consisted of a musical programme, of which the notable numbers were Wagner’s Kaiser March, on pianos, by- Misses Gordon, Fendrick, McGrath, Buck, Neu, Usselman, Farrell, and Sullivan ; a vocal chorus, Miserere, from Trovatore; Cavatina, by M’lle Godbert, accompanied by Miss Fendrick; Rhapsodie Hongroise, by Liszt, on four pianos; a solo, by M’lle Godbert; “Coronation Chorus,” by the general-class, and Meyerbeer’s “ Schiller Fest-March,” by Misses Dallas, H. Hackett, Neu, Bland, McGrath, Wiley, Usselman, and Falk.	.
The Valedictory was delivered by Miss Angela M. Ewing, of Lancaster, 0., a young lady of varied accomplishments and brilliant talents. She was awarded the Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, and also a Gold Medal for an essay on the “ True Dignity of Woman.” The presentation was made to her by Rev. W. F. Hayes, of Columbus, Ohio-Miss Danaher received the Gold Medal for General History, Miss Rosing the Gold Medal for French, and Miss Claffey the Gold Medal for Penmanship.
The exercises as a whole were of a very high order of merit. The fine flavor of assimilated knowledge was evident in the thoughtful nature of the essays. The instrumental and vocal exercises were characterized by that precision, strength and correctness of taste which have made the Conservatory at St Mary’s so noted.	•
The Evening Register, of the 23d, has the following:
St. Mary’s Academy.
THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.
The twenty-sixth annual Commencement Exercises of St. Mary’s Academy began at 3 o’clock yesterday afternoon, in the study-hall, in the presence of only the relatives and friends of the pupils, the accommodations of the room not being sufficient i.o permit as general an invitation as is usually issued. The Entertainment, however, was none the less enjoyable on this
f .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
637

account With plenty of elbow room and comfortable seats there was nothing to detract from the aesthetic pleasures of the occasion. The room was a perfect hall of beauty through the artistic decorations which adorned its walls, and a prettier setting for the lovely young ladies of the Graduating Class could not be imagined. The occasion was marked by the presence of the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., whose annual pleasure it is to attend these exercises; for to the venerable Father-General there isnothing so pleasing as the unfolding and development of youthful promise. His entrance was observed by the entire audience rising and standing until he was seated. Father General took occasion to address the Graduates briefly on the subject of clear enunciation, remarking that as he was a little deaf, if they would make him hear all could hear. The injunction was unnecessary, however, as each of the young ladies read in a self-possessed and distinct manner, making clear, not only each word, but every point in their essays.
The Entertainment—for such it was, and of a high order— was a happy blending of music and literary exercises which banished even the shadow of monotony from the programme, and kept the audience on the qui wive for each succeeding number. The programme opened with Chopin’s Polonaise in A Flat (Opus 52) by Miss Sullivan, whose playing evidenced a natural talent and splendid training for the piano. Miss Smith read an essay on “The Spirit of Joy more Precious than Gold,” which pictured in a fine light the qualification to be obtained from good works and pure motives. Miss Ward’s subject was “Life’s Vista Now Open Before Us,” which was treated in a manner displaying much thought. Miss Usselman played the “Valse de Juliette” with splendid effect, and Miss Rosing followed with the French essay. She chose for her subject the French language, pronouncing it “perle precieuse des tangoes modernesP The Vocal Class then sang the chorus “Inflamma-tus,” with solo by Mlle. Godbert, the'-eminent French teacher of music, whose advent at the Academy was noted at considerable length in the The Register at the time. Miss Fendrick performed the part of accompanist. Miss Buck evolved a very substantial lesson of life out of the extremely etherial subject “Azure Skies and their Cloud Draping.” Miss Farrell’s essay on “The Festive Year,” though written in prose, was among the most poetic of all. On “The Grandeur of Life ” Miss Quinn was happily eloquent in illustrating how easy it is to make our lives grand and good, although it may be accomplished through little things. Miss Usselman next sang an aria from “Somnambula” and received the hearty approval of the audience, and after an “Impromptu” (Opus 29) by Miss Neu, read the German essay; Miss Gordon then sang an aria from “Rigo-lette,” by Verdi, with a very fine voice.
At this point in the programme occurred an unexpected feature, because unannounced. A gentleman who visited the Academy about a fortnight ago arranged with Mother Superior to offer a prize for the best essay on the true dignity of woman, and two or three of the young ladies entered into competition for it. The essa^7 of Miss Angela Ewing was pronounced the best, and the young lady read it at this point in the exercises. It was truly a fine production, pointing out as a foundation for the true dignity of woman such conditions as would be suggested by the true, womanly heart—as the gentle guardian spirit of the household,’or as a Sister of Charity engaged in relieving the physical and spiritual sufferings of others. Miss Ewing is a niece of General Sherman and a young lady of superior mental qualifications. “Intellectual Culture,” by Miss Danaher, was a noble plea for greater general advancement, and reflected credit on the young lady’s abilities and character; and Miss Hackett won many compliments on her essay, taking for its subject “Lives of Great Men all Remind us we cau Make our Lives Sublime.” Miss Cortright read a decidedly original essay on the “Love of Pleasure Inherent,” and showed how this characteristic might be beneficially controlled or harmfully indulged. Miss Gordon played a selection from Beethoven, and Miss Kirchner sang in a very strong, sweet voice, an aria from “ Trovatore.” Then followed an analytic disquisition on “Music, a Science and Art,” by Miss Gordon. “ Home, the Heart’s Resting Place,” by Miss Sullivan, and “Peace, the Tranquillity of Order,” by Miss Kirchner. The last was in verse, and a beautiful production. Miss Buck then played a selection from Chopin, and the exercises for the day concluded with “Euriante,” a French chorus, by the Vocal Class, solo by Miss Gordon.
To-day, at 11 a. m., the exercises concluded with musical exercises, distribution of premiums in the various departments, and the conferring of Graduating Gold Medals. The Commencement throughout has been of the most auspicious character. ,
A PROGRESSIVE PLACE.
“St. Mary’s flourishes like a green-bay tree,” exclaimed Mother Superior to a Register representative. “Or,” replied the delegate, “grows like the Studebaker wagon-works.” Mother Superior smiled forbearingly at the idea of comparing an educational institution to a wagon factory, and yet could not but acknowledge that the wagon and the tea?her were each a medium for conveying valuable articles. Yet both compari
sons apply to the lovely spot known as St. Mary’s Academy. The institute flourishes in a prospering soil, and her pupils breathe the perfume of beauty and beneficence. It grows with each succeeding year until one must make more frequent than annual visits to keep pace with the march of improvements. And yet Mother Superior’s plans are but fairly entered upon. They have already included an extensive addition to the building, for the Convent proper, the putting in of steam-pumps with which the buildings can be covered by firestreams from seven different points, the demolition of the old frame exhibition hall and contiguous frame buildings, and a devotion of the ground so reclaimed to the arts of "the landscape gardener, so that from the side veranda one looks out upon a scene of floral and foliage beauty. Sewers have been laid, water pipes traverse the grounds in every direction, and walks and drives are lined with urns of flowers and plants of the rarest kind.
These floral beauties are the more lovely and gratifying to Mother Superior, her corps of assistants, and the pupils, from the fact that they are all from the Conservatory of the Academy established by Mother Superior last year. Thirty thousand plants were propagated in this Conservatory during the winter and spring, and serve as an additional ornament and attraction to the grounds. The idea in inaugurating the Conservatory was not only to add to the beauty of the place, but to afford the pupils botanic privileges they could obtain in no other way; and as the collection includes the choicest exotics, the privilege is a rare and valuable one.
Another addition is a large library room, containing a choice collection of miscellaneous books, and another is a department of sculpture. St. Mary’s has for many years been noted for the excellence of her Art and Music departments, and this addition but attests her progressive spirit. Only three weeks ago, Mother Superior secured from France Miss De La Barre, a sculptress and artist of great talent, and has formed the nucleus of a sculpture department by engaging her for three years, and setting apart a room to be devoted to that art. Some of Miss De La Barre’s work was on exhibition and was a satisfying testimonial as to her abilities. In connection with the Art department at St. Mary’s, it would be proper to mention that Miss Cortright, of New York, has been awarded this year the Toner Medal, offered by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C. Several specimens of Miss Cortright’s work are on exhibition in the Art gallery, including a Swiss scene and specimens of tainted china. Miss Dallas, daughter of Col. Dallas, of the United States Army, expects to be the winner of the medal next year. Specimens of her work' on exhibition show fine talent.
Among the improvements contemplated by Mother Superior are the construction of a large Conservatory at the southern terminus of the building, a tennis lawn in the meadow at the foot of the hill, and a miniature Alpine hill rising to the present river bank observatory. For this purpose she has ordered plants and shrubs indigenous to the Alps. The conception is beautiful, and every way worthy of Mother Superior’s originality. When al| this is done, St. Mary’s will be a gem without comparison. -
From the “ Evening Register " of June 24th.
Closing Scenes at St. Mary’s Academy—The Graduates.
The second day of the Commencement Exercises at St. Mary’s Academy, yesterday, was perhaps the richest in interest of the two, from the fact that it witnessed the crowning of the year’s labors by the conferring of Graduating Gold Medals and the distribution of premiums for merit in study and deportment. At least, to the pupils it possessed a deeper significance than the reading of a graduating thesis. The attendance was as large as the temporarily limited accommodations of the Academy would permit, and the hour or more of music and reception of honors was greatly enjoyed by all. '
The programme was introduced at eleven o’clock by the “ Kaiser March ” on eight pianos by Misses Gordon, Fendrick, McGrath, Buck, Neu, Usselman. Farrell and Sullivan, followed by the jiliserere, from Trovatore, by the Vocal Class, Misses Kirchner and Gordon sustaining admirably the solo parts. Then came the distribution of premiums to the Junior department, consisting in this and the Preparatory department of two-hundred and fifty finely-bound volumes, with which the little ladies were highly delighted. The next musical number on the programme was a fine double quartette, Preghiera di JUbise, by Misses Kirchner, Gordon, Usselman, Rosing, Julius, Sullivan, Hackett and O’Connor, which was received with hearty applause. The premiums in the Preparatory department
638
THE NOTRE ©AME SCHOLASTIC.
•were next distributed, and the musical event of the day followed—“ Cavatina, ” by Mlle. Godbert, the distinguished instructor in music from Pari«, accompanied by Miss Fen-drick on the piano. So thoroughly delighted were the audience that they would not let Mlle. Godbert go, but encored so persistently that she responded with a classical selection.
The distribution of premiums in the Senior department followed. The “ Rhapsodic Hongroise” was played on four pianos by the graduates from the Conservatory of Music, Misses Buck, Gordon, Neu, Usselman and Sullivan, and was well received. The next number, the Oratorio of “ Gallia, ” belonged to the Minims, and they sang it in splendid style. A grand chorus by the Vocal Class, with solos by Mlle. Godbe'rt, preceded the conferring of the Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic department. These, as well as the other medals in other departments, were conferred by the Rt. Rev. B'shop D wenger, of Fort Wayne. The Graduating Medals in the Academic departments were conferred on the following young ladies: Misses Harriet Buck, Chicago; Anna Cortright, New York City; Catharine Danaher, Ludington, Mich.; Angela Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Alice Farrell, Keokuk, Iowa; Adella Gordon, Cairo, Ill.; Catharine Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; Adelaide Kirchner, Detroit; Catharine Quinn, Negaunee, Mich.; Henrietta Rosing, Chicago; Mary Sullivan, Plymouth, Ind.; Susan Smith, Denver, Col.; Catharine Ward, Lockport, Ill.
The Graduating Gold Medals in the Conservatory of Music were conferred upon Misses Harriet Buck, Chicago ; Adella Gordon, Cairo; Louise Neu, Tolona, Ill.; Mary Usselman, Goshen; Mary Sullivan, Plymouth.
Prize Medals were awarded as follows: French Gold Medal, Miss Henrietta Rosing, of Chicago; Penmanship Medal, Miss Catharine Claffey, of Bertrand, Mich.; Prize Essay Medal, Miss Angela Ewing, of Lancaster, 0.; Christian Doctrine, Miss Angela Ewing; Drawing and Painting, Miss Anna Cortright, New York City; Silver Medal for General Drawing, Miss C. Donnelly, of Michigan City, Ind.; Gold Medal for General History, Miss Catharine - Danaher, of Ludington, Mich.; Gold Medal for German, Miss Mary Usselman, Goshen, Ind.
The crowns and honors in the Senior, Preparatory and Junior departments were then distributed. One hundred and twenty-five young ladies received these for good general deportment throughout the year. General deportment at St. Mary’s includes politeness, neatness, order and amiability, so that the standard which wins an honor is very hish.	'
The Valedictory, which was in blank verse, was delivered by Miss Angela Ewing, and was a beautiful reference to the school years gone by and a fitting tribute to their lovely Alma Mater. The programme concluded with a few appropriate remarks from the Bishop, and music. *
A pleasing episode, unannounced on the programme, occurred when the name of Miss Cortright was announced lor the Art Medal, and that of Miss Rosing for the French Medal. As the young ladies came forward, Bishop D wenger stepped aside, and the fathers of the young ladies, Messrs. Cortright and Rosing, approached, and placed the ribbons with the medals attached around the necks of their daughters. Each young lady knelt at the feet of her father, and, with face radiant with affection and gratitude, kissed the hand of her proud and happy parent.
Among the distinguished guests of St. Mary’s on this occasion were, in addition to Bishop D wenger, the Rt. Rev. Bishop O’Connor, jaf Omaha, and General Morgan, of the United Slates Army.
—Anger, like rain, breaks upon whatever it falls.
—The angel that hides the future from us is the angel of mercy.
—A great many people’s morality resembles sign-posts at the corner of country roads. They point in the right direction, but they don’t budge an inch themselves.
Thackeray' used laughingly to relate how, when he was at dinner in St. Louis, Missouri, he heard one waiter sav to another, “That’s the celebrated Mr. Thackeray.” “What’s he done?” “Blessed if I know.” Such is fame.
Thirty-Seventh. Annual Commencement Exercises of the University of Notre Dame.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on John Boyle O’Reilly, Boston, Mass.; Judge W. W. Cleary, Covington, Ky.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on John G. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Florian B. Devoto, Salt Lake City, Utah; Thomas McNamara, Dexter, Mich.
The Degree of Master of Sciences was conferred on Martin J. McCue, Greenwood, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Francis W. Bloom, Vincennes, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on George F. Sugg, Chicago, Ill.; Edward A. Milner, Portland, Oregon.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on George E. Clarke, Cairo, Ill.; M.J. McEniry, Osborn, Ill.; D. A. Harrington, Boston, Mass.; D. McCawley, Chicago, Ill.
Medical Certificates were awarded to W. H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; Harry W. Simms, Lewiston, Ill.; Geo. Cassidy, Equality, Ill.
A Certificate for Telegraphy was awarded to Samuel P. Terry, Rochester, Ill.
COMMERCIAL GRADUATES.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to R. C. Adams, Eau Claire,Mich.; John M. Boose, Lima, 0.; James Burns, Columbus, O. ;• Arnedeus Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; Louis. E. Clements, Uniontown, Ky.; Frank T. Dever, Ashland, Ky.; James M. Falvey,vWinamac, Ind.; Edward Fischel, Nashville, Tenn.; T. H. Finnegan, Palos, Ill.; John W. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa; John M. Heffernan, Louisville, Ky.; George L. Hagan, St. Augustine, Hl.; William E. Hoffman, Wheeling, W. Va.; Albert Hintze, Milwaukee, Wis.; Patrick Joyce, South Bend, Ind.; Walter J. Kelly, Lake Five, Wis.; Frederick A. Kleine, Cincinnati, 0.; Thomas Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa; Ferdinand E. Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.; John L. Morgan, Marco, Ind.; John McNamara, Keokuk, Iowa; George Nester, Saginaw, Mich.; Hugh S. O’Donnell, Maysville, Ky.; Charles F. Rielz, Chicago, Ill.; John M. Scanlan, Chicago, Ill.; George Silverman, Chicago, Ill.; Edward Sugg, Chicago, Ill.; Henry A. Steis, Winamac, Ind.; Charles Thiele, Goshen, Ind.; George Truschel, Wheeling, W. Va.; William R. Young, Pawnee, Ill
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
639
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to Francis W. Bloom, Vincennes, Ind. [The Medal in the Junior Class was not awarded.]
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded to Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to Neal Henry Ewing, Lancaster, O.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Junior Class—Medal awarded to Eugene C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded, ex aquo, to Charles B. Van Deusen, Benton Harbor, Michigan, and to Charles W.McDermott, Stockport, Ohio.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to John A. McIntyre, Milwaukee, Wis. [Closely contested by Elmer A. Otis.]
COMMERCLVL COURSE.
Medal awarded to George L. Hagan, St. Augustine, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (Junior Course) was awarded to Joseph T. Homan, Cincinnati, Ohio.	.
The Edwards Medal for Progress in Penmanship awarded, ex aquo, to John H. Fendrich, Evansville, Ind., and to Frank H. Kengel, Detroit, Mich.
Medals for Excellence in Elocution, presented by Prof. J. A. Lyons, were awarded to William J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo., and to Charles E. Tinley, Covington, Ky.
The Shea Medal, for the same, was awarded to Joseph P. O’Neill, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Gold Medal, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to the Elocution Class in the Minim Department, was awarded to George Everett Tourtillotte, Toledo, Ohio.
The Campau Gold Medal, presented to the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, was awarded to Charles Edward Droste, Cincinnati, 0.
Tur Edwards Gold Medal for Ecclesiastical History was awarded to George F. Sugg, Chicago, HI.
The Grand Gold Medal for General History was awarded to George E. Clarke, Cairo, Ill.
The Gold Medal foS German was awarded to Frank H. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio.
AWARDING OF HONORS.
■ [Gold Medals, known as “ First Honors,” are awarded to those students who have attended the classes of the University for at least four sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to R. C. Adams, Eau
Claire, Mich.; W. H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; George E. Clarke, Cairo, Ill.; James Delaney, Erie, Penn.; T. Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa; E. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; W. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; W. J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.; John McNamara, Keokuk, Iowa; Elmer A. Otis, U. S. Army; Lincoln Proctor, Elkhart, Ind. Jas. Solon, Tolono, Hl.; E. Sugg, Chicago, Hl.; Warren Scholfield, Marshall, Ill.; Charles Thiele, Goshen, Ind.; S. P. Terry, Rochester, Ind.; Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.; Joseph N. Osher, Chicago, Hl.; L. Clements, Uniontown, Ky.; L. Mathers, Monica, HI.
junior department.
First Honors were awarded to C. J. Brinkman, Terre Haute, Ind.; A. M. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; Thos. F. Flynn, Des Moines, Iowa; John W. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa; F. A°. Kleine, Cincinnati, Ohio; C. F. Rietz, Chicago, Hl.; C. W. McDermott, Stockport, O.; E. C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.; H. L. Rose, Evansville, Ind.; Joseph Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; H. P. Dunn, Mobile, Ala.; R E. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.; F. McPhillips, Dexter, Mich.; N. J. Nelson, Chicago, Ill.; G. J. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; C. F. Rose, Evansville, Ind.; J. M. Scanlan, Chicago, Ill.; C. E. Tinley, Covington, Ky.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to Charles, C. Echlin, San Francisco, California; Daniel Giltrist Taylor, St. Louis, Missouri; Thomas Edward McGrath, Chicago, Illinois; Charles Metz, Chicago, Illinois; Harry Edward Kitz, Indianapolis,. Indiana; Joseph Stanislaus Chaves, Belen, New Mexico; Alexis Joseph Campau, Detroit, Michigan; Joseph Henry Dwenger, Fort Wayne, Ind.
[Second Honors are awarded to students whose, deportment has been entirely satisfactory during a period?
least two sessions.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Charles Brehmer, F. M. Bell, M. B. Eaton, Jas. Falvey,
Geo. L. Hagan, D. A. Harrington; W. Johnson, W. J. Kelly, F. E. Kuhn, J. A. McIntyre,"J. Malone, G. Nester, John O’Reilly, B. F. Smith, H. A. Steis. E. Taggart, W. R. Young, John Casey.
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
L. Calligari, M. Falvey, W. Huddleston, J. Larkin, J. B. Zettler, D. Danahey, F. Gallagher, J. Kindle, E. Yrissari.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to A. Browne, J. H. Burns, A. Bodine, W. H. Barron, G. Castanedo, J. Courtney, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S. Cleary, A. C. Dick, G. De Haven, F. H. Dorsel, J. W. Devitt, N. H. Ewing, J. H. Fendrick, Ed Fischei, Fred Fischel, F. H. Grever, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, G. J. Haslam, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, C. C. Kollars,
S. T. Murdock, H. W. Morse, M. A. McNulty, J. P. O’Neill, Charles Perry, W. E. Smith, Geo. Schaefer, G. A. Truschel, F. J. Woeber, Guy Woodson, Thos. Williams.
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
P. Archer, A J. Dennis, Jacob Friedman, Lou Florman, T. D. Healy, J; Mohan, Ed Prenatt D. G. Paul.
640
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Berthelet, D. A..O'Connor. J S. Courtney, H. A. Saee, W. H. Hanavin, R. Costello, AV. M. Olds, J. A. Frain, A. B. Van Mourick, J. A Kelly, G. E. Tourtillotte,:C. E. Droste. E. A. Howard, H. L. Ackerman, A. B. Bender, 51. E. Devitt, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. A. Ruppe, L. Young.
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
P. Yrisarri, J. Rose, D. McCawley, J. Nester, W. Rea, P. Campau, C- Campau, G. Price, E. Bagard, D. Prindiville, W. Prindiville.
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adams R. C.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Acccssit in 1st Geography and History, 3d Ac-cessil in 1st Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Arnold, Wm. H.—Premium in Anatomy and Materia Medica; Acccssit in 5'h Greek.
Browne, W. I.—2d Accessit in 3d Sr. Grammar; 1st Ac-cessit in 3d Geography; Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Browne, J. F.—2d Accessit in English Composition; 3d Accessit in Ancient. History.
Bouibonia, T.—3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in Theory 2d Book-Keeping; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Brehmer, C.—Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Architectural Drawing; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4'h Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bloom, F. W.—Premium in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek; Premium in Moral Philosophy; Premium in Geology; Premium in Vocal Music; 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Bell, F. SI.—2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Accessit in Physiologv; 2d Accessit in Botany; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bodine, A.—2d Accessit in Special Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Acccssit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Byrne, T. P.—Premium in Landscape Drawing; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic
Clarke, G. Edmund—Premium in Ancient History; Premium in English History; Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Public Reading; 4th Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Clarke, T. F.—3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 6th Greek; 2d Accessit in 2d Physics; 2d Accessit in 2d Chemistry; 2d Accessit in English History; 1st Accessit in Ancient Histoiy.
Casey, John—Premium in Trigonometry; 3d Accessit in 6th Latin.
Claffey, D. C.—3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Calligari, L.—lst-Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Clements, L.—2d Acce=sit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Linear Drawing;, Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Dever, F.T.—Premium in Telegraphy: 4th Accessit in 1st Geographand History; Premium General Average of Examination.
Danahey, Daniel—1st Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine: Premium in Elocution ; 2d Accessit in Public Reading; Premium General Average of Examination.
Delaney, Jas.—2d Premium in Penmanship ; 1st-Accessit in 2d Chiistian Doctrine.
English, D.—2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Eaton, 5L B.—1st Premium iu 1st Reading and Orthography; 5'h Access’' in 1st Geography and History; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Accessit for Piano; Premium General Average of Examination.
Falvev, Jas. M.—1st Premium, ex cequo, English Composition ; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit-in 1st
Book-Keeping; 3d Accessit in 2d Geometry; 4th Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium General Average of Examination.
Falvey, M.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 21 Grammar; 3d Accessit in Penman-shin; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Fishburne, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Garrity, F.—Accessit in Elocution.
Gallagher, F.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in 4th Latin.
Haley, M.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Huddleston, W.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Hagan, Geo. L.—1st Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in Special Arithmetic: 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 2-1 Physics and Chemistry; 3d Premium in 31 Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examination.
Hoffmann, W. E.—1st Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in'Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping
Harrington, Dennis—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; Accessit in 3d Latin.
Healy, M.—Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Trigo-nometry; 2d Accessit in 5th Latin; 1st Accessit in Public Reading.
Jones, A.—3d Accessit in 2J Arithmetic.
Johnson, William—4th Premium in 1st Geography and History; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; Premium for Ex amination: 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kelly, W. J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Geography and History;' 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium in 4th German; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examination.
Korty, A.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kavanagh, T—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 8th Latin; 1st Accessit in English Composition; Accessit in Elocution; Premium for Examination.
Kuhn, F. E.—1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st German; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in English Composition; 1st Accessit in 1st Geometry; Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium General Average of Examination.
Kuhn, J. W.—2d Premium ’ in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 31 Christian Doctrine.
Kindle, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3J Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 21 Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 31 Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; Premium General Average of Examination.
Larkin, J.—2d Accessit in Sth Latin ; Premium for Examination.
McGorrisk, E.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin.
McGorrisk, W.-B.—Premium in Analytical Chemistry; Premium in Geology; Premium in Mineralogy; Accessit in Calculus; Accessit in 3d Latin.
McCarthy, W. J.—1st Accessit in English Literature; Premium in Elocuiion.
McNamara, J—3d Accessit in English Composition.
Mathers, L.—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium for Examination.
Marlett, J.—Accessit in Architectural Drawing; Accessit in Elocution.
Monahan, G.—Premium iu 3d Geography.
McIntyre, J.—Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in Pnysiology; 1st Premium in Botany; 1st Premium, ex cequo, in 1st Algebra; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doc'rine; 3d Accessit for Piano.
Malone, J.—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
McEniry, 51. J.—Accessit in English Criticism; Accessit in Geology; Accessit in English History.
Nash, J.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Nester, Geo.—1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
641
Acccessit in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 1st Sr. Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
O’Donnell, H.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Sth Latin; Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Public Reading; 1st Accessit in 2d Algebra; 3d Accessit in Rhetoric.
O’Reilly, J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Otis, E. A.—Premium in 5th Latin; Premium in Ancient History; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in English Literature; Premium, ex tequo, in 1st Algebra; Premium in Physiology; 2d Premium in Botany.
Oshcr, J. N.—1st Accessit in Conic Sections; 2d Accessit in Surveying.
O’Connor, R?E.—Premium Execution in Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Piper, E.—Premium in Portrait Drawing.
Proctor, L.—Premium in Ornamental Drawing.
R ittcrman, W.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
S don, J.—1st Premium in Elocution ; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Public Reading; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; Premium in Ancient History ; 1st Accessit in 7th Latin ; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; Premium for Examination.
Smith, E. C.—2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Steis, H.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium for Examination.
Sugg. G.—Premium in Elocution; Accessit in Analytical Chemistry; Accessit in Perspective; 1st Accessit for Piano ; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music; 3d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Sugg, E—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Sth Latin; 1st Accessit in 4th Algebra: 2d Accessit for Piano.
Simms, H.—1st Accessit in 2d Physics; 1st Accessit in 2d Chemistry; Premium in Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Stitzel, L.—Accessit in Elocution.
Scholfield, W.—2d Premium, ex tequo, in Sth Latin; 2d Accessit in 2d Geometry; Premium for Examination.
Smith, B. F.—2d Premium in Figure Drawing.	.
Thiele, C.—1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Taggart, E.—1st Premium in 7th Latin; Premium for Examination; Premium in 2d Algebra; Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Terry, S.—Premium in Surveying; Premium in Machine Drawing; Accessit in Elocution.	.
Tracey, Geo.—Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Van Dusen, C.—2d Premium in English Literature; 1st Accessit in 5lh Latin; Accessit in Zoology.
Walsh, AV. R—1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in 4th Greek; 2d Accessit in 4th Latin.
Young, AV. R.—Premium in 21 Geometry ; 2d Premium in ‘1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examination; 3d Premium in 1st Geography and Hs-torv.
Yrisarri, E —1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine ; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Zeitler, J. B.—1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 3d Accessit in 8th Latin.
Zahm, A.—Premium in English Criticism; Premium in Elocution; Premium in 4th Greek; Premium in 3d Latin; 2d Accessit in Physiology.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Avers, AV.—Premium in Crayon Drawing.
Browne, A.—1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bennett, J. H.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthog
raphy ; 2d Accessit in 3d, Grammar; Accessit in Telegraphy; Premium General Average of Examination.
Boose, J. M.—Premium Execution in Book-Keeping; Premium Geneial Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Brinkman, C. J.—Premium in Elocution; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra: 1st Accessit in Botany; Premium General Average of Examination.
Butler, M. G.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Butler, V. G.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography,
Burns, J. H.—1st Premium in Bible History; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine, Public Course; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in Public Reading; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bodine, Alfred—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 3d Algebra; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in Public Reading; Premium General Average of Examination.
Barron, W. H.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Block, M.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bender, J.—1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Castanedo, G.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in French; Premium General Average of Examination.
Coghlin, A.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Coghlin, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Casey, Jerome—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Courtney, Jas.—1st Premium in 1st U. S. History; 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Cullinane, E.—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; General Average of Examination.
Cavanaugh, W.—1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.	'
Gabel, J. V.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography- ...	„
Cleary, W.—1st Premium in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in 1st Sr. Arithmetic; Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Prem'umin Bible History; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public'Course; 1st Accessit in 2d Physiology; 1st Accessit in Public Reading; Premium General Average of Examination.
Cantwell, F.—Accessit in Pencil Drawing.	'
Dunn, H. P.—Premium in Figure Drawing; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Dick, A. C.—Premium for Prognss on Violin; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; Premium General Average of Examination.
De Haven, G. W.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course; 5th Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Dorsel, F. H.—Premium for Progress on Violin; 3d Accessit in 1st German; Premium for Examination.
Devitt, J. W.—2d Premium in 5th German; Premium for Examination.
Devitt, H—2d Accessit in 2d Geography; Premium for Examination.
Dennis, A.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4ih Grammar; Premium for Examination.
Ewing. N. H.—Premium in 4th Latin; Premium in 5th Greek; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; Accessit in 1st Algebra.
Flynn, T.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2i Bhany; 2d Accessit in 2J Physiology; Premium for Examination.
Flynn, J.—Premium for Examination.
Flynn, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in 5th German; Premium for Examination.
642
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Farrell, J.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.	-
Fendrick, J.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium General Average of Examination.
Fleming,’R. E.—1st Premium in 31 Algebra; 1st Premium in Rhetoric; Premium in Solid Object Drawing; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Figure Drawing; 2d Accessit in 1st Geometry; Premium General Average of Examination.
Fischel, E—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium, ex aquo, in Public Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Accessit in Special Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in U. S.‘History; 5th Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Fischel, F.—Premium for Flute; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 4th Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Friedman, J.—2d Accessit for Piano; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Florman, L.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Accessit for Violin; Premium General Average of Examination.
Grever, F. H.—1st Premium in 1st German; Premium for Proficiency on Violin; 3d Premium in Public Reading.
Gordon, J.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Gibert, L.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in 1st French.
Gall, A. A.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Gall, E. F.—1st Premium in 2d German; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Guthrie, J.W.—1st Premium in 1st. Sr. Arithmetic; Premium in Telegraphy; Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Vocal Music; 21 Accessit in Public Reading; 3d Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium General Average of Examination.
Gray, W.—2d Premium in Physiology; Accessit in French; 2d Accessit in Rhetoric; Accessit in 1st Algebra.
Hoffman, P.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Hurly, T. J.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Hintze, A—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Homan, J.—Premium for Progress on Piano; 1st Premiumin Evidences of Christianity; 2d Premium in Public Reading; Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Rhetoric; Accessit in 4th Greek.
Herrick, M.—Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessit in 4th German.
Heffernan, J. M.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography; 6th Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Heffernan, J. L.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Haslam, G.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Halthusen, N.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Healy, T.—1st Accessit in Conic Sections; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Trigonometry.
Johnson, F.—1st Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit for Violin; Premium for Examination.
Jackson, A.—Premium in 7th Latin; Accessit in Telegraphy ; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium for Examination.
Joyce, P.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Penmanship; Premium for Examination.
Kengel, F.—4th Premium in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 5th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Krone, F.—1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; 4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Kleine, F. A.—Premium in 2d Botany; 31 Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 1st German; 31 Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Kelly, J. M.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 5th Accessit in'2d Grammar.
Kollars, C.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; Premium General Average of Examination.
Kipper, G.—3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Geography; Premium for Examination.
Livingston, S.—Premium for Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Lannon, H.—Premium for Examination.
Mattes, F.—3d Premium, ex cequo, in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium for Examination.
Mendel, A.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
McPhillips, F.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
McDermott, C. W.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium in Conic Sections; 2d Premium in English Literature; 1st Accessit in Surveying; 2d Accessit in ZoSlogy; 4th Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Murdock, C. W.—31 Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in Bible History; 3d Accessit for Piano; Premium for Examination.
Murdock, S —2d Accessit in Bible History; 3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium for Examination.
McGrath, J. F.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Accessit in Telegraphy; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
McKinnon, F.—1st Premium in 4th Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Morse, H. W.—1st Premium in 5th German; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 1st Accessit in U. S. History; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit 2d Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Martin, J. F—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4:h Algebra; 6th Accessit for Piano; Premium for Examination.
McNulty, M. A.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Mahon, W. P.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography; Premium for Examination; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Mohan, J.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Morgan, J.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Nelson, N. J.—Premium in 7th Latin ; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in Public Reading ; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium General Average of Examina- ' tion; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Orrick, E. C.—1st Premium in English Literature; Premium in General Geometry and Calculus; Premium in Mineralogy; Premium in Perspective; Premium in 2d Chemistry; Premium in 2d Physics; Premium in Zoology; Premium in Elocution; Premium in India Ink Blending and Shading; 2d Premium in Public Reading; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course.
O’Kane, G.—2d Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
O’Neill, J.—2d Piemium in Public Reading; 2d Accessit in English Literature: 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine. -
Perry, C. F.— 1st Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Prenatt, E.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in Public Reading; Premium General Average of Examination.
Paul, D.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Quinn, F.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 3d Latin; 4th Accessit in Public Reading; Accessit in 5th Greek.
Rhodius, G.—Premium for Execution in Book-Keeping; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Public Reading; Premium General Average of Examination.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
643
Rohrback, A.—Premium in Telegraphy; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 5th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Rose, H.—1st Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Rose, C.—2d Premium in U. S. History; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography.
Rietz-, 0.—1st Premium in English Composition; 1st Premium for Proficiency on Piano; Premium in 2d Physiology ; 1st Accessit in 2d Botany; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Ruppe, J.—2d Premium in Special Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th German; 2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Accessit in 1st Grammar.	_
Silverman, G.—1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Accessit in Sth Latin; Premium for Examination.
Sells, H. G.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Penmanship ; Premium for Examination.	-
Smith, W. E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Smith, D. 0.—Premium for Examination.
Schiml, A.—Premium in Artistic Drawing; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st German; 4th Accessit for Piano; Premium for Examination.
Schneider, 0.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 2d German; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Ac cessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; Premium for Ex amination; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Schaefer, G.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Landscape Drawing; 1st Accessit in 2d German; 5th Accessit for Piano; Premium for Examination.
Start, W.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Scanlan, J. M.—1st Premium in U. S. History; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; Premium for Examination.
Truschel, G.—1st Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in U. S History; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit for Piano; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Tinley, 0.—1st Premium in Public Reading; Accessit for Violin; Premium for Examination.
Woeber, F.—2d Accessit in 2d German; Premium for Examination.
Wheatley, F. W.—Accessit for Violin; Premium for Examination.
Williams, T.—2d Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 5th German; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium for Examination.
Whalen, F.—31 Accessit in 5th German; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Zekind, B.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Ackerman, H. J.—3d Premium in 4lh Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Berthlet, W. T.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in Orthography; 2d Accessit in IT. S. History.
Bender, A. B.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Bagard, E. B.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 6th Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Accessit in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Accessit in French.
Courtney, J. S.—1st Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 9th Latin.
Campau, A. J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6'h Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Accessitin 1st Orthography; 7th Accessit in Geography. .
Costello, R.E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Bible History; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 6th Accessit in 1st Geography.-
Campau, P.—4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Chaves, J. S.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Campau, C.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Dwenger, J. H.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Droste, C. E.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premiumin 1st Orthography ; 3d Premium 1st Reading; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in United States History; 2d Accessit in 9th Latin.
Devitt, M. E.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Orthography.
Echlin, C. C.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography; 5th Accessit in Bible History; 1st Premium in 9th Latin.
Farrelly, F. B—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Reading.
Frain, J. A.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in Geography; 3d Accessit in Arithmetic.
Howard, E. A.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 6th Premium in Bible History; 4th Accessit in 1st Reading.
Hanavin, W. F.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in U. S.’ History; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 5th Accessit in Bible History.
Haslam, J. E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography ; 4th Accessit in Bible History; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Kelly, J. A.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in Orthography; 3d Accessit in Bible History.
Kitz, H. A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography.
Moroney, J. E.—5lh Premium in 2d Reading; 8th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Molander, A. G.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Gram mar; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Metz, H.—-4th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in Penmanship; 7th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in U. S. History.
Metz, 0.—3d Premium in 3d Geography; 6th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
McCawley, D. L.—5th Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Miller, W. J.—1st Prem:um in 3d Penmanship; 4lh Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
McGrath, T. E.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 4th Accessit in Bible History.
McGrath, E.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
McGrath, J.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Nester, J. F.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Olds, M. W.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Bible History; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.
O’Connor, D. A.—5th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Ari'hmetic; 4th Accessit in Orthography.
Otis, F. Ignatius—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in Geography.
Otis A. J.—6lh Premium in 4th Reading.
Powel, B.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in Orthography.
Price, G.—7th Premium in 4th Reading.
Prinfliville, W.—7th Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Prindiville, D.—5th Premium in 4th Reading.
Rose, J. L.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in Geography.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-Rea, W.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Ruppe, J. A.—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 3d Reading.
Snee, H. A.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5thPremium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 6th Premium in IT. S. History; 5th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Accessit in 9th Latin.
Tourtillotte, G. E.—3d Premium in 1st Reading; 7th Premium in 1st Orthography: 5'.h Premium in 1st Geography; 7th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Penmanship.	-
Taylor, D. G.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 9th Latin.
Taylor, W.—4th Premium iu 3:h Arithmet’c; 31 Premium in 2d Geography; 8th Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Thompson, W.—1th Premium in 31 Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Accessit in Orthography; 6th Accessit in Penmanship.
Van Mourick, A. B.—5th Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in Penmanship; 5th Accessit in U. S. History.
Young, L. E.—2d Premium-in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 31 Accessit in Penmanship.
Yrisarri, P.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Young, C.—5th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Personal.
—George Meyers, ’75, was glad to have met some of the old friends from his Alma Mater, in Chicago. We believe George is in the jewelry business in Fort Waype.
,—Masters W. J. Schott and C- A. Beurett, of Fort Wayne, Ind., came on to see the College and surrounding scenery the past week. The little fellows were much pleased with their visit.	e
—	Prof. T* F. O’Mahony, a graduate of ’73, attended the Alumni meeting. The Professor is now interested in a mine in Colorado, and also manages a farm in Lake Forest, Ill.	‘
—	John G- Ewing, Law, ’78, attended the Alumni meeting on the 22d. Mr. Ewing is a prominent lawyer in Lancaster, Ohio, and was recently elected^ to a responsible position by his fellow-citizens, by a large majority.
—	F. B. Ryan, ’73, is in Chicago. His father is one of the leading physicians of Springfield, Ill., but Frank is doing business in Chicago and getting on first rate. He expresses regret at-being unable to attend the Commencement.	*	'
—Julius Golsen, ’75, and his brother Ralph, ’77, attended the Commencement. Julius is in the brokerage business in Chicago, and is doing finely; Ralph is keeping books for one of the most prominent firms in Chicago. '	.
—George W. Cochran, ’79, was at the Lake Shore Depot, Chicago, when the college boys reached there. He couldn’t attend Commencement this year, but says he must come in future. George looks well, and evidently' lias nothing to complain of.
—Bros. Paul and Leander met James J. Quinn, ’79, now attending St. Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, when they' passed through Chicago during vacation. He intends visiting his old Alma Mater soon. He reports several Notre Dame boys doing well at the Seminary.
—All his old schoolmates were glad to see Fr^nk B. Phillips, a graduate of ’80, at the Commencement Exercises. He was accompanied by his sister, an estimable young ’ady, whose acquaintance it is a pleasure to make, and whose presence has graced the Commencements here of /ate.
—W. P.Breen, Valedictorian of ’77, and who carried off a number of honors every year of his stay here, is in partnership with Mr. Withers, one of the oldest and ablest lawyers in Fort Wayne. Will was here on Commencement Day. His firm does a fine law business. Will deserves success.
—Mr. and -Mrs. Baker, prominent residents of Fort Wayne, attended Commencement. Mrs. Baker is a near relative of an old-time graduate, Mr. John Cody, who could not come this year, attending to Mr. Baker’s business in his absence. Mr. and Mrs. Baker are the parents of Frank Baker, of’82, and Mr. John Baker, a graduate of ’79.
—Mrs. Hug, of Indianapolis, mother of Hugo and George Hug, both graduates of former years, attended the Commencement, in company with several of the Indianapolis ladies and gentlemen, among whom we noticed another warm friend of the institution, Mrs. Geo. Rhodius, of the Circle House, and Mr. Kitz, her business manager.
—Rev. P. W. Riordan, D. D., ’56, and Rev. D. S. Tighe, ’71, both of Chicago, were among the visitors during Commencement week. Father Riordan delivered an eloquent and impressive address at the Alumni banquet. Among the other Chicago clergymen to whom we were delighted to extend a warm welcome were Rev. Fathers Dunn and Egan. . ■ .	,
—Among the concourse of old students here on Commencement day, none brought happier and pleasanter^ reminiscences to the minds of old residents than Caspar B. Kuhn, ’70. He was accompanied by his amiable sister, Carrie, and several worthy friends, all of whom it was a pleasure to meet. Caspar is now one of. the leading business men of Nashville, Tennessee. ■
- —Notre Dame has’ no truer friend than Mr- J. Fal-vey, ’74- He has not only been instrumental in sending his three brothers here, but many others, all of whom do honor to their Alma Mater, and give old Winimac many worthy representatives. Mr. Falvey is serving his second term as County Auditor. Although kept busy by the duties r f his office he found time to run down to the Commencement Exercises.
—Daniel J. Maloney, Law, ’74, is now one of the most prominent lawyers of Elgin, Illinois, and is doing a first-rate business. He, with his wife and child—“the future President ”—was here for the Commencement. Mr. Maloney’s brother Harry, a graduate of the Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis., and now a seminarian at St. Francis’s, Wis., accompanied him here; also Mr. L. Halton, a graduate of the same institution, now also a seminarian.
—Frank J. Weisenberger, ’75, who is now one of the prominent merchants of Defiance, Ohio, writes to one of his old prefects, Bro. Paul, that business forced him away from his‘ Alma Mater before the grand picnic, and the Commencement Exercises. He says he was really “ home-sick fon Notre Dame” and his friends here, and intended to return for Commencement, but a runaway and smash-up, which killed one of his favorite horses, prevented. We are glad that Frank sustained no personal injury.
—The following is a list of some of the visitors on Commencement Day. Many others were present, but we failed to get their names: Miss Julia Lyster, Miss Annie Wells, Chicago; Mrs. Bayer, Mr. and Mrs. Kengel, Detroit, Mich.; Mis. E C. Grever and son Ed., Cincinnati; Mrs. Jno. Dever, Ashland, Ky.; Miss Nellie-Merritt, Miss Jennie Morley, Painsville, Ohio; A. F. Vanderhoof, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Mary Reutlinger, Miss Mary Fleming, Miss Duncan, Mrs. H. Trusty, Mr. T. A. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.; F. B. Phillips, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Miss Bentil. South Bend, Ind.; Miss Haslanger, Plymouth, Ind.; Mr. H. Urbahner and lady, South Bend; Miss Maggie Ames, Sedalia, Mo.; Miss Jennie Vanviper, Mr. Jas. Vauriper, Goshen, Ind; Miss Libbie Fidler. Miss Brice, Mr. B. Vanri per, Mishawaka, Ind ; Mr. J. N. Ames, Sedalia Mo.; Miss Mary Sell, Indianapolis, Ind.; R. I Espy (’71), T. J. Nelson and Commodore, P. Devitt, Cnicago, Ill.; J. S. Smith, Rockford; Miss M. K. Van Dusen, Benton Harbor, Mich.; E. Ward, Louisville, Ky.; W. Dodge, A. Dennis, N. Y. city; F. A. Louis and wife, South Bend ; J. Hermann, St. Joe, Mich.; P. M.Guthrie, and wife Carroll, Iowa; Mr. J. Freeman, Cleveland. Ohio; E. Reynolds, South Bend;
THE HOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
645
Mrs. Mary White, New Carlisle, Ind.; A. Buck, Chicago; Jas. Dougherty and wife, Mishawaka; Dr. C. A. Dougherty and wife, South Bend, Ind.: Dr. Vigent, J. A. Taylor, (’68), D. J. Hogan (’73), Chicago, Ill.; Miss Maggie Quinlan, M. Cummings, Mrs. M. Cummings, South Bend; P. Naden, E. Naden, Kansas; Mr. L. Farrell, Jackson, Mich.; Mrs. P. Bowen, P. O. Bowen, South Bend; Miss Margarita I Otero, Hon. 0. Otero, Mrs. M. Otero, New Mexico; Mrs. I Martin, Mr. Jno. Martin, H. Zekind and wife, St. Joe, ' Mich.; Miss Ella Bradley. Miss Jane Tucker, Mrs. W. Proc- | tor, Miss Ella Proctor, Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs J. F. Butler, Chicago; Mr. J. Fishel, and Mrs. Fishel, Nashville, Tenn.; Rev. P; A. Lauth, South Bend; Rev. Chris. Niesch, Winamac, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Marsh, Fort Wayne, Ind. Mrs. J. Thompson, Wabash, Ind.; Mr. P. Conlan, C. C. Connolly, Mr. Geo. Sugg, Mr. and Mrs. Friedman, Mr. M. Ludwig, Ralph Golsen, Chicago; Mr. D. E. Maloney, wife and son, Elgin, Ill.; Mr. Befaska, Mrs. A. Boo-e, Lima, Ohio; Miss Mollie McEnirv, Osborne, Ill.; J. W. Start, St. Louis, Ind.; Mr. J. H. Falvey, Winamac, Ind. ; Miss H. Townsend, South Bend; Mrs. Jos. Berthelet, AEil-waukee; Mr. E. Watson and wife, Vincennes, Ind.; Miss E. Hoffman, Mr. Jno. G. Hoffman and lady, W. Va.; Jno. G. Ewing (’77), Lancaster, Ohio; Jos. Livingston, South Bend; M. Adler, J. Cummings, Chicago; B. Claggett ('78). Lexington, III.; Rev. L. W. Halton, Rev. H. M- Maloney, Milwaukee, Wis ; Mr. Peter Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; A. Sobolskey, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs Jas. Alurdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Miss Minme Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Miss Mollie McGrath, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. K. Baker and lady, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mr. J. Hafner (’76), Chicago; Mr. T. McGrath, Williamsville, Ill.; Miss Laura Pool. Mt. Morris, Mich.; Miss F. Potter, Miss Sabina Crocker, J. Hall, Niles, Mich.; D. Powers, Grand Ripids, Mich.; C. Z irley (’80), J. Fishburn (’77), Joliette, III.; Midshipman F. Clarke, U. S. N.; H. D.Faxon (’76), Chicago; C. Cavanaugh (’SO), Philadelphia; Miss A. Walshe, Paris, France; Miss Annie Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; Jas. McNamara, Jr., Miss Josephine McNamara, Dexter, Mich.; Hon. Judge Cleary and wife, and W. S. Cleary Covington, Ky.; Mrs. G. H. Ratterman, Mr. and Mrs. J. Fishel, Mr. C. Kuhu (’70), Mr. Max Rosenheim, Miss Emma Moulton, Miss Carrie Kutin, Nashville, Tenn.; Miss Addie Kitzero, Louisville, Ky.; J. Gibbons, (’80), Keokuk. Iowa; Mr. B. Van Riper, Mishawaka; J. H. Dennis, New York; W. H Lnndvoigt and wife, Eugene F. Arnold (’78), Washington, D. C.; the Misses Walsh, Chicago; Mrs. A. Kirchner, Miss Adelaide R. Rirchner, Detroit; Miss Harriet L. Buck, Chicago; Miss Angela Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Miss M. Adella Gordon, Cairo, III ; W. P. Breen, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Local Items.	,
—Au renoir, “ Dozen” I
—In Asia the Dead Sea.
—A noisy feilow annoys a fellow.
—The Thespians did “ Tell ” nobly.
—E. Orrick is the champion swimmer.
'—Strauss, show which way the dance goes.
—The very best of quarters—silver quarters.
—Now, “ Boston,” “submerge your idiosyncrasies!”
—How to get ahead—steal one from a cabbage-patch.
—Song of the cheese—11 Will you love me when I mould ? ”
—You cannot make a horse drink. It is different with men.
—In a lottery you pay your money, but you have no choice.
—Never sit down on a friend, a bent pin, or a fresh custard pie.
—Croquet is a favorite game among the students remaining
— In refraining from being mean to others you are good to yourself.
—Swimming twice a day forms part of the vacation programme.
—The favorite string instrument of the Bostonian— string beans. 4
—The meaning of a law depends on what the judge thinks about it.
—Good manners are the only thing which keep in fashion all the year round.
—The wise man laugheth at a joke, but the fool goeth off on his ear about it.
—There’s an immense difference between dinner for nothing and nothing for dinner.
—Bros. Paul, Lawrence, and Luke have charge of the boys who remain during vacation.
—A book is a man’s best friend, and the only one he can shut up without giving offence.
—Be prudent in all things. Don’t rip open a wasp’s nest to see if its occupants are happy.
—We always know something unpleasant is coming when men are anxious to tell us the truth.
—A writer may draw on his imagination for a good story, but the draft is not always honored.
—The coming man has come at last. He is a lunch fiend, and wants a dollar to swell the funds.
—When a man begins to write poetry about you, you might as well give up all hope as a bad job.
—“No peace for the wicked,” said Brother Thomas to the youth who asked credit for a piece of pie.
—Our poet considers onions the most delicious of all fruit. He is aware that in onion there is strength.
—New version: “Don’t do to-morrow what you can put off to-day.” Lazy men’s chorus: “ Our sentiments.”
—Where there’s a will there’s a way—to break it, if the old gentleman died rich, and you retain good lawyers.
—The St. Stanislaus Philopatrians went away happy, feeling satisfied that they had done a good year’s work.
—The Rev. Father Timothy Maher, C. S. C., accompanied by Prof. J. A. Lyons, went to Kalamazoo, June 29th.
—Bro. Emmanuel has temporarily relieved Bro. Francis de Paul, who is visiting friends in Connecticut and New Yoik.
—The badges worn by the various officers and societies of the University during Commencement were elegantly and tastefully gotten up.	-
—Bros. Emmanuel, Leander, and Paul accompanied the students to Chicago and say they never saw a happier and more orderly crowd of boys.
—It destroys a boy’s love for athletic exercise to have the Indian clubs drop over his head' the first time he attempts the overhead swing.
—The St. Cecilians wore their badges proudly; They justly felt that the badge of their time-honored association conferred honor upon the wearer.
—The South-Bend Tribune frequently publishes thoughtful and musical verses by “John Brent.” Now, by all that’s poetical, who is John Brent?
—At the 35th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Society Col. E. A. Otis, U. S. A., and Mr. Eliot Ryder were elected honorary members.
—Only a simple slab of marble marked the spot where he lay, but it bore an inscription which told its own sad story •. “ He was umpire in a close game.” .
—It is written in the Talmud: “ The world is saved by the breath of school-children.” The writer evidently never sat in school next a boy who grew fat on garlic. • .
—The Juniors had a picnic the Saturday before closing. We have been informed that it was a grand affair. We are sorry that no one wrote up an account of if
—He who gives is more blessed than he who receives; but we’re willing to enter upon the duties of a receiver, ’just now, without waiting for an appointment from the court.	.
—Bros. Edwin and Thomas started for Kentucky, on a visit to friends. We understand that Bro. Edwin intends visiting the old students of Memphis and Nashville before returning.
1
646	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Visitors say that the Minims’ Study Hall is the most beautifully and tastefully furnished room at Notre Dame. Birds and flowers, pictures and statues make it a most attractive spot.
—At the 35th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, the gold badge of the Association was presentd to Prof. James F. Edwards, with a diploma of life membershi p.
—The weather for the past few weeks has been delightful, and the scenery and sylvan walks around Notre Dame are very enjoyable. The well wooded lakeside is always a favorite retreat in warm weather.
—And now for trout the youth goes out, And whips the stream all day; ’
And he’ll declare, and even swear,	'
“ The biggest got away ! ”
—Idioms differ in different places. In New York you are called to “brekfus ”; in Philadelphia, to “ breakfish ”; in Chicago, to “-brokefi«h,” while in ugly and aesthetic Boston you are told that “ the matutinal repast awaits your consumption.”
—Fourteen Minims have remained to spend the vacation at Notre Dame. They have class for two hours and a half in the forenoon; the rest of the day is spent in fishing and such other games and amusements as the small boys delight in-
—The Minims’ teachers wish all their pupils a happy vacation. Their diligence and exceptionally good conduct, during the scholastic year, have endeared them to those with whom they have been so intimately connected for the past ten months.
—A number of the old sludents were at the Lake Shore Depot in Chicago, on last Thursday evening, waiting for the arrival of the train bearing their old college chums. Among the number, we recognized Jack Le Fevre, ’74; Aron Mergentheim, ’79, and J. J. Quinn, ’78.
—There was an old lady of Worcester, Who petted an old Shanghai rorcester;
When asked what indorcester To fondle the rorcester,
She blushed, for the question conforcester.
—On the Feast of St. Aloysius, the students of the Minim department assisted at Mass and twenty-three of the number received Holy Communion. They were granted recreation during the entire day. At four o’clock they repaired to the refectory, where a splendid lunch was prepared for them.
—At the 36th and closing meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, medals, badges, and diplomas were distributed. The President, in a brief address, congratulated the members upon their good conduct during the year, and upon the proficiency and ability which they had displayed.
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated on Wednesday morning by Very Rev. President Corby; Rev. D. A. Tighe, deacon, Rev. D. A. Clarke, Editor of the Catholic Columbian, subdeacon; Master C. C. Echlin was leader; Messrs. Cleary and Brown, servers, and Masters Robbie Cos'ello and Henry Metz, light bearers,,
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Society returns thanks for favors received during the past year, to Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Vice-President Walsh, Rev. Father O’Keeffe, Rev. T. McNamara, C. S. C., Editor of the Scholastic; Prof. James F. Edwards; Brothers Leander, Simon, and .Edward; Mr. Eliot Ryder, and other kind friends.
—Judge Cleary, of Covington, Ky., General Morgan, and Col. Otis, of the United States Army, honored the Alumni banquet with their presence. In the absence of Mayor Harrison, of Chicago, who was to address, the graduates, but who at the last moment found it impossible to come, Judge Cleary delivered an extemporaneous address replete with humor and good advice.
—Each of the fifty Minims has promised Very Rev. Father General to bring a new student to the department when they return next September; and as the Minims will do their utmost to prove to Very Rev. Father General what excellent canvassers they are, we have no doubt but many of them will succeed in making this promise good,
and a large Minim Department next year will be the result.
—On Tuesday afternoon, at 5 o’clock, Rev. T. E. Walsh, read the result of the examinations. It showed that the students of ’81 were not only the peers of those of any preceding year, but, by great odds, their superiors. Rev. J. O’Keeffe, Prefect of Discipline, read the exercises for Wednesday, and Thursday', and was followed by President Corby who spoke at length to the students on the success of the past year.
—The faculty and students of the University of Notre Dame return thanks to the various railroads for courtesies extended—notably to Messrs. C. Paine, W. P. Johnson, Freeman and Parsons, of the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern; A. Hanson, Illinois Central; J. C. McMullin, Chicago & Alton; Adams, Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago; E. A. Ford, of.the Pennsylvania line; and to Henry C. Wentworth, of the Michigan Central.
—In speaking of the grand picnic gotten up by Bros. Emmanuel and Paul—in our last issue—we forgot to mention the excellent committee cf arrangements, to whose efforts much of its success was due. They are F- Smith, H- O’Donnell, F. Dever, W. Browne, C. Brehmer, T. F. Clarke, J. McNamara, J. O’Reilly, R. O’Connor, G. Tracey. Bro. Paul says we have given him too much honor in the affair, as the general success, was mainly due to the exertions of Bro. Emmanuel, the Senior prefect-
—Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, D. D., of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, distributed the Honors and Premiums on Commencement Day. After all was over at Notre Dame, they made a like distribution at St. Mary’s, at the conclusion of which the Fort Wayne “Minim”— who only entered the Minim department at Notre Dame a month ago—arose, and made a sound and highly appropriate speech, which all declare reflects honor on the Right Rev. Fort Wayne “ Minim.”
—On Sunday, the 19th, Very Rev. Father General sent the Minims a box of candy; they thank him for it and the many other treats they have received from him since last September. They would wish, each of them, to say goodbye to him before leaving Notre Dame; but as this wTas impcssible, he being so much engaged with old friends and visitors, the Minims have requested to have their affectionate good-wishes conveyed to him through the Scholastic. Even in the midst of their happy homes, during vacation, there will be many an .affectionate remembrance of their venerated and loved patron; and when they return next September, no face will be more eagerly sought for than Very Rev. Father G< neral’s.
—The exercises of the Vocal Music Classes took place before a large assemblage of students, visitors, and members of the Faculty, in the Rfiunda, last Tuesday evening. Several good selections were given by the Junior and Senior Classes. The duetts by Messrs. Tracey and O’Djnnell, Schaefer and Johnson, and t.he solos by Schaefer and Brehmer, were excellent. It was impossible for us to obtain the names of all the visitors present, but among them we recognized Rev. Father Kdroy, D. D., Stratford, Ont.; Mrs G. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Judge Cleary and lady, Covington, Ky.; James McNamara, Jr., and Miss Josephine McNamara, Dexter, Mich.; Mrs. F. Grever, Cincinnati, 0.; Mrs. M. Metz and daughter, Chicago, Ill.; C. Garrick. Chicago,' Ill.; J. R. Lambin, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. G. Woodson, Ft. Laramie, Wyoming, Ter.; Miss Higdon, Bardstown, Ky.; Chas Cavanagh, Philadelphia, Penn.; J. Gibbons, Keokuk, Iowa.
—The 31st regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held June 21st. Declamations were delivered by Masters C. C. Echlin, F. Farrelly and G. E. Tourtillotte. The President then made a few remarks, complimenting the members on their good conduct and gentlemanly deportment during the year. He stated that during the past four years of his connection with the them there was no year in which he had had more pleasure and more satisfaction in the conducing of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association than during the present year. Each member was presented with a memento of his kindest regards. Master C. C. Echlin then arose, and, in the name of the Sorin Association, thanked
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	647
the President for the great interest which he had taken in the Association during the year. An hour or more was spent in social, enjoyable intercourse, after which the meeting adjourned until next September.
—Our friend Gilbert L. Elliott, the efficient and gentlemanly agent of the Michigan Central Railroad in South Bend, has cause to rejoice at the deserved promotion of his eldest son Robert. We clip the following from the South Bend Register of a recent date:	.
“ When Rob Elliott was transferred from the Michigan Central railway office in this city, where he was associated with his father, Mr. G. L. Elliott, in the conduct of the business for several years, to the charge of the company’s affairs at Pokagon, The Register intimated that the move was but a stepping-stone to higher promotion, in recognition of his valuable services. The higher promotion has now come in the shape of an appointment as relief agent on the road, in which position he will travel from point to point along the road, filling temporary vacancies and assisting delinquent agencies. The notification of promotion came from Mr. C. C. Reed, superintendent of telegraph, and in his letter he pays a handsome compliment to Rob’s services, saying among other things that his prospects are much more than ordinary for one of his age. Rob’s friends here are much pleased over his advancement.”
—Prof. Edwards, President of the Lemonnier Students’ Library Association, returns the thanks of the Association to Messrs. Rowell and Hickcox, Vineland, New Jersey, for a set of numbers of their American Shorthand Writer for the shelves of the library. Donations of books, magazines and newspapers should be addressed to Prof J. F. Edwards, Notre Dame, Indiana. This gentleman deserves great praise for his untiring industry in gathering, by purchase and donation, a well-assorted library for the use of the students at Notre Dame. This library was begun by the late lamented President Lemonnier, whose name will always be held in grateful remembrance by the students of his day, and Prof. Edwards, in whose charge it was placed at its foundation, has spared neither pains nor expense—drawing frequently upon his own purse for the purpose—for its preservation and augmentation. The library was partly destroyed by fire two years ago, but the Professor set to work earnestly, even before the new college was built, and to-day he has quite a handsome collection of magazines and select works for the use of the students. Donations of old and rare books will be thankfully received.
—Very Rev. Father General presided the Minims’ Examination. The Board of Examiners consisted of Rev-Father Granger, Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, Rev. Thos. Me. Namara, 0, S. C.; Bro. Paul, 0. S.C.; Colonel Otis,U. S. A.; Messrs. G. E. Clarke and F. W. Bloom. Very Rev. Father General and Rev. Father Walsh examined in Arithmetic, Grammar and Reading. The other members of the board examined in Geography, Orthography, United States History, Christian Doctrine, and Bible History. After Rev. Father Walsh had given some difficult problems in Fractions and Compound Proportion, which the Minims solved with such accuracy and dispatch as surprised and delighted the examiners, Very Rev. Father General made his “ Kilkenny cat ” the subject of the following problem: Supposing Raminagrobis has a body (including the neck)ll inches long and 3 inches in average diameter; 4 legs, each 5 inches long and an inch in average diameter; a tail, 9 inches long and a half an inch in average diameter; and a head, three inches long, and three inches in average diameter, how many square inches in Raminagrobis’ skin, and how many hairs, supposing we allow 150- hairs on every square inch ? After Very Rev. Father General got through with his statement, Col. Otis remarked to him that it was rather a difficult problem, and that he would be amazed if boys of their age—all under 13 years—would be able to work it out. While Father General was yet answering Col. Otis, he was presented with a half a dpzen slates on which his intelligent Minims showed him that Raminagrobis has 208.9164 square inches and 31,337.46 hairs in her black glossy coat. We noticed with pleasure the look of satisfaction that beamed on Very Rev. Father General’s countenance on finding himself surrounded by his bright, intelligent Minims, who were all anxious to show him that they could master his problem. He may well take pride in them; for in spite of the cares and duties of his office—and they are many—
he has devoted many an hour in the past year to the improvement of his Minims;
—Books lately placed in the Lemonnier Library: Catholic Biography; Flowers of Christian Wisdom, Lucien Henry; The Feast of Camelot, Eleanora Louisa Hervey; Our Sunday Fireside, or Meditations for Children, by Rory of the Hill; The Church Festivals or Scenes in Many Lands, by Agnes Stewart; Flowers of Mary, or Devotions for Each Month in the Year; The Wonders of Lourdes, by Mgr. de Segur; M^re de Dieu, Capcelatro; Stories of the Saints, for Children, by M. F. S., 2 vols.; Stories of Martyr Priests, by M. F. S.; Versicles and Tales, or Leisure Hours of Youth, by P. MacHale Daly; The Ark of the Convent, by Rev. Thomas S. Preston; The Wanderers, Swiss Tale, by Miss E. M. Stewart; Ethel’s Book, or Tales of the Angels, by F. W. Faber; Memoirs of a Guardian ’ Angel, by M. L’AbbG G. Chardon; Holy Reading, giving the Cream of Many Books; Easter in Heaven, by Rev. F. X. Weninger; Hymns Angelicus Sive Doctoris, Angelica Sumnue, Theologicte Rhythmica Synopsis; Saintly Characters Recently Presented for Canonization, by Rev. W. H. Neligan; My Godmother’s Stories from Many Lands, by Eleanora Louisa Hervey; Conyngham’s Lives of the Irish Saints; The McPherson’s, or, Is the Church of Rome Making Progress in England? To which is added England’s Glory! The Roll ot Honor, by T.H. Shaw; Seventy -Three Catholic Tracts on various Subjects; The Spirit ' of Faith, or What Must I do to Believe? The Twelve Months Sanctified by Prayer; Flowers of May, or the Month of Mary; Legends, Elevations and Prayers for every Day in the Month; Once every Week, a Treatise on Weekly Communion, by De Segur; The Mystic Crown of Mary, in Verse, by D. Rock, D D.; The Spiritual Life, a Sermon, by Father Harper; Reply to the Bishop of Ripon’s Attack on Tne Catholic Church, by a Layman; Miriam, a Poem, by a Stonyhurstian, F. Gregory Rossi, 0. S. B.; A Few Comments on Mr. Gladstone’s Expostulations, by Henry Canon Neville; In Memoriam Rt. Rev. S. H. Rosecrans, First Bishop of Columbus. The Thanks of the Library Association are returned to Miss Hemingway, of Burlington, Vt, for Records of the Council of Safety and Governor and Council of the State of Vermont, 5 vols.; To a friend for Snodgrass on the Apostolic Succession; The Pitt Street Chapel Lectures; Endeavors After the Christian Life, James Martineau; A Brief View of the Doctrines ot Christianity as Held by the Society of Friends; Narrative of a Journey Round the Dead Sea and in the Bible Lands in 1850-51, Including an Account of the Discovery of Sodom and Gomorrah, by F. de Saulcy, 2 vols.
Obituary.
We regret to learn from the Nashville Daily American of June the 25ih that William E. Burns, who attended class here in 1864, died in Nashville on - the 23d of June, n the 28th year of his age. The funeral took place from the Cathedral, in that city, on Saturday, June the 25th- — Requiescat in pace.
June Examination.
GENERAL AVERAGES. ’
[No averages under 60 are published in the following lists.] SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, 89; R. Adams, 85; W. Browne, 84; J. Browne, 81; T. Bourbonia, 75; F. Baker, 71; F. W. Bloom, 99; F. Bell, 91; A. Bodine, 79; T. Byrne, 66; C. Brehmer, 87; G. Clarke, 98; F. Clarke, 88; J. Casey, 88; L. Calligari, 74; L Clements, 86; F. Dever, 86; D. Danahey, 85; J. Delaney, 74; D. English, 77; M. Falvey, 81; J. Falvey, 95; W. Fishburne, 81; F. Garrity, 84; F. Gallagher, 97; Geo.-Hagan. 94; M. Healy, 99; W. Hud, dleston, 89; W. Berry, 64; W Hoffman,80; D. Harringtin. 94; W. Johnson, 89; W. Kelly, 94; A. Korty, 81; T-Kavanagh, 91; F. Kuhn, 95; J. Kuhn, 69; J.-Kindle, 89; J. Larkin, 88; W. B. McGorrisk, 97; E. McGorrisk, 85;
648
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. McCarthy, 93; J. McNamara, 81; L. Mathers, 95; J. McIntyre, 100; J. Marlette, 82; G. Monahan, 78; J. Malone, 84; M. J. McEniry, 100; G. Nester, 79; H. O’Donnell, 95; J. O’Reilly, 81; E. Otis, 96; R. O’Connor, 74; E. Piper, 60; L. Proctor, 71; B. Pollock, 76; AV Ratterman, 75; F. Rettig, 61; J. Solon, 100; B. F. Smith, 83; II.Sieis 85; L Stiizel, 84; G. Sugg, 99; E. Sugg, 89; H. Simms, 84; G. Scholfield, 91; A Thornton, 78; C. Thiele, 94; E. Taggart. 98; S. Terry, 99; C. Van Densen, 97; W. Walsh, 91; J. Welch, 78; W. Young, 94; A. Zahm, 96; J. Zettler, 96; E. Yrisarri, 84; A Jones, 75; J. Nadi,
86; W. Wooley, 63; D. Claffey, 72; B. Eaton, 92. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Ayers, 77; P. Archer, 74; A. Browne, 90;
Bennett. 85; J. M. Boose, 86; C. J. Brinkman, 94;
J. H.
M. G.
Butler, 90; V. G. Butler, 91; J. H Burns, S5; A. Bodine,
91; W. Barrow, 92; M. Block, Castanedo, 88; A. Coghlin, 93 Casey, 80; Jas. Courtney, 93; Cavanaugh, 85; W. Cleary, 90;
76 ; J. Bender, 79; G.
; IV. Coghlin, (I E. Cullinene, 86 F Cantwell, 78;
J. W.
Gabel, 82; A. Colyar, 74; H Dunn, 86; A. Dick, 79; G. De Haven, 85; F. Dorsel, 85; J. AV. Devitt, 89; II. Devitt, 91; A. Dennis, 90; N. Ewing, 98; T. Flynn, 90; A. Flynn, j 88; J. Flynn, 89; J. Fan ell, 90; A. Fendrick, 86; R. j Fleming. 99; A. Fishel, 94; F. Fishel, 91; J. Friedman, I 86; L. Florman, 93; F. Grever, 88; J. Gordon, 89; L. I Gibert, 91; A. Gall, 85; T. J. Hurley, 84; A. J. Hin z ; j 76; M. A. Herrick, 78; J. T. Homan, 99; J. M. Heffernan, !
92; J. L. Heff.-rnan, 93
; G. Haslam. 89; T. D. Ilealy, 96; ।
W. N. Haslam, 77: F. R. Johnson, 88; A. T. Jackson, 90
O. Kemph, 60; F. H. Kengel, 95; F. A. Krone, 85; F. A. Kleine, 87; J. M. Kelly, 83; C. C. Iv-llais, 94; G. Kipper, 93; S. Livingston. 81; H. Lannon. 86; F. X. Mattes. 88; A. Mmdel, 89; W. P. Mahon, 94; F. McPhillips, 81; J. L. Morgan, 87; J. Mohan, 87 ; J. McGinn, 60; C. McDermott, 98; C. Murdock. 90; S. Murdock, 81; J. Martin, 89; J. McGrath, 81; J. McKinnon. 75; H. AV. M< rse, 96; A H. Maley, 79; N. J. Nelson, 85; E. C. Oirick, 100; G. O’Kane, 86; J. P. O’Neill, 84; C. Perry, 82; F. J. Prenatt, 83; E. Prenatt, 94; F. A. Quinn, 90; G. Rhodin®, 86; A. Rohrback, 91; H. L. Rose, 88; C. Rose, SI; C. Rieiz, 91; J. Ruppe, 80; G. Silverman. 92; II. Sells, 89; A. Sehiml. 95; C. Schneider, 89; G. Schaefer, 91; J. Start, 85; J Scanlan, 91; D. C. Smith, 89; F. Wheatlev, 88; G. AVood-son, —; J. Whalen, 90; B. Zekind, 86; E Gall, 95 ; P. II Hoffman, 8S; J. Guthrie, 88 ; AV. Gray, 94; P. Joyce, 85; M. McNulty, 88; D. Paul, 70; J. Powell. 67; E. Tappan, 61; T. AVilliams, 92; G. Truschel, 92 ; C. Tinley, 85; F. Woeber, 89.
Healey, W. S. Huddleston, W. E. Hoffman, D. A. Harrington, M. T. Healey, A. Jones, W. Kelly, A. Korty, T. Kavanagh, F. E. Kuhn J. P. Kuhn, J. Kendel, J. C. Larkin, AAr. B. Me-Gorrisk, E. McGorrisk, AV. J. McCarthy, J. A. McNamara, L. Mathers, J. J. McErlain, J. B. Marlette, G. Monahan, J. A. McIntyre, J. J. Malone, M. J. McEnirv, J. Nash, G. Nester, 11. O’Donnell. J. O’Reilly, E. A. Otis.' J. N. Osher, R. E. O’Connor, E. Piper, L. M. Proctor, W. B. Ratterman, F. J. Rettig, J. Solon, F. C. Smith, H. A. Steis, E G. Sugg, \V. Scholfield, B. F. Smith, A. Thornton. C. II. Thiele, E. G. Tao-o-art, S. P. Terry, G. Tracy. W. A. Wooley, AV. T. Walsh, AV R. Young, E. Yrisarri, J. Zettler, A. Zahm, L. Becerra.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Archer, A. A. Brown, J. M. Boose, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, AV. H. Barron, M. Block, J. R. Bender, G. C. Castanedo, A. M. Coghlin, J. A. Casey, ,J. M. Courtney, E. Cullinene, W. J. Cavanaugh, F. J. Cantwell, A. Colyar, H. P. Dunn, G. AAr. De Haven, F. H. Dorsel, J. AAC Devitt, H. F. Devitt. A. J. Dennis. N. H. Ewing, T. F. FIvnn. A. J. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E Fleming, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel. J. Friedman, F. H. Grever, J. J. Gordon, L. P. Gilbert, A. A. Gall, J. AAr. Guthrie, P. G. Huffman, 7'. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, J. M. Heffernan, J. L. Hefleruan, G. J. Haslam, T, D Healv, E. F. Gall. F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. Kleine, C C. Kollars, G. Kipper, Sam Livingston, F. McPhillips, J. L Morgan. C. J. McDermott, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, J. F. McGrath, II. W. Morse, J. F. Martin, M. A. McNulty, A. H. Male}'. J. M. Mohan, J. McGinn, N. .1. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, O. Kemph, G F. O’Kane, J. P. O’Neill, C. F. Perry, E. M. Prenatt. D. G. Paul, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Rhodius, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, J Ruppe, G. AA . Silverman, H. G. Sells, A. Schiml, C. Sehneider<G. Schaefer, J. M. Scanlan, G. A. Truschel, C. A. Tinley, E. G. Tappan, F. J. AVoeber, Guy AAroodson, T. Williams, J. W. Whalen, AV. P. Mahon,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, C. C. Echlin, C. E. Droste, H. A Snee, G. E. Tourtillotte, AV. T. Berthelet, J. H. Dwenger, P. J Yrisarri, J. A. Kelly, Thomas E. McGrath, A. J. Campau, AAr. F. Hanavin, M. AV. Olds, E. A. Howard. J. E. Haslam. J. A. Frain, F. B. Farrelly, M. E. Devitt, C. Campau, J. S. Chaves. P. Campan, R E. Costello, J. S. Courtney, E. B. Bagard, A. B. Bender. H. L. Ackerman, H. A. Kitz, J. E. Moroney, A. G. Mo'ander, II. Metz, C. Metz, D. L. McCawley, AV. J. Miller, E. McGrath. J. Me-Gra'h, J. Nester. D. A. O'Connor. F. Ignatius Otis, A. J. Olis, AV. Prindiville. D. Prindiville, J. A. Ruppe. J. L Rose. W. Taylor, AV. Thompson, A. B. Van Mouriek, L.E. Young, C. Young,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. J. Ackerman, 80; W. T. Berthelet. 98 ; A. B. Bender, 96; E. B Bagard,90; J. S. Courtney, 98; A. J. Campau, 85; R. E. Costello, 97; P. Campau. 80; J. S. Chaves, 90;
C. Campau, 75;
M. E Devi it, 85
J. A. Frain, 90;
J. E. Haslam, 88
J. II. D wenger, 95
C. C. Echlin, 99;
E. A. Howard. 97 J. A. Kelly, 93 ;
; C. E. Di os! e, 94
F. B. Fanelly, 92
AV. F. Hamivin. 90
II. A Kitz, 94; J. E.
Watches, Clocks
EDWARD BUYSSE,
All Kinds of En^ravin? Do' •• SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Moioney, 92; A. G. Molander, 95 ; H. M<-1z, 90; C. Metz, 86; D. L. McCawly, 75; AV J. .Miller, 90; T. E. McGrath, 94; E McGrath,80; J. McGrath, 85; J. Nester, 80; M. AV. Olds, 98; D. A. O’Connor, 92; F. Ignatius Oris, 80; A. J. Otis, 75; AV. Prindiville, 85; D. Prindiville, 75; J. A. Ruppe, 90; J. L. R ise, 85; II. A. Snee, 98 ; G E Tourtillotte, 92; D. G Tavlor, 98; W. Taylor, 86; AV. Thomps m, 87 ; it. B. Vau M mrick, 89; Lmis E Young, 90; C. Young, 45; P. Yrisani, 86.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfaction to all the members of the faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. C. Adams, W. H. Arnold, W. I. Brown, J. F. Brown C. Brehmer, T. E. Bourbonia, AV. Berry, F. J. Baker, F. W. B’oom. A. A. Bodiue, T. B. Byrue, G. E. Clarke, F. T. Clarke, J. J. Casey, D. Claffey, L. F, Calligari, L.E. Clements, F. T. Dever, D. Danahey, J. D. Delaney, D. English, M. B. Eaton, M. L. Falvey, W. P. Fishburn, F. M. Gallagher, G. L. Hagan, M.
An
Crowned With Stars,
Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
Eleanor C. Donnelly
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New Universily of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price,.....gilt,	$1.25; plain, 8.OO.
Addiess STUDENTS’ OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
649
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots.
Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger.........* 7:25 a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express.........* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express.......*10:C0 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express......*10:00 a.m.	* 3:20 p m
Pacific Fast Express................*10:30 a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express.........*10:30	a.in.	* 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation........* 8:25 a.m.	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger ...................*3:15	p.m *7:55 am
Mendota and Ottawa Express..........* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger....................* 5:30 p.m.	* 8:55	a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation........* 6:15 p.m.	* 7:15	a.m
Freeport and Dubuque Express........*9:30 pm.* 6:35	a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha.....+ 9:05 p.m.	t 6:55	a.m
Texas Fast Express..................*9:05 p.m.	J 6:55	a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express......+ 9:05 p.m.	J 6:55	a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
*3undavs excepted. tSaturday excepted. J Monday excepted. For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations apply to
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager,	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Rail way Lines of the WEST and NORTH WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
> OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Cal.fornia, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green JBay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freep >it. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGH1TT.
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Ger. Manager, Chicago
PROSPECTUS
OF
Browne’s Photographic Monthly
AND	’
REPORTER’S JOURNAL, New York, FOR THE YEAR 1881.
ORGAN' OF THE REPORTING PROFESSION.
This publication is now in its sixth volume A course of lessons is being given by the editor, which will embrace all the latest improvements of the art a» adapted by reporters during the past twenty years' reporting As all instruction books are years behind, the practice of the art "and do not contain any of the new principles introduced, these lessons will be found invaluable to all students.
Fa -Simiek Reporti-g N t s of leading stenographers will show word-forms and phrase-signs not to be found elsewhere, that will be useful as showing how little attention practical reporters nav to the. expedients, devic- s. and contractions put down in the old instruction books and recommended by authors.
PoK-KAirs a>d Skk cius will be given which will be useful as showing what have been the strugg’es, trials and success of men eminent id the professio’i. In this wav an acquaintance will be made with these gentlemen that will be of lasting interest to old stem giaphers as vv- 11 as to young men about to take up the art.
Besides bei> g the onlv shorthand publication in America published promptly oil time < the 15th of each month » it contains news, notices of new books. p> rsonal doings of stenographers, and communications fiom reporters throughout the world.
A P kmivm llloi idg Numhkk considerably enlarged and beautifully illu-trated. will be issued in December This number will be sold separately for $i 00. nut to regular yearly subscribers, who pay thesubsenption price of 82 00 thi* number will be included without, extra charge. To g-t the ben-fit of this splendid offer, subscriptions should be sent in now for a year’s numbera, and .82.00 must be forwarded to pav for the same in advance. Specimen copies of « late number will be sent to tho»e desiring to see the publication before sub'-enbing by simply forwarding address to the publisher with a request for the'same.'	“	-
D. L. SCOTT-BROWNE.
Conductor and Publisher.
23 Clinton Place, New York City.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.
May 15,1881. Local and Through Time Table. Mo. 22.
Going	North.	STATIONS.	Going15	south.
1.4^p m	! 4.20 p tn	Arrive	Leave - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.”5p.m.
LUii “	, 3 35 "	- - - - ta Porte, - -	10.23 “	8 55 “
12 35 “	: 3.14 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10 41 “	9.20 “
12.14 a m	2.53 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11 00 “	9 42 “
11.42 “	i 2.23 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11 35 “	10.21 “
10 41 “	,13) “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.27 p.m.	11.20 p.m.
10.12	12 51 “	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.06 •'	11 57 ■'
9.50 “	T2 30 p m.	- - -	- Pern, - - - -	145 “	12 25 a.m.
9 23 “	;n.5o “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.05	12.48 “
8.50 “	bi.is “	- - - Kokomo.		2 40 “	1.39 “
8.09 “	110 41 “	- - - - Tipton. - -	3.16 -	2.07 “
7.25 “	9.57 “	- - - Noblesville. - - -	4 00 “	2.4S '•
6.25 p.m.( 8.50 a.m.		Lv. - Indianapolis. - Ar.	5.C0 -	3.45
THE ONLY LINE Running a noon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffa.o. Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Eleeant Sleeping and Parlor Cosche5 run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,
Gen'!. Al mager. Ind-anopo'. s.
Chas. H Rockwell.
GenT. Pass and Ticket Agent.
650
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
rK
Q,
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE"
Calls your attention to tlie following REASONS w ±± V—if about to make a Journey to the GREAT WEST-j-ou should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. No change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluffs, quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes, and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois, lowaand Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
CHS HALF IHlERIQH VIEW Of CAR
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, t= attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesot the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while cn route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale, May 1st, at al] coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties ol ten or more, good for ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.	■
REMEMBER, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address
■&. K- CABLE,
Vico Pres’t and Gen 1 Manager, Chicago.
IE. ST. JOKrf, Gen’i Ticket and Pass’r Agent.
VTeeklv Newspapers.
rpHE CATHOUC UNIVERSE, an excelL lent Catholic and family newspap-r, pubPshed every Thursday.
Terms, §2.50 per annum. Address, Manly Tello Manager ard Editor, 117 Erie Street. Cleveland, uhio.
THE CATHOLIC f'GLUNXTJIAIN, published weekly a’ Columbus, O. Subscription- from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A Clarke, of 70.
THE Al. V Jtu MAKIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation ot t he Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.50.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. IfJ,
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - • “ Mich. City-“ Niles	 Kalamazoo-“ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 83 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 »	9 00 a. m 11 18 “ 12 15 p.m 1 4» “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 335 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 228 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦MaH	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	♦Even’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo -• •* Niles 		 “ Mich. City-- Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35s m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 59 - 8 P8 “ 10 35 •»	950 p.m. 1245 a.m. 243 “ 415 •• 530 •» 800 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 830 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Wiles and South Bend Bivlsion.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—S 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m “ N. Dame—8 52 “ 638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 43 ••
Ar.So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Henby C. Wkntwobth,
G. P. A T. A., Chicago, Ill.
tsaturday and Sunday excepted H. B. Ledyard, Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Midi.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov. 7", 1880, TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WPXT.
	No. 1 Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Limit Ex.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield	 Crestline,	Arrive	12,05 a.m. 1.15 “ 8.30 “ 5.00 “ 6.55 “ 7.25 “	9.15a.m. 10,10' “ 1.20 P.M. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m. 10.25 p.m. 1.40 A.M.
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.15 P.M. 8.46 “ 7.00 “	635 p.m. 8.18 “ 9.30 “ 12.08 A.M. 250 “ 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.28 ‘ 1232 A.M.	1.45 A.M.
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive			240 * 4.55 “ 8.00 "	5.35 “ 7.16 “ 9.40 “
GOING EAST.				
•	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn. Ex.	No. 4, Atlan.Ex.	No. 6, N. Y. Ex.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.40 P-M. 2.50 a.m. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.08 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “ 235 pm. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 P.M. 9.25 “ 12.15 A.M. 2.38 “ 3.55 “ 5.30 “	3.30 P.M. 8.35 p.m. 12 35 a.m.
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 226 “ 400 “ 622 “ 7.30 “	7.30 p.m. 803 “ 10,06 “ 1L45 “ 2.04 a.m. 3.15 “	6 40 a.m. 7.20 “ 9.23 “ 11.25 “ 2.10 “ 3.15 p.m.	1240 a.m. 1.15 “ 2.57 “ 4.25 “ 7.30 a.m.
Trains Nos. 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line tha rune the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for Mie at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
G. R. WOOD,	E. A. FORD,
Gen. Pas. & Tkt. agt, Phil., Pa. R. R. Pittsburgh, Pa.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	651
The Lemonnier Library,
at Notre Name in 1872 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c„ for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS,
Notrh Dajtb, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, TJY 3IAUJUCE JF. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
JPrice, $1, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2.30 p. m. Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.
1105 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. in.: Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.: Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m
12.16 p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m.. Cleveland, 10.10 p. m Buffalo, 4 a. m.
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Bufla'.o, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5.05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
0.93 a. m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
L16 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52	p. m.;	Chicago, 4.40 p. m.
4.50 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 538; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.;	Chicago,	8 p.	m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Ex* press.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Ex* press.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 " Miller’s	 “ Chesterton	'.	 “ Otis	 “ Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend..;	 “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10 “ ' 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 11 05 “ 11 15 “ 1140 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		11 02 “ 11 20 “ 11 22 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		
					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 “	1 20 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 8 15 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38 “ 6 21 “
		12 50 “			6 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 *.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, GenT Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, -Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’]. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
652
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
The Minim Department.
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for geate in the finest declining Chair Palace Care in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tire Slioi't Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne* braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Rorth and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent. • Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn 51., hear cor. ot Adams, Chicano.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—S125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
V. Rev. W. CORBY, C.S.G.,
NOTRE DAME P. 0., INDIANA.
Walker’s Pocket Cameras,
For Teachers. Tourists, Naturalists, Botanists, Taxidermists, Entomologists, Civil and Topogra-phieal Engineers, Physicians, Surgeons, Newspaper Correspondents,
and all persons requiring an accurate and rapid method of recording phenomena.
These Instruments are the most accurate, compact and light in the market. Total weight of Camera, Focusing Screen, Double-plate Holder and Folding Tripod—Two Pounds. They are the embodiment of the best dry-plate practice.
Anj'person of intelligence can take perfect photographs. Complete instructions, and no poisonous chemicals.
Send 9 cents in stamps for Catalogue and sample photographs.
WILLIAM H. WALKER,
ROCHESTER.
Lock Box 200.	NEW YORK.