S’cljMaMtc IJcnv.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE IXAJMCE. ,	.
f mtod tofile	st to*
«LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEESITY OF NOTES DAME, IND., SEPTEMBER 1868. No. 2.
On the Pronunciation of Latin and . Greek.
INo. i.
On the continent of Europe, Latin and Greek are pronounced for the most part in accordance with the modern languages of the nations that study them. But in America, where the representatives of. so many nations come into contact, often within the walls of the same University, it has been impossible to form a uniform national pronunciation, and therefrom much confusion has, arisen. If the true pronunciation could be accurately and satisfactorily determined, no doubt American scholars would gladly embrace it, but therein lies the problem. Many professors have appeared amongst us, each with his own plausible theory, but none have met with universal acceptance. We have our Siseronians, our Kikeronians, our Tsitseronians and our Cliicheronians, even our Thitheronians, but which are the Ciceronians? However, the unfortunate letter C is of small consequence in comparison with the vowels—the soul of the language. A confusion of vowels is a confusion of number, gender, and case. We do not intend to propose, in the present essay,- any particular remedy for the evil. We wish merely to call our readers’ attention to the state of the case.
In the first place, what do we mean by the time pronunciation of Latin ? The age of classic literature extends over a longer period than that of English literature, and are we to suppose that the pronunciation of the language did not vary during all that period ? Or do we think that Spenser pronounced English as we do now ? Can we suppose that an author whose orthography must be preserved in order to preserve his rhymes —whose choice and arrangement of words are so different from the current English that a man must be tolerably well educated before he can
understand—not to say enjoy—the poetry, can we suppose, I say, that there was not a very marked and distinct difference between Spenser’s pronunciation and ours ?• Now, during the period at which Latin literature flourished most, there were more ci uses at work to change the pronunciation than we have had. The courtiers of Augustus could not have opened their mouths and let their words flow as freely as the republicans of the preceding generation. Cicero undoubtedly gave a breadth to his vowels and a distinctness to his consonants which Virgil, Horace and Ovid were beginning to lose. Whence comes the elision of final M in Latin poetry? From nothing assuredly Lthe indistinct pronunciation of final M both in prose and poetry, and that this was a corruption that crept in gradually is shown by the absence of that elision in the older poets. The accession of emperors, like Trajan, from distant provinces, must have rendered provincialisms fashionable; and the corruption of morals and manners could scarcely exist without a corresponding corruption of language. Affectation could hardly be absent where her sister hypocrisies, were in such ascendancy. In the view of so much probable variety, what shall we call the' truth ? Might not all the systems of pronunciation which we find conflicting, have had their day within the three centuries during which most of our classic authors lived ? Now, whatever system we adopt, we apply it equally to the reading of Caesar and of Tacitus, not to speak of authors still further separated in point of time. Can we say that any one system would be true for all? '
But if such is the case in regard to Latin, what shall we say of Greek? From the fabulous age of the Trojan War to the burning of the Alexandrian library in the age which saw the establishment of the modem kingdoms of Europe, Greek was the medium of successive contributions to .
10	THESCHOLA elegant literature, many of which form part of our ordinary collegiate course. We have Lucian and Homer with an interval of more than a thou- . sand years between them, and to say that they could understand each other’s Greek, is the same as saying that we can understand the Anglo-Saxon of King Alfred the Great. But even if we knew all the variations which the Greek and Latin pronunciation went through in the time of the different authors, it is not to be expected that we could follow them in a College course. What we really want is a national American pronunciation, sufficiently euphonious and reconcilable with the laws of prosody, and at the same time introducing no glaring peculiarities.	- The means of determining the pronunciation of the Vowels and disputed consonants at any epoch are very limited, but we have—	. 1.	Animal sounds sometimes imitated by writers. Thus when the letter eta is used in spelling the cry of a sheep, we must conclude that it was pronounced very differently’from the long English e and nearer to a or even ah. But such in- - stances are rare.	. 2.	Words mis-spelled by ignorant persons. In the catacombs at Rome several instances of this occur. Now when we find, for instance, B substituted for V, as bia for via, we must conclude that among the common people at least, of that, time, the sound of B was aspirated so as to approach that of V. The modern Greeks thus still pronounce their beta. 3.	The comparison of proper names in Latin and Greek. Whether Greek names are spelled in Latin or Latin names in Greek, we find that certain letters correspond, thus: C is always put for Kappa, and Kappa for 0. Sigma is never interchangeable with C, whether we would pronounce the C soft or hard. From this it would seem that 0 is always hard in Latin, as it appears to be acknowledged that Kappa had’but one sound—that of K Yet the Roman C is'the most ancient form of the character used for sigma. Y is always put in Latin for upsilon, and the Roman U is represented in Greek by the diphthong omicron-upsilon. Hence we must conclude that the vowel U is quite a different sound from the Greek upsilon, although most systems of pronunciation make them the same. The results of these comparisons are rather negative than positive; thus when we find that Phi is never represented by F, we must conclude	.STIC YEAR. that there was a difference in sound; that we are wrong in giving the same’ sound to the Latin diphthongs 2E and CE, if we give a different -sound to each of the Greek diphthongs which represent them; that the Greek iota was not precisely the same letter as the Latin I, since the latter often takes the place of epsilon-iota in Greek, which implies a firmer and stronger sound. In fact, although the English are undoubtedly wrong in their pronunciation of A and E, yet it is. a question if the sound they give the long I is not the same as that given to it in the Ciceronian age.	• About some letters there has never been any dispute. The Vowel 0 is one of these, unless when it occurs in diphthongs. Also the consonants F, K, L, N, Q, R, S, and X. The others are all subject to some question; as, for instance, were tau and theta both pronounced alike? Scarcely, we should think, although on the Continental system, no difference is perceptible. Was G always hard, in every position ? Was Z pronounced like sd or like ds, or as the English pronounce it ? As for the theories about C and J, their name is legion. . In such a confusion of systems which shall we follow ? The modern Greeks would teach us to pronounce their ancient language with an iotacism of the vowels and an aspiration of the consonants which seems to spoil the harmony of Homer. Three simple vowels and three diphthongs • all representing the single sound of the long English e or ee—a huskiness in all the B’s, D’s and other consonants to which we are accustomed to give a clear, well-defined sound. This is surely the corruption of affectation, taking all the boldness and spirit out of the language. Besides, it gives rise to ambiguity. Kamelos a camel, would be pronounced exactly the same as Kamilos, a cable, and the Greeks hearing the Gcspel read would have found no more difficulty in getting a rich man into the kingdom of heaven than the passing of a small cable rope through the eye of a large sail-maker’s needle.	- But enough has been said to show what a hopeless chaos has been made of the pronunciation of the ancient languages. It remains for us to show the necessity and possibility of extricating something that “ will do” for a popular pronunciation out of this chaos. This will be the subject of a second essay under this head.	S. Musical Union.—The regulations of this praiseworthy association will appear next week.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. .	u
Chimes.
Re written Rhymes.
Beauty’s spirit lingers
O’er the spot I love;
Well I know that angel fingers
'	Paint the blue'above,
Well I know they listen To the vesper song,-
Where the silent planets glisten , As they float along,
Listen to the chiming
■ Praises of the Lamb, As they tremble from the rhyming Bells of Notre Dame. -
Swell, ye sounds caressing, O’er the midnight air, All this silence bathed in blessing Wake to God and prayer;
Wearied man is sleeping From the toilsome day, Tune the soft dreams o’er him creeping, - Music, watch and pray!
Lo, the forest looming,/
On the distant calm
Echoes back your silvery booming, Bells of Notre Dame.
When the-morning lightens On the Eastern sky,
. And the spire-top glows and brightens As the sun rolls nigh,
Shed your peals to duty	’
O’er the earth impearled,
Give to sparkling morning beauty Tongue to rouse the world!
As your songs of gladness, Matin hymn and psalm, Wake our souls and cheer their sadness, Bells of Notre Dame! -------------------
The great secret of avoiding disappointment is not to expect loo much. Despair follows immoderate hope, as things fall hardest to the ground that have been nearest the sky.
An experimental house is being built in Paris. It will have no staircase—the tenants are to ascend on a hydraulic elevator which goes up and down once a minute.
Never expect any assistance or consolation in your necessities from drinking companions.
/	Multum in Parvo.
The American’people are preeminently a go-ahead people. They travel greater distances in a shorter space of time than most other people; they accomplish more with less labor than any other people; they enjoy life at less expense than the inhabitants of any other civilized country. In fact their motto in all things appears to be: “ Multum in Parvothe greatest amount of profit with the least exertion and expense. The American Student is not an exception to the general rule. He wishes to acquire the greatest possible amount of information in the shortest possible time, and with the least possible effort on his part. This desire exposes him to two very opposite dangers. If his aversion to serious effort predominates, he will very likely trifle away his time, always of course making resolutions to apply himself more seriously to his studies at some indefinite future time, which time seldom or never comes. This class of students are anxious to become scholars, but they carry the American principle too far in one respect, and do not suit the means to the end, to any available extent, consequently month after month, year after year and, finally, their whole time at college passesaway, and, although they have acted the American in one respect, that of making the least possible effort, they fail to prove themselves tfue Americans, by failing to acquire the greatest possible amount of information. Of this class of students I may take occasion to speak at another time.
Another class are those in whom the desire to gain the greatest possible amount of information in a given time predominates. These are willing to make sufficient exertion to accomplish their purpose, but a serious danger also awaits them. They are very liable to become over anxious- about their studies; their minds are in a state of constant excitement, oscillating between a strong desire to learn, and a nervous fear that they will not learn fast enough, or that they will not be prepared for each recitation as it comes around. The effect of this over anxiety is, to exhaust their physical strength, and thus render them less capable of efficient effort, while that very preoccupation of mind renders the efforts which they do make less available than .they would otherwise be. The consequence of this is that they fail, at least to a great extent, in the accomplishment of their purpose (though by no. means to the same extent as the indolent stu
12	* THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
dent), and while they prove themselves true Americans in desiring the greatest possible advantage, they show that they are not genuine Americans, by not adapting the means to the end in such a manner as to require the least possible effort. With this class of students the writer of this paper has great sympathy, and now proposes to furnish them a few hints from his own experience and observation, which may be of service to them in carrying out the great American principle of: “ Multum in Parvo.”
It is a psychological fact that the mind cannot be seriously occupied with more than one thing at a time. True, in some rare cases the mind has attained such a degree of elasticity as to be able to alternate very rapidly between two or more 'subjects of thought, but in these cases the mind must be already well informed respecting the different subjects to which it gives its attention; for if the mind is not so informed, the effort necessary to understand and follow out the subject under consideration, must certainly be so great as to exclude all other subjects, for the time. Hence the first thing necessary for the student, who wishes to be successful, is to exclude all thoughts foreign to his studies during the hours devoted to their prosecution. He must come to college and enter upon his studies with his mind already determined as to the course he wishes to pursue, which should in all cases be_reg-ulated by the requirements of that particular station in life which he expects to fill. Once entered upon his studies, he must not allow his min'd to run ahead and busy itself in speculations on his prospects of future success in this or that occupation; for, whilst these dreams of ambition or, as they are commonly called, castles in the air, do not in the least improve his prospects of success, they take so much of his mind’s attention from his immediate work, and consequently diminish his prospects, by retarding his progress in those studies which are necessary as a means of success. How often do we not see -a student of fair ability go to class unprepared because he unheedingly wasted his time in the study-hall, speculating on the grand things he would do when he got through all his studies? Time thus spent passes very rapidly, and hence the student must carefully guard against such unprofitable dreaming; for many of his grand speculations will never be realized, and those that are destined to be so do not in the least depend on his vague fancies while at college, but on the information which he acquires there.
The next thing to be avoided by the earnest student is that over eagerness of which we have spoken; for this withdraws the attention from study, by over stimulating the mind and rendering it, like one under the influence of too much alcohol, unsteady and incapable of any available exertion, while it injures the physical health which is necessary to success in study. These results always follow much anxiety, and they are serious in proportion to its intensity. Here let me mention another error into which earnest students are liable to fall, especially during their first year in college; this is the error of keeping their minds constantly bent upon their studies, to -the exclusion of proper physical exercise. They study hard during the appointed hours, and carry their book with them into the recreation grounds; they are thinking over their studies during meals, and even after they retire at night, till sleep finally takes pity on them and puts a stop to their mental labor. This is not right nor even profitable. The mind needs relaxation, as much as the body needs rest after serious exertions, and some amusement, not too enticing however, is the very best means of relaxing the mind for a time after two or three hours of serious application. Besides, this relaxation of mind combined with physical exercise is necessary to a healthful condition of the body, and the elasticity and strength of the mind depends in a great measure on the health of the body; for man is not all mind nor all body, but a combination of both, and such is the intimate relation between these two parts of our being that one cannot be disregarded to any extent without injuring the other.
From these few hints the student will at once see the course proper for him to pursue. Namely, to study diligently, but without anxiety, during the hours allotted for labor; never to carry a book to the yard, nor worry his brains with thoughts of his studies, during the hours of recreation, but to employ that time in recreating the mind and keeping up and improving the physical man by suitable exercise. By pursuing this course he will escape making many visits to the infirmary; he will reach the end of his collegiate course in good health and with a greater fond of knowledge than he could have acquired had he pursued a different plan. He will in fact have accomplished •• Multum in Parvo;” and may rest assured that the writer of these few hints will rejoice in his success.
“Fanciullo.”
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	13
The Student..
Re-written Rhymes.
Oft have I toiled from vesper’s fading light
Till midnight boomed upon my startled ear; And the distant tramping traveler sent a thrill
Of loneliness that broke the tensioned might Of long continued thought, while chilly fear
Nigh curled all my sense and crushed my will: But reason slowly waking, soon the cloud
Passed o’er me, and I breathed once more aloud. Calm then, beneath the trembling taper’s light,
I sought the mazy figures of the night;	_
And, as I glanced along the hard-wrought scroll, I felt the life leap proudly in my soul:
For I had triumphed; and the conscious power That glowed within made glad the midnight hour.
-------
Mossville, Ind.,---------, ’68,
Dear Joe,—Since you left home I have had. a mind, to write to you. I could scarcely feel satisfied with my lonesomeness for the two or three first days of our separation, but now that I am a little accustomed to it—I might say inured to it, I have begun to consider your new position and mine, and I am now going to tell, in my own simple and frank way, what conclusions I arrived at from the many thoughts which I had on the subject.
My dear Joe, I think it is the best thing in the world that we should separate now and then from our friends, even our best loved ones. Well this is an opinion of my own, you’ll say; perhaps you will add: “I would like you to be herein my place and see how you would like such reasoning,” perhaps too, dear friend, you make no such objection to my first and apparently very egotistical conclusion, especially if your mind like mine has gone round the new horizon of thoughts which has been so suddenly presented to its view. I believe that you endorse what I have said, though your heart be aching and heaving yet. How I came to my first conclusion can be told in very few words, although it took me some time to admit the truth of it, for, Joe, I felt awfully Bad and miserable on the day of your departure. For the first time I began to think that if we had been created learned, it would have spared us a lot of trouble. We would have known Grammar, Arithmetic and all the rest, without even thinking of it. O Joe, if this could have been; if you and I could have been Doctors without so much as opening the smallest spelling or reading book, what sport we would
have had in this broad world. I was in the course of those thoughts when I began to see another trouble ahead of me. Why, if you and I -could be doctors so cheap, well Dick and Bob could be Doctors as well, and thus my castles crumbled down,—and with vengeance! I thought that it was just as well for Dick and Bob to look out for themselves and become smart, whilst you, Joe, and myself would do the same. I tell you, Joe, this thought has helped me wonderfully to bear with our present separation.
Then again, I imagine that if you and I were yet together, it would be too much fun and too little work, and Dick and Bob would soon be ahead of us, for I will tell you (although I am not great friends of theirs) that they mean to work and outdo us, and have left town for some college out East where they will have a good chance to get along.
Another thing, Joe, comes to my mind. Now, we have lost a good deal of our very best time at trifles, and spent money very foolishly too, which by the way was not altogether the best thing we did. Of course I don’t mean to say that we did not always behave like gentlemen but I think that it would have been as well to have postponed our sports till better times when you and I could cut a figure in the world. That is my ambition, Joe, and since you left I have made up my mind about things which I had not considered before. I mean what I say and shall not hang around here much longer. You may look for me one of these days, and you may bet that we will have another hearty shake of the hand.	.
Good-by, Joe.
Your friend,
Harry.
St. Joseph’s Academy, Sept.- 8th, 1868.
The following are the names of the young ladies who deserve Honorable Mention for punctual attendance, lady-like deportment and per-' feet lessons:
First Senior.—The Misses 0. Peffer and S. Archambeau.
First Intermediate.—The Misses A Treanor and
L. Hanauer.
Second Intermediate.—J. Banere.
First Junior.—J. Archambeau and L. Gillen.
Second Junior.—A Elbel and M. O’Day.
German.—A Lederer and I. Coonsman.
Music.—M. Demming and H. Logan.
I I
14	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame. September 4th. William Manning,	Notre Dame, Ind. Anthony Clarke,	“	“ Ernest Philip Goffinit, Detroit, Mich. Andrew Juif,	Conner’s Creek; Mich. John D. Klein,	Mansfield, Ohio. • Charles W. Walter,	Fort Wayne, Ind. September 5th. John H. Fritts,	Central City, Col. Frank W. Green,	Hannibal, Mo. Edwin Wile,	Laporte, Ind. September 7th. Joseph P. Ferrell,	El Paso, Hl. John Orb,	Chicago,	Hl. Andrew Celia,	“	“ Philip Cochrane,	“	“ Wm. B. Smith,	“	“	' James E. McGuire,	“	“ ' Wm. M. Bird,	Adamsville, Mich. DeWitt C. Bland,	Bourbon, Ind. Henry S. Fralick,	Grand Rapids, Mich.		Asa J. Wetherbee,	Milwaukee, Wis, John McCall, '	Detroit, Mich.	. September 10th. Charles Stuart,	Charlotte, Iowa. Wm. Carson,	New Mexico. Wm. D. Dugdale,	St. Louis, Mo. September 11th. Michael Freen,	Notre Dame, Ind. James A. Dickinson,	Fremont, Ohio. Wm. B. Small,	Wilmington, 111. John S. White,	“	“
		The Disciplinary Corps of the University for the year 1868-9 is as follows: Prefect of Discipline, Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. S. C. Assistants, - Senior Department—Bro. Benoit, S. S. C.; Bro Charles, S. S. C.; Bro. Alban, S. S. C. Junior Department—Bro. Florentius, S. S. C.; Bro. Paul, S. S. C;	. JUinim Department—Bro. Albert.
Michael Carney,	Toledo, Ohio. Chas. C. Whitney,	Hudson, Mich. • Alonzo A. Minnich,	Pearceton, Ind. September 8th. • ■ Lucian G. Dunnavan,	Ottawa, Ill. George F. Terrell,	Indianapolis, Ind. Wm. P. Rhodes,	Savanna,	Ill. Porter S. Rhodes,	“ > “ A. B. White,	' Hanover, HL Andrew Combs,	Chicago, Hl. George Combs,	“ “ Stacy B. Hibben,	Wilmington, Ohio. Boon Mathers,	Elmore, Ill. George H. McCauly,	Leesburg, Ind. James H. Thompson,	Lacon, Hl. Daniel G. A. Cooney, Syracuse, N. Y. September 9th. Montie McGinley,	Lafayette, Ind. Ben. J. Heffernan,	Louisville, Ky. Chas. H. Chamberlain, Chicago, HL Joseph F. Campbell, ’• St. Charles, Hl. George E. Price,	Chicago, Hl. Edward Bahm,	Batavia, Hl. John F. McHugh,	Lafayette, Ind. Frank Ingersoll,	“	“	- Harry Fear,	Burlington, Iowa. J. B. Gaunt,	El Paso, Hl.		St. Aloysius Pliilodemic Association. The first regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association was held this, Wednesday, morning at 8 o’clock, a. m. The meeting was called to order by Rev. D. J. Spillard, who stated that the object of the present meeting was the reorganization of the Association for the academic year 1868-9. After the election of a Sec. pro tern., the election of the officers for the first session then commenced, and resulted as follows: President, Rev. , D. J. Spillard, S. S. C. ; Vice-President, John Grogan; Rec. Sec., James Cunnea; Cor. Sec., A J. Reilly; Treasurer, W. P. McClain; Librarian, Thomas Johnson. After a few remarks by the President on the advantages to be derived from being a member of a society of this nature, the meeting, on motion, adjourned. Wednesday morning, Sept. 16th, 1868. "	A. J. Reilly, Cot. Sec. St. Cecilia Philoma thran Society.—A full report of the proceedings of the first meeting of this association will be given in full next week.
li
THESCHOLASTICYEAR.	15
St. Edward’s Literary.

The first meeting of the “ Saint Edward’s Literary Association” for the scholastic year 1868-9, was held on Wednesday morning, the 9th inst., for the purpose of reorganization and election of officers for the coming term, resulting as follows:
President—Rev. M. B. Brown, S. S. C.
Vice-President—J. P. Rogers.
Secretary—H. B. Keeler.
Treasurer—D. A Clarke.
Librarian—A. B. White.
1st Censor—T. O’Mahoney.
2d Censor—P. McKeon.
Although the career of the association has been short, it has been one of almost unparalleled success in the College; and the present members are fully determined that its success in the future shall not be any the less through any fault of the St. Edward’s boys.	Reporter.
------------
Star of the West Base-ball Club.

The following officers were elected at a meeting of the above celebrated club, held the 6th inst.:
Director—Bro. Florentins.	.
President—James F. Ryan.
Vice-President—Michael Brannock.	'
. Rec. Sec’y—J. W. Coppinger.
,	Cor. Sec’y—D. J. Wile.
i	Treasurer—Chas. Marantette.
1	Censor—Laurence Wilson.
Geo. L. Pearce, ) Directors Jacob Pfeiffer, f -L,irectors-
Field Captain 1st Nine—James Wilson.'
Field Captain 2d Nine—John Coppinger.
This Club expects to show one of the best, if not the iest, record of any other similar association that ever existed at Notre Dame, and, though several of our best players have gone, still we expect, as before intimated, to have the honor of the championship of our Alma, Ulate)' next June. Meanwhile, au revoir.	Base-Ballist.
Titp. Weather.—After some fine shdwers, welcome to the farmers, and some dull gloomy days, unwelcome to students,—the weather has cleared up and appears determined to settle.
The Literary Societies of the college have organized for the year, and all the members are looking forward to stirring debates and elaborate essays.
Correction.—We are glad to hear that the announcement of the decease of Mr. James A. Dickinson, in the last week’s Scholastic, was premature, and that Mr. Dickinson is alive, and, we sincerely hope, has been kicking somebody strongly and that somebody, the one who had such a small amount of brains as to consider himself “ smart ” in originating such a report. We advise Mr. Dickinson to kick low; the shins of that individual must be the sensitive part of him.
-We congratulate Mr. Dickinson on his return to Notre Dame, where we hope to hear very often his sonorous voice among the Philharmonics.
------
The Philharmonics and the choir are rejoicing over the arrival of Professor Corby. So are we.
We have not heard from the Veteran Society of the Juniors.
Ike has not yet arrived; he is expected daily by telegraph.
We have seen nothing of the boats on the Upper Lake. Have they all been seized by the River—navigators?	'
Excellent Advice.—Dr. Samuel Johnson was much attached to a young man—an intelligent Italian. As the Doctor lay upon the couch from which he never rose up, he called his young friend to him, and tenderly and solemnly said: “ There is no one who has shown me more attention than you have done; and it is now right you should claim some attention from me. You are a young man, and are to struggle through life; you are in a profession that I dare say you will exercise with great fidelity and innocence ; but let me exhort you always to think of my situation, which one day must be yours—always remember that life is short and that eternity never ends.”
• A Beautiful Thought.—The sea is the largest of all cemeteries, and its slumberers sleep without monuments. All other graveyards, in all other lands, show some distinction between the great and small, the rich and poor; but in the ocean cemetery the king and the clown, the prince and peasant, are all alike undistinguished. The same waves roll over all—the same requiem by the minstrels of the ocean is sung to their honor. Over the remains the same storm beats, and the
16
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
same sun shines; and there, unmarked, the weak and powerful, the plumed and unhonored, will sleep on until awakened by the same trump.
Long Sermons and other Things.—A lawyer who consumes three hours in arguing a question of law relating to the ownership of a barrel of apples, is indignant at his minister for exceeding twenty-five minutes in unfolding one of the great principles of morality, on the observance of which the tolerable existence of society depends. The judge who fills two hours with his “opinion” on the right of the counsel to challenge a witness, grumbles at his minister because he has prolonged the discussion of fundamental laws of human existence to thirty minutes. The physician who takes ten minutes to- prepare the medicine for a headache, is nervously restive if his minister spends only twice as many in attempting to relieve a chronic heartache. The belle who has spent—how long? in adjusting the bows of her bonnet, is remorseless in her criticisms on the minister who does not finish his meditations on the character of God in fifteen minutes. The fop who has combed, and perfumed, and waxed his beard and moustache for an hour, is mortified past endurance if the poor minister is not through his discussion of the immortal life “inside” of twenty minutes.
It is curious to study the origin of words, and see how new ones are coined from year to year and introduced into our language. A new word is very easily started in life, if it be only appro. priate. When the first schooner ever built on the coast of Massachusetts first slid from her stocks and floated gracefully on the water, the chance exclamation of a bystander, “Oh, how she scoons!” drew from her contriver and builder the answer, “ A schooner let her be, then!” and made a new English word.
A Western editor, in response to a subscriber -who grumbles that his morning paper was intolerably damp, explains “it is because there is so much due on it.”
The best thing to give to your enemy is forgiveness; to your opponent,tolerance; to a friend, your heart; to your child, a good example; to a father, deference; to.your mother, conduct that will make her proud of you; to yourself, respect; to all men, charity.
“ It is well to leave something for those who come after us,” as a man said when he threw a barrel in the way of a constable who was chasing him.	’
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Joseph Co., Ind.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged. in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the M. S. & N. I. R. R., it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
terms:
Matriculation Fee......................$	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included); Washing and Mending of Linens;- Doctor’s Fees '	.
and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months..... 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and
Hebrew, each......:................... 10	00
Instrumental Music...................... 12	50
Use of Piano.......................;.. 10 00
Use of Violin............................ 2	00
Drawing..................................10	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Ap-
paratus ............................... 5	00
Graduation Fee........................   10	00
Students who spend their Summer vaca-
tion at the College are charged, extra, 35	00
Payments to he made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., furnished at current prices.	•
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., President.
"I
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Mast's Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The Scholastic Year is divided into two sessions of five months each. The first session commencing the first Monday of September, and ending the last day of January. At Christmas the regular classes are not interrupted, except the day before and the day after. The second session commencing the first day^of February, and ending the last Thursday of June.
We are happy to inform our patrons that we have, at length, been able to realize a long cherished desire of opening a School of Design, where choice models in busts, chromos and oil paintings in the different schools have been collected, and where full courses will be- given by efficient teachers in all the various departments of Drawing and Painting.
For Catalogue address
Mother M. Angela, Superior,
.	St. Mary’s Academy,
au 1-6S	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.