■ lotre Dame Scholastic.
fi
Oisce quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 28, 1877.
Number 34.
Repose.
When eve her purple twilight flings O’er cliff and turret, vale and rill, The wearied birdling folds her wings And on her chosen bough is still.
No more the notes that hailed the morn Are heard amid the silent glade;
The gentle songster, weak and worn, Has sought the forest’s quiet shade.
There, brooding o’er the day just past, Night finds her free from every care, And darkness, gathering thick and fast, Awakes in her nor gloom nor fear.
Thus, when the shaded evening hours Steal softly on Life’s well-spent day, The world-worn spirit seeks the bowers Of Peace, remote from noise away;
The scenes all filled with toil and care, Where erst it dwelt have ceased to lure,—
The haunts of Pleasure, once so dear, Can charm the thoughtful mind no more.
Night with her stealthy tread comes on Unfeared, for Faith her trust has given ;
The struggling heart a boon hath won, And turns, in hope and love, to Heaven.
Superstition in Poetry.
In considering many of the works of eminent poets, but especially the productions of Homer, the conclnsion almost insinuates itself into our minds that superstition, so often, and so beautifully enshrined in poetry, is one of the prime requisites of true poetry; but were it an indispensable ingredient of poetry we should have the limits of the production of poetry too greatly circumscribed. Homer has left us the most finished masterpiece that poetic genius has ever produced, and the superstitious ideas of mythology of which it is full would incline us to suppose that superstition was essentially important to poetry. “Imagination is the soul of poetic genius,” and as superstition springs from 4. an imagination replete with beautiful conceptions, there is certainly a close connection between poetry and superstition. The creations of the imagination always elicit the admiration with which we revert to the outburstings of the muse as a refection the most refreshing, after the realities, troubles and disappointments of life. We long for something imaginative, something that will warm us in the chilling atmosphere of exertion and labor, something that without labor on our part will bring us pleasure and o’er-cast the melancholy of our troubled hearts with lighter and livelier hues, something that will make us forget our sorrows in the enlivening, animating scenes which poetry thrusts
before us. Popular superstition is the most copious fountain of poetic genius, whence stream after stream is heightened and beautified with most delicate tinges of color by the fancy of the poet, and like the crystal jets from the fountains of nature, over which the sunbeam has poured its resplendent beauties, making it one of nature’s loveliest scenes, poetry entwined with superstition is the grandest production of literature. We notice, strange as it may « seem, that as civilization advances poetry almost necessarily declines. “ The progress of refinement rarely supplies poetry with better objects of imitation; language, the machine of the poet, is best fitted for his purpose in its rudest state. Nations, like individuals, first perceive and. then abstract. Hence the vocabulary of an enlightened society is philosophical, that of a half-civilized people is poetical. The poet may refer all the human acts to selfinterest, like Helvetius, or he may not think about the matter at all. His creed on such subjects will no more influence his poetry, properly so called, than the notions which a painter may have conceived respecting the lachrymal glands, or the circulation of the blood will affect the tears of his Niobe, or the blushes of his Aurora.” Thus from the words of our most eminent critic, Macaulay, we may judge how favorable popular superstition is to poetical literature, since language in its rudest state, the time when superstition most abounds, is best fitted for the poet We cannot think of anything that gives us a more precise notion of the poetic art than the often quoted and universally admired lines of the greatest of poets:
“An imagination bodies forth
The forms of things unknown, the poet’s pen Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name I”
As superstition springs from the imagination and the fancy, and poetry directly speaks to these powers, we may with all plausibility infer that superstition and poetry are inseparably bound together. Every imaginative or superstitious nation has abounded in poetical literature; there is nothing so full of rich poetry as the popular legends of every nation, and no doubt their chief charm consists in the superstitious ideas with which they are tinged; in the ages of chivalry this species of literature is so full of poetical sentiment, and the essence of poetry sparkles throughout it unadulterated and unmixed in its purity. Still though the principle seems so comprehensive and so universal we have poetry free from superstition in every respect; Milton’s magnificence has no superstition and requires none in the reader. If we deny the poetical nature of superstition what shall we say of those scenes where the genius of Scott has revelled till it hallowed the very traditions of ignorance? In our own land we see how little enlightenment does for imaginative writers; hence we are as
530
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a nation most unpoetical. Expectation of profit and selfinterest are so deeply stamped on everything American . that we are always eager after gain; taking no notice of associations of a nature so fertile with poetic sentiment, we look upon the beauties of nature with the stern, rigorous eye of self-interest alone.
“ The churl who holds it heresy to think, Who loves no music but the dollar’s clink, Who laughs to scorn the wisdom of the schools And deems the first of poets, first of fools, Who never found what good from science grew Save the grand truth that one and one are two, And marvels Bowditch o’er a book should pore, Unless to make these two turn into four,	.
Who placed where Catskill’s forehead greets the sky, Grieves that such quarries all unhewn should lie, Or gazing where Niagara’s torrents thrill Exclaims ‘A monstrous stream to turn a mill.’ ”
Still, popular superstition is not without its beneficent results, despite its apparent tendency to constrain us to reverence folly; it by the charm with which it invests verse keeps us from literature of a lower and more baneful character and at the same time more than fully compensates us for the gratification arising from those works which are so popular yet so pernicious; it inspires us with emotions ■which mollify our sentiments as the mist over the picture before us softens the whole landscape. We must ever be inclined to think that though superstition may not be absolutely indispensable to poetry inasmuch as there have been poems produced which exhibited no tinctures of it, yet the grandeur of poetry is enhanced by it, and that poetry so made up softens the nature of man, calling into play his higher powers and sensibilities, and “ making mind minister to happiness.” L. W. P.
Scientific Study.
In years gone by, a person who had cultivated science assiduously was looked upon by the common people as one whose existence was far beyond the ordinary. The imaginative class pictured him as a person whose external appearance was calculated to strike terror into the beholder; now, in our era of advancement, we have brought the scientist from this high state, aud associate with him as we would with any other intelligent being. He is no longer lookedupon as a man whose thoughts are entirely above the ordinary events of this world, but is viewed as a person subject to the eccentricities which characterize humanity. Being inquisitive, we ask what makes this man superior to others; what makes him so intelligent ? It is a study the magnitude of which can never be thoroughly understood, it is an indefatigable exploration of the secrets of nature, it is an investigation of the works of the Omnipotent Being which gives to the scientist his eminent position. As the child or youth rushes impetuously onward in the pursuit of happiness, it crushes objects which when analyzed by the skilful hand of the scientist strike us with wonder and amazement. The crumpled flower has been the subject of the unwearied labors of the botanist; immense folios attest his patient toil. From the luxuriant vegetation of the tropics to the simple plant-life of the frigid zones, plants have been examined and re examined until success has crowned his efforts. The tiny animal whose life has been destroyed leads the zoologist into a field which is limited only by the heavens. Some guiding hand, as it were,
causes him to explore and note the peculiarities of the animal kingdom. From the smallest being to the largest mammal, from the shining minnow to the bulky whale, Nature opens her true character and welcomes the hand of investigation. The names of such illustrious men as Aristotle, Buffon, Cuvier, and a host of others who have figured conspicuously in zoology, are of themselves great recommendations to a study of this department of science. The mineral kingdom presents a no less formidable appearance. To dig into the bowels of the earth, to ascend the steep Himalayan cliffs in search of minerals, then deduce their resemblances, differencesand ultimately their classification, is one of the most instructive studies within the range of man’s comprehension. A wider scope for the development of the human faculties can scarcely be found; yet this is the lowest branch of science. Geology, with a vastness bordering on sublimity, invites, as a generalizer of the other branches, the attention of the naturalist. Including within her grasp nature in her greatest extension, it demonstrates with almost mathematical precision that the universe was evidently made by design, by the -fiat of an almighty, incomprehensible Being.
When we see the various achievements of science, we can well afford to thank the All-Powerful for the liberty and intelligence He has given to man. Mineralogy, botany, zoOlogy and geology constitute the natural sciences. This series is but a small division of science, and yet what a potent influence it exerts upon the intellect, enlarging, maturing and disciplining its faculties! It exerts a humanizing influence upon our feelings, affections and desires. Though no principles of honesty are inculcated, yet a law as high— aye, without which our existence would be a curse—is taught by physiology and its inseparable branch, hygiene. Men are less given to low credulity than they were three hundred years ago. Phenomena looked upon with superstition are now explained satisfactorily by scientific deductions. The intellect has at length been roused from a state of lethargy and taught its supremecy over all other existences. Investigations after investigations are daily growing more numerous, are daily redounding more and more to the honor and glory of the Creator in the masterpiece of His handiwork, man. In literature, progress has not advanced so rapidly with the onward march of time. .The historian of the siege of Troy still holds his own side by side with those of modern times, though Dante, Shakespeare and Milton have exerted their utmost to throw him in the shade. Among historians the simple and touching stories of Herodotus, ably seconded by the works of other efficient narrators, still contest with modern times the praises which are so richly merited by this department of literature. The oratory of Demosthenes and Cicero still shines with an undiminished lustre though Chatham, Burke and Webster have thrilled the heart-strings by their grandly eloquent appeals. Yet modern times are justly said to be superior to the ancient. Yes. Science with its present extensive scope has given the moderns a vast superiority over the ancients. It is this Science which shows the superiority of the education given to-day over that given to the sons of Athens and Rome. Science by its own rapid strides demonstrates the progressive character of the human race. A few are unwilling to admit these claims, yet when questioned concerning them they are inevitably forced to confess that the progress of science is the only manner in which this problem can be explained. Now, as science gives suph superiority to the mental powers, it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
531
might reasonably be supposed to affect man in other ways. And such is the case. It brings wealth and it brings honor. The capitalist with a knowledge of mineralogy and chemistry is enabled to determine the value of precious stones. He can trace the existence of gold and other mines with much less difficulty than others. Pleasure is brought in many ways. Lasting honor has been the award of Stephenson, Morris, and a host of others. Furthermore, in order that one may become eminent in science it is not necessary that he have imagination “to body forth the forms of things unknown and give to airy nothing a local habitation and a name.” No: nothing of this pleasing faculty is needed. Common sense, united with perseverance, is the necessary qualification of a scientist, and therefore the naturalist is, most emphatically, made, not born, as is the reverse case with literary geniuses.
Science demonstrates with felicity that man was endowed by the Creator with active principle; that he was given liberty; and was enabled to subject nature and make it subservient to his own indomitable will. Such are the teachings of science; exposing error after error, she teaches us the true explication of material phenomena. C. 0.
Monsignor Capel on Education.
On the afternoon of the fifth Wednesday in Lent, the Right Rev. Mgr. Capel preached in the Church of the Passionist Fathers, 50, Avenue de la Reine Hortense, Paris, in behalf of the London Catholic University. Taking for his text the 11th verse of the 13th chapter of the First Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians—“ When I was a child I spoke as a child, I thought as a child, I understood as a child; but when I became a man I put away the things of a child”—the Reverend preacher, after some preliminary remarks, observed that the child at the baptismal font is as \ much a Christian as when fifty or sixty years old, and this, too, after a life devoted to the study of theology; yet the faith at the font is implicit, and it is expected of us, as years go on, that our faith shall become explicit, and that we should be able to give a reason for the hope that is in ns— that we should have, in place of the passive simplicity which accepts the faith in childhood, the manly vigor which can seize and comprehend it. Thus, as the corporeal development makes us men, so is there also a creation of manliness in the intellectual order. Two things bear out the comparison. As truly as we grow physically, so is it in reference to the whole being. We do not pass by sudden - transition from infancy to manhood, but our growth is continuous and progressive, and this fact applies to the higher as well as the lower part of our being. In our earliest years every care was bestowed on our-physical development; these are years which, in the physical order, leave behind them characteristics which can never be destroyed. Our future must depend upon the care and nourishment then bestowed upon our bodies. So is it with the soul, which animates that body. Still, while all the faculties are there, some for a time lie perfectly dormant. We, whose attention has been devoted to education, are struck with the activity of a child’s imagination. If we tell it some story, how it enters into all the actions and details; or place a picture before it, how it appreciates the form and colors; or take it to some place of amusement, how eager is its delight! God is thus permitting this first faculty to show itself thus strongly at an early period, but in proportion as the other faculties are developed and educated, that
of imagination will fall into its proper place. Those, therefore, who devote themselves to education throw aside the foolish plan of teaching small children the alphabet, which at that age is torture to them; and instead of attempting to taxa memory which as yet scarcely exists, they talk to them and interest their attention bv depicting noble deeds and describing attractive incidents, whether from the Word of God or the lives of saints or heroes; so that while the imagination is being enriched, the power of memory by its side is gradually expanding. As -yet the child has no capacity to argue, the faculty of argument is dormant; but it is gathering up stores of facts which will enable it later to use this power when developed. Give it the habit, by degrees, of retaining certain things in its memory, poems and various kinds of elementary knowledge. During these years, seven, eight, nine, or ten, there is a dawning power of argument, the power not only of observing, but of comparing idea with idea, and an ability to understand the thoughts of others. Then we turn the child to the study of language, assisting it to enter intelligently into the composition of sentences and the mutual dependence of their parts. The last process is then not long in being arrived at, and to the power of entering into the thoughts of others succeeds that of originating them for itself. You now encourage it to write its own arguments on things it has heard or thought, giving it the power of thinking for itself. In all this we perceive the law marked out bv God for us to follow. And what is going on in the intellectual order is going on in the moral order also. The power of conscience is strong in childhood, and there is then a wondrous power of realizing the things of the other world. We perceive these facts with a sense of serious responsibility. We put before the child that motive of honor which constitutes the gentleman, that higher motive which constitutes the Christian, or the two motives, which together constitute the Christian gentleman. It is this watchfulness over the soul in the intellectual and moral order which constitutes the real work of the educator. We know what it is to teach a child to walk, and how for some time he is supported and helped along by others. It is the same with regard to the intellectual training. There is a time when the assistance of others is necessary, and when their words have to be accepted without questioning; but the time must come when, in the intellectual and moral order also, we must think and act for ourselves. There is no possibility of being everywhere accompanied by a mentor. And yet, there is no time in the history of our lives when education ceases. There is a mistaken and general idea that when a girl has gone through an educational course until the age of 18, and a boy until he is 20, their '‘education is finished" If, by that, it is meant that it is finished as far as studying under masters is concerned, it is true; but if it mean that our education as men is finished, it is the greatest mistake: in fact, it is only then that it begins. All that we have been learning hitherto does but constitute our armory—the weapons and implements we are to use to help ourselves to obtain knowledge and to become individual characters. I do not mean to say that it is not possible to distinguish one’s self at college in a certain order of knowledge; still, this is quite a different distinction and discipline to what is meant by an University life. Hitherto the youth has been under rules, but where has been the rubbing of intellect against intellect, man with man; where is the proof of the metal’s temper? The world which the University opens to a young man is like the world which opens to uslater-^
532	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a world where there may be an immense amount of learning side by side with an immense amount of ignorance; and of religion side by side with infidelity. But in this world, where the youth is placed who has just passed through his course at college, he is still under a form of discipline, though not the same as that to which he has been accustomed—one under which he learns the necessity of forbearance and yielding to others. He is no longer learning the elements of the sciences, but is brought in contact with professors of mark and of advanced erudition, and finds himself in an atmosphere of healthy emulation with youths from other colleges and other homes. There, for the first time, is his true state and standard measured, and his place known among his fellows. There he feels himself inspired to drink more deeply of the fountain of knowledge, and in that centre of virile learning lasting friendships are formed'for life. The Right Rev. preacher here dwelt on the fact that those who live in a country like England perceive that there is one weakness which we cannot hide from ourselves as Catholics, and that is the want of an University to provide higher education. Not that the intellectual culture to be had in the existing colleges is of an inferior character, since, as far as they go, the instruction they provide is quite as thorough as that which is to be had at the non-Catholic colleges, and the results of the yearly competitive examinations bear most undeniable testimony to their efficiency; but still, what chance can there be for Catholics, who have in these colleges to finish their course of educational training at the age of 18 or 19 by the side of Protestants, who, in their Universities, go on to that of 22 or 23 ? There is none. But this has been no fault of ours. Those magnificent foundations of our Catholic forefathers, Oxford, Cambridge, Winchester, Eton, etc., are ours no more. The Catholics who remained, after the Reformation had done its work, were but a handful in the land; they bravely bore the long persecution of the Faith, and those who could retired into lonelv country places, and preserved it intact at the cost of their privileges as Englishmen. But the time came when the iron hand of oppression was removed from the Catholics in England, and no sooner were they free to do so than their first thought was to restore education. It is said that there are in England now 2,000,000 Catholics, but it must be remembered that by far the larger proportion of them are poor; and, again, that our churches, schools, colleges, and monasteries all depend upon private resources. Our Bishops considered it most necessary, when opening schools twenty-five years ago, to begin with the masses, and there is now no Catholic parish without its school. For the teachers, also, we have three training schools, one of which for efficiency takes precedence of any other in the land. Then, while the Bishops laid this as their foundation, they extended the work to reach the middle and higher classes. The Jesuit Fathers, the moment they were free to act, established four great colleges, the Benedictines two, and the secular clergy were equally active in the same cause. But feeling that, in addition to all this, there was need of a Catholic University, we turned our eyes lovingly to the old seats of learning, Oxford and Cambridge; but the desire to fix it there was overruled, and it was thought better to found another University for our young men, in which those who have the means should find everything that is necessary to enable them to pursue the higher paths of learning and of scientific research. Hence was it that the Sovereign Pontiff imposed on the Bishops of England this sacred work, and
hence began that which will one day be an University (though at present only an University College), with all the Faculties, and the staff of professors needful for an University. Two years ago we officially opened this in London, and drew around us a body of men that would do honor to any learned society in Europe. Among these I name only Professor Paley, and, with regard to another, mention his recent and remarkable discovery of the method of impeding the oxidisation of iron. Our professors are, in fact, eminent men in every way, and are aided by a body of tutors, each of whom takes charge of ten or twelve students in his house. As to tbe students, we began with only sixteen, in a house which I must call patched-up, but which serves for the present as the nucleus of the future University. We are now forty-four in number, and among these are to be found the names of some of the oldest Catholic families in England. We are now well organized, and God has prospered us in a marked way. We have the sanction of the Holy Father and of the English Hierarchy. Only one thing is needed, and this is sacrifices. I know that those who work there do make sacrifices, and what they do should serve as an impetus to others to do in like manner. It is our intention that the University shall be self-supporting, but at present this is impossible. All great works have small beginnings, and grow gradually, but on the day that we have a hundred students, we shall no longer require any exterior aid. We have a library, a laboratory, and the commencement of a museum. All these things have to be supported, and I have ventured to come to France to ask for assistance, and have asked a Catholic Bishop, now an exile from a Protestant country, to speak for us; and in this I do not feel that I am doing anything un-Catholic, for what is an interest to one part of the Church is an interest to the whole. An University at Paris that is Catholic must interest Catholics all over the world, and a Catholic University in London must do the same. Besides, now that times are so difficult on the Continent, many a parent may place his son with us in preference to keeping him to be educated in his own country. I have also to mention the fact that we in England form a part of that one-fifth portion of the civilized races speaking the same language, and it must be borne in mind that with the influence of that English language there is a grand future for the Catholic Church. I am sanguine enough to believe that the Catholic religion will make mighty advances in the course of the next twenty years. We want, then, in our ranks men of power, of character, and of vigor, and there is, thank God, rising up in England a b md of serious, earnest, and thoughtful young men, who fill us with hope for the future. We want money, but still more do we want men, and it is for Catholic youths that more than anything else I ask for. I ask you, first, to appeal to God to bless our efforts, directly and indirectly. Secondly, to interest your friends and exercise your inuflu -ence in your circle to induce them to give us the tribute of their means, or, still better, of their sons. Thirdly, speak of this also to those among whom you are living, and who use not our own language, that with their warm hearts and their great zeal they may forward a Work which, though it does not commend itself in the same way as a hospital or asylum, or as the rags which meet us in the street, is, nevertheless, of a still greater importance in the higher order of charity, and one which will enable us to leave behind us Catholic sons who will be an honor to the Faith left them as a heritage by their lathers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
533
A Long Penance.
About a hundred and sixty years ago there resided at La Trappe a monk who was celebrated even there for the ardor of his devotion and the rigidness of his seclusion. Regular at the altar, at other times in his cell, he had never spoken to any member of the household during the twenty years that he had lived there, and had never once entered the room of a brother. He was an old man, and was rapidly declining in health. Though an invalid, and demanding all the relief which carefulness and attention could suggest, still he was never absent from the matutinal services of the chapel, and never allowed himself the least addition to-the plain accommodations he had always employed.
One morning he arose weaker than ever; but he did not for a moment think of desisting from the duties of bis station, and he went forth before sunrise to attend the prayers. It was with difficulty that in returning he reached his cell. Slowly, with tottering steps, he entered, and closing the door behind him, he stretched himself upon his bed, which, like all the beds in the monastery, was a rough board, with no more covering than a single blanket. He laid himself down to die, but the monk was manifestly not at his ease. In a few moments the door opened, and the occupant of the cell next to him entered. It was the first time for twenty years that any other than the owner had passed that threshold, but the intruder did not seem to be unwelcome. He was a monk who had been a resident at La Trappe for a period scarcely shorter than that of the other. And though always living next him, and every morning, and every noon, and every evening walking in company with him to the chapel, neither had ever looked upon the other, neither had ever spoken.
He entered the cell and approached the dying monk.
“Brother” said he, and the tone of the speaker had a tenderness unusual in that place of mortified affection— “ brother, is there aught in which I can minister to your comfort?”
“The period of comfort and discomfort,” answered the other, “ is for me very rapidly passing away. I would raise my thoughts and my feelings from the world, and send them before me into that heaven where my spirit will soon repose; but there is one ligament which yet binds me to this sphere; and as I approach my final agony, it seems to become lighter than ever. At my entrance into this monastery I left behind me in the world a much-loved brother, involved in the whirlpool of dissipation and sin. The doubts which oppress me as to his situation, if indeed he still lives, are the source of the disquietude which now hangs over me. If a messtge from me at this time could reach him, I think that it would not be without effect. If you can convey one to him, tell him of the anguish which I feel for his condition; tell him of the infinite importance of religion; implore him," and the speaker, as he grew more excited, raised himself upon his arm and fixed his eye keenly upon the stander-by, “implore him—yet stay,” he said, pausing, and saying wildly—“who are you? ’Tis strange! ” and he drew back and stared with eager doubt upon the other. “That face—I have seen it; yet—no, it is not."
“It is!” exclaimed the other; “it is your brother! A few months had elapsed after your entrance into this monastery, when, wearied by the joyless pleasures of the world, and struck by the noble example which you set before me, I resolved to dedicate myself to piety here. I entered the
society. Chance assigned me the cell which adjoins yours. Ardent and tender as was the att ichment which I felt for you, I determined, in penance for my sins, to impose upon myself the hard resolution of never addressing you until the moment of dissolution should arrive for one of us. For more than nineteen years I have heard through the apertures of the wall your daily prayers for my safety, and your nightly tears for my absence. Agonizing as was the effort to repress my emotion, I kept my vow and was silent. My course is nearly run; the reward is at hand. In silence have we worked out our salvation upon earth, but we will speak, my dear brother, we will speak in heaven! ”
The dying man raised his eyes and fixed them faintly on the speaker, then sighed; his brother felt a feeble pressure from the hand which enclosed his. A moment, and there stood but one living spirit in that silent cell. That dead monk was Count Albergotti!—Exchange.
Sturgeons.
The sturgeons present some striking peculiarities. The skeleton never becomes bony, but remains throughout the life of the fish in the condition of cartilage. The surface of the body is furnished with large bony plates, which are placed in five longitudinal rows. There is but one back-fin, which is situated well toward the tail. The mouth is placed under the elongated and often pointed snout, is toothless, and in front of it hang four barbels, or threadlike appendages. The gills are concealed by gill-covers, each having an opening, which is protected by an operculum. Most of the species inhabit the sea, and ascend the rivers to spawn; but there are some peculiar to fresh-water lakes. The sturgeons belong to the genus Acipenser, which is the Greek name for a fish much prized by the ancients, and believed to be the sturgeon. The most important species is the sturgeon of the Black and Caspian Seas, Acipen-ser Huso. This species, which grows to the length of twenty or twenty-five feet, furnishes the most valued isinglass and caviare. The best Russian isinglass is the swimming-bladder of this species, merely washed and dried. It is nearly pure gelatine, and is almost entirely soluble in hot water. Less valued kinds of isinglass are procured from other sturgeons, and some from other kinds of fish. Caviare is the roe of the female sturgeon, prepared by salting and drying. This is highly esteemed as an article of food in Russia, Germany, and other parts of Europe, and is kept at the German restaurants in this country. About nine thousand persons are said to be engaged in the Caspian sturgeon fisheries.
The sturgeon business at various points upon the Hudson River is of considerable importance, some of the fisheries giving employment to fifty men. The sturgeon, though so large a fish, is easily caught in nets. The species caught in the Hudson is principally the sharp-nosed sturgeon, Acipenser oxyrhyncus. It is captured mainly for its flesh, though we believe that caviare is made at some of the establishments. Considerable quantities of the fish are pickled, and some smoked. Sturgeon is frequently offered in the New York markets, but by far the greatest share caught in the Hudson finds its way to Albany, and all along the river the fish is known as “Albany beef.” As many as seventy-five sturgeons, weighing in the aggregate about nine tons, have been taken to Albany by one of the steamers at one trip. The flesh of the sturgeon has a light red color, and the fat is pale yellow. It is eaten fried and
534
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
roasted, but seldom boiled. It is by some highly prized as an article of food. The spoon-billed sturgeon of our western rivers belongs to another genus.. It has no bony plates upon its body, and its snout is expanded into a broad thin plate, sometimes nearly as long as the body.
Scientific Notes.
—A second Italian expedition for the exploration of Africa has arrived at Suez.
—Another new metal has been discovered, and is named Lavoesium by its discoveror, AI. Prat, in honor of Lavoisier. In color it resembles silver; it is fusible and malleable.
—No naturalist in America should be without the Popular Science Montldy, a magazine of the first class. It will inform him every month of the leading scientific questions of the day.
—It has been decided that of the statues of the two Humboldts which are to be erected iu Berlin, that of Alexander will be given to Reinhold Begens to execute, and that of Wilhelm to AI. P. Otto.
—We acknowledge the receipt of Vols. 19 and 20 of the Smithsonian Contribution and The Stone Age in New Jersey, from Prof. Henry, Secretary ol the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. They present a mass of facts.
—Vegetation at last makes its appearance. We noticed not less than ten flowers coming out last week. The order of appearance is, April 12th, Hepatica triloba and Gal-thapalustris on the bank of the St. Joseph; on the 15th, Viola tricolor, Narcissus poeticus; on the 18th, Dentaria he-terophylla, Sanguinaria canadensis, Glaytonia vtrginica, Tha-lictrum anemonoides, Gardamine rhomboidea, and Viola petala.
—One of the German dynamite manufactories has lately been producing a cheap sort of dynamite called pautopol-lite, the peculiarity of which lies in the fact that it contains a small percentage of naphthaline dissolved in the nitroglycerine. The purpose of this addition is staled to be in order to prevent the formation of tne disagreeable nitrous vapors during explosions. The results of practical tests with tuis material seem to have been quite satisfactory.
—Gen. S. Berdan, of the United States, has invented a “range-finder.” It consists of telescopes, the measuring being absolutely precise up to two thousand metres. The average time required to place the instrument in position and take the distance is less than two minutes, and the time required to make the distance of a second object, when the instrument is once opened, less than one minute. This instrument, the General asserts, will double the effective firing of artillery, and quadruple that ot infantry.
—A new indicator for the velocity of railway trains is described in Dinglefs Journal. The inventors, Samman & Weber, utilize the swinging motion of the railway carriages. Within a case, clock work is fixed which causes a large horizontal plate to rotate once in twelve hours. On the plate a disc of paper is held by a spring, the border being divided into hours and minutes. The point of a pencil, which is attached to two springs and a pendulum, plays on the paper. Caoutchouc buffers below the box communicate the swinging motion of the carriage to the pendulum, so that the pencil makes a zigzag line round the paper. On removing the paper the rate of travelling may be studied. When the train is at rest, the pencil, ot course, merely draws an arc of a circle.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Herr August Wilhelmj is busy in London preparing for the Wagner season.
—Longfellow has twenty-two publishers in England, and few of them have ever paid him a cent.
—Kenelm Digby’s “Broadstone of Honor,” long out of print, will be reissued in London this month.
—Verdi, it is said, will write the music of a grand opera to be founded on Sardou’s drama, “ La Patrie.”
—Air. John Clark, a Detroit baritone, has been engaged by Alapieson, under the name of Sig. Brocolini.
—Harriet Alartineau’s pictures have just been sold in London, and brought altogether a little more than $6,000.
—A complete edition of the works of the late James Hanney, with a brief biography, is announced for next winter by an Irish publisher.
—A novel from the far-off territory of Wyoming is in press in Philadelphia. It is by Judge E. A. Thomas, and is called “At Swords’ Points.”
—R. H. Horne has arranged Shakspeare’s “ Comedy of Errors ” with some new scenes. It is not stated whether or no Air. Horne has “ improved on ” Shakspeare.
—“Raymond,” the Washington correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial, is Airs. Alohun, a daughter of Airs. Anna H. Dorsey, the well-known Catholic writer.
—Air. Jerome Hopkins’ new sacred opera, “ Samuel,” will be produced at the Academy of Music, New York, on Alay 3d, with a chorus of nearly three hundred voices.
—A three-act opera on an English subject has been written by George A. Osborne, who is well known in London as a pianist and composer. The libretto is by Dr. Waller, author of the "Eve of St. John.”
—The competition for the making of the colossal equestrian statue of Robert E. Lee is to be thrown open to the sculptors of the whole world. All proposals must be presented by the first Alonday in September.
—The statement is here made with the reservation that, if he tells the truth, Air. Strakosch has engaged Aliss Annie Louise Cary for next season. The number of people now under engagement to the great impressario is something marvellous.
—A. new edition of Canon Farrer’s “Seekers after God” has just been published. The volume includes the lives of Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius, and is an admirable help to the study of these old worthies, which is just now quite.popular.
—Air. Edwin Arber, according to the London journals, is attempting a difficult teat, namely to prepare a catalogue of all the editions of books printed in Eagland or her colonies down to 1660, together with all editions printed by or for Englishmen abroad down to the same date.
—Illness has prevented Air. John Habberton from completing his “ Scripture Club of Valley Rust ” as soon as he had expected, to the considerable disappointment >>f booksellers who have been pouring in orders, and, later, indignant queries as to why the book did not come. It is still, hoped, however, that the book may be published this spring.
—John G. Whittier, in a recent letter, thus refers to the dramatization of “ Alaud Aluller.” “I never thought much of ‘ Alaud Aluller,’ and since she has got upon the stage I utterly disown her. There is something exquisitely absurd in the idea of the old judge and the overdone matron with as many children as the ‘old woman who lived in a shoe,’ finding their ‘affinities’ at this late day.”
—The artistic circles of high Parisian society have sustained a conspicuous loss. The Countess Delphine Potocka has just died. She was Chopin’s pupil and friend, and was as notably the leader of all things musical in the Faubourg St. Germain as the Dowager Duchess of Fnzjames is its Rosa Bonheur and the Alarchioness of Alun its Rosalba. When the great Polish composer was dying she .watched at his bedside, and was singing him a religious song when he drew his last breath. In recompense the organ of the Church of St. Augustine played his funeral march as her coffin was lowered iuto the grave.
—The Paris Gaulois relates an anecdote of Allie. Heilbronn during her late engagement at Moscow. One day she had the curiosity to go and hear some famous gypsy singers who were giving their entertainment in a restaurant—a sort of winter garden—outside the city, and which was frequented by the best society. She was accompanied by Mme. Alilioutine, Tarnowski, Waltz, the tenor Corsi, and the bari. tone Strozzi. The Bohemians sang, accompanying them
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	535
selves on seven-stringed guitars. The prima-donna was astonished and delighted, asked to have some of the pieces repeated, and finally went and kissed the principal vocalist. “Who is that lady ? ” the latter asked of Mr. Tarnowski. “ It is Mlle. Heilbronn, the star of theltalian opera!” “We have often heard of her,” returned the gypsy, “ but unfortunately we cannot go to hear her, as we have to perform here every evening Ask her to sing us something. She looks amiable and good natured, and I am sure she will consent.” Mlle. Heilbronn acceded to the wish, and sitting down to the piano, gave in French the song of “ Margotin,” by Lulli. The effect on the gypsies was indescribable; they were all ears, and appeared to understand not only the music but the sense of the words. Mlle. Heilbronn sang again, and received quite an ovation. The two Italian singers followed the example of the diva, and the evening which had commenced with the simple airs of the gypsies, ended by becoming a real concert given by the three artists of the Italian opera. That day will be long remembered by the gypsy singers of Moscow.
Books and Periodicals.
—The May number of Our Young Folks' Magazine contains a number of articles which, no doubt, will be of the deepest interest to young people. The illustrations are got up in very good style and make the appearance of the journal very neat and pretty. It would not be a bad thing for the Minims here to get up a club for it. It costs $1.60 per-annum. Address P. 0. Box 3090, Boston, Mass.
Manual of English Rhetoric. By A. D. Hepburn, Professor in Davidson College, N. C. Cincinnati and. New York: Wilson, • Hinkle & Co.
The Manual of English Rhetoric by Prof. Hepburn is one of the best works of its kind we have met with. Clear and concise in style, it is just the work to assist the more advanced pupils in high schools and colleges in their endeavors to acquire elegance in English prose composition. Most English text-books on Rhetoric are nothing more than abridgements of Blair or Whately, but Prof. Hepburn’s work does not belong to this class. His treatment of the subject is not in the old groove, first cut by Blair, nor does he follow Whately and discuss topics which naturally belong to Logic and ./Esthetics. He treats only of English prose composition, and does so in a manner which makes everything plain and comprehensible to the student. The excellent paper, clear type and general good style in which the book is issued do the publishers high honor.
Pinneo’s Guide to Composition. A Series of Practical Lessons designed, to simplify the Art of Writing Composition. By T. 8. Pinneo, A. M., M. D., Author of “ Primary Grammar, “ Analytical Grammar,” etc. Cincinnati and New York: Wilson, Hinkle & Co.
Pinneo’s series of Grammars have for a long time enjoyed a high reputation throughout the West, and, we believe, deservedly so. The work on composition, now before us, consists of graduated lessons on English composition, with sufficiently full and appropriate directions, exercises, and models designed to teach the beginner the art of composing with accuracy and elegance. We do not believe in teaching grammar unless it be made practical. How many young boys are able to parse and analyze sentences and yet be unable to write a sentence of their own correctly! Grammar and composition should go together, and as the pupil learns his grammar he should be made to put it into practice. Pinneo’s Guide aims at doing this, and does it with great success. The pupil is led along in the art of constructing sentences so gradually that the ordinary difficulties are overcome before he knows that he has had any to encounter.
—The April number of the Catholic Record keeps up its reputation as a popular Catholic Monthly. It opened with an interesting skecth of Catholicity in Pennsylvania prior to 1800, followed by a poem entitled “Shadows.” “In God’s Keeping ” is an excellent tale, which the readers of the Record will enjoy. “A Vital Question” reviews Lady Fullerton’s translation of the Life of Madame Barat, the Foundress of the Congregation known as The Ladies of the Sacred Heart. “ Look Again ” is a poem which will no doubt be read with pleasure by those who love ringing poetry. “ The Corporal Beauty of Christ,” A Vision of Religion on the
Pacific Coast,” “Why the Church Condemns Freemasonry,” are all well written. The second named, written in verse, tells us of the vision of Fra Geronimo. After a translation of some sweet verses of St. John of the Cross, entitled the “Fairest Fair,” we have the second part of “Religion and Heroism,” republished from the London Month. The Record is a magazine which will ever receive a warm welcome at Catholic hearthstones.
—The May number of the Catholic World is, on the whole, a very readable one. The opening article, entitled “ The Prussian Chancellor,” is a thoughtful production. It is followed by “Veronica,” a legend of Medoc, which is very entertaining. We are pleased to see that Mr. T. W. Parsons has begun again bis translation of Dante, and in this number of the World we have the fifteenth canto of Purgatorio. Dante has no truer nor more poetic translator into English than Mr. Parsons. “Six Sunny Months ” we are informed will soon come to a close. We are glad of it, for we consider it far inferior to the first productions of the fair author. “ Mayflowers ” is a very pretty poem. “ The Lepers of Tracadie ’’ introduces the readers of the World to a class of people almost wholly unknown to those living outside of Ke w Brunswick. We read this article with more than usual interest having had already some slight knowledge ot these strangely afflicted beings. “The Testimony of me Catacombs” is a learned article. “ Two May Carols ” by Aubrey de Vere are worthy that excellent poet. “Letters of a Young Irish Woman to her Sister” come to an end next month. We are sorry they do not end with this number. They are unworthy thelFortd’s reputation. “Up the Nile ” is finished with this number; it is quite interesting. “Nanette,” “De Vere’s ‘Mary Tudor’” and “The French Clergy during the Late War in France" make up the remaining articles of a very good number of the Catholic World. “Nanette” is an excellent story.
Of the bovince, or oxen, we have in this country but two native species: the well known Buffalo, Bos Ameri-canus, and the very rare musk-ox, Ovibos mochatus. The genus Ovibos is distinguished by its horns, which curve outward and downward, and by its muffle, which is hairy, except a small place between the nostrils. As its name Ovibos implies, it partakes of the characters of both the sheep and the ox, and some naturalisis classify it with the sheep and goat. The male musk-ox is about the size of a two-year old cow. The horus meet on the summit of the head; they are broad and flat, and curve downward between the eyes and the ears until opposite the mouth, when the points are turned upward. The hair, which is brownish-black, is very long and thick, and hangs down below the middle of the leg. Beneath the hair is a soft ash-colored wool of an exceedingly fine quality, which affords the animal ample protection against the rigors of an arctic winter. The animal's tail is so short that it was at first described as tailless. The musk ox is fouud from latitude 60° to as far north as 1 md extends. It is found in small herds of twenty or thirty; when attacked, the cows run, but the bulls show fight, and prove dangerous antagonists. It is very nimble in its movements, and chmbs hills and rocks with great ease. Its food is lichens and grasses. The flesh, when the animal is fat, is said to be of agreeable . flavor, but when poor and lean it smells strongly of musk. The fossil remains of this ox are said to be found upon the northwest coast, and those of the same, or a closely allied species, in Siberia. Although this animal is found living only upon this Continent, it has been exceedingly difficult for our naturalists to obtain specimens from which to describe it. For a long time the only specimen known was one sent to England by Hearne, a celebrated traveller. Some years ago a stuffed specimen was presented by Doctor Kane to the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences at Pniladelphia, where it remains, so far as we are aware, the only representative of the species in the country. We do not know that any attempts have been made to domesticate the musk-ox, and it is doubtful if it would endure the climate of even the northernmost of our States. Still the exquisite fineness of its wool, said to excel that of any other animal, makes it desirable that the experiment should be tried. If, as some naturalists claim, the animal is more of a sheep than an ox, interesting, and it may be useful, hybrids might result from crossing it with the sheep.
536
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fam
Notre Dame,	38, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Students’ Month.
It is not an easy matter, in a climate like ours here in Northern Indiana, to go into raptures over the budding spring, and it requires a more than usual amount of poetic fancy to get one’s “ singing clothes ” about him and chant of the natural beauties of the month of May. We are told by the weather-prophets that April showers bring May flowers, but as a rule in our climate there is generally in these showers too much of snow and ice, and’ as a consequence the verdure of May is a sort of invisible green even to the sharpest-eyed naturalist. The faint chilly twitter of a few small birds gives about as truthful and lively a representation of the warbling of birds as a cracked fiddle and a pair of bones do of a full orchestra; and when from the profusion of flowers decorating the green bed of the earth and of which the rhymesters sing in their poems on “beautiful Spring” we turn to the poor, timid flowrets shuddering under the brown and dead leaves of winter and seeming conscious that they have sprung up too soon, we are compelled to allow that the rhymesters have more poetry than truth in their effusions, though as to the majority of them it is generally admitted that they have precious little of the former. However, though such is generally the state of affairs with us about the first of May, we are only too happy to state that, from present appearances, the first of May will, this year, do its level best to make truthful all the fine things which poets have said of it, and realize in our regions at least a semblance of what’ it is in those happy climes, far to the south, where the winter does not hold out so long. The sun these last few days of April has been bright, the sky blue, and all the etcaeteras are furnished in abundance. That during this phenomenal weather, the students should enjoy their hours of recreation is not to be wondered at. All enjoy themselves, if we may judge from the blitheful air of some of the stalwart students wending their way to the boat-house, from the cheerful look of some of the smaller. students returning
from the lake with their long strings of fish (and, by the way, it was only last week that they returned with an even one hundred of the finny tribe on their strings), from the merry shouts of the young athletes at baseball on the Campus, and from the sound of the distant gun as a young nimrod bags a bird. But we must return to the subject about which we proposed to speak. The month of May will, we believe, come this year with smiles and sunshine, and make us feel that there is after all some truth in the rhymings of the poets. And with these smiles and sunshine, birds and blossoms and general joy, will come also the evening May devotions. These will last one half-hour each evening in the month, aud will consist of English hymns, a sermon of ten or fifteen minutes, and a short prayer. The hymns have been prepared and will doubtless be sung in a praiseworthy manner; and we trust that our singers, great and small, will make the devotions of this coming month of May more edifying and instructive than any yet held at Notre Dame.
But why do we head this article “ The Students’ Month ” ? It is because the devotions of the month of May first originated among students. These devotions are now a universal practice among Catholics, and the children of the Church in all parts of the world unite in honoring in an especial manner the Mother of God during the three dec-a'des of days which make up the month of May. But, like many other devotious practiced in the Church, its origin was obscure, and unpromising of the great results which it has achieved. In the early part of the sixteenth century, Father Lalomia, a Professor in one of the many Jesuit colleges in Italy, in order to increase the piety of the members of his class, proposed to them to perform each day during the month of May some particular devotion to the Mother of God. The happy suggestion was joyfully seconded by his pupils, and accordingly a statue of the Blessed Virgin was placed upon a table at the end of the class-room. Before this humble altar, which was decorated with flowers, the good Father and his pious pupils daily assembled, there to recite certain prayers in honor of Mary and make a short meditation on her virtues. The fervent piety which from that period distinguished the members of Father La-lomia’s class was" remarked with much gratification by the Fathers of the college. They determined to extend the devotion to all the classes of the institution, and, accordingly, the following May, statues were erected in all the classrooms and prayers were offered up daily during the month by all the pupils. The effect was remarkable. Those who had heretofore been untractable now became models of obedience and docility; those who had been negligent in the practice of their religion were converted to a holier life; the slothful and indolent became examples in the punctual discharge of their duties. The praises of Mary were on every tongue. The priests, seeing the great and good effects which the devotion of the month of May had produced in a single college, immediately introduced it into all the colleges conducted by the great Society ofJesus in Italy and other countries; and as they went forth from? these institutions to attend the missions they established the devotion among the people and thus it spread all over the world. Such having been the origin of the May devotions, are we wrong in calling the month of May, in an especial manner, the Student’s Month? and ought not the students of to-day endeavor to imitate their predecessors of the sixteenth century in manifesting fervent love for Mary, the Seat of Wisdom ?	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
537
Russian Diplomacy.
The war which has now commenced in Europe threatens to be a fierce and terrible one. In the words of General Sherman: “Neither Russia nor Turkey ever had larger or better disciplined armies than now. They have all the advantages of many improved arms and modes of warfare.” Hence the struggle will not be between fanatic hordes of Mussulmans on one side and undisciplined swarms of Cossacks on the other. For more than sixty years the armies of Europe have learned to respect the valor of the Cossack soldiery, and they can attest their worth.
The Turks have in their army some of the best disciplined officers of the French and English armies, while the Russians have many staff officers from among the veteran German corps. Besides these facts the best authorities are of the opinion that the war cannot be confined to the two nations first drawing the sword. Leaving out the other nations of Europe, which will almost certainly be drawn into the war, the interest of England forbids Russian preponderance in the Asiatic provinces of Turkey as undisputed sway west of the Bosphorus. In former times England has been entrapped into alliances threatening to her interest, but she has readily cast covenants aside when policy and interest demanded it. In the present complications, England, although her interests are opposed to the apparent and ulterior designs of Russia, is now under the obligation of alliance to remain neutral while Russia dismembers the Turkish Empire which English statesmen have ever guarded and upheld. It is evident that Englaud has been over-reached by Russian diplomacy; for it is not probable that Russia is going to war for the mere purpose of giving independent local government to Herzegovina, Bosnia, Servia and Bulgaria, but that she does so for the purpose of adding to her already vast domains.
Had Russia precipitated the war a year ago, as she might have done, she could not have prevented any coalition which might have been made against her. Now, by the manipulations of the Czar’s diplomatic agents, Russia enters the war without fear of any alliances the Turks may make at present; and with one month's start in the campaign, with her armies south of the Balkiau range, she can defy any future coalition and defeat the best efforts of the European nations to rout her.
The Russians thus enter the field against the Turks untrammelled. England has allowed herself to be entrapped into the conditions of the protocol, and the refusal of the Turks to abide by them debars England from an espousal of the Turkish cause. But the sagacity of the Russian diplomats who entrapped the Christian ally of Turkey has been no less far-seeing in other directions, for we read that a Persian column is hovering on the eastern frontiers of Asiatic Turkey ready to pass the borders so soon as the X— -Russians cross the Pruth.
' When we bear in mind that the English dominion of Hin-dostan is not far off, this Persian diversion will be regarded as the most ominous encroachment of the Russian scheme The Czar has already annexed the great province of Turkestan, and unless England fights will undoubtedly appropriate to herself Beloochistan. Thus entrenched, he would very seriously dispute the industrial supremacy of British India.
That Russia has enveloped England in a subtly woven web, the indignant remonstrances of the London Times at
test. But a few days ago it congratulated the world on the prudence, moderation and conciliatory policy of the Czar’s Government. The protocol had then been drafted. That was the work of English as much as it was of Russian diplomacy. Its acceptance by Turkey would have been the relegation of Turkish affairs to English statesmen. But Turkey rejects the pacific device to which England put her seal as an ultimatum not possible to be rejected by the Sultan’s advisers. It requires but little knowledge of English history to guess the course of England so soon as the Russian advance indicates any peril to Anglo-Indian interests. Russian success would transform Astrachan into a distributing point for the Indian Empire of Russia, which draws from Calcutta its commercial importance and renders the Suez Canal a profitless expenditure of English capital. England will fight sooner than that this should happen, and it was a knowledge of this, perhaps, which prompted the Turks to give the defiant answer to Russia. That Russia foresaw the ulterior dependence of Turkey upon England is shown by the long and tedious game to handicap her formidable adversary by astute diplomacy.
Personal.
—Josiah Farrer, Esq., of Peru, Ind., visited Notre Dame on last Thursday.
—Very Rev. Father General left for Washington, D. C.,' last week on business affairs.
—The Favorite, of Lancaster, Ohio, says that John D. McCormick, of ’74, is one of the handsomest Mayors Lancaster ever had. .	'
—W. G. Wheelock, of Janesville, Wis., J. M. Pool, C. E. Wheelock and Geo. O. Wore, of South Bend, were among our visitors last week.	■-
—John Hogan, of ’74, is still in Europe, pursuing his medical studies. Mr. Hogan graduated at the Medical College in Chicago, last year.
—For several days during the past week, Rev. L. Baroux, of Ecorse, Mich., was the guest of Very Rev. Father Granger. Their friendship began during boyhood in France.
—Denis J. Hogan, of ’74, now of the law firm of Fanning & Hogan, Chicago, spent a couple of days at Notre Dame last week, calling upon his old friends. We learn with pleasure that he is prospering in his profession. ’
—Mr. J. Runiely, of Laporte, was at Notre Dame last week. He reports his sons, Joseph, of ’72, and William, of ’73, (both Commercial), as doing extremely well. Joseph has charge of the books of the firm of Rumely Brothers, and William is head machinist.
—We are sorry to announce that Prof. Tong’s little son, Allie, died last Wednesday morning of scarlet fever. In this sad blow to Professor Tong’s happy family, in which death has entered for the first time, he has the heartfelt sympathy of everyone at Notre Dame.
—Rev. Ed. Mears, of ’62, has some time assumed, by direction of the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Cleveland, the financial control of our able contemp >rary the Catholic Universe. It is gratifying to learn, too, that he is leading it steadily into the broad and sunny highways of success.
—J. A. Hitchler (Commercial), of ’73, suspended the publication of the Weekly Monitor last week, after publish- ' ing it one year. It seems that the citizens of Henryville did not give him the necessary support and for this reason he has given up the newspaper business to enter one more renumerative. In his new enterprise we wish him every success.
—We learn that Daniel B. Hibbard, of ’70, was married a short while ago to Miss Irfine Truax, of Detroit. We tender our congratulations to Mr. Hibbard, and wish himself and his bride a long lease of happiness. Mr. Hibbard was elected Circuit Court Commissioner of Wayne County,
538
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mich., last fall and is prospering in Detroit. His office is on Griswold St, between Congress and Larned, but the number we do not know.
—Messrs. Murray, of the South Bend Herald, and Brower, of the South Beud Register, called at Notre Dame last Sunday. We are sorry we were absent that day, for both are gentlemen well worth meeting. Mr. Murray says in the Herald of this week: “ We paid a brief visit to Notre Dame Sunday and enjoyed the-society of the young men and the hospitalities ot the College. A good dinner, a ride on the lake, a stretch on the grass to see somebody else take the knocks in a game of baseball, and a quiet walk across-the country, made up a delightful day.” Call again, gentlemen.
—How is this? In The Daily Bluff City, published at Elgin, Ill., we find, the following announcement^ which is credited to the Bertrand (Mich) Daily Surveyor, a paper which, by the way, is not on our exchange list: “ Married. —At Hickory Station on Feb. 29th; 1877, Publius Siatius, an aged philosopher of South Bead, to Miss S. Rowmison of Nnes, Michigan, by Rev. Squinty Smith. In their transit o’er the broad sea of life may the same magnetism ever exist in their damped hearts. May their tie-line never be broken ; and having become a tripod (at least) may they do their lead best to keep their object glass upon the Polar star of eternal happiness; and by taking long offsets to the state of discord, glide without a stoppage in transitu into eternal happiness; and lastly, having planted the red flag of victory upon the highest hill of fame, be monarchs of all they survey. So wish all his friends in Limberger.”
.Local Items.
—A new fence has been put up on the Campus.
—The weather this past week was really magnificent.
—On next Monday evening the devotions of the Month of May will begin.
—The Orchestra is engaged in rehearsing Rossini’s Overture to “ Othello.”
—A considerable part of the court back of the College building is to be sodded.
—The old pier has been removed from the upper lake. Will anew one be built?
—The Juniors go fishing every Wednesday afternoon and 'seem to enjoy the sport.
—The usual procession on the Feast of St. Mark took place on Wednesday last.
—The boys seem to enjoy the evening recreation after supper more than any other.	'
—The room adjoining the College Library has been fitted up as a cabinet of curiosities.
—Baseball was played considerably this last week, although not many reports of games were sent in for publication.
—There will be short sermons, ten or fifteen minutes long, every evening, except Saturdays and Sundays, during the Month of May.
—We have been requested to announce that no hunting is allowed at Notre Dame within a radius of one half mile of the College.
—The Philopatrians’ Entertainment will take place on the Sth of May. We will publish the programme of the exercises next week.
—There will be a meeting of the resident Alumni tomorrow afternoon, at two o’clock sharp. The attendance of all is requested.	,
—We have been led to understand that the Thespians intend repeating “Julius Caesar” the evening before Commencement Day, next June.
—It is mentioned as one of the peculiarities of the late Hon. Thomas Ewing, of Ohio, that he read Horace in the original regularly once a year.
—We have been informed that there were several cases of “ spring fever ” in the beginning of the week. At the latest account they were all convalescent.
—There are som e magnificent bass in the upper lake but as this is their spawning time it is wrong to catch them. Wait a few weeks and then go fishing for them.
—The Seniors are reading “The Life and Times of St. Bernard,” translated from the French of Abbe Ratisbonne, in their refectory. The readers show marks of great improvement.
—Br. Peter seems determined to make his garden in front of the College as fine as it was under his administration years ago. Some people doubt his ability to do so, but we feel confident that he can.
—The ingeniously-contrived paper.cutter, made by one of the employees of this.office, attracts much attention. The cutter is attached to the old Adams press, on which the covers of the Ave Maria are printed.
—A number of Juniors spent some of their time last Wednesday in beautifying the graves of their deceased friends, priests and Brothers, in the Community cemetery. It shows the affection they bore their former teachers.
—The Juniors went fishing one afternoon last week, and in the evening they found by actual count that they had taken one hundred good-sized fish. They took them to the kitchen and had them served up for dinner next day.
—Now that warm weather has set in, no student should ’ allow himself any respite from hard study. In the two months yet before them, every student may accomplish much in the way of study, if study is always attended to.
—Prof. Edwards is very proud of the elegant gold-headed cane presented to him by the members of the Columbian Literary Club; but what he prizes most is the good will which prompted the boys to give him so beautiful a gift.
—Rev. Father Letourneau has been engaged for some time in beautifying the premises about the Professed-House. He has planted a number of hedges, lilac and privet, levelled off the grounds, and fixed up things generally.	-
—In Pomeroy's Democrat of last week there is a column and a half of matter concerning Notre Dame. Its great length is our reason for not republishing it. The article, which is very favorable to the College, is from the pen of Mr. Wm. Hoynes of ’69.	-
—Is it not about time for the different societies to elect their representatives for Society Day ? This should not be allowed to be forgotten until June, when, with the many things to be attended to, those appointed plead want of time for all shortcomings. Make Society Day a grand one this year.
—On Wednesday last, a party of Juniors in the course of two hours caught three hundred fish. John Mosal caught the largest fish. E. J. Pennington caught the greatest number of fish (twenty-nine), and Joseph McTague the next in number (twenty-seven). L. Frazee came next, booking in some seventeen.
—Mrs. Reilly, who was burnt out last fall, has moved into her new house this week. Prof. Ivers, who gave her the free use of his residence during the winter, as well as all those who contributed towards the building of the new house, may now feel well satisfied that they did a good deed for a worthy person.
—A new edition of the pamphlet entitled “ Motives of Devotion to the Blessed Virgin” is now being issued from the "Ave Maria" office. The sale of the pamphlet has been very large, and as it contains an excellent statement of the reasons why Catholics honor the Blessed Virgin Mary we may recommend all our readers to procure a copy of it.
—The 44th regular meeting of the St Stanislaus Philopatrians was held on Monday, April 16th. The following gave declamations: A. Keenan, R. Keenan, W. Taulby, C. Peltier, J. G. Duffield, W. Nicholas, J. Ingwerson, W. Stewart, L. Frazee, W. Jones, F. Phelan, J. Bell, J. McTague, F. Rheinboldt, G. Donnelly, G. Taylor, J. Reynolds.
—There will be much rivalry not only among individuals, but also between quite a number of classes, for the largest percentage. Which class will come out ahead in each de- ' partmeut? and which student will have the best percentage ? These will be determined in June, and we prophesy that they will win who stick to the work of the classroom.

TAE NOtRE dame scholastic.
539
—The 27th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Sunday evening, April 22. After an addres by the President, declamations were delivered by Messrs. J. Lambin and J. Proudhomme. A vote of thanks was given to Rev. Father Golovin and Prof. Edwards for the sumptuous banquet given by them to the Association.
—On Monday evening the devotions of the Month of May will, if the weather permit, be opened by a procession of the Archconfraternity and of the clergy to the church. There will then be a sermon preached by Rev. President Golovin, after which Solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament will be given. If the weather is not favorable the procession will not be held.
—We understand that Hon. Frank H. Hurd, ex-member of Congress from the Toledo District of Ohio, has accepted an invitation to deliver the oration of the day, at the Commencement in June. Mr. Hurd was one of the ablest and most distinguished members of the last Congress, and friends of Notre Dame attending the Commencement exercises may look for a scholarly oration.
—The grove just north of the upper lake will, in a few years, when the trees planted this year will have attained some growth, look far more beautiful than ever. It would not be a bad idea to plant a number of Norway pines, balsam and spruce firs, hemlocks, etc., throughout the groves about the the lake. They would add greatly to the shade; and then if any man dare cut down one of the trees shoot him on the spot!
—The following is the score of a game of baseball played last week, the third for the championship between, the Star of the E ist and the Excelsiors:
ing. This of course is the same thing as advocating Gregorian Chant, for unless the music be Gregorian there can be no congregational singing.
—The following is the score of the second championship game between the Star of the East and the Excelsior Baseball Clubs:
STAB OF THB BAST.
B. O.
EXCELSIORS.
B. O.
W. Ball,lb.............
A Sehmidt, 1. f........
E. Sugg, c. f..........
J. Quinn, 3 b..........
A.	Betcher, 2 b........
H. Cassidy, p..........
B.	Hinds, r. f.........
F. Maas, s. s..........
P. Hagan, c............
Total..............
6
2
3
3
3
4
2
4
4
1 5
3
3
4
3
4
2
2
W. Ohlman, c............
J. English, 1. f........
M. Kauffman, 2 b.......
R. Price, r. f.........
G. Sugg, lb.............
C. Walsh, c. f..........
J. Phelan, 3b...........
C. Larkin...............
N. VanNamee, s. s.......
Total...............
0 0
2
2
1
3
1
1
2
12
5 5
1
2
4
1
3 3
3
27
3127
Scorers—O. Hamilton and G. Lonstorf.
—A friend sends us the following
—The 31st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place on the 24th inst. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. T. Fischel, J. Hagerty, G. Cassidy, F. McGrath, G. Sampson, C. Faxon, J. Mosal, 0. Lindberg, W. Hake, C. Hagan, R. Qolsen, F. Cavanaugh, G. Sugg, A. J. Burger, M. B. Kauffman, J. Healy, W. A Widdicombe, and W. Ohlman. Essays were read by Messrs. C. Clarke, R. P. Mayer, D. Ryan, E. Moran and C. Or-singer. Selections were read by Messrs. J. Rothert and G-Crawford. Although the meeting took place in the evening after a well-fought battle of baseball, the voices of the speakers were in good trim, and all of the members took part in the exercises.
—While all was excitement on the Campus last Wednesday over the championship game of baseball, there could be seen some fifteen or twenty youthful anglers seated on the banks of the upper lake who would compare well with Saxe’s Cold-Water Man:
“A cunning fisherman was he, His angles all were right, The smallest nibble at his bait Was sure to piove a bite.
All day this fisherman would sit Upon an ancient log, And gaze into the water, like Some sedentary frog.”
—That excellent weekly journal The Catholic Review, of No. 11 Barclay St., New York city, has been made the medium through which the bulletins of the Society of St. Gregory will be given to the public. The Review is a well-conducted paper, thoroughly Catholic, and deserves the support of Catholic readers. The Society of St. Gregory, of which we spoke some time ago, is a Society the object of which is to introduce Gregorian Chant into the churches of the United States. We cannot too highly commend it to the attention of the Rjverend clergy, and wish it unbounded success. The Catholic Mirror, the Catholic Columbian, and other papers, are advocating congregational sing-
FUGITIVE LINES
ON AN EPISODE IN THB CAREER OP A PERSONAGE IN HIGH POSITION.
'Atr : lanchi D'Cdl.
I.
Upon Ambition’s brink he stood,	■
Aspiring to dominion,
But quailed before the rising flood Of popular opinion.
.	' ii.
His eager friends produced a skiff, And said, to ease his fidget, “ We’ll ferry you across, sir, if You don’t propose to bridge it.”
in.
“ Your ferry-boat is rotten. I Don’t care to get aboard it.
I’ve seen Ben wade. I think PH try— I guess I’d ruther ford it.”
iv.
So be, to the disgust of Ben, Who thinks he has no equal, Wades in alone, what happens then We’ll tell you in the sequel.
—A meeting of the students of the Commercial department was held April 26th, in Class Room No. 4. at which J. R. Limbin was called to the chair,and J. P. Kinney appointed Secretary. A committee consisting of Messrs. J. Fitzgerald J. Patterson and G. Cassidy was appointed to draw up resolutions expressive of the sorrow of the Commercial students on the death of the son of Prof. Tong. The committee reported the following resolutions which were adopted:
Whereas death is under all circumstances sorrowful, and especially so when the young and innocent are suddenly called away from the presence of a fond father and an affectionate mother, and Whereas such an affliction in the death of little Allie, son of our beloved Professor L. G. Tong, has fallen upon his family, therefore be it
Resolved that we, the students of the Commercial Course, do hereby express our sympathy with our Professor and, that while we know the heart-sore will long remain, we are assured by our holy Faith that the voice of his little angel resounds now in Heaven, praying for parents and relatives, and that we humbly pray our heavenly Father to so aid by His grace the afflicted family that they will accept the blow as coming from Him who chastens whom He loveth.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be presented to our Professor, and that they be published in the Notre Dame Scholastic.
540
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.] .
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, T. Garceau, A. Hertzog, J. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W. Kelly, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, 11. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Matti-more, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, J. McEniry, P. O’Leary, C. O’Donald, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, G. Saxinger, P. Tamble, F. Van-dervannet, J. Vanderhoof, M. Williams, T. McGrath.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A Abrahams, E. Anderson, A. Bergck, T. Barry, W. Brady, J. A Burger, A J. Burger, F. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, J. Carrer, W. C. Champlin, J. Duffield, F. C. Ewing, P. Frane, R. French, L. Garceau, B.' Heeb, J. L. Healey, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G. Ittenbach, M. Kauffman, J. Keiley, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, R. Mayer, C. McKinnon, J. McTague A. A. Miller, W. Nicholas, T. Nelson, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. Pleins, E. Poor, F. W. Phelan, C. Peltier, R. Price, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, L Rose, H. Rogers, J. Rogers, P. Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, G. Sampson, A. Sievers, J. W. Sill, N. Vanamee, C. Van Mourick, W. Vander Heyden, T. Wagner, L. Wolf
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson, P. Heron, W. McDevitt, Geo. Lowrey, W. Cool-baugh, J. Seeger, J. Scanlan, E. Carqueville, A. Coghlin, G. Hadden, C. Reif, C. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, J. Inderrieden, H. Ri-opelle, W. Coghlin, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, F. Gaffney, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, C. Hertzog, E. Hertzog, A. Sehnert.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their clashes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING APRIL 26.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, ETC.
German—A. Abrahams, C. Orsinger, B. Heeb, R. Mayer, J. Hagerty, P. Schnurrer, M. Kauffman, F. Rheinboldt, J. Krost, J. O’Rourke, E. Pefferman, R. Golsen, T. Wagner, J. Boehm, J. Ingwerson, A. Burger, F. Vandervannet, F. Lang, F. Cavanaugh, J. Fitzgerald, W. A. Widdieombe, F. Phelan, W. Jones, L Rose, J. Ittenbach, F. Pleins, C. Clarke, A Bergck, J. Mosal, F. Vandervannet, W. McGorrisk, E. Carqueville, C. Kauffman, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, C. Reif, R. Pleins, G. Lowrey, W. and F. Carqueville, F. Gaffney, A Sehnert, A Rheinboldt, H. Kitz, J. and Jos. Inderrieden.
French—A. Hertzog, L. Proudhomme, K. Scanlan, E. White, G. Saxinger, M Kauffman, W. Taulby.
Drawing-^A K. Schmidt, J. Carrer, J. Mosal, C. Clarke, O. Lindberg, R. Golsen, P. Skahill, J. Ittenbach, T. Nelson.
Painting—A. K. Schmidt, A. Hatt
Telegraphy.—J. Proudhomme, M. Smith, T. Quinn, F. C. Ewing, T. Fischel, E. Pefferman, J. Fitzgerald, J. Burke, J. Rothert.
Piano.—T. Quinn, J. Montgomery, E. Sugg, W. Breen, F. E. Carroll, C. Orsinger, R. Mayer, C. Clarke, C. Hagan, W. T. Ball, T. Fischel, L. Sievers, B. Heeb.
Violin.—A. K. Schmidt, J. McHugh, W. Taulby, E. Moran, J. Rothert, M. Kauffmann W. McGorrisk, W. Vanderhadden, W. Caldwell, F. Rheinboldt, A. Sievers, C. Walsh, P. Skahill, T. McGrath, W. Hake, R. Kelly, J. Barry, P. Schnurrer, C. Peltier.
Flute.—W. Chapoton, J. English, T. Wagner, G. Laurans.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING APRIL 19.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Philosophy—J. G. Ewing, W. P. Breen ; Latin—J. Coleman, W. Breen, J. G. Ewing, N. J. Mooney, A. Hertzog, W. T. Ball, W. Dechant, C. V. Larkin, J. Stewart, J. McEniry; Greek—J. Coleman, J. G. Ewing, JEL Maguire; Rhetoric—J. Larkin ; Composition—A. Keenan; Logic—L. Evers; Surveying—J. McEniry; Geometry—P. Schnurrer; Algebra—J. McEniry, J. P. Quinn ; History—G.'Gross, J. Larkin, W. Arnold, J. P. Quinn.
FOR MONTH ENDING APRIL 20TH.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-keeping—J. Fitzgerald, J. Patterson, J. P. Kenny, L.
Wolf, F. Schlink, W. Dodge; Grammar—J. Fitzgerald; Arithmetic—G. Cassidy, J. Gray, F. Vandervannet; Geology and History—G. Cassidy, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, J. Fitzgerald, J. Patterson; Penmanship—J. Patterson, W. Dodge, O. Hamilton, G. Saylor, J. Rothert, R. Mayer, J. Hagerty, L. Wolf, K. Scanlan.
—Botanizing and landscape sketching form most delightful occupations during this delightful weather.
—The gardening fever has broken out among Juniors and Minims and will soon develop into lovely parterres.
—The Competitions read on last Sunday evening by • Misses Beall and Faxon and the recitation by Miss C. Morgan were highly lauded by the Rev. visitors present.
—The Graduates and First Seniors have read during the past week some very fine original criticisms at their literary reunions, where a pleasant competition is kept up between the two classes.
—The members of the Second Senior Class had a brilliant competition in Rhetoric and Modern History last week. The lively interest exhibited by the entire class rendered the competition delightfully exciting.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society held its regular meeting on the 11th inst. The members are reading the History of France. Very accurate accounts of the important events from the reign of Louis II to Hugh Capet were given by the Misses M. Pomeroy, M. Halligan, J. Burgert and M. Hungerford.
—On the 23d the pupils assembled in the Senior Study Hall to offer their affectionate congratulations to Mother Superior on her recovery from the severe illness that has so long prevented her from visiting them. Miss Anna O’Connor read with much feeling a very appropriate address in the name of the whole school, to which Mother Superior responded most affectionately.
—The young ladies of St. Eusebia’s Literary Society manifested at their meeting great interest in the subject under present consideration, viz.: “ The War of the Roses.” The Misses B. Wilson, Hope Russell, M. O’Mahoney, AL Ewing, N. McGrath, G. Kelly, A. Cavenor, L. Kirchner, 0 Morgan, A. Cullen, E. Lange, E. O’Connor, C. Silverthorne, M. Dunn, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, and K. Kelly each gave a clear review of the subject
—The “Children of Mary” and Juniors lately enjoyed the privilege of a visit to the beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart All were delighted to see the elegant paintings, vestments and decorations of the Church and to hear the tones of the grand organ and peals of the mammoth bell. The pupils also visited Phelan Hall and were highly interested in the Museum and Scientific Department. They return their sincere thanks to Rev. Father Letourneau, and Bros. Basil and Francis Regis for their kind attention in showing them the treasures of the Church and Aluseum.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A Walsh, A. O’Connor, AL Julius, M. Faxon, J. Nun* ning,* H. Julius, P. Gaynor, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A Hcnne-berry, A. Reising, M. and E. Thompson, E. Rodinberger, 8. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, L. Weber, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, K. Kelly, M. Dunn, M. Smalley, 8. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, AL Usselman, 100 par excdltnce. Misses L. Ritchie, M. Cravens, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall, A Byrne, M. Walsh, E. O’Neil, A Harris, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, AL Spier, H. Russell, H. Hawkins, A. Cullen, E. O’Connor, M. Carroll, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, A Woodin, A Cavenor, L. Kirchner, G. Breeze, E. Forrey, B. Siler, E. McGrath, M. Casey, L. Tighe, AL Pomeroy, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, AL Coughlin, N. O’Meara, C. Ortmeyer, AL Hungerford, L' Cooke
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
541
J. Burgie, N. Johnson, L. Brownbridge, L. Forrey, C. Thayler, E. Wright.
* Last week the name of Miss Julia Nunning was by mistake not sent in for the par excellence roll.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Walsh, C. Corrill. A. Morgan, A. Kirchner and D. Gordon, 100 par excellence. Misses L. Chilton, J. Kingsbury, A. McGrath, M. Mulligan. M. Redfield, I. Mann, M. Davis, F. and J. Sunderland and M. Robertson.
Minims—E. Mulligan, M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee, L. Eliis, A. Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty and E. Wootten.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr. Class—Miss Mary Ewing.
1st Prep. Claes.—Misses A. Ewing, A. Kirchner, A. Morgan, L. Walsh, D. Gordon and M. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses A. McGrath, L. Chilton, C. Correll, L Mann, M. Redfield and E. Mulligan.
Jb. Prep. Class—Misses L. Cox and J. Kingsbury.
1st Jr. Class—Misses F. Sunderland, L. Vannamee, L. Ellis and N. Hackett.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
4th Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Spier, A. Williamsand A. Getty.
5th Class—Misses K. Gibbons and J. Butts. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses M. Smalley, A. Cullen, L. Kirchner, M. and E. Thompson.
4th Class—Miss S. Moran.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses L Ritchie, C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses E. Lange, A. Koch, S. Moran, M. O’Connor, D. Cavenor and M. Schultheis.
LATIN.
Misses Cravens, Rodinberger, Cooney, Carroll, Russell and Hawkins.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Faxon, M. Julius, L. Weber, M. Schultheis, L. and A. Kirchner, L. Kelly.
2d Class—Misses M. Usselman, L. Walsh, A. Reising, S. Rheinboldt, A. Harris, D. Gordon, A. Koch, L. Johnson, C. Boyce, M. Spier, S. Hennebery, C. Ortmeyer.
french classes.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, N. McGrath, M. and E. Thompson, P. Gaynor, A. Harris, B. Wilson.
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, L. Rodinberger, J. Burgert, C. Silverthorne, A. McGrath, M. O’Connor, J. Bennett, A. Walsh.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Walsh.
4th Class—Misses S. Moran, A. Ewing, E. Mulligan, M. Ewing, A. Williams, A. Getty, J. Butts.
FANCY-WORK.
Misses H. Hawkins, M. Halligan, E. Pleins, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, I. Cook, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, B. Siler, S. Cash, C. Silverthorne, L. Tighe, L. Johnson, K. Gibbons, C. Martin, C. Ortmeyer, C. Correll, A. Morgan, D. Gordon, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, L. Ellis, E. Koch.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer, H. Julius and J. Nunning.
1st Class—Miss B. Wilson. 2d Div.—H. Hawkins, C. Silverthorne, M. Cravens.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, A.'Byrnes, M. Julius, L. Kirchner. 2d Div.—Misses M. Spier, C. Morgan, A. Koch, L. O’Niel.
3d Class—Misses G. Kelly, B. Siler, D. Cavenor, A. Hennebery, M. Usselman, E. Pleins. 2d Div.—Misses M. Redfield, J. Burgert, D. Gordon, A. O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses K. Burgie, J. Bennett, E. Lange, A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, L. Walsh, L. Johnson, E. Thompson, M. Thompson, L. Forrey. 2d Div.—Misses A. Reising, A. Walsh, A. Cullen, N. McGrath, M. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses M. Walsh, K. Martin, M. O’Connor, A. Morgan, P. Gaynor, E. Forrey, J. Burgie, L. Weber, H. O’Meara. 2d Div.—Misses A. Cavenor, G. Conklin, M. Getty, M. Robertson, A. Woodin, C. Ortmayer, L. Wier, L Cook.
6th Class—Misses M. Brady, K. Gibbons, C. Correll, L. Beall, L. Kelly, N. Johnson, A. Ewing, S.Cash, M. Mulligan, M. Ewing, L. Brownbridge. 2d Div.—Misses N. Hackett, C. Vannamee, C. Boyce, M. Halligan, M. Coughlin, A. Peak, M. Casey.
7th Class—Misses L. Cox, L. Lambin, E. Wright, L. Tighe, M. Davis.
8th Class—Misses M. Cox, E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury.
9th Class—Misses L. Ellis and E. Wooten.
10th Class—Misses M. McFadden and S. Rheinboldt.
Harp—1st Class—Miss E. O’Connor.
2d Class—Misses D. Cavenor and B. Wilson.
Organ—Misses M. Usselmann and B. Spencer.
Guitab—Miss A. Woodin.
Private Harmony Classes—Misses B. Spencer, E. O’Connor, H. Julius, J. Nunning.
General Thorough-Bass Class for written exercises.— Misses Hawkins, L. Kirchner, A. Harris, C. Morgan, E. Pleins.
The Children of Mary having to prepare hymns for the May devotions were absent from class.
In some of the Theoretical Classes we find some excellent exercises written on Rhythm and other topics relating to music, also notes taken from the oral instructions given.
Among the Minims, for attention and correct lessons in Primer Class, Misses Corrill, L. Cox, E. Mulligan, N. Hackett, C. Vannamee, M. Lambin, R. Cox, M. Getty, and E. Wooten give great satisfaction.
The Popular Science Monthly.
CONDUCTED BY
E. L. YOUMANS.
This periodical w is started (in 1872) to promote the diffusion of valuable scientific knowledge, in a readable and attractive form, among all classes of the community, and has thus far met a want supplied by no other magazine in the United States.
Ten volumes have now appeared, which are filled with instructive and interesting articles and abstracts of articles, original, selected, translated, and illustrated, from the pens of the leading scientific men of different countries. Accounts of important scientific discoveries, the application of science to the practical arts, and the latest views put forth concerning natural phenomena, have been given by savants of the highest authority. Prominent attention has been also devoted to those various sciences which help to a better understanding of the nature of man, to the bearings of science upon the questions of society and government, to scientific education, and to conflicts which spring from the progressive nature of scientific knowledge.
The following quotations illustrate the way it has been habitually spoken of by the press:
“That there is a place for The Popular Science Monthly, no one can doubt who has watched the steady increase of interest in scientific investigation manifested in this country, not only by a select class, but by the entire community.”—oew York 'times.
“We think it is not too much to say that this is the best first number of any magazine ever published in America.”—New York World.
“A journal which promises to be of eminent value to the cause of popular education in this country.”—New York Tribune.
“ it is, beyond comparison, the best attempt at journalism of the kind ever made m this country,” —Home Journal.
“It is just what is wanted by the curious and progressive mind of this country, and ought to be widely circulated ”—New York Evening Post.
“It is the first successful attempt in this country to popularize science in the pages of a monthly.”—N. Y. School Journal
The Popular Science Monthly is published in a large* octavo, handsomely printed on clear type, and, when the subjects admit, fully illustrated. Each number contains 128 pages
Torms: $5 per Annum, or Fifty Cents per Number.
POSTAGE FREE TO ALL SUBSCRIBERS IN THE UNITED STATES.
A new volume of the Popular Science begins with the numbers for May and November each year. Subscriptions may commence from any date. Back numbers supplied.
AGENTS WANTED.
Address D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers, 549 & 551 Broadway, New York.
“ The monthly has more than fulfilled all the promises which the i ublishers made in the prospectus of publication.”—Niagara Palls Gazette.
‘This is a highly-auspicious beginning of a useful and much-needed enterprise in the way of publication, for which the public owe a special dept of obligation to Messrs. D. Appleton & Co ”— Boston Gazette
-This new magazine, in our estimation, has more merit than the whole brood wh’ch have preceded it Oswego Press.
“In our opinion, the right idea has been happily hit in the plan of this new monthly.”—Buffalo Courier.
“ This is one of the very best periodicals of its kind published in the world.”—The American Medical Journal, St. Louis, Mo.
“This magazine is worth its weight .in gold, for its service ■in educating the people.”—The American Journal of Education, St. Louis, Mo.
542
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
SPEER Jt MITCHELL fN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Gaw, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G- TON’G. [of'651 Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS B. CETFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING	HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 741, At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN F. McHUGH [ot’721, Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa,
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a’ Law, Notary Public and Comm’ssioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WIEI^T A M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLV-of ’69— Attorney at. Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3	25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
10	07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; Cleveland 9 45.
11	59 am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10 p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 a m: Cleveland, 7 (5am; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4	40 p m. Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 630 a m.
5	38 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicano, 8 20 p m.
8	OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8	30 a m. Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup't West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Indiana in the interests of the Irish race, will be furnished at
One Tear -	-	-	- $1 50
Six Months -	-	-	-	90
Three Months	-	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
Address,
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, UVD.
CM. PROCTOR fof ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [Of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLICCOLUMBIAN.pnb ished
weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5(>.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published
monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Published weekly during term time at Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum.
THE SOUTH BEND HER.ADD. published
weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per Annum _
Hotels.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. tb a3, 58 notes. Pedale, 0. 0. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GEANGEB, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGtARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rnodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, HI. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
M. Livingston & Go.,
A-T&E THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
543
C. •& N.-W. LINES.
s
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of dd cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & North-Western Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KAi^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depcr, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, II., and Louisiana, Mo.....4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................X	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen.^Supt. J. Charlton,JGen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage ehed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE, dealer IN
Watches, Clocks,
•A.3STT3
CT ZE WELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
-		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,		11.30 pm.	9.00 A.M.	2.00 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester .		12.40 a.m.	10.15 “	3.14 “	7.45 “
Alliance,			3 05 “	1250 p.m.	5.55 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			447 “	2.32 “	7.42 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield. .. 			6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,...	... Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	1030 “	3.50 “
Crestline, .		Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	10.35 p.m.	••**•••••
PnrpRt			925 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima,					10.45 “	9.35 “	1.05 A.M.	
Ft. Wayne,...			1.20 p -M.	12.10 a.m.	3.25 “	
Plvmnnth 					345 “	3 20 “	5.49 “	
Chicago,...	....Arrive	7.20 “	7.20 “	9.20 “	
GOING EAST.					
		bo. 4.	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,....		10.40 P.M.	8.20 A.M.	5.35 P.M.	••'••••••
Plvmnnth		2.40 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft Wayne 			6 55 “	2.10 P-M.	11.45 “	
T.ima 	 			855 “	4.05 “	1.39 A.M.	
PnraRt 				10.10 “	5.20 “	250 “	
Crestline,...	....Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “	•••
Crestline....	.... Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.50 “
Orrville,				2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 “
Alliance			4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	1120 “
Rochester,..		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M.
Pittsburgh,..		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 P-M.	3.30 »
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY BINE That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & I. A.
544
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STEEET,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BPS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Hwy’s, I refer, by permission. to the Superiors of both Institutions.
t*. SHICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has b( en established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world hy mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera'ogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the naaies of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spec’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab'e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the state No. 3727, and use it en'irely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s i-pecies number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Numbeb of Specimens
25	50	100
inbox inbox inbox
100
200 300
Michigan Central. Railway
TimeTable-April 15,1877.
	♦Mall.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago.... “ Mich. City.. “ Niles “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson. Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 00 “ 10 50 “ 2 15 p.m 5 45 “	8 30 a.m 10 40 “ 11 55 “ 1 15 p.m 3 45 “ *■ 15 “	3 50 p.m 6 25 “ 8 20 “ 10 10 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 10 25 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 am 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 10 am
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago....	7 00 a.m 10 21 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 7 05 “	9 10 am 12 00 m. 2 38 p.m 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 25 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 25 “	6 05 p.m 9 30 “ 12 16 a.m 2 35 - 4 15 “ 6 55 “	10 15 p.m 1 05 a.m 8 20 “ 5 20 “ 6 45 “ 9 00 “
Niles and Soutli Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv.So. Bend—810»a.m. 715 pm. “ No. Dame—817 -	7 23 “ Ar. Niles— 8 55 “	800 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	615 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ No. Dame—6 52 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 00 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and qunday excepted. Henby C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI.	Gen’l Snp't, Chicago, DI.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
H1. ZL£ZE'XT3-R/, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-1
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST-, opposite Shennan Bouse,
Chicago, Illinois.
Price, for Pints, $7.50 per dozen. $84 per gross.
TOWLE & ROPER, 'WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS I TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, .
CHICAGO, -	-	- ITiTiinSTOIS.
Crystals and fragments. Students’ size, larger...
$ 50 1 50
$1
3
$1 50 I $ 1
6
Amateur's size, 2*4 in. x 114...................
■ High School or Acad. sizc,2>4x344 in -shel f specimens College size, 314x6 in., shelf specimens ....
5
10
25
500
$ 2 $ 3
10	25
25	50
50 100 100 3<K)
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fethno of the American Association for the Advancement of Science life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of .Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York,
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed' on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy