The Scholastic.
JDeVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 27, 1873.	Number 5.
M. Bio.
As redoubled attention is paid this year to Drawing and Painting both in the College and the Academy, we think it worth while to devote some space to a writer who has done more than any other man to give students correct principles of the arts, and to bring to general notice those paintings.that deserve the attention of the Christian artist. The writer to whom we refer, A. F. Rio, is best known by this learned and erudite work on Christian Art in Italy, a book that should be in the hands not only of all artists but also of those who pretend to any critical knowledge of pictures. There is no other bonk on the subject so exhaustive as this, which cost the author the labor of a full third of a century.
His Epilogue d I'Art Chretien has not, we believe, yet been translated into English, but we hope it will soon be found in all the libraries of our colleges, in English as well as in French. It is, says a writer in the Dublin Review, a true and almost impersonal picture of the difficulties he had to contend with at the very outset, both on account of his primitive ignorance of the matter, as well as the stolid indifference of his countrymen as to a subject so utterly beyond the usual range of their own thoughts. It is no less a picture of eminent men and manners about thirty years ago—in England, Rogers, Macaulay, Carlyle, Gladstone, among others. In Germany, the author lived on terms of intimacy with Schelling Baader, Joseph Gorres, Dollinger, and others, then in the very blaze of their celebrity; and while on the other hand we constantly meet with such names as Albert, Olga, Eugenie, and Count de la Fer-ronnays,—all so mournfully familiar to the readers of the “ Rent d'une Saur," for M. Rio was the bosom friend of the head of that remarkable family.
Towards the end of the last centuiy M. Rio was born on a small island called Arz, on the sea coast, near Vannes. The inhabitants of the island are accustomed to brave the perils and storms of the Atlantic. They have always remained faithful Christians, and although in the first outbreak of the great French Revolution they embraced the cause of what they considered freedom, they did not hesitate to choose between their faith and republicanism run riot when they saw their priests hunted down like wild beasts and massacred, and their churches levelled to the ground. Tne circumstances of time and place of his birth, and the character of the people, always have an effect upon the young. Napoleon concluded the Concordat after the excesses of the “ Reign of Terror, ” when M. Rio was in his early childhood. On this M. Rio says:
“ Now let anyone imagine an iconoclastic government prohibiting, on the most atrocious penalties, any manifestation of what they were pleased to call the people’s credulity; and then all of a sudden, after eight long years of moral tortures and spiritual death, this same people recovering their right to pray together
in the same building, and explaining to little children what was meant by the Route of God, wherein they had never entered before that day,—why the altars were ruined, why the crowd venerated certain images. Under such circumstances it is easy to understand how a real craving for a public worship may become a downright passion, and even a passion lording it over every other. It is easy, likewise, to understand the enormous advantage of inaugurating, under such auspices, the intellectual, religious and sesthetical education of a child.”
Such was the first education young Rio received at home. During the First Empire, he studied nnder the direction of learned and worthy masters. We must pass over an episode in his life during the time of the Hundred Days, when he placed himself at the head of a band of three hundred Breton schoolboys and carried on a guerilla warfare. From Vannes, where he held for a short time the post of professor in the city grammar school, he went to Paris. Not succeeding in getting a position in the University, he had to content himself with one in a provincial Dycee. But having energy and pluck, he returned to Paris with brighter expectations. By tbe advice of one of his friends he studied German. He was admitted to the Sodete des Bonnet Lettres, which was a sort of debating society, over which Chateaubriand presided, and of which many of the most illustrious men of France were members. It was of great advantage to a young man like M. Rio to be connected with a society which was deservedly held in high repute.
The one who had perhaps the geatest influence upon M. Rio was the Count de la Ferronnays, although M. Rio waa at different times on intimate terms with such men asMon-talembert, the eloquent Dominican Lacordaire, and the learned and unfortunate La Mennais, in France, and with many distinguished men in Germany and England. Under Charles X, Count de la Ferronnays was for a time Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he chose M. Rio for his private secretary. After the Count had given up his part as Minister and was appointed Ambassador to Rome, he took M. Rio with him, still in the capacity of private secretary. To form an idea of the influence of the Count upon M. Rio, it would be necessary to read the Epilogue d VArt Chretien. The man was a strange blending of Christian humility and innate dignity. “ The very first craving of my soul,” said he one day, “ is to stand erect, even before an enemy. I believe I should die were any living man to deem himself entitled to make me lower my eyes.” With this man and his son, to whom after a while he became tutor, he made a journey to Italy. We think it best to let him relate in his own words his arrival in Rome.	•
At last, he writes, on the 15th of April, 1830, one of the happiest days of my life, I could exclaim on awaking: Italiam, Italian 1 We travelled at a slow rate, especially on the other side of the Alps, land I easily obtained of my companions that we should stop at Pisa to see the Campo Santo, and at Florence, to visit the Uffizi gallery and the Pitti, where I should feel the most exquis-iite delight on contemplating the Judith of Cristofano Allori! I
34	THESCHOLASTIC.
candidly confess that I was quite disconcerted by my own ignorance when thus suddenly placed before so many wonderful masterpieces without the slightest respect to their chronological or genetical orders. Not one of the books I had read gave me a clue to guide me through the labyrinth. Valery’s work on Italy had not been published; I had not even heard of the one by which the German Rumohr had just struck out a new road in a branch of literature forming the very basis of {esthetics.
But this transitory disappointment was compensated for by sundry emotions, the keenness of which was not always in due proportion to the importance of the different objects, nor to the sights that produce them. It was a delightful mixture of childish and serious admiration, which was to culminate in Rome, where we entered by night, on the 1st of May, in the midst of a deep, solemn silence, interrupted only by the rumbling noise of our vehicle and the waterworks of the Piazza del Popolo. Yet neither the fatigues of a long journey, nor the need of food and sleep were so imperious as that of prayer. Mine had never been so long and ardent. Methought I was entering the. city of God, whose wonders I was about to contemplate. -
In Rome he visited the great paintings in the museums, churches and chapels, and it was his good fortune to bring ■ to light the purest types of msthetical beauty on the walls of the chapel called Di Sesto Quinto, which have been painted by the great artist and saint, Fra Angelico. In these visit she was in company with M. de la Ferronnays and his daughters, with whom we are all well acquainted through the “Recit d'une Scaur.” Their appreciation helped him in his search for the beautiful, and as he went with them from chapel to chapel, from one masterpiece to another of Christian art, he endeavored to guess at their prayers and to join in them. “And,” he adds, “I almost envied the tears which bathed their cheeks when their prostrate heads rose from the ground.” •
This sketch is almost too long, and we have said nothing of his visit to Venice, his sojourn in Florence with his chosen friends Albert de la Ferronnays and Count de Monta-lembert. At some other time we may give a picture of the life of these three talented enthusiastic young men, who instead of spending their time in vain amusement devoted all their energies, each in his own peculiar way, to the defence of the Church, living together a life of mingled prayer and study, with mutual affection for each other, and partaking of the refined enjoyments known only to those who to a lofty intellect add purity of heart and liveliness of faith. We must pass that by at present and merely outline his further movements, in all of which his aim was to perfect himself a true critic of art. He travelled through the Rom-agnas, Umbria, Tuscany, Ferrara, and Venetia, always acquiring deeper insight into the mysteries of art, and preparing documents for his book. Thrice he went to Germany, believing that only in Munich could he find a guide in the technical study of the art. The first time he visited Germany he was accompanied by La Mennais, and by him introduced to Schelling. This was in 1832. Twice after he visited Italy, and three times Germany, collecting matter for his great work, that was so much needed in those times and is so useful in our own.
M. Rio married an English lady, and frequently visited England. , He there met. with the most distinguished men of the day. We would .like to give some extracts, showing his appreciation of such men as Carlyle, and Manning, whom he knew first as an Anglican minister, Macaulay and others; but we must draw to a conclusion, strongly urging on all who wish to have any appreciative knowledge of art to
become thoroughly acquainted with M. Rio through his great work on Christian Art.	_	. .
Such books as M. Rio’s should hold an honorable place in the Circulating Library.
The Camr’s Lesson.
BY ADELAIDE PROCTOR. .
Trust me, no mere skill of subtle tracery, No mere practice of a dexterous hand, Will suffice, without a hidden spirit, That we may, or may not, understand.
And those quaint old fragments that are left us Have their power in this,—the Carver brought Earnest care, and reverent patience, only Worthily to clothe some noble thought.
Shut then in the petals of the flowers, Round the stems of all the Jilies twine, Hide beneath each bird’s or angel’s pinion, Some wise meaning or thought divine.
Place in stony hands that pray forever Tender words of peace, and strive to wind
Round the leafy scrolls and fretted niches Some true, loving message to your kind.
Some will praise, some blame, and, soon forgetting, Come and go, nor even pause to gaze ;
Only now and then a pissing stranger	-
Just may loiter with a word of praise.
But I think, when years have floated onward, And the stone is gray, and dim, and old, And the hand forgotten that has carved it, And the heart that dreamt it still and cold,
There may come some weary soul, o’eriaden With perplexed struggle in his brain,
Or, it may be, fretted with life’s turmoil, .
Or, made sore with some perpetual pain.
Then, I think those stony hands will open, Then the gentle lilies overflow,
With the blessing and the loving token That you hid there many years ago.
And the tendrils will unroll, and teach him How to solve the problem of his pain;
And the birds’ and angels’ wings shake downward On his heart a sweet and tender rain. '
While he marvels at his fancy, reading
Meaning in that quaint and ancient scroll, | Little guessing that the loving Carver
Left a messenger for his weary soul.	.
An Italian Bishop, who had endured much persecution with a calm and unruffled temper, was asked how he obtained such a mastery over himself. “ By making a right use of my eyes,” said he. ’ “ I first look up to heaven as the place whither I am going to live forever. I next look down upon the earth, and consider how small a space of it will soon be all I can occupy or want. I then .look around me, and think how many are far more wretched than I am.”
A whiter in the Paris Temps, discussing the origin of the word “shah,” says: “A last remark I dedicate to chessplayers. Do they know the origin of the word ‘ checkmate?’ It is a literal translation of the Arabic Es cheikh-imat: The sheik (king) is dying.”
SCHOLASTIC.
35
The Vacant Chair.
We shall fire and we shall miss him— '	There will be one vacant stare, &e.
Such is the emendation of the old ballad suggested by a recent reply of one of our new students, who, being a«ked if they missed him at home, answered: “ They never fire at me at home.”.
But the vacant- chair itself is a stubborn fact. It is a plain wooden chair, with no pretensions to architecture It standeth in front of the College, with its back against the western gate-post of the garden..
That garden whose energetic gardener laboreth morn, noon and night in the exercise of his calling—here arran-ing—there changing. He transplanteth the tender blossom from the richer soil of the Jardin Botanique, and fondly inviteth it to bloom. He saith: “ Wilt thou ? ” and straightway ifc wilteth. Yet is he in no. way discouraged, and but pursueth his avocation with unvarying smiles; the bystanders raise their hands in astonishment at his energy and perseverance and exclaim “How doth the little busy B. ’ ”
But the vacant chair standeth unmoved at the gardengate. The long train of Juniors passeth by, and it smileth not—they sneer at its homeliness and it frowneth not—they scoff at it and it blusheth not. Impassible—immovable— unswerved by passion, and deaf to remonstrance, it standeth there like the Pyramids of Egypt or Poe’s Raven, silent and unavenged.
A mystic legend is connected with it. It is vacant only by day.
At night may be seen one sitting there—a watcher, watching during the silent watches of the night Silent while all are silent, but when there is noise, noisy. He thunder -eth at the door whence emanateth the noise, and great is the thunderation thereof.
And the seven sleepers, more or less, start from their affrighted couches and peer amazed into the circumjacent daikness, expecting to see monstrous spectres develop therefrom, and lo! no spectres are visible—
- Nor anything else.
But the watchman returneth to his chair, prepared for another desperate sally..	-
We wish he would smoke. It would soothe his nerves and keep him quiet. We believe to a certain extent in what “ D.” says in the last Scholastic. We object to the indiscriminate use of tobacco as a beverage. But we don’t see why a watchman shouldn’t smoke during the silent watches of the night.
Which puts us in mind of the story of the man who went to the watchmaker’s and wanted to purchase one of the silent watches of the night. He was a nervous man, and he used to wake up at night, and the ticking of his watch nearly set him crazy.
We knew another man who was so nervous that he could not sleep on account of the bed ticking.	.
But these are collateral facts. They have no particular connection with the vacant chair. More anonymous.
-	Z.
A great discovery has lately been made and a patent on the plan has already been applied for. It is using croaking frogs as fire-alarms in our cities. No doubt it will prove an entire success. Our age is progressing.
Pernicious Literature.
Pernicious Literature includes open, avowed, and .‘■cornful infidelity; the class of literature which makes up a large part of the popular monthlies and weeklies of the country; the mawkish sentimentalism which is infused through many of the books emanating from the press. There is another class which it is a shame even to mention —which can only be meddled with as the police visit the pest-houses—from solemn duty in the preservation of the health of the community. The prevalence of murder and other crime, and the looseness of the marriage tie, are largely due to this evil influence. It may be corrected either by legislative enactment or by supplanting the evil with good. It is not enough to provide the good ; we must push it all through the railroads of the country: not only the lowest trash but the most absolutely vile literature is thrust into the laps and faces of every passenger. Christian men should be no less active. A public sentiment should be created and aroused. The press and the pulpit should work, and there should be earnest prayer on the subject and for those who control the religious press of the country. “This kind cometh not out but by prayers and fasting.”
J. M. Talcott, Superintendent of the Reformed School of Providence, R. I., attributed the crimes which'had brought most of the young boys and girls to the institution under his care, very largely to the influence of bad books and papers. Not more than two per cent, had come from home wherq religious newspapers were taken. Remarks on the same theme were made by Messrs. Schoolmaker of New York and Hickey of Pittsburg. Mr. Munhall, of Indianapolis, Ind., thought that among the most pernicious literature in the country, were the writings of such men as Ralph Waldo Emerson and Theodore Parker. They undermined religious faith, and were as “ damnable and damning ” as anything which could be published. He was followed by Mr. Morris, of Montclair, N. J., who spoke of the law recently passed in his State on the subject, and urged that a similar law should be presented to the legislature of every State; not a man would dare to oppose such a law openly, though it would have to be closely watched or it would be quietly killed.—Lutheran Observer. '
A Contrast.—In Mexico there are four million Indians; in Central America there are one and a half millions ; in South America there are seven millions—making a total of 12,500,000. Excepting the Patagonians and one or two unimportant tribes, all these Indians have been reclaimed from barbarism. They have been converted to Christianity—civilized by the Cross, not extirpated by the sword. In all the territory comprised by the United States there remain some three hundred thousand Indians, of these, 97,000 are designated “ civilized,” 125,000 “semi-civilized,” and the rest (78,000) “wholly savage.” A comparison of the two results is very suggestive. In Central and South America Catholic influences were always predominant. In North America, on the other hand, the civilizing of the red man was conducted under Anglo-Protestant inspiration.
Susan B. Anthony, remarks the Boston Traveller, wants the names-of the Pullman cars altered either to Pull-man-and-woman or Pull-irrespective-of-sex cars.' '	'
86	THESCHOLASTIC.
Th® Schulastic, Published every Week during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY!
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. -
TERMS: One year......................$3 00
Single copies (Sets.) of the pnhiication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Patronize the Box.
Croquet is looking up.
St. Edward’s Day is coining. ’
Bring on your autumn articles.
Walnuts are plenty, in certain quarters.
Wednesday, another splendid recreation day.
The Fair was a success; so say they who were present.
Wk would be glad to hear often from “D.,” and “T. A. D.”
The Brass Band received numerous compliments at the Fair.
The Boats have been thoroughly overhauled and painted and the Boat Club was never in a more flourishing condition.
All who wish to have their communications printed, such as Society reports, Ac, must place them in the box on or beforeWednesday morning.
We must beg Rev. Father Corry, of Mapleton, Wisconsin, to pardon us for the mistake made in the report of our to Watertown. We had written his name inour most visit legible hand, but the printers would make it out Cooney.
The Class of Telegraphy is quite numerous. Some twenty-five or thirty students attend it. Mr. Gavitt may well feel proud of its flourishing state. Considering the small charge made for this valuable science ($10 per session), we think that many more ought to avail themselves of the opportunity offered. •
Circulating Library.
The Circulating Library is now ready for use with its thousand well-selected volumes. It will afford to the students a very fine opportunity of employing usefully their leisure time by perusing its books. Catalogues will be given to all subscribers, so that they can choose the books they wish to read. We do not think that any expense or trouble has been spared to give to our Circulating Library its proper place among our other institutions here. All fair-minded persons will easily see that much more good can be accomplished for all by a well-equipped and wellmanaged concern, than by half a dozen smaller libraries which were doing good only to very few. The step should have been taken long ago; then we might boast at this moment of a superb collection of books. However, a beginning had to bemade: let every student respond. Terms $1 per- session for students non-members of Literary or Religious Societies; 50 cents per session for the members of Literary or Religious Societies; $1 per session for nonstudents.	.
The Minims in Setter Quarters.
• (■ ■
Very Rev. Father General has decided to share his new ,• residence with the little Minims, who are extremely proud, of the distinction. The house built west of the old Church for the Very Rev. Father General (60x32, three stories and bast ment,) was by him found too large, it would appear; and by'the addition of a mansard roof, which would ’ make it still more roomy, Very Rev. Father Sorin thought he could lodge the Minims, thirty or forty in number, and keep to himself and Secretaries the whole third floor of the building. Hereby the present quarters of the Minims in the College will be vaeati d and will afford lodgment to the constantly arriving students. All will be pleased with the arrangement, and we will look with perfect equanimity on the list of new arrivals, confident that there is yet room for more.	.
The Grand. Indiana Fair.
The first Grand Indiana fair is decidedly the best and most largely attended fair ever organized in the County of St. Joseph. 5 >uth Bend in particular may well be proud of such a display of goods from her various shops and factories. Its growth as a manufacturing centre was well attested by the splendid specimens in nearly every branch of industry placed on exhibition in the Fair Grounds. The farmers of St. Joseph County have responded in good earnest to the call of the St. Joseph Agricultural Society. The array of fruits and flowers, seeds and produce of all sorts, was remarkable. The immense sheds were'filled with the finest stock of cattle in the country, showing decided progress and improv< ment in the breeding of stock,—and the swine and poultry display was quite creditable. The exhib -ition of farm-horses was not very large, but the race-course boasted of a very uncommon gathering of fast and valuable steeds brought from near and far to contend for the premiums offered by' the St. Joseph County Agricultural Society. The implements for agriculture, etc., were quite well represented. There was a very fair collection of wagons and carriages, and a variety of wind-mills, sewing machines and furniture, and the music department was also well represented. In fact we think that our opinion coincides with the general opinion, namely that this year’s Fair, happily called the First Grand Northern Indiana Fair, will obtain a success far surpassing the most sanguine expectations of its originators and managers. We trust that they have securely laid the foundations of the Grand Annual Northern Indiana Fair. The Messrs. Knoblock, Farnum, and others, have not worked in vain: the latter especially; his energy and foresight have been deserving of success.
Notre Dame attended the Fair last Wednesday, partly in order to show its appreciation of .the grand enterprise; some three hundred students attended, only sixty or seventy remaining at home.

)
Newspaper mistakes are scarcely unavoidable. Every issue of many journals involves the placing of 150,000 types. Out of that number some will be wrongly placed, in spite of the best of care. A Pennsylvania paper made ajather ridiculous blunder lately, and yet there was only one letter but of place. The editor said “The Legislature pasted (passed) It over the Governor’s head. -
'	THE SCHOLASTIC.	37
	X		Soil of Honor.	
>		—	SENIOR DEPARTMENT '	
		H. Aekhoff,	F. Buter,	W. Ball,
		J. Burnham,	C. Berdel,	J. Browne,
r		M. Bastarache,	L. Burridge,	C. Bowman,
		A. Baca,	H. Clark,	M. Caldwell,
		0. Corcoran,	G. Cunnea,	H. Cassidy,
		J. Crummey,	G. Crummey.	J. Callery,
		W. Clarke,	P. Cooney;	H. Dehner,
		F. Devoto,	T. Daily,	E. Dunn,
		W. Dodge,	C. Dodge,	J. Devine,
		J. Dwyer,	J. Egan,	B. Evans,
		J. Falvcy,	M. Foley,	C. Flanagan,
		J. Fielding,	C. Franks,	T. Flanagan,
		; C. Gamache,	J. Girard,	J. Gregory,
		’ T. Grier,	T. Gallagher,	J. Gillen,
		, J. George,	E. Graves,	F. Hubert,
		W. Hughes,	A. Horne,	E. Halpin,
		P. Hennessy,	J. A. Hitchler,	J. Hogan,
		V. Hansen,	P. Johnson,	J. Kelly,
		J. Kennedy,	M. Keeler,	J. Lonergan,
f		P. Lilly,	J. Lyons,	W. Linbarger,
I.		D. McGinniss,	B. McGinniss,	T. McDonough,
t		J. McDermott,	E. McSweeney,	J. McManus,
		T. Murphy,	J. Murphy,	J. R. Mullen,
J	1	J. L. Mullen,	, S. Marks,	F. Morass,
		F. Mathews,	E. Monohan,	A. Martineau,
		A. Mooney,	J. M. O’Brien,	J. E. O’Brien.
		P. O’Brien,	C. O’Connor,	R. O’Connor,
		P. O’Meara,	P. O’Mahony,	M. O’Dea,
		P. O’Sullivan,	P. Obermiller,	G. Proctor,
, f		. R. Pugh,	H. Randolph,	J. Rudge,
1*—		T. Rourke,	C. Reynolds,	R. Staley t -
I *		C. Spears,	H. T. Small,	H. P. Small,
F		- L. Sanders,	J. Trabic,	W. Van’t Woud,-
	-	L. Van’t Woud,	J. Wardtt^	J. Wolfe,
	- .	H.	Walker,	C. Walter.
			JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	
		G. Amann,	W. Ames, •	B. Baca,
		M. Burge,	W. Breen,	M. Casey,
		B. Casey,	J. Cassella,	J. Caren,
		J. Daley,	J. Dore,	J. Ewing,
		F. Egan,	D. Gorman,	L. Hatch,
		M. Jeffreys,	M. Kinsella,	S Kennedy,
		-W. Kelly,	J. McGrath,	■ G. McNulty,
		N. Mooney,	C. Meyer,	W. Meyer,
		C. Nichols,	A. Potter,	H. Quan,
		C. Ruger,	A. Schmidt,	J. Soule,
		E. Wood,	B. Hersey,	B. Le Fevre.
1			T. F. 0’Mahony, Secretary.	
				
All Arouad.
> ' ■ . — -Hunting has already commenced to attract the attention
of the Students.	.
।	' We understand there is to be a regatta on the 13th of
October.
A private race-boat is to be placed on the lake.
.	The Literary Societies are reorganized,—their ranks
■l	are already large.
We admire Bro. Peter’s skill in engineering since we haye
5	seen how nicely the new road to the lake is laid out.
t - The Botanical Garden presents a fine view now. Its various flower-beds are veryinviting to the curious botanist.
j i	The,Classes of Physics and Chemistry, and also the Nat-
r	’	-
ural Sciences, have commenced. They are largely attended this year.
The Thespians have reorganized : most of the old members have returned. They are busy preparing for the celebration of St. Ebward’s Day.
There are some few hom' sick boys who would ‘’like to go home,” but then they forbear on account of their manhood.
We are glad to see the old boys back: many of them bearing the fruits of two months pains by way of a neat little moustache.
A door-bell has hern placed on the front door of the College. This makes it very convenient for strangers or others wishing admittance to the College after the hour for closing.	.
The Crown which has lately been inclosed in a fine glass case, is at present on exhibition in the College parlor. This affords many an opportunity of seeing it, who otherwise would be deprived of the gratification of examining it.
Football is about the only excitement during the recesses of class-days. It is fun to stand by and watch the boys kicking for dear life. There are some few left-handed kickers among them, but they often get some good hits for their awkwardness.	.
A great number of tickets for the Northern Indiana Fair was sold among the students. It is useless to say that all enjoyed themselves. They created quite a sensation walking through the streets of South Bend, headed by the N. D. U. C. Band. .
Thespian Society.
The members of this association assembled on last Thursday evening, September 18th, for the purpose of reorganize-. tion. After a few preliminary remarks, the election of officers was proceeded with and resulted as follows:
Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President and Practitioner.
H. W. Walker, Vice-President.	.
C. A. Berdel, Secretary.
C. J. Dodge, Treasures'.
The Society is composed of twelve active members, and with their united strength the coming season bids fair to	•
eclipse all others. The office of President and Practitioner, which was filled in such an able manner last year by our respected friend Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, has been kindly ac-	■
cepted, temporarily however, by Prof. J. A. Lyons. The	j
play for the 13th prox. has already been selected, and on that	]
happy occasion we promise our numerous friends a warm	1
reception.	Charles A. Berdel, Secretary.	j
St. Cecilia Phiiomatheaa Association.	’ <
The first regular meeting was held on September 15th.	j
The following are the officers for the ensuing year:	i
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C.	|
President—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.	'	|
Dramatic Instructor—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.	j
Judge of the Hoot Court—Prof L. G. Tong, L.L. B.	1
General Critic, and Lecturer on Political Economy, etc.—	|
Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.	.	j
Assistant Director of Entertainment, Prof. J. F. Edwards.	?
S' .	*	t
38
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Vice-President—W. P. Breen.
Vice President Dramatic Branch—Frank. A. Egan.
Vice-President Orpheonic Branch—W. Gross andD. O’Connell.
Vice President Historic Branch—J. Ewing.
Recording Secretary—Belfield Lefevre.
Corresponding Secretary—William Kelly.
Treasurer—William S. Aleyer.
Librarian—Charles F. T. H. Ruger.
Assistant Librarian—Oliver G. Tong.
Monitor—Charles Furer.
Assistant Monitor—Nathan J. Mooney.
Clerk of the Moot-Court—John O’Connell.
First Censor—Bonifacio F. Baca.
Second Censor—Joseph L. Marks.	"
Sergeant-at-Arms—William H. Green.
Prompter—Joseph F. McHugh.
Marshal—Soseph Bogan.
William Kelly, Corresponding Secy.
Notre Dame University was attended last year by students from the various States, Territories and other places as follows .-
Illinois.................................143
Indiana.................................•.	68
Ohio..............’.......................53
Michigan................................. 49
Missouri................................. 18
Iowa......................................17
Wisconsin................................ 15
Pennsylvania..............................14
Tennessee................................ 10
Texas..................................... 8
Minnesota...............................   G
New Mexico................................ 5
New York.................................. 4
Kansas.................................... 4
Connecticut.....................■......... 2
Massachusetts............................. 2
West Virginia............................. 2
Mississippi............................... 1
Florida..’................................ 1
Dakota.................................... 1
Colorado.................................. 1
New Brunswick................;............ 1
Uruguay, South America.................... 1
France.................................... 1
Memramcook.
- St. Joseph’s College, Memkamcook, N. B.,: )
\	September 20, 1873. j
Editob of Scholastic.- As I learn from your issue of September 6th, you take an interest in matters and things in this far-off country, I will give you a note or two on the “ doings,” in the College here.
Kev. E. E. Labbe, C.S.C., succeeds the Rev. L. Geoff-rion, C.S.C., as prefect of studies- Father Geoffrion has been appointed President of St. Laurence College, Montreal. Rev. Father Roy, C.S.C., succeeds Rev. C.
. Lemay, C.S.C., as Prefect of Discipline, Father Lemay hav-
been appointed to the same position at St. Laurence. Of course Rev. C. Lefebvre, C 8.C., still remains President of the College, but many changes have been made in the professors. The following is a list of the teachers here: Rev. E E. Labbe, R^v. L. Roy, Messrs. McDevitt, O’Fla-herty, Walsh, Bl ’dgett, DeCarrie, Riaguette, A. Bourque, L. N. Bourque,- Godet and Bigelow. Fr&re’ Sosthene presides over the study.
The scholastic year began with a larger number of students than in any former year, and. students still arrive daily. It is expected that the roll of students will contain fifty or more names than last year.
Rev. W. O’Mabony, C.S.C., who has been in our neighborhood for many years as parish priest of Barachois, has been appointed Professor of Belles-Lettres in St. Laurence College. Rev. Father Doucet, C.S.C., succeeds him at Barachpis.
I might send you other items of news, but I am afraid that they, like the above,,would fail to.interest any person out in Indiana, though, of course, we take great interest in them. When the first display of collegiate talent takes place at a seance, you will hear from me again.
Yours, “ G.”
Religious Liberty.
Among the many terms which the birth of any language can furnish, none is more misconstrued and misrepresented than the simple word “liberty.” The despot will use it to justify his acts of tyranny aud oppression, a bigoted zealot clothes under its pleasing garb the foulest and darkest deeds of religious persecution. Human blood has flown copiously at its beckon, and the worst crimes have often been committed in its name. The prejudiced mind wilkconstrue every act according to its own false opinion.; and what is claimed as right when selfish interests interfere, will be condemned as wrong when beneficial to others. Thus ac- ~ -cording to our standpoint and prejudice we form our estimate of religious liberty. The goddess of “liberty” was invoked by Voltaire aud his infidel associates; in her name, the blood of France flowed in torrents, and the guillotine did ready homage to the fiendish deity. A war of irreligious fraternal slaughter is waged in Spain, and the unnatural butchery would seek approval under the same inviting character. Irish robbery and Irish persecution were but acts of justice and humanity, for England invoked the sacred name of liberty when she imbrued her hands in the blood of our people and enriched her sons with the spoils of her victims. Italy appropriates the property devoted to religious uses, and justifies her sacriligeous robbery by her desire to liberate from conventual bondage the misguided subjects who would devote their lives to the service of God and of humanity. Russia would find a home among the snows of her Asiatic dominions for her Polish subjects who would not conform to her schismatical ideas, and tell the unfortunate exiles that their sacrifice is necessary to sustain the Empire’s modem idea of the principles and practice of liberty. And Prussia,-with her worthy sister Switzerland, would exile Priests and Bishops, and deny them jurisdiction because their teachings were not in harmony with liberty as construed by Protestant fanaticism. And thus does an infidel and irreligious world desecrate that oft-perverted name when they would in vain try to conceal the real motive that actuated it.—Boston Leader.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
39c
• Things Worth Knowing. . •
That Martin Van Buren is the only man who held the office of'President, Vice-President, Minister to England, Governor of his own State, and memberof both Houses of Congress.
Tomas H. Benton is the only man who held a seat in the United States Senate for thirty consecutive years
The only instance of father and son in the Senate at the same time, is that of Hon. Henry Dodge, Senator from Wisconsin, and Hon. Augustus C. Dodge, Senator from Iowa.
Gen. James Shields is the only man who ever represented two States in the United States Senate. At one time he was Senator from Illinois, and subsequently Senator from Minnesota.	'
John Quincy Adams held position under the Government during every administration from that of Washington to that of Polk—during which he died. He had been Minister to England, member of both Houses of Congress, Secretary of State, and President of the United States. He died while a member of the House of Representatives.
A Strange Freak.—A very touching case of mental alienation in a charming young lady is described by a careful observer Not long ago her mother found her in her room energetically darning stockings,'and soon she appeared in the kitchen and assisted that wondering dame in making and baking bread and pastry. Alarmed by these fearful signs of intellectual disorder, her fond parents immediately sent for a skillful physician, who watched her through the keyhole while she sewed buttons on her father’s garments and mended those of her little brother. Much afiected, the venerable, man remarked that never during a medical practice of twenty-five years had he known any young person to manifest such symptoms as these. The . most heart-rending phase of all, however, was shown the other day, when her kind father, with a faint hope of rousing her from her sad state, gave her §200 and told her to buy a new dress. Alas! ’twas useless. She instantly observed that she didn’t need a new dress, and if he would let her keep twenty-five dollars to pay a poor widow’s rent she’d much rather he would take the rest of the money for himself. For a few moments that grief stricken old gentleman gazed upon his hapless child, then hiding his face, muttered between his sobs, “Her mind is gone I Her mind is gone!”
High Mountains.—The highest mountain on the North American continent is Mount St. Elias, in Alaska, whose elevation is 17,900 feet. Next to it comes the volcano of Popocatapetl, in Mexico, 17.884 feet, and Orizaba, also in Mexico, 17,373 leet. If the newly-discovered peak of the Holy Cross, in the Yellowstone region, found by the Hayden exploring party, be really 17,000 feet high as they estimate, it will be the fourth peak in elevation on the ’continent of North America, and the highest mountain in ■the United States excluding Alaska. Heretofore the highest peak in this country was supposed to be Big Horn Mountain, which is elevated 15,000 feet.
“ Equality means,” says a French writer, “ a desire to be equal to your superiors, and superior to your equals.”
SAINT CAST’S ACADMEY.
St. Mary’s Academy, September 24, 1873.
ARRIVALS.
Miss	J. Adams...........Chicago, Illinois.
“	M. DeLong..........Chicago, Illinois.
“	N. O’Meara.........Cincinnati, Ohio.
“	M. Reily...........Cincinnati, Ohio.
M. Roberts..........St. Paul, Minnesota.
“ E. Colby.............Benton Harbor, Michigan.
“	E. Parker..........Muskegon, Michigan.
“	M. McGuire.........Cleveland, Ohio.
“	A. Curtain.........Houston, Ohio.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, Sr. Dep’t., Sept. 21, 1873.
Graduating Class—Misses L. Kiel, M. Kearney, A. Clark, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, M. Ward, N. Langdon.
First Senior Class—Misses A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley.
Second Senior Class—Misses J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. ■ T. Clark, H. McMahon, J. Walsh. A. St. Clair, B. Burke, J. Phillips, W. Johnson, J. Stimpson, A. Maloney, C. Mason, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan, C. Wheaton.
Third Senior Class—Misses L. Pfeiffer, A. Conahan, B. and E. Wade, R. Woolman, M. Ball, M. Quill, L. Ritchie, A. Roberts, E. Quinlan, R. Roscesco, L. Tinsley, K. Atwood, J. Bennet, C. Miller, N. Huber, A. Nichols, M. Emmons, A. Minton, L. Wyman, J. McCool, L. Keena.
First Preparatory Class—Misses N. McEwen, L. Henrotin, C. Germain, F. Moore, D. Simons, E. Ives, K. Casey, M. Coughlin, A. Marantette, M. Hoover, J. Kreigh,E. O’Connor, F. Lloyd, L.-Johnson,' S. Dnnbar.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses N. McMahon, H. Miller, N. McAuliffe, E. Mann, E. Ross, C. Strother, I. Hatch, R. McKeever, J. Haney, M. Ivins, E. Taylor, M. Quill, M. Ayd. ‘
Third Preparatory Class—Misses A. Garies, A- Boser, -F. Larkins, A. Mertz, A. Manz, F. Gunzert, K. Armiter, K. Engel, C. Morgan, A. Sweeney.
Tablet of Honor, Jr. Dep’t., Sept. 17, 1873.
Misses E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, M. Resch, K. Hutchinson, M. Carlin, M. Conley, A. Shores, J. Brown, A. Lynch, M. Walsh, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, M. O'Connor, B. Quan, M. Martin. E. Orton, D. Allen, D. Bullen, R. Hooley, M. and J. Thompson, M. Hutchinson, H. Peat, M. Reynolds, G. White, M. A. Schultheis, G. Hooley, A. Paulsen, E. Schnoback, A. Ewing, L. Walsh, B. Golsen, A. Cullen, B. Pfeiffer, M. Ware, E. Simpson, A. Goewey, E. Lappin, M. Kaeseburg, M. Francis, J. Sink, D. Hays, N. Mann, I. Mann, A. Peak, L. Isherwood, B. Thomas, J. Tailman, K. Morehead, I. Fisk, N. O’Meara, M. Summers, L. Germain, S. Lyncb, T. Cronin, M. Jackson,	’	-
5
40
THE SCHOLASTIC.
©Ite
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, S10, in advance.
For 2 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave MaBIa for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Mabia for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave MtRtA is but-five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame. Indiana.
.OIVEESITY OF KOTEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 18441
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
t is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, --------	$5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition < Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, ---------	12 50
Use of Piano, - -- -- -- -- -- 10 00 Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, - - - -- -- - - -- -15 00 Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	- _ -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	-	35 00
' Payments to be made invariably in advance. .
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. X-EMONNiaH, C.S.C.
'	President,
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTF-TO PAGES EVERT MONTH.
81.00 PER ANNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Swing
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES I SOUTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, -	7 30 a.m
“	.	9 35 a.m	“	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.5,’p.'m.	“	, “	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.40 a.m. | Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“	“	11.45 a.m. “	12 25 p m
“	“	6.30 p.m. |	“	7.10 p in
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. I “	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
IRAINS now leave South Bend as follows
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.
“	“	12 25 p. m.
“	“	9.15 p. m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.2u p. m.
“	“	4.35	p.m.-
G01NG-
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.
“	“	2 55 a.	m.
“	“	5.00	a.	m. -
“	“	605	p	m.
“	“	’ 6.37 a. m.
“	“	8.20	a. m.
EAST.
Arrive atBuffalo 4.05a.m “	“	4-05 a.	m
"	“	135 p. m
“	“	5 30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
WEST. Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m
“	6.50 a. m
“	«•	8.20 a.	m
“	“	9.40 p.	m
“	“	10.30 a.	m
“	“	12.30 p.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than Smith Bend time.
J. H DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland F. R. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent. J W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
HEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafayette and. Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9.25 p. m
Freights, 1.00 a.m ; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
AWfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, .via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louisand Sprinafield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., ana Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
♦9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m,
♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Ex cept Saturday. [ Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, x Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
j. c. McMullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three dally Express Trains, -with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannrfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH. Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Geu Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. '
F. R. MYEt's. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.