The Scholastic
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
Discc quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 10, 1875.	Number 29-
JNU. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG.
City Judge.	Notary Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG,
ATTORNEYS-AT-bAW,
• REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block. -	- South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
S. PECKS,
Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., ' o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
.	> '	—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. ’ 1OO MICHIGAN SI.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
D.
E. CUMMINS,
' DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, - South Bend, Indiana.
.	(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
jgEN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STABLES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana. o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, ----- Michigan.
j»: RIcKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack te and from all trains, for guests of the house. ’	nov28-J$tf. ;
NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOR .
Callery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc., Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc.,
• o24-tf
yr nicar,.	’
’ DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
AU. SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc ■	—ALSO—
' Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. • o24-tf
J. STAGE,
. * COUNTY SURVEYOR,	“
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to._^h
O flice with M. Stover, Room 22, over Wills & Sterns Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-3$ tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
- SSoutii Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary's can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7-8m	.
QEORGE HEHR, '
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN	'
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Dp Staiis.)	}$o24-tf
M. A. Smith.	E. P- Holloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Tovs and Musical Instruments.
No. 71, Washington St., -	- -SOUTH BEND, IND \
8a
418
THE SCHOLASTIC
WATSON’S
AST JOURNAL
DEVOTED TO
Music, Literature, Art and the Drama.
THE ONLY WEEKLY MUSICAL ART JOURNAL PUBLISHED IN AMERICA.
- JOHN II. CODY & CO., MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN Mufe JHms, ' HEADING, HOOPS, &C.
Factory at Junction of P., Ft- W. & C., Ft. W., M. & G, G. B. & I. Ft. W., J. & S., AND W. &. &. E. CANAL. FORT W^VYNTE, INDIANA.
$1.00 Per Annum.
The Office of WATSON’S ART JOURNAL is 1C4 East Thirteenth Street, where all Subscriptions and Advertisements will be received.
Address, WATSON’S ART JOURNAL,
104 EAST THIRTEENTH STREET, a3-4t	New York City.
The
—AN—3
Illustrated Weekly Journal
DEVOTED TO
LITERATURE, ART, MUSIC AND THE DRAMA.
84-00 Per Annum.
Address, THE .A-TdC-A-TDI-A-UST, 169 and 171 FULTON STREET,' New York, Where Subscriptions and Advertisements wil be received. a3-4t
EYLOWYTSOYT’S *
Quarterly Review,.
PUBLISHED BY
Fr. PUSTET FOR THE PROPRIETOR.
L. B- 5613, New York; and 204 Vine St., Cincinnati, Ohio*
This work is devoted to Religion, Philosophy, Politics, and Gen. eral Literature. Each number contains 141 pages. and four num. bers make a volume of 576 pages, which is furnished to subscrioerj at five dollars per annum in advance.	.
J^£RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan Street, South LBend, Indiana.
DEALER IN	-
Millinery Goods, Hats, JBonnets, Laces, &c.
0TThe young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	aplTZ
OVER 1,000 CASES OF FITS CURED.
Hr. S. Clay Todd, corner of Calhoun and Columbia streets, Fort Wayne. Indiana—P. O. Box 1<-61—has pennanenily cuied overi,U 0 cases of Epileptic Fits, nut having failed in a single case in ihe past six years. Consultations free. Medicines sent“to all parts of the United States and the Canidas. For particulars, call or address as above. Hr. Todd also treats successfully ALL DISEASES OF THE
NERVOUS SYSTEM.	ap!17-4t
GOLSEN & EASTMAN,
Successors to Jno. Clarke, & Co.,
DISTILLERS,
21 «fc 23 RIVER STREET,
CHICAG-O.
JAMESZBONNEY,	'
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coonley's Drug Store, ■ South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring I
o2l-tf
CARPENTER HATTER 2
105 MICHIGAN St. -	: . SOUTH BEND.]
dec 5-Jgtf.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
ajmrnDY factory^ 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago. .
Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35c.
Caramels ------ «5c
Molasses and Cream Candy -	- 5c
Proportionately Low Prices to Wholesale Cash. Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
034-W
5?
The Scholastic

pEVOTED TO THE
JStudents,
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus,
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 10, 1875.
Number 29
' A Reverie.
i
The manuscript of this poem was found about the first quarter of the present century, attached to a human skeleton in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. It was published in the jlfnminp Chronicle and attracted great attention. All efforts to ascertain the author, including a reward of £50 offered by a responsible gentleman, were unvailiug.
B ‘hold this ruin ! ’Twas a skull
Once, of etheral spirit full;
This narrow cell was life’s retreat, This space was Thought’s mysterious seat; What beauteous vision filled, this spot!
What dreams of pleasure long forgot I Nor hope, nor joy, nor love, nor fear, Have left one trace or record here.

Beneath this moldering canopy Once shone the bright and busy eye; But start not at the dismal void— If social love that eye employed, If with no lawless fire it gleamed, But through the dew of kindness beamed, That eye shall be forever bright, When stars and suns are sunk in night.
Within this hollow cavern hung The ready, swift and tuneful tongue; If falshood’s honey it disdained. And where it could not praise, was chained; If bold in virtue’s cause it spoke, Yet gentle concord never broke, This silent tongue shall plead for thee When time unvails eternity.
I
I.
£
Say, did these fingers delve the mine ? Or with its envied rnbies shine ?
To hew the rock, or wear the gem, Can little now avail to them.
But if the page of truth they sought, Or comfort to the mourner brought, The hands a richer meed shall claim Than all that wait on wealth or fame.

Avails it whether bare or shod These feet the paths of duty trod ? If from the halls of ease they fled, To seek affliction’s humble shed ; If grandeur’s guilty bride they spurned,
I
And home to virtue’s cot returned, These feet with angel’s wings shall vie, And tread the palace of the sky.
—Exchange.
The Angel of the Schools.
The thirteenth century, whatever may be said to the contrary by the enemies of religion and truth, was an age of great intellectual progress, and is rightly regarded as one of the most glorious epochs in the history of the Church. It was an age of philosophers and saints; science and sanctity went hand in hand, and the greatest scholars were distinguished no less for their eminent virtues than for profound learning.
We have been taught to laugh at the illiteracy of bygone times, and our prej adice has become so deep-rooted that we look upon our own as the only period in the world’s history that can in any sense be called enlightened. This is a great mistake, arising from ignorance as well -as prejudice, and which can be corrected only by studying more attentively than we have yet done the history of the past If we do so, we shall find that our ancestors were not such great dunces after all; that those “ lazy monks ” we read about, were not what they are represented to be; that in the Dark Ages there were schools and scholars as well as now; and perhaps, too, we shall be convinced that our own nineteenth century, with all its vaunted enlightenment and progress, is an age (shall it be said?) of superficial learning.
But we didn’t mean to say so much before coming to our subject. We purposed to write only a short sketch of a great saint and a great scholar—St. Thomas of Aquin, the Angel of the Schools—whose mighty intellect has perhaps never been surpassed, and whose extraordinary gifts have ever been the admiration of the world. He was * born of noble parents at Aquino, in the kingdom of Naples, on the 12th of March, 1226. When only five years old, young Aquino was sent to the famous monastery of Monte Cassino, there to receive his first training from the sons of St. Benedict. So remarkable was his progress in study, and so precocious were his talents, that the learned and holy Benedictines opened their eyes in astonishment; they wondered at his intellectual gifts, and were in admiration of the virtues which they soon discovered in him. Gentle, pious, silent, he was beloved by all. Truly the good Abbot must have done violence to himself when he recommended the father of Thomas to send him to one of the great Universities, which would rob Monte Cassino of its little angel. The University of Naples had but recently been established, and there St. Thomas was sent to pursue his studies. It was a change, indeed, and one which he felt most keenly—from the cloisters of a monastery where all was peace and quiet, to a noisy university where the great concourse of students from all parts formed a little world, with all its accompanying wickedness. But Thomas prayed, kept close to God, and so_escaped the snares which
£
420
THE SCHOLASTIC
"beset his path; he shunned most carefully the company of idle and dissipated students; their amusements had no attraction for him—their ways were not his. At Naples St. Thomas made marvellous progress in study, and his learning and virtues were the admiration of his masters and fellow-students. After completing his course of studies he felt drawn to the religious state; the world was not suited to him, and he was not suited to the world. With the advice of his confessor he entered the Order of Friars Preachers, which, though still in its infancy, was one of thebrighest ornaments in the Church, and numbered among its members many of the greatest scholars of Europe. This step caused great displeasure to the Aquino family, and they resolved to leave no means untried to rescue the young Count from the mendicants. What a pity, they thought, and how foolish, thus to throw away his gifts and his life! The monks were accused of sharp practice; they had inveigled the young fellow into their Order, because of his great talents, his nobility, and his riches. Ah, those monks! Many persons, however, admired the virtue of the young nobleman in thus casting aside the fascinations of life to follow more closely in the footsteps of Christ by practising, as He did, poverty, chastity, and obedience. Others thought it a rash act on the part of the young student, and no doubt prophesied that he would soon repent of his choice. “Doubtless,” says the biographer of St. Thomas, “ the gossip of the world then, was something like the gossip of the world now—very flowing, very flippant, and very contradictory.” *
Thomas, firm in his resolution of consecrating himself to God, received the habit of St. Dominic at Naples; but it was deemed advisable to send him to a house of the Order in Paris to make his novitiate. His relatives having heard of it, he was waylaid by his brothers, who seized him and imprisoned him in the Castle of St. John. His mother and sisters, with many entreaties and tears, tried to turn the prisoner from his purpose, but all. their efforts were useless. Then the devil suggested his plan,—one worthy of himself. An emissary of Satan, as malicious as she was beautiful, at the instigation of his unnatural brothers, 'tried the virtue of the Saint, who, with a firebrand, drove her from his presence, and never again did his pure heart suffer the slightest temptation against the angelic virtue. After a year’s imprisonment, which was borne with exemplary patience, the sisters of the Saint, touched and converted hy his example, contrived his escape. He was let down from a window of the castle, in a basket, and fled to Naples to rejoin his brethren, who received him with affectionate welcome. His family complained to the Pope, who, as might be expected, gave them no satisfaction, but confirmed Thomas in his vocation.
From Naples, Saint Thomas was sent first to Rome and afterwards to Paris, where he was taught philosophy and theology by Albert the Great, who prophesied of his disciple that he would one day astonish the world. Thomas, to escape the praises of those around him, tried to conceal, his talents, and so well did he succeed that for a long time he was known as the Dumb Ox.
At the age of twenty-five he received the title of doctor, and his reputation for learning and sanctity soon drew a multitude of students around his chair, to hear his sublime
•* See the admirably written, erudite, and charming Life of St. Thomas of Aquin by Archbishop Vaughan. It is now reprinted in the United States.

and lucid interpretations of Divine Truth. Crowds thronged the churches to hear him preach, or at least to gaze on the countenance of one whom they esteemed an angel in human form. St. Thomas, though he saw himself the object of universal admiration, referred all to God. He well knew that knowledge is a gilt of heaven, and always before reading or writing anything applied himself to prayer. When he met with a difficult passage in the Sa; cred Scriptures he both fasted and prayed.
One day when at Naples, as he was praying with more than his wonted fervor, before a crucifix he heard these words: “ Well hast thou written of Me, Thomas! What reward wouldst thou have Me give thee?” He answered: “None other, Lord, but Thyself.’’ The unseen world revealed itself to him. Angel voices were heard in his quiet cell, and more than once Our Lord spoke to him from the Tabernacle.	.	■
Dear Saint, notwithstanding this intimate union with God which you enjoyed, despite your transcendent merits and heavenly lights, your heart was often troubled by the same thought that so frequently arises in ours. “ How do I stand?” he said to his socius, who after his death appeared to him; “ and are my works pleasing to God ? ”
In 1261 Pope Urban IV recalled St. Thomas to Rome • and urged upon him the acceptance of some ecclesiastical dignity; but the Saint, whose only ambition was to be hidden from the world, declined all honors.
It would be wrong to suppose that our Saint, when he left home and friends to obey the Voice which spoke to his heart, no longer remembered delations and friends. Religion does not destroy nature: it perfects it. He poured forth fervent prayers for those who were dearest to him on earth, and his prayers were beard.
The writings of St. Thomas of Aquin, which fill some twenty large folio volumes, are so extraordinary not only for their number and variety, but also for clearness and precision in the explanation of the most difficult questions in theology and philosophy, that he has received the glorious titles of Angelical Doctor, Universal Doctor, and Angel of the Schools. His Summa Theologia is the most wonderful production of human genius, and, though unfinished, is an inexhaustible fountain of heavenly wisdom, from which f theologians may draw to the end of time.
Towards the end of his life a change came over the , Saint. He laid aside his pen, and said: “I can write no	J
longer.” A weariness of life took possession of his heart;	J
he sighed for heaven,—to be with his Divine Master,	j
whom he loved so ardently, and had served so well. The	|
time was not far distant.
In the year 1274 Pope Gregory X convoked the 14th I General Council, for the purpose of combating the Greek / Schism and to raise succor against the Saracens. St. j Thomas, by a special letter, was summoned to attend, and t although in feeble health, at once set out for Lyons, where	I
the Council was to be held; but having gone as far as	1
Fossa Nova, near Terracina, he was seized with a fever which prevented his going farther. He was kindly received at a monastery not far distant, and the good monks « did all in their power to preserve a life so precious. But w it soon became evident that the Saint had not long to live. fl tv At the request of his kind friends he dictated,a commentary on the Canticle of Canticles, the la*t outpourings of his seraphic heart. And now came the long wished for * I hour for which his whole life had been a constant prepara- I tion. He made a general confession, shedding abundant
■	■	■ ■	-w;l
THE SCHOLASTIC./
42*
■ears over what he thought sins and infidelities—though,as is well known, the white robe of his baptismal innnocence he bore unspotted to the grave. Having received absolution, he was laid on the floor, which at his own request ' had been sprinkled with ashes. When the Blessed Sacra; ment arrived, he raised himself to receive the embrace of .	bis Divine Master, and withrapturous fervor and a voice
■	choked by emotion, said: “ I firmly believe that Jesus
Christ, true God and true Man, is present in this august Sacrament. I adore Thee, my God and my Redeemer. I receive Thee, the price of my redemption, the Viaticum of my pilgrimage; Thee, for whose honor I have studied, labored, preached, and taught. If through ignorance I have ever advanced any doctrine as Thine which I have \v not learned from Thee, I revoke it, and I submit all my * writings to the judgment of Thy Holy Roman Church.” ?.	. About midnight St. Thomas calmly breathed his last
] - - sigh, and slept in Christ, on the 7th of March, 1274. His 5 • sanctity was made manifest by many miracles, and he was 3 canonized by Pope John XXII, in the year 1323.
• '	. ,	■ Ths Chameleoa.
The chameleon is hardly recognized as a reality, on ac. count of the many marvels related concerning it. But it really exists; and although many of these marvels have no foundation, yet it is really a curious creature. The genus chamdeo is a family of saurian reptiles, or lizards, consisting of twenty species, inhabiting the warmest regions of India and Africa. One species, the common chameleon, is j naturalized in Southern Spain and in Sicily.
The chameleon is from ten to fifteen inches in length, , one-half of which length is represented by the tail, which is prehensile. The skin is covered with small, scaly grains, and along the ridge of the back and the median line of the | chest and belly they appear like spiny processes. The “J back is sharp, and the tail round and slender. The toes, !five in number, are divided into two opposite parcels, consisting of two and three toes each, which are united as far as the claws by means of the skin. The claws are long and sharp. The head is angular, its back rising in a p^'-। ramidal form. The neck is very short, and even prevents the animal from turning his head from side to side. There is no external ear. The tongue is fleshy and cylindrical, and can be elongated to half the length of the animal; that is, from five to seven inches. The eyes are almost entirely covered by the skin, there being but a small opening left for the pupil, which is very small. They are very large ‘ and protruding, and can act independent of one another. .	The first rib is joined to the breast; but all the rest are
f	joined to their fellows of the oppo.-ite side, thus inclosing
the abdomen in a complete circle. . The lungs are very large, and are connected with air-cells which underlie the skin.
.	The female lays about thirty eggs, which are placed in a
t- hollow in the ground, covered with loose earth, and then L	left to be hatched by the heat of the sun. The chameleon
i	possesses no weapons of defense. Although it is arboreal,
it is very slow in its movements. Its sluggishness dis-£ tinguishes the chameleon from all the rest of the lizard tribe, which, as a rule, are quick and active in all their movements. It will at times remain fixed for days on the ■•a branch of a tree, to which it fixes itself by means of its peculiarly divided feet and prehensile tail. Inconsequence
of this sluggishness, and the absence of all offensive or de -fensive weapons, the chameleon falls an easy prey to its enemies; and were it not for its prolificness, the species would soon be destroyed.	'
Alfred Brehm, who received a number of chameleons, from Schweinfurth, the African explorer, states that tha chameleon never moves his body except from necessity; though his eyes are always in motion. Those sent to him, when received, were in an indifferent condition, the skin dry and flabby, and the animals utterly apathetic. On being sprinkled with water, they began to recover and to lick the drops from one another’s back. Their skin assumed a better color; and they soon were climbing up and down the branches provided for them in their cages, and even engaging in combat. In fighting they generally use their teeth, though without doing serious injury; they have also a curious fashion of solemnly lashing one another with their tails. But such activity of the chameleon is very rare, except in the pairing season.
The chameleon lives on flies and other insects, which it captures by means of its long and sticky tongue. He is seen to suddenly protrude his tongue, and then in an instant he darts it forward and as suddenly retracts, thus securing his prey. When he cannot procure flies and other winged insects, the chameleon looks all over the trunk and branches of the tree on which he is, to see if there is any creeping thing near. If there is any approaching him, he awaits it, and as soon as it has come within the proper distance he shoots forth his tongue. If the creature is going from him, he pursues it, though very slowly. If it comes too near, he retreats to the proper distance before he captures him. While procuring his food the chameleon is very active; but at other times his movements are just the reverse of activity. Thus, if he should wish to change his position—while resting on a horizontal limb, and grasping it firmly with his feet and tail—he slowly advances one of his forefeet a step, then; loosening his tail, he advances that an equal distance, and then coils it tight, then the other feet come forward, and so on. One, from this picture, cannot see the propriety of the name given it by the Greeks of little lion {cTtamaUeon} and it is as harmless as it is sluggish; though the ancients believed that during the dogdays it assumed some of the lion’s ferocity.
The large, projecting eyeballs of the chameleon can, and do, act independently cf each other. This accounts for the fixedness of his head, as the animal may direct his gaze on all sides without the use of any other muscles than those of the eyeball. When about to strike, however, it brings both of its eyes to bear upon the object “Notwithstanding,” says Weissenbaum, “the strictly symmetrical construction of the chameleon as to its two halves, the eyes move independently of each other, and convey different impressions to the different centres of perception: the consequence is, that when the animal is agitated, its movements appear like those of two animals glued together. Each half wishes to move its own way, and there is no concert of action. The chameleon, therefore, is not able to swim like other animals; it is so frightened when put into water that the faculty of concentration is lost, and it tumbles about as if in a state of in1-toxication. Nay more, the chameleon may be asleep on one side and awake on the other.”
The two most remarkable properties that the ancients attributed to the chameleon are those of being able -to
4-22
THE SCHOLASTIC
subsist on air, and of changing color according to the objects it approaches. The first property it does not possess; the latter but in part. The chameleon is often seen inhaling air in such quantities as to-inflate its body enormously, even to its taiL The lungs of the chameleon are very large, and are connected, as I have before mentioned, ■with air-cells under their skin. Pliny, who followed the accounts given by the Greek authors, supposed that the lungs filled almost the entire cavity of the body. So, by means of its lungs and air-cells, the chameleon may swell out to twice its ordinary size, till its skin becomes as tight stretched as the head of a drum. This power of inflation doubtless was what led the ancients to suppose that, "alone among animals, the chameleon neither eats nor drinks, its only subsistence being air.” (Pliny.)
The color-changes of the chameleon is what forms its chief interest. These changes extend from white-yellow to dull black, through grey, yellow, and bright and dark green. These changes may occur over the whole surface of the animal, or one of its sides, or may only affect small portions of its skin. While sleeping, and not exposed to the direct rays of the sun, the color of the chameleon is a whity-yellow; while basking in the sun, it is a dull black. When it is aroused from sleep, the side which is first awakened always puts on a darker shade. It is supposed that under the influence of the sun the play of color is aroused in the chameleon. M. Paul Bert, who has lately studied the causes of these changes of color which the chameleon can assume, states that in the skin of the chameleon is a very close network of minute ducts, leading from pigment-vesicles which are situated on its inner surface. If the coloring liquid is retained in these vesicles, the color of the skin is yellowish. When the liquid begins to flow in these ducts, the color changes, the hue depending on the degree of tension in the ducts. When a nerve is cut, the region to which that nerve was distributed changes to a deep black, and no more colorchanges take place in that region.
The chameleon is considered by the native Africans and Asiatics as a very harmless creature. It is very often petted by them in their dwellings on account of the insect pests they destroy. Tney are very gentle when kindly treated, but they very readily fight with each other. But whether upon a tree or on the ground, the chameleon is a very disagreeable and awkward creature. From its sudden changes in color ahd s'ze, the chameleon has always been taken as “the embem of the hypocrite, the wily flatterer of the great, the ambitious demagogue, the cautious knave, and fickle and inconstant persons who from mere indolence or unsteadiness of purpose ‘ are all things to all men?”	Fairfield.
Farmuig vs. Health.
Farmers, as a general rule, enjoy better health than those who follow mechanical trades. Yet they sicken and die as well as other people. Generally speaking, husbandry as a calling is a healthy one; but there are exceptions to the general rule. Agriculturists may overwork themselves imprudently at times, as in haying and harvesting,—wear unsuitable clothing,—may be uncleanly in their persons and habits,—and may give themselves up to many anxieties about their household affairs. By transgressing any of the laws of general health, the tilling of the
soil will not save them from the sufferings due to their carelessness.
They have all the favorable advantages towards health and long life. They have exercise in the open air, which is one of the chief promoters of good health. The value of this advantage is laid down by experience, as every one must admit.
By right of occupation, the farmer is in the open air at all hours of the day. If there is any virtue in early rising and the morning air, he gets it. It is- a rule of health to expose oneself to the open air every day in the year, regardless of clouds and storms. Even in the leisure seasons of the year, a good farmer is abroad looking after the welfare of his stock, his buildings, and crops. The labors of the farm furnish exercise of the best kind. The arms, chest, feet, legs, all come into requisition. And the labor is so varied from day to diy as to aff >rd a pleasing alternation of exercise and rest to the several members of the body. The best of all is, that they are away from scenes of temptation; their passions are less excited than those of their brethren who prefer to live in large cities and eke out a miserable existence there.
If a man’s whole being is not under control he cannot be a successful farmer. His cares are often a cause of mental anxiety. Late Springs, with perhaps bis whole wheat crop Winter-killed—untimely rains, droughts, Autumnal frosts, and the uncertainties attending the gathering of crops, give him some anxiety.
Living in the country, or country life, has many beauties. It is a favorite theme with the poet. We know of no finer sight than a fifty-acre wheat field just turning yellow and nodding its plumes in graceful invitation to the reaper. What perfume is sweeter to the farmer than the breath of his clover and grasses when his scythe sweeps down their dew-laden blossoms at early morn, or the odor of the same grasses when dried and carted home in the evening? There is no place on this earth which has al) the advantages, the beauties and diversities of the four seasons of the year, as the countiy has. It is al ways spoken of as the most useful, the most beautiful, and the most favorable to virtue. Yet multitudes become discontented every year, sell out their farms, and rush to the city as if it were a paradise. See them, if you will, during the dogdays, penned up, as it were, in one of our large cities, with the thermometer high up in the nineties, with the sweat pouring off from every part of the body in streams, with the heat rising from the paved streets like the breath of a furnace with the street gutters sending up their effluvia, we should like to see a man there in love with city life. Every person then, without exception, longs for country air, the green fields, the shady forests, the cool mountain breeze, the invigorating air wafted across old Neptune’s bosom towards Cape May, Long Branch, Atlantic City, and Cooney Island, where the lungs of the pale-faced denizens of the crowded city may inhale a pure, fresh draught of air.
Why is it then that we find a great number of farmers discontented with their lot?—and that in particular, the younger ones seek the artificial, tinselled manners and sickening excitements of the large city ? It seems to them that people in cities have nothing to do but dress well, live fast, go to the theatre, and enjoy themselves hugely! Well, it would appear that all giddy people have a natural fondness for city life, where they can see and be seen to advantage by fellow-beings as giddy apd as shallow as themselves
THE SCHOLASTIC.
413
*hey want to be rich, well-dressed and have influence in society; whereas if they were to remain on their farms they would have to be contented to live plain (but comfortably,) to know but few and to be little known, beyond the limits of their own township. Foolish logic! Let them look around them and go through the narrow streets and , the loathsome alleys of one of our large cities, where the poorer class of city people have to live, and they will see enough of poverty in those filthy abodes to shock the i	heart of any person inclined to forfeit the comforts and
I	advantages of farm life for that of city life.
,	“ Happy the man who flies the city’s throng:
I	Ev’ry tree, ev’ry brook that flows along,
I	Ev’ry pebble within its sparkling brim
Preaches wisdom and holiness to him.
.	Each shadowy copse is a temple shrine,
'	Where Heaven o’erflows his soul with love divine,
Where every hillock and each verdant clod An altar is, where he bows down to God.”
Agricola.
Z:k3 Persons got his Breakfast.
Some forty years ago, bef»re railroads were invented, and when the people out West were not very flush of money, there was a tavern on the Great National Road in k Ohio where the stage-passengers from Wheeling break-fisted. The landlord of this inn was noted for his parsimony, it being generally known and discussed by travellers that it was difficult to get a full meal there, because of the somewhat curious coincidence that the stage was always ready, and the driver blowing his horn, before the passengers had time to partake of even a moderate share of the good things set before them.
One pleasant June morning the stage ^eft Wheeling as usual at four o’clock for Columbus; and some gentlemen who had travelled the route soon began to talk of the probability of getting a full morning meal at the tavern in question. A Vermont horse dealer—Ezekiel Parsons— joined in the conversation, saying that he’d be darn’d if any Hoosier could chisel him out of his breakfast.
. “ But he’ll make you pay 37 cents before you sit down to the table,” suggested a passenger.
“ Waal, I don’t object to paying for my grub—that’s all fair enough—but when the shot is paid I guess I’ll have the value of my money—you see if I don’t.”
The passengers were all anxious to see, and they did not have to wait long.
“Breakfast is nearly ready, gentlemen,” said the obsequious landlord, as the stage drove up to the door. “You will have time to take a wash, and then you will please pay at the bar, before sitting down, to save time. The stage will wait twenty-five minutes.”
The ablutions were promptly made, and each man paid his 37 cents; but the breakfast was not announced until a few minutes of the time appointed to start.
The passengers sat down to their meal, but had scarcely tasted the coffee when they heard the unwelcome sound of the driver’s horn, and the announcement—“ Stage starts in .three minutes, gentlemen.”
Whereupon eight grumbling passengers hastened to bolt a few mouthfuls, and gulph down the remainder of their first cup of coffee.
“Stag* ready!—time up!—all aboard!” sung out the
driver; and the aforesaid eight hastened to resume their seats in vehicle. Not so the Yankee horse-dealer, who was at that moment discussing the merits of a sirloin steak about the size of his two hands.	•
“You’ll be left, sir—the stage is about to start—it runs here upon the exact time,” said the landlord to Ezekiel.
“Waal, I han’t got breakfast; and if the stage runs on time, let her run; I rather guess I shall have the value of my 37 cents before I leave the table.”
In a moment more the stage did start, but without Ezekiel, who continued his attack upon the edibles; biscuits, coffee, cakes, etc., etc., disappeared rapidly before the eyes of the astonished landlord.
“ I say, squire,” said he, “ these cakes are about eat, and I guess I’ll take another grist of ’em. And while they’re cookin’ on ’em I’ll eat a couple of them biled eggs, and a piece of the ham. Raise your own pork, squire ? This was a ’mazin’ nice ham. Will you let your gal here pour me out another cup of coffee? Land is tolerable cheap ’round here, I s’pose, for I see there ain’t much growth of heavy timber. Dewin’ pretty good trade, I guess, ain’t you, squire?”—and thus Ezekiel kept questioning mine host until he had made a hearty meal.
“As I’ve got a long way to ride before dinner,” continued the horse dealer, “ perhaps you’ll let your gal get ma a bowl of milk; for I’d like some bread and milk to top off with.”
The milk was speedly placed before the hungry guest, who thereupon called for a spoon, but no spoon could be found. The waiter girl said she had certainly put on six silver table-spoons when she set the table, and as they were gone somebody must have stolen them. The landlord looked hard at the Yankee.
“ Oh, squire, I’ve had a first-rate breakfast, and been too well treated to be mean enough to steal your spoons—but I can’t say as much for all of us. There was one chap at the table who, now I think on’t, called several times to have a spoon handed to him. When he got up I noticed that he was awfully riled and anxious about something or other.”
“And do you really think that he took the spoons?’* asked the anxious publican.
Dew I think? No I don’t think but Fm sartin,” replied the Yankee. “If they’re all as green as you are, around here, I’ll come and locate at oncet, fur Fd be certain to make my fortin.”
The landlord rushed out to the stable, and started off & man on horseback to overtake the stage. In about three quarters of an hour it was driven up to the door again, when Ezekiel prepared to take his seat.
“ Will you please point out the man who you think has taken those spoons,” whispered the inn-keeper.
“Point him out?—sartinly I wilt” The horse-dealer thereupon goes out and opens the stage door. Putting one foot on the step he turns to the landlord and says:
“I say, squire, I paid you three ninepence for my breakfast and I rather calculate I got the worth of my money. You’ll find them spoons in the coffee-pot! Go ahead driver!—time’s up!—all aboard! ’—Anon.
—As you cannot avoid your own company make it as good as possible.
—Avoid annoyance; be cautious and kindly. It is not safe to trample upon so humble a thing as bit of orange peel.
424'
THE SCHOLASTIC
Th® Scholastic, Published every Week during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEBMS : Oneyear.............................$1 00
' Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students1 Office.
The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is Jifty cents; besides wnich all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of tub Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—The State of Ohio has done an act of justice towards Catholics. The bill allowing rights of conscience to inmates of prisons, etc., has passed the Legislature and is now a law. It has been a great boast for the people of the States to declare that before the law all religions were equal. It was all well enough in theory, but when we came down and in other States than Ohio do now come down to the practical working of the laws, it was found that in many things the Catholic religion did not, and does not, stand equal to others. The chaplains of all prisons in the United States are Protestant ministers. None but the chaplain officiated at the religious exercises; aud was he an Episcopalian,all the convicts were obliged to attend his service, no matter what might be his religious belief. Catholies and Methodists, Jews and Presbyterians, persons of all religious denominations, were forced to hear the chaplain of the institution preach Anglicanism to them. Hence, although all religions were claimed to be equal before the law, and the State was not supposed to aid any one religious body, facts showed that in reality the money of the State was used to support a particular denomination by the payment of a salary to the regular chaplain.
The members of the Legislature of Ohio, seeing how, unjust and contrary to the spirit of the Constitution such a state of affairs was, passed a law declaring “ That as liberty of conscience is not forfeited by reason of detention in any penal, reformatory or eleemosynary institution, or any house of refuge, work-house, jail or public asylum in this State, no person in any such institution shall be compelled to. attend religious worship or instruction of a form which is against the dictates of his or her conscience; and it shall be the duty of every director, trustee, superintendent, or other person having in charge any such institution, to furnish ample and equil facilities to all such persons for receiving the ministrations of the authorized clergyman of their own religious denomination or persuasion, under such, reasonable rules and regulations as the trustees, directors, managers or superintendents shall make; but no such rules shall be so construed as to prevent the clergymen of any denomination from fully administering the rites of his denomination to such inmates; provided, such ministration entail no expense on the public treasury.”
By this law, those Catholics who may be so unfortunate as to be imprisoned will receive the consolations of their religion, and this without cost to the State. So also will the other convicts receive what aid they may desire from ministers of their own denominations. It is remarkable that this law giving to the poor convict the rights of conscience should have been passed at the demand of Cath
olics, who, the press generally tell us, are opposed to all liberty of conscience!
In connection with this law, securing the rights of conscience to convicts, it is with pleasure that we see'the following in the Catholic Universe: “Aside from the legislators, we would here say that E. M. Brown, Esq, and R. J. Fanning, Esq., of this city, should be ever remembered in gratitude by the Catholics and liberty-loving people of this State. They labored faithfully and well, and should never be forgotten.”	■
The many friends of Ed M. Brown, of ’65, will be rejoiced to see that he is not only making for himself a name as a first-class lawyer, but that be actively exerts himself in all things in which the Church is concerned; and Notre Dame may be proud of the fact that his name is in her list of graduates,
—For our “new departure” from ordinary college journalism by our art, musical, literary and scientific news, we have received from our thousand patrons nothing bnt praise. The Scholastic is primarily devoted to the interests of the students, by furnishing their parents and guardians with a knowledge of their standing in their classes, etc. Its aim is also to cultivate that love which every student should bear towards his Almi Mater. For this reason we publish as much local news as possible, and keep both the students now here and those warm, generous-hearted fellows who have left college and are now working their way through the world, informed of the whereabouts of their companions.
But the interests of the students may be furthered in other ways. Our columns are ever open to the deserving contributions of all at Notre Dame. That those articles have been worthy of being admitted to our pages is shown in the fact that they have been reprinted in many of the weekly Catholic papers in the United States. To make our paper of more interest to our patrons, we publish items of interest on different subj :cts. For the students in the drawing classes we print the latest items of news concerning art and artists; for our musicians we give a good selection of musical items; for those who attend the scientific classes we publish much of the latest scientific news; and lastly, for the students in every depxrtment we endeavor to • give all the news of the literary world. When we began making these departments in our paper, we had our misgivings as to our success; but the result has shown us that our fears were unnecessary, that not only are students in . the scientific department pleased with our cilleclion of items concerning science, but that all the students eagerly read them. And not only is this the case with the scientific items, but with all, the art, musical, etc. All are enjoyed by the students, no matter in what department of the College they may be in. The great demand for Scholastics at the Students’ Office on Saturday afternoon is evidence that the paper is on the right track, aud that it is appreciated by the students.
But we are encouraged in our labors by persons not in the College. Hundreds of the students of former years are subscribers for the pap.-r, and, if they do not receive it regularly, are as much disappointed as a New Yorker or Chicagoan is at not receiving his favorite daily. We do not speak in this manner in a boasting way, but merely to let our many readers know of the success of the Scholastic this year, and of the manner in which it is received by all.	-	'
J
THE SCHOLASTIC.
'425*
Art Notes.
—William M. Hunt is painting a portrait of Charles Summer.
—Charles Petette, a French painter, died at Paris on the 9th inst., aged 52.
—John Birnie Philip, a noted English sculptor, died on the 31st ult., at Chelsea, aged 48 years.
—Great preparations were made at Trieste for unveiling the momument of Maximilian which took place in the presence of Em-d er.or of Austria.
—A splendid fresco of Orpheus charming the beasts of the torest has been brought to light in a recently uncovered house in Pompeii.
—The subscription opened in Denmark for the erection of a s’atue to Hans Christian Andersen amounts already to 18,00) crowns. M. Andersen will attain his seventieth year on the 2d of next month.
—A marble statue of Venus has been discovered in the gardens of Maecenas at Rome. It is spoken of as superior to the Venus di Medici—newly discovered statues are apt to be thus exalted—but it has, unfortunately, sustained injuiies.
—M. de Waldeck, the famous Art collector, celebrated by a grand reception, the o'her dav, his one hundred and ninth birthday; His memory is fresh, his faculties clear, and if he goes on as he is going, he may be able to celebrate his two hundred and ninth birthday.
—The great picture that the Paris world is expecting from Gustave Dote at the forthcoming Salon, the subj ct of which has been made somewhat of a mystery, representsa scene in “LT feruo.” It is a work th.it has been in the artist’s studio for many years, but is o ily now finished. M. D re has also finished his characteristic illustrations of the Crusades, and the work will be shortly published in Paris.
—Mr. Francis Pierce Connolly, an American painter in Florence, h <s i istituted proceedings against some of the local journals for having stated that be and some other American artists have been in the habit of employing native artists in needy circumstances to produce workswhich tiiey have forwarded to the United States as their own veritable productions, and thus have found a name and a market for themselves.
—Corot, the French artist, whose death we lately recorded, was a very charitable man. Some time ago, while he was painting a picture of Christ healing the leper, a stranger a-ked him for charity: C >rot at first refused, and sending the man away, proceeded with his painting. He became ill at ease, and at last 'Sried out: “It is rank blasphemy to paint the God of charity, and refuse a brother in distress! Give me mv hit. and let me go off at once and relieve the mind of th s poor man.’’
—It was the fact that one of the mist interesting features of the decorations of the new opera house in Paris was executed by Italian artists, which determined the French Government to establish a school of mosaic decoration at Sevres. Such a school was actually established by Napoleon I, to assist an unfortunate class, the workmen employed being all deaf and dumb. The same plan will be carried out in the present case, at least so far that pupils showing a taste for the art will, in the first instance, be sought for at the deaf and dumb asylum.
Musical Notes.
—It seems as though Cincinnati is destined to become the great musical city of America.
—Mr. G. A. Macfarren has been elected without opposition to the Professorship of Music at Cambridge.
—The Mendelssohn Quartette Club and the Beethoven Club of Boston, will be in the Orchestra in the May Festival at Cincinnati.
—We have received the April number of Church's 'Musical Visitor, which is filled with many readable articles and much good music.
—Verdi is composing a funeral symphony for the cere--monies which will take place on the removal of the body of Donizetti to the Cathedral of Bergamo.
—The new Musical College, which will rank New York with the first cities of the world in the way of musical colleges, would seem to be a fixed fact;
—Carl Rosa w’ll bring an E.iglish opera troup.e.to'the' United States. Next winter we will have three troupes singing English opera, the Kellogg, the Rosa. and the Marelzek troupes.
—The greatest pianist in Paris is an amateur, Captain Voyer. When he plays there is a rush, as there u<ed to be in the days of Liszt. This gentleman is an officer, and only plays for charity. His touch is exquisite and hig taste perfect.
—The Hungarian Orchestra, which made its first appearance in New York on Thursday of last week, is said to produce wonderful effects with limited resources. One of the instruments, called the cymbal, says the Arcadiun. is a kind of immense harpsichord, from which great variety of tone and effect is produced.
—Max Maretzek’s venture in introducing native talent is extensively canvassed in musical circles. What the result will be remains to be seen, but we think the effort worthy of all praise, as young singers of teal talent un-donbti-dly exist here, ami have heretofore f mnd it impossible to get an opportunity of appetring in opera.
—Bergamo, the city in which Donizetti was born and died, has resolved to remove the ho tes of the great composer from their extramural place of interment in the Church of Sta. Mina Maggiore, and deposit them at the base of the magnificent maible monument executed some years ago in his honor by the sculptor Vela. The ceremony will take place next autumn, and many of the most distinguished artists of Italy and other countries will assist at the solemn funeral Mass and the succeeding musical festival to be celebrated at Bergamo.
—The 2d Biennial Musical Festival of Cincinnati, Ohio, begins Tuesday, May 11th; Theodore Thomas will be the musical director assisted by Otto Singer. The soloists will be Mrs. H. W Smith, soprano; Miss Anna Louise Cary, contralto; Mr. M. W. Whitney, bass; and J. W. Winch, tenor. Dudley Buck will pre-ide at the organ. The Orchestra will consist of Theodore Thomas’ organization, increased to double its present proportions by a large number of artists from differe it cities. Eveningconcerts will be given on the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th of Miy. Matinee concerts will be held on the 12th, 13chaud 14th of the same month. Season tickets cost $10.
Literature.
—Louis Amedee Eugene Achard, the French author, is dead. He was born iu Marseilles in 1814.
—Edgar Quinet, the distinguished author, and member of the French Assembly from Paris, is dead.
—Sarah Voglear, the celebrated Dutch authoress, was received into the Catholic Church at Monte Cassiuo, lately.
—Tennyson’s “Idylls of the King” have just been translated into Swedish under the title “Konung Arthur och bans riddare” (“King Arthur and his K.iights.”)
—A selection from the poems which Mr. Shirley Brooks wrote in Punch is in the press. It will be published by Messrs. Bradbury and Agnew, and edited by Mr. Reginald Brooks.
—A monument is in process of erection at Cavaglia, Italy, to the memory of John Gerson, to whom the author^ ship of the “Imitation of Christ” has, by some, been attributed.
—Dr. Newman has in preparation a new edition of his Letter to the Duke of Norfolk, and he has added a postscript containing some criticisms on Mr. Gladstone’s ‘•Vaticanism.”
—It is said that when, some weeks ago, off; ri ng the Grand Cross of the Bath to Mr. Carlyle, Mr. Disraeli mentioned that it was her Majesty’s wish to confer a pension

426
THE SCHOLASTIC.
at the same time from the Civil List, but Mr. Carlyle declined both offers.
—Among the important woiks just published in Paris is one from the pen of George Sind, the celebrated authoress. It is composed of striking skelches of the most noted writers, poet-, and novelists of the present century, foremost amt ig whom George Sind has placed Byron, Fennimore Cooper, Goethe, Bilzic, Beraoger, &c.
—The Augsburg Allgemeine Z4tung gives an extract from the Leipsic “ B ioksell<Ts’ Report,” from which it appears that the number of works printed in Germany was the largest on record since 1819, and amounted to 12,000, including reprints and maps of all kinds. The ilogy, •which had hitherto stood at the head of the list, fell in 1874 to the third place, jurisprudence and education taking precedence.	.
—The Association to Protect the Rights of Authors have formed a working Committee, including the following gentlemen:—Mr. Tom Tayl >r. Chairman; Messrs. Wilkie Coliias, Charles Dickens, B. L Faijeon, Caarles Gibbon, W. S. Gilbert, Joseph H.uton, John Hollingshead, Edward Jenkins, M.P., Bia ichard Jerrold. Charles Rea le. The Hou. S.-c. is Mr. Moy Tuomas, and the Treasurer, Mr. Stewart Jenkins. A very interesting and valuable p iper by Mr. Moy Thomas has been issued by the Association.
—One of the curiosities of lit<-riture is M. Chevalier’s book, in three volumes, “ Les Mur.tilles P.Uniques Fran-^aises.” The first volume embraces a c >llee-iou of politc.il handbills and phcirds which covered the walls of the towns in Alsace Loraine during the Franco-Germiu war. The second is devoted to the siege of Paris, and the third to the reign of the Commune. Every poster is reproduced in flic-simile even to its color, and the work presents a curiously picturesque history of France during the terrible year.
—The Catholics of the United States possess a Review of superior merit; one which would do honor to any age or any country. We fear that they do not sufii uently appreciate the treasure which they possess. We iear that through neglect they ignore the fact that they' really owe it as a duty to themselves and to the Church, to subscribe for this Review. Works of this kind require ihe liberal support of the public that they may exist. The good which acct ues to relig on is more than we can estimate, and we hope that our readers, recognizing this, will subscribe for the Review at once.	•
—We call the attention of all our readers to the advertisement of Brownson's Review on another p ige. We published in Jann try the contents of the first number of the Review for 1875, and at various limes have urged upon our readers the duly incumbent on them of subscribing for this Review, the Catholic World, and other periodicals of the kind-We have before said that Dr. Brownson is one of the first men of the age, possessing an intellect of giant stature, aud a knowledge rarely found in one man. His mind is so logical that there are none but what fear to break a lance with him in the field of letters, knowing so well that defeat would surely await them.
Scientific Hates.
—Prof. Sundevall, the eminent Swedish zoologist, died recently, aged 74.
—The geological explorations in the West occasionally develop remarkable aggregations of fossil remains. Lately a vast deposit of fossils was found near Red Cloud, the remains of numerous animals covering an area of ground containing six square miles.
—The “ Americanistes,” who are to meet at Nancy, in France, next July7, form a society of savants analogous to the Egyptologists in the nature of their study. They study America anterior to the discovery by Columbus— the monuments, the mounds, the ancient cities, the inscriptions, etc.
_—A large electro-magnet in the cabinet of the University of Berlin, Prussia, consists of cylindrical iron, five inches in diameter; each arm is two feet long, the iron
mass weighing over 303 pounds, and surrounded by more than 5,031 windings of 275 pounds of Lolated copper wire oneteum of an inch thick. It is capable of sustaining a weight of 10,090 pounds by actual contact.
—Dr. Hubner m ide some experiments on December 1st, in the Tiieatre-Marie, at St. Petersburg, to ascertain the changes that occur in the air of crowded places. He found a constant and considerable increase of heat, an increase of moisture to the extent of 85 per cent., and a saturation by carbonic acid sufficient to produce a markedly poisonous effect on persons habituated to pure air.
—It is worth knowing that if one volume of castor oil be dissolved tn two or three volumes of spirits of wine it will render piper transparent, and, the spirit rapidly evaporating, the paper tn a few minutes becomes fit for use. A drawing in pencil or in Indian ink cau thus be made, aud if the p iper is placed in spirits of wine the oil is dissolved out, re-tormg the paper to its original condition. This is the discovery of Herr Fuscher.
—The Society of Arts Journal states that Mr. Denton has invented a piocess for electro-plating natural flowers. “ By this means very delicate ornaments are produced, since tue precise form and texture of the natural leal are preserved under the thin silver film.” This process was ihe invention of Capl. Ibbetson more than twenty years since, and f>r that long period examples of the process have been exhibited in the Museum of Practical Geology.
—The villagers of Bezkab, near Antioch, in Asia Minor, while digging near-lhe old castle called Bughazi, on the Akra mountains, the other day, came upon a leaden coffin having a lid resembling woven feathers. These were sup-p ised to be the feathers of the samaudar, or pucenix, and on putting a piece of it into the tire it did not melt, but assumed a different hue. The Government has given directions for the preservation of what remains ol this rehc.
—A French journal, connected with the metal trade, gives the following curious estimate of me value of a piece of iron costing iu its rough stale If., alter being employed for different manufactures. Made into horseshoes it is worth 3f.; imo agricultural implements, 4f.; forged into ornaments, 45f.; converted into needles, 7of; into steel buttons, 900f.; employed as polished steel lor decorative purposes, 2,000£; and made into sain-studs GO.OOOf.
—The Scientific American tells of a flower frequently described in the writings of Pliny, which flourished one thousand live hundred years ago, but is unknown to modern science, the seeds of which, discovered in clearing away the refuse from the ancient silver mines in Laurium in Greece, and exposed to the sun’s rays, took root, grew, budded and blossqmed, bearing extremely beautiful yellow fliwers, thus germinating alter a repose of over one thousand live hundred years.
—From the South Bend (Indiana) Register we learn that an ingenious mechanic of thatcity,Edward Buysse, has now a curious and valuable system of time-keeping, which is likely to interest all colleges, large hotels andotuer buildings where a large number of time-keepers are necessary. One . clock is used, and from this, wires run to as many dial-plates as are required, which by the aid of electricity duplicate the time indicated on the dial of the clock, it works like a charm and is one of the neatest of this gentleman’s many organizations.
—Galignanis Messenger (Paris), Feb. 12, says: “From further particulars of the severe cold, lately experienced in various pans of Sweden, we learn that at Rattvik the quicksilver shrank quite into the bull of the thermometer, below any reading, indicating a degree of cold greater than 40“ below zero, Cent, that is, over 80° of Fahr, of frost, or 48° F. At Furndal, at the same time, a_ spirit thermometer recorded 46 deg. C., equivalent to 92 deg. F, of frost (60 deg. below zero), a severity unheard of in this district. The dwellers on the adjacent island crossed the Calmar sound in their wagons, with all their goods, and betook themselves to the city. The ice between Farjes-adeu and Rohalla was nearly one foot thick.”
—Lieut. R. D. Hitchcock, U. S. Navy, commanding the coast surveying steamer Endeavor, under date of March 18, reports: “ We have found just above Matanzas Inlet,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
about two and a half nrles off shore, in latitude 29° 46' 08" north, longitude 81? 12' 15" west, what is apparently a fre-di-water spring. The. water at the surface is violently disturbed for a space of about thirty feet in diam eter. The first day we crossed tliis place the water was C lining up with such violence as to throw the ship from her course; and the second time, although it was smooth, the vesssel could be kept on her course but for a short time. The soundings in the centre of the spring gave 23 fathoms, and a specimen of the bottom, of very clear, broken, small shells. The soundings from the centre to the limit of the disturbed water decreased to 9 fathoms. The water at the surface is brackish.”-	'
—A. gentleman of Halifax. England, being in Egypt, brought back several heads taken from human mummies. These heads were brought in separate small boxes, and one of them in some way got soaked in salt water on the voyage. When it was opened by Mr. Leyland, in the presence of a number of other gentlemen, they werestartl d —even astounded—to find that the fle-h on the face had recovered its ou1 line, the cheeks and chin were plump and rounded, the open ey s looked upon them, and even seemed to move. The gentlemen hastened to call others from all parts of the museum to observe this wonderful phenomi non. For a few minutes they’ beheld an unmistakably Egyptian countenance,- with pleasant, composed expression—the face of a man who lived at least three thousand years ago. They could only conclude that the p iwerful aromatic gums which had been used had arr> s'ed the decay which the salt water had now rendered possibles, and which set in after the head was taken from its box and speedily wrappings. But several gentlemen who saw it have assured me that they can never forget the life-likeness of the face before the swift decay of flesh which followed.—Cincinnati Commercial.
—At the meeting <>f the American Association for the Advancement of Science, which took place in Hartford last August, Dr. B >ck'esby read a paper on the rel tion between sun-spots and rain fall, a question which has attracted much attention among men of science for several years. By a careful comparison of tables ex'ending from 1804 to the present day, he proved that so far as trust worthy observations have been mule throughout the United States, they point to a conneci ion existing between the variations in the sun spot area and those ot the annual rain-fall.	.
Since the publication of the essay in the Proceedings of the Associitbm, the Doctor has received many interesting letters fromdiffere.it parts of the world, including a com pl im--nt ary communication fr- m 'he French Academy of scieuce, and valuable observations of Canadian scientists upon the connection which has been observed between the sun-spot cvele an I the alteration i.i the level of the great lakes. “ N ttnre'' the popular scientific weekly of E iglan 1, mentions the artic e as one of thi m> st im portant contriu itions to meteorology made by the Ass oci-tion.—Trinity Tablet.
.	Society Notes.	’
—At the 27th regular meeting of the St Stanislaus Philo-patrian Stciety, held April 5th, Messrs. Walsh, Nelson, Vanamee, Bu Id. Roelie, W ishburn, French, Quan, Morris, Colton and Kleiner delivered declamations. 0. Burger was then admitted to membership.
—The 53rd regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debiting Club wis held April 4th. At this meeting Messrs. Lyons and McNulty delivered declaim'ions in a pleasing manner. Messrs. Hunt, Cruinmey and Marks read instructive ess tvs. After a few remarks by the President the meeting adjourned.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held its seventh regular meeting of this session last Tuesday evening. Mr. Keeler opened the exercises of the evening by reading a c unprehensive criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting. Mr. Ball rendered a declamation in excellent style. Mr. Caren read a well-written essay on “ Books.” The debate came next in order; the question, Resolved.
“ That the Press should be Restricted ’’ was f lirly discussed. The disputants were, on the affirmative, Messrs Sheehan, M mahan and P Skahill; negative. Messrs. M. Folev and T. Grier. Mr. Foley being unwell, his place was filled by a volunteer. Prof. D uley decided in favor of the affl -mauve
—The 31st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Puiloma-thean Association was held April 6th. Ac this meeting the debate, Resolved “That Poverty Develops Character more than Riches” took place. The affirmative was supported bv R. Downey, T. McNamara, F. Smyth. J. Dore, J. McIntyre, H. Faxon, E. Riopelle; while the negative was defended by Messrs Arn dl, O'Hira, Connolly, Kramer, Walker, Perea, Norris, Weisenburger. The decision was give i. according to arguments of the debate, in •avor of the affirmative. The d<-bUe was well prepared, and was very interesting. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. W«-isenburger, McIntyre and McHugh. Mr. O’Hara concluded the exercises by a composition on the “Celts.” Arrangements were then made for holding the Moot Court next week.
—P. Clark, of ’66, is now in Warsaw, Ind.
—William Farnam, of '67, is with Keith Brothers, in Chicago.	.
—Ed Hull, of '63, is doing a prosperous business in New York city.
—Richard M. Dooley, of'71, is with Wells, Fargo & Co., at Ogden, Utah.
—A. L. Kreichgauer, of last year, is now in business in New Yoik city.
—Ed Laff.-rty, of’67, is partner in a wholesale hardware house in Chicago.
—Hon. John M. Gearin, of'71, is to eftdiver a Lecture before the C itholic Social Union of Portland, Oregon.
—It. was announced yesterday that R -v. Father Hamilton, of Lafayette, was dead. This will be sad news to his many friends at Notre Dame.
—Hon. T. A. Corcoran, of ’65, was married recently in St. Louis, to Miss Peters, a daughter of the late well-known music publisher of that name. We wish the bride and groom a life of happiness.
—Very Rev. Father General is preparing to start for Rome, in company with two or three Rt. Rev. Bishops and a select, party. They will leave New York on the 1st of May by the Inman L'ne. They intend visiting Lourdes, and making their Jubilee in the E'ernal City. ’
—It is with regret that we 1-arn of the departure from South Bend of Mr. Frank Murphy. South Bend will lo^e an estimable citizen, and Bloomington, Ill, will gain one. At a meeting of the St. Joseph’s Total Abstinence Society of South Bend, after highly complimentary remarks were made by R:v. W. O’Mahony and Prof. L. G. Tong, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
Whereas, by the resignation offered, we have learned of the intended departure from our midst of our esteemed friend and fellow-member, Mr. F. J. Murphy, therefore, be it resolved,
1st. That we have ever found in Mr. Murphy the characteristics of a true gentleman ; that iu him, the Society possessed a warm friend, firm advocate and indefaligible champion.
2d. That in the ineipiency of this body, its final organization was mainly due to his endeavors in the noble cause of Temperance.	.
3d That both in official and private character he has been a fait hful. zealous and exemplary memtier' of this Association.
4’ h. That as we receive his resignation with regret, and view his departure from our city with sorrow, nevertheless we hope for him in his new location an unbounded success; and if the past is a criterion to judge of the future, we may safely anticipate for him the ne pin* ultra of everything that is just, true and honorable in a man.
5th. That these resolutions be entered on the records of the Society as a tribute which justice and friendship demand.
To all these resolutions, from.persoual acquaintance, we can testify as to the truth. We wish Mr. Murphy every success in his new home. ■	-
428
THE SCHOLASTIC.
] t s t t

Local Items.
—Pull ’em out!
■ —Spring fever is contagious.
—What is worse than a cold ?
'—The boats are being repainted.
—The sparrows—where are they ?
—Flowers are all the go now-a days.
—The evening recreations are luscious.
' —The handball season is not at hand yet.
—“ Three little kittens lost their mittens.”
• —Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
---Every Wednesday the Band is out rehearsing.
—Two new statues were received from France Thursday.
—“ The Ides of March have come. Aye, Caesar, but gone.”
—The gardeners are “ fixin’ up ” things in front of the College.
—The Juniors were busy last Wednesday decorating up their study hall.
—The Infirmary has but few occupants; the weather is po fine.
‘ —Tne plasterers have returned from Chicago, and have gone to work.
—Brother Augustus and his assistants are kept pretty busy these days.
■ —The grounds around the steam-house were cleaned up the other day.
■ —The sheriff, clerk and attorneys in the case of Faxon vs. Best are very busy.
■ —There will be a meeting of the resident Alumni, tomorrow evening at 7 o’clock.
. —Our boatmen have, now that the ice is off the lakes, fine opportunities for ei joying themselves.
—The thanks of all our printers are due to those who cleaned up the yard in front of the printing office.
—The Cecilians will begin next Tuesday the trial of Faxon vs. Best for assault and battery. Damages claimed, $5,000.
—Baseball every recreation, except after breakfast and supper; and the reason we have none then is because time is too short.
—The Botanical Gardens were surveyed for the we donT-kuow-how-manyeth time on Wednesday last. It was done by the class.
—Casualty : The storm Tbursdsy night blew down the telegiaph wire which connects the College and Infirmary. No fuither damage done.
—The Class of Civil Engineering look the level of the creek empty tug out of St. Mary's Lake into the St. Joseph River. They report a fall of 38 feet.
—The Knights of the Cue are improving very fast. One of the most noted of them is now able toiun outagame in a week, if assisted by a brother pedagogue.
—Prof. Paul was delighted with the ariival of a permanent visitor at his house on Wednesday last. The same day the Band gave the little one a serenade.
—A match game of baseball was played on Wednesday, April 7th, between the first nines of the Juanitas and Excelsiors, which resulted in the former club winning by a score of 17 to 10.
' —The 1st nine of the Eureka B. B. C. is as follows: Mungoven, p. and capt.; Healy, c.; Barnard, s. s.; Thompson, lb.; L. St. Marie, 2 b.; Spangler, 3 b.- Blank, 1. £ ; A- St. Marie, r. f.; O'Hara, c. f.
—One thousand feet of wire now constitutes the telegraph line here at Notre Dame. The click of the sounder may at any time, even in the wee small hours of the mowing, be heaid. Our friend John proposes that the students be awakened by telegraph next year.
—The editor of this paper requests that persons presuming to enter the “ den ” iu his absence will be consid-eiate enough to write “locals” on sheets of pap^r other than those prepared for his own use. • He would even venture to intimate that their “effusions” would prove more beneficial to society at large were they kept locked up in the commodious rece.-ses of their cerebral organization.
—Why not get up a spelling-match in Washington Hall? There would be plenty of fun. Who will make the move? How would it do to put the Eastern Study Hall against the Western, or the Scientifics against the Classicals?
—Our friend John is studying Italian. He is not making great progress, though. When he called for the salt at the table the other day it sounded to our ears somewhat profane. But then we don’t understand the language.
—By m.stake, the names of certain young gentlemen were published in connection with a baseball club in our last issue. We are sorry that these names should have appeared, and make this statement the more cheerfully as the young gentlemen displayed their good sense by not getting angry over it.
—Bonney, the photographer, was out last Wednesday afternoon. From this time until June he will be out every Wednesday to take the photographs of all wTho wish io have their pictures taken. Tne members of societies, clubs, classes, etc., will find it more convenient to arrange about having their photographs taken these fine Wednesday mornings before the weather becomes loo hot and the rush too great.
—Many of the specimens of penmanship for the month of March were very well executed, and in comparing them with those written in the first part of the scholastic year they exlnbiied a marked improvement. The names of those who deserve to be particularly mentioned are the following: Masters Brady, Barrelt, Egan, Lambin, O’Brian, Thornton, Best, Byrne, F. Ewing, Faxon. Griffith, Haffey, Kramer, Korty, McGuire, Nelson, Norris, Perea, Bchmidt, Wood, Weisenburger.
—The weather prophets are again preparing to resume their wonted occupations. Discouraged by their recent failures in business, they had almost lost heart, and seriously thought of throwing “ prophecy ” to the dogs. But now that the beautiful Spring time has arrived—and zephyrs gently blow—their beans are filled with courage, bright beams their eye, playful smiles curl their labial extremities, quickly they beat their pedals, and their overpowerful joy finds its expression in prophesying.
—We were highly pleased with the Exhibition given at St- Mary’s on Monday evening List. A programme of the Exhibition will be found in St. Mary’s Department. All of the young ladies having parts in the entertainment, performed them with that ease and grace which has ever characterized the pupils of St. Mary’s. All who had the pleasure of witnessing the Exhibition agree with Prof. Ivers, who made the closing remarks that the entertainment was by far the finest given at St. Mary’s for years. Saying this is praise enough tor any Exhibition. We might mention young ladies who particularly excelled in their parts, but we do not wish to mention any names where all per formed theirparts so well.
—A kind friend has sent us the following account of an entertainment given bv the school children of Valparaiso, the p itish of Rev. M. O’Reilly, of’59:
On Friday evening, the 2d inst., the citizens of Chesterton, a thriving village on the Lake Shore Road, were highly entertained with a splendid exhibition given them by tiie pupils of St. Paul’s Academy and Grammar School of Valparaiso.
The entertainment was for the benefit of the new church at Chesterton, which the good pastor, Father Lang, is building; and the contribution lent in aid of this object by the pupils of Valparaiso reflects not only credit upon themselves but is another mark attesting the zeal of the Rev Father O’Reilly, under whose sanction and management the affair was made a decided success. The programme, although long, was by no means monotonous, for we were treated equally to the dramatic and comic, in both of which plays the characters were ably supported. -In the drama of ‘"The Lost Found,” Mr. T. J. McLaughlin, supporting the heaviest character, acquitted himself in a most creditable manner; and in the comedy of” Boni to Good Luck” Mr. Mark Stokes, as “Paudheen O’Rafferty,” distinguished him-sel£.	..	_	....	.	.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
429
A dialogue entitled “ The Through Ticket,” an amusing little sketch, spoken by young Misses, reflected credit upon M. Walsh, M. McCarthy, K Powers and M. Le Cl tire.
The *• Exile of Erin,” song and tableau, was a fine representation of the subject.
The music, vocal and instrumental, was fine, and would have refl 'ct ed credit on those not amateurs. Misses Kate Mahony and M A. Clifford certainly distinguished themselves as pianists, not to meniion Misses K. Stokes, E. Cartier, and others. The St. Paul’s Cornet Bin i contiibuted largely to theenj lyableness of the evening. Bands are generally a necessary auxiliary on occasions like the present; in fact they are indispensable to begin, as a farce is to close an exhibition.
Tins exhibition, in accordance with the above proposition, did actually clo-e with a farce, viz.: “ The Black Statue,” in one Act and one Scene, which, like the whole programme, did ample credit to the performers.
Additional Arrivals.
John M. Buckles,..........Mount Pulaski, Ill.
William H. Wells,........-. .Lemont, III.
Ernest B. Hall,...........Lima, Ohio.
Nicholas H. Watson,.......Bay City, Mich. •
E iward Marshall,.........Serena, III.
Jolin A. Rice,............D -troit, Mich.
John J. Reidy,............Detroit, Mich.
William R Coolbaugh,......Chicago, 111.
Daniel Kelly,.............Chicago, Ill.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Armstrong, V. Baca, E. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown. F. Bearss, W. Ball, J. Caren, J. Crnmmey, G- Cruminey, H. Cas-sidv, J. Cullen, T. Carroll. M, Clarke, W. Canavan, R. Doheity, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favev, J. Flaherty, E Graves, T. Gallagher, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, A. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handley. T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Hughes, J. Kennedy, S Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J- Kelly. G. Kelly, D. Kelly, j. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Logsdon, G. McNulty, W. MeGavin, E. McLaughlin R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, ,1. Mathew’s, E. Monahan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan. E. Marshall, J. N”y, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, C. Proctor, F. Pugh, G. Roulhac, J. Rudge, M. R-gan, P. Skahill, F. Sehlink, P. Shaul, J. Soule, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, 0. Wisner, C. Welty.
•	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Bergck, A. Burger. J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, L. Evers, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpat rick, J. French, F. Frazee, W. Edwards, J. T. Foley, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, F. Hoffman, C. Hake, J. Haffey, H. C. Hitchcock, H. Korty, W. Kreigh, A. L'itelt, J. Leite) t, C. E. Leonhardt, J. Lynch, A. H. Mitchell, R. McGrath, J. P. McHugh, H. McGuire, M. J. Murphy, J. Nelson, C. R. Post, L- Smith, J. A. Smith, W. Smith, T. J. Solon, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, J. Buckles.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	-
Samuel Goldsberry, Michael McAuliffe, John O’Meara, Walter Cunningham, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, Edward Rav-mond, Thomas Hooley, Lee-.T. Frazee, Harry Ordway, Wulie - Coolbaugh, Charlie Bushey, Hugh Colton, Harley McDonald.
.	Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 8.
•••	PREPARATORY COURSE.
. Senior Class—G. Roulhac, G. Hoyt, V. McKinnon, W. Canavan, A. Lonstorf. S. Kennedy, R. White, F. Bearss, P. Mattimore, E. Maas, W; Fullerton, Peter Mattimore, F. Hebard, T. Carroll, W. Armstrong, M. Clarke, J. Verment, M. Regan, W. Wells, N. Watson, Ed. Marsha 1.
Junior Class—J. Neiron. J. Del Vecchio, R. Walker, J.
• French, F. Rosa, J. Hayes. C. Pont, A. Belcher. G. Larkin, C. Leonhardt, J. Foley, W. Hansard, J. Smith, F. Kieiner, H. Webber, R. McGrath. A Leitelt, J. Leitelt, E. Gramling, H. Harvey, J. Colton, J. Haffey, T. Quinn, W. Morris, 0. Myers.
•	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Clement Moody, Edward Raymond, John O’Meara, John Duffield, Otto Lindberg, Cully Clarke, Michael McAuliffe, Lee J-. Frazee, Oscar Bell/Ralph Golsen, Francis Carlin, Robert Haley, Walter Cunningham, Joseph Carrer, William Campbell,-Colly Campau.
List of Escsllehce.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director of Studies.]
6th Greek—R. Walker.
Note.—W. Canavan deserves m°ntion for proficiency in 2d (Sr.) Orthography ; and G. L mstorf for neat “Duties” in 2d (Jr.)' Arithmetic.—| Director of Studies.]
SAINT MABY’S ACADEMY.
—Mrs. Russel, of Oshkosh, Wis., is passing a few days at the Academy.	-
—The morning walks of last fall have been resumed in this delightful weather.	. •
—Mrs. West and Mrs Anthony, of Sandusky, Ohio, are on a visit to their daughters.
—The Grad mting and First Senior Classes, on the Feast of the Annunci ition, mile a very graceful con'ribution to the Museum, by the gilt of a beautiful clock, desk, etc. -
—The lithograph views of St. M try’s, by Higgins & Belden, of- Chic ।go, are very fine. They are for sale at the Acad mv. Price, fifty cents. They form a very interesting picture of the place.
—On Monday. Aoril 5lh,—the transferred Feast of the Annunciation,—Rev Father Cooney, C. S. C., said Mass at six o’clock, at which he preached a sermon. In the evening an entertainment was given in the Exhibition Hall to honor the patronal Feast of the beloved Prefect of Studies.
—As the clo«e of the year approaches, it is to be expected that some five or six of the indolent, and undeserving, in their clas«-s will be dropping out of th ir ranks ami going home. Classes which have been regular, (and not broken in upon,as some h ive supposed, by E ister Week) will continue to the last Thursday of June, an 1 no one will be entitled to honorab'e mention at the Commencement who leaves before that time.
PROGRAMME.
Transferred Feast of the Annunciation, April 5.
Overture to “ Light Cavalry”- {S'tppe)........ .
.....................Misses	Smith and K'arney
Address—Children of Mary................Miss Walker
Festal Airs................................Miss Spier
Address—Senior Depariment.................Miss Lloyd
Quartette from “ Cinderella”............... ... .Mi=ses B. Spenser, Foote, Henrotin and Haggerty
Address—Graduating Class...............Miss	Ritchie
Fantasie Brilliante {Lysberg)...........Miss Foote
Address—Junior Department...............Amelia Harris
Chorus..................................Vocal Class
Address—Minims..........................Edith Simpson
Song—“Birdling with thv Trilling Song”..Miss Foote
ELIZABETH OF HUNGARY.
An Original Drama in Five Acts. - . Prologue................................Miss Curtin
ACT FIRST, SCENE FIRST.
Lady Elizabeth.......’..................Miss Foote
Duchess Sophia.......................Miss	B. Spenser
L idy Agnes.............................Miss Walker
Lady Guta...............................Miss Clarke
Lady Virila................................Miss York
Lady Genevieve..........................Miss Wicker
Lady Ermengarde........................Miss	Nnnning
L idy Yesentrude........................Miss Wyman
Lady Christabelle....................Miss	K. Spenser
Lady Chiistine..........................Miss St. Clair
- SCENE SECOND. '	.
Katrina.......-.........................Miss Curtin
Pol.....................................Miss Haggerty
Liss....................................Miss Byrne
Meg.....................................Miss Arnold
Kog.....................................Miss Ritchie
Maude..................;•...............Miss Smitli
Kit.....................................Miss Carlin
430
THS SCHOLASTIC.
Song—“LeBm Danube Bleu".............Miss Henrotin
ACT SECOND, SCENE FIRST. '
Angel of Poverty....................Miss Henrotin
Romance (Hensell)......................Miss	Spier
act third, scenes first and second.
Little Sophia..........................Edith	Simpson
Little G-rtrude......................Rosa Goldsberry
Song—“Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep”. .Miss Haggerty
ACT FOURTH, SCENE FIRST.
Angel of Secresy, or Supernatural Reserve .. .Miss Faxon Augel of Abandonment.......................Miss	Joyce
Angel of Rejection......................Miss Kearney
Angel of Mortification..................Miss Botsford
SCENES SECOND AND THIRD.
Scherzs Opus 31— (Chopin)...............Miss Quinlan
ACT FIFTH, SCENES FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD.
Quartette from Martha.....................’
......Misses Kearney, Wicker, Riopelle and Cavenor
SCENES FOURTH AND FIFTH.
TABLEAU.
Closing Remarks.....................•.....
Retiring March..............Misses	Kreigh and Tinsley
ART notes.
—In a private letter from Chicago is an interesting item for those who see every day the dome and rising spire of Notie Dame:
“Tnere is a wonderful portrait of the Pope here, which I wi^h you could see. I believe the artist is at.South Bend.”
We have paid already, our tribute of admiration to this truly “wonderful portrait,” and are glad to find it appreciated by the highly cultivated Catholic lady who thus expresses her plea ure in seeing it. We have no doubt that its value is fully u.idersto >d by those loyal soi.-s of Pius IX ia Chicago, who are well acquainted with the benignant face of bis Holim ss.
—Another private letter, from Mrs. Kite N Daggett, the accompli-ned translator of tne Grammar of Painting by Charles Blane, gives a description of the Church of the San Jo.-e Mission, Texas, which will be i iteresiing to our reader*. The letter is dated, “San Antonio de Bexar, Texas”:
“Four years ago this beautiful Eister morning. I was laying your rosary upon the holy places in far-off Jerusalem. This day is as bright as that, the air is as balmy, and the peal of far-off bells comes from every quarter; still, if I might merely by wishing be where I would, I should prefer the Holy City to this “outmost-bound” of civilization. But San Antonio is a pretty town, more Spani.-h than American, and one of the few that has a romantic side to its history. Its darkest page was the slaugbier of the Alamo, a church whose ruins are just beside our hotel, in which Santa An-i, besieged, with thousand, of Mexicans, during nine days, two hundred Texans every man of whom was slain.
“Self-abnegation of another kind is widened by the Mission, pictures of whose ruins I send you on this sheet, of paper. I shall bring you a stereoscopic view that will give you an idea of the style of architecure those Franciscans brought wiih them from Old Spain, The fi^ide of San Jose would be fine in any land; what a marvel it must have seemed to the savage Indian, and to the Mexican, who to this day live in a hut of mud with thatch of straw! But one tower was finished. Over the doorway, in alto-relievo, stands the Madonna, in a mandorbi, at each side lifesize statues of saints, so broken, alas! I could not make them out; above the window, your favorate Saint Anthony, —under whose invocation the Mission was placed—with ihe remains of the Child in his arms. On each side of him, a little lower, St. Francis, blackened with lichens, but otherwise well preserved; and a figure which is, I think. San Isidro. Between the doorway and window is a friez-with sculptured flowers, pomegranates and angels, two of which are scarcely muula'ed, and beautiful enough to satisfy even your eyes. The whole immense group is framed in with scu:p'ures of angels, fruits, fliwers and-scrolls. There is a side window that is a miracle of beauty, although much broken.
“ The stone of the country, of a little warmer tint than our-, but not unlike it in appearance, is so soft that it is sawn like wood. The other Missions are not so fine as this of Sin J >-e, which was not competed until 1771. The Mission Conception was founded in 1731; the Alamo, in 1744; San Antonio de Valare, in 1715. I hive talked with people who have lived here under s’x Governments, counting that of the United S’ates twice.”
A twig of young fig leav< s from Sin Jose came with the letier. “When the fig-tree puts forth its tender leaves we know that summit is nigh.”
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending March 23.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd. J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St Clair, A. O'Connor, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, J. Bennett, J. Nanning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johns m, M. Bradv, 8. H nis, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Qmll, R. Net-eler, P. Gaynor, L . Henrotin, E Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Bvrnes, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, E. Mann, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, T Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. and E Thompson, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFatlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, J. Rmpelle, E. Ede<, S. Reising, E. Botsford, L. Gastine, F. and G. Wells, L. Johns m, D. Allen, A. Smith, E Colwell, N. King, C. Maigrey, L Brownbridge, L Schwass, G. Hills, L. Ryan, L. Bosch, M Riihon, S 8 .valley.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker,- A. Curtin, M. Wicier, L. Riichie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearnev, R. Gieen. A Smith.
lt>T Sr. ’ lass—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke. J. Fanning, II. Fo ue, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M Daily, A. Walsh, L Ritchie, L. Wvmin, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger. J Bennett, M. Faxon E D 'Ugherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Bradv.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K Hutchins >n, M. Quill. R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Bvrnes, I. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spenci-r, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, S. Hole, M. O Mahon v.
1st Prep. Clacs—Misses E. Thompson, H. Rn«sel, S. Moran, M. Hutchin-on, H Parks. S. and I. Edes, M. ~ MeKiv. S. Cu iningham, D. Cavenor.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses E. Edes, L. Gustine, F. Wells, G. Wells L Johnson.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, L. Schwass, M Railton, 8. Swalley.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses A. Smith, E. Quinlan, R. Spier.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Silencer, R. Green.
2nd Class—Mis<es J. Kreigh, J. Nunning.
2nd Div.—Misses K. Hutchinson, J. Kearney, M. Julius, K. Greenleaf.
3rd Class—Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, L. Wyman, S. Harris. A. Bvrnes.
2nd Div.—Misses L. Tinsley, A. Dilger. E. Dennehev, M. Hu'chinson, M C aven, L Kirchner, L. Henrotin, G. Wells. C. Morgan, L. Arnold, J. Stimson.
4th Class—Misses A T. Claike, J. Locke, H. Kraus, . M. Faxon, F. Wells, A Duncan, D. Cavenor, E. Haggerty, J. Bennett. •	i
2nd Drv.—Misses M. McKay, F. Dilger, L. Hutchinson,. M. A. R-b rr.s, M Redfield, L. McKinnon B. Golsen, H. Russel. K. Joyce.	.
5th Class—Misses A. O'Connor, M. and E. Thompson, A. Allen, M. Riley, L. Johnson, E. Botsford, M. Pritchard, L. Ritchie, A. Cullen, S. Reising.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
I pALMER & VanWINKLE,
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and MiscelJane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
|	Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
i	•
t —-------------.-------------------------
5 p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., ... South Bend, Ind
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory ■ He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College t at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his I services.	o24-tf
DR c’ H‘MIDDLET05r’
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
JgDWARD BUYSEE,	-
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J£-tf
A HANAUER,	•
’ Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, 5:;	South Bend, Indiana. '
sg,	Dealer in
i READY-MADE CLOTHING, B	GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, ‘
g	STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
-& All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
f'	BURKE’S	’
f EUROPEAN HOTEL.
g	M. BURKE Proprietor.
/ ■ ------------------------
140 and 142 Madison Street.
(Between Clark and LaSalle,)
CHICAGO, -	-	- II/L.
f6 3m.
E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
JRELAND & SON,
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54 MICHIGAN SC,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
■ (Opposite the Dwight House).
--o---
Hack i.ine
To and from all trains io the Dwisht House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	2m
• “THE NINh. CENT STORE!”
—0—	.
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND	.
See the Curiosities.	.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. J$o24-tf.
THE OLD “ RELIABLE ”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS raving become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it witu new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best account odation.
Ladies and lentlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hou e during their stay, JERRY'KN .GHT.
CaJPrAlN MILLS, f Proprietors.
o24-tf .	.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
94 Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will hlways be found on our shelves.
• ■nr Full DRESS SUIT.-' show an amount of pains-takinu scaacely ever ^een in Ready-Made <>r t’uHom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS ihan the same material would c«>st if made to measure. . Money is scarce but Clothing? is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
i« in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths* Cassini er es and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
09 MAIN STBEET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old Snglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
__	dacl-Jttf.
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fbesh^Candies Made Daily.

432
SCHOLASTIC
IC
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO	•
THE INTERES i'S OF THE bTUDENTS.
Published. Weekly, During Term-Time.
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
$1.00 PER YEAR
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, lo74.
Trains. Mail -	-
Day Express -Accommodation Atlantic Express Night Express -
Going East
Leave Chicago.
5 00am
- 8 3<< a m
-	3 35 p tn
- 5 15 pm
-9 pm
Leave Niles. 9 02 a m 11 47 a m 7 35 p m 8 55 p m
12 45 p m
Arrive nt Detroit.
5 45pm
6 30 pm
8 45 am
3 no am
8 00 am
Trains Mail •
Going West
)
IS

Leave Detroit. 7 00 a in - 10 20 a m 1 50pm
Leave Niles. 4 05 p m 5,20 pm 6 30 am 2 3'am 500am
Arrive at Chicago.
8 05 p m
9 00 p m
10 35 a m
6 3 ’ a in
8 3o am
Day Express -Accommodation -
Evening Express - 5 40pm Pacific Express - - 10 00 p m
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.

FITHE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published I every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of -his paper is tn keep the parents and friends of onr Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline a’ this University and at St. Marv’s Academy, and ol the progress of their sons and daughters in these two in-titivions. For this purpose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of-the names ot those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to ben-cord-
ed on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance andindustry Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 630 pm, *9 am, *7 pm. .deserve special commendation from their various professors and Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 355 p in. 7 lu p m *1140 a m,*740 pm. teachers Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of 'he more talented and energetic students, etc , also Sad pl ice in this paper, and ke-p parents and friends accurately infor red on all that c uicerns their chi'dr.-n.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive: while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and abi'iti. render “The Scholastic" a valuable publication lor all who desire variety and utility in their reading. “The ScsoLAeTic” consists of sixteen widetwo-co umn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matterand the remainder wits advertisements.
Leave Niles—ti31 unlllin > I) o n
S i n. 1 > > in.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 a m, 5 55 p m, 1840 a m, +5 40 p m
Notice to A-dyertlsei’s s
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for ‘“The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the followingPstof
prices:
‘One Page, One Column
Half Column,
One-Third Column,
(per month,)
One-Eighth Column, Address,
§10 00 6 00
4 00
2 50
1 50
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, via Dfiles.
Depart—8 07 a m. 6 38 p m.+9 07 a m, + 7 07 p m.
Arrive—707 am, 942 am, 5 46 pm, 1832 am, +532pm
Going West, via Wiles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
E®-1 Trains marked thus ♦ t run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB. General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H C. WENTWORTH.
General Passenger Agent, Chicago.
W. B. STRONG, General Superintendent.
Chicago.
X

t
Editob of THE SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame. Indiana.
RAILWAY
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
Chicago Alton and St* Louis Line*
CWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Vp Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
if
$
as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35
10.12
11.57
8.00
[ 5.44
3.18
5.24
6.31
' 5.44
8.00
9.15
. Note.
a. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. st.; Cleveland, 9.50
A st. (No. 4). special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. st.; Buffalo 4 20 a st.
p m.(No 6). Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo 1 10 p. sr.
p. st. (No. 10) Toledo Exaress. Main Line. Arrives at To’edo, 2.30 a. st,, <'leveland 7.05 a si., Buffalo 1’10 p. st.
p. m. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicagt 6 30 a. st.	.
a. st (No 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago. 8 30 a. st.
p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7 30; Chicago, 10. p. st.
p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
a. st. (No. 9). Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. sr, Chicago 11.10.
a. m. (No. 71 j Local Freight.
St. Lonis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City and Denver Fast Express, vii>, Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis, Springfield, Texas and
' New Orleans Lightning Express, via Main Line,
* Except Sunday, t E> cept Saturday.
LEAVE.
ABBIVE.
•9:40 a.m.
♦8:10 p.m,
• 12:C0 noon
♦12:00 noon
•4:30 p.m.
19:45 p.m.
•2 50 p m
♦2:50 p.m
♦9:20 a.m.
17:30 a.m.
1 Daily. § Except Monday
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis aaily, and a Saturday Night Train.	.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
J. C. McMULLIN, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.
PENXSILVAVIA CENTRAL
_______ Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passenger upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY. General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J, H Parsons, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
’ W. W. GIDDINGS. Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Cliicago, Ttoclc Island and Pacific It. It.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Tbains.	.
Omaha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,-Peru Accommodation, Night Express'
LEAVE.
ABBIVE.
10.13 a m
5.00 p m
10.30 p m
3.30 p m
9.30 a m
6.15 a m
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago. Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago'9 00 a.m I Arrives at New York 7.35 a.m.* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p.m.	“	“	6.10 am*
3rd train	“	“	10.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.15 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and qouth, and
Mannsfield with trains on Atlanlic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH. Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh. D.M. BOYD, Jb., Geu. Pass and Ticket Ag’t. Pluelphia.
F. R. MYEK8, Geu'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. , ♦Second day.	.



SI