Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victruiis ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 14, 1879.
Number 40.
[For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
The Saered Heart of Jesus.
From Thy own sweet Heart, 0 Jesus, Saviour dear, Thy Precious Blood in streams does flow each day, Caused by the swords of sin which men e’er sway,
Who ne’er to break God’s holy laws do fear.
The holy Church on earth hath placed quite near Thy bleeding Heart a noble “guard” that may By love th’ excruciating pain allay,
And drive by prayer the foes that may appear.
Thy Heart to Blessed Margaret Mary shown, And in her breast a fire began to burn—
A fire of charity: she asked in prayer
Of Heaven that she to mortals might make known What is reserved for those who do return
From sin, and watch Thy Sacred Heart with care.
J. MoD.
Quintilian.
To the classical student nothing is, perhaps, more beneficial or of more assistance than a knowledge of the biographies of those authors whose works he is translating. He should not only know that such and such a writer is read and preferred to others, and that his style possesses many beauties which would be good to imitate, but he should also know the means employed by such a writer to render his style pleasing, and the circumstances of the times in which he lived. We all know that Cicero is the prince of Latin writers, that his style has never been equalled, that through him the Latin tongue has received •much of that purity and grandeur which it possesses; but when we are acquainted with the life of that eminent man, and with the difficulties which he had to overcome to exalt his language to that sublime dignity which it attained after his care and diligence had been bestowed upon it, and which after his death was corrupted by the sensational cravings of ambitious writers, then we are more struck with its beauty, and more urged to perfecting ourselves in it. Cicero was the most eminent writer of the Golden Age, yet there are A many others worthy to be noted. The Silver Age also found many great and worthy writers. Among its eminent philosophers and grammarians, especially among those who acquired a reputation for their abilities at the Roman bar, Quintilian is well worthy to be mentioned, both for his successful career while engaged as legal advocate, and for his abilities as a teacher of rhetoric.
Quintilianus Marcus Fabius, the subject of the present sketch, was born at Calagurris, now Calahorra, in the north eastern part of the Terracenese province of Spain, about A. D. 42. At an early age he accompanied his father, after the death of Nero, to Rome, at that time the home of
the ambitious and the mother-school of rhetoric, and was placed under the charge of Domitius Afer, a native of Gaul. The father of Quintilian was himself a professor of rhetoric; and the son, wishing to devote himself to the same pursuit, was instructed by Afer, at that time one of the most eminent of the Roman orators. After his father’s death, which took place A. D. 60, Quintilian returned to his native city and commenced his professional life as a legal advocate and professor of rhetoric. It was then that his reputation as a rhetorician and his singular merit attracted the notice of Gallea, who was at that time governor of Spain, and who soon afterwards, on his accession to the imperial throne, invited the young and brilliant orator to accompany him to Rome. Quintilian heeded his invitation, and made Rome the seat of his professional labor. In a short time the fame of his instructions spread over the Roman provinces, and students flocked to Rome from all quarters to receive his instructions, among whom were Flavia Domitilla, niece of Domitian, and Pliny the younger. During his first year’s residence at Rome, the city was disturbed by political revolutions, which terminated in the overthrow of Vitellius, who was raised by his vices to the throne, and the rise of the Vespasian family. In Vespasian, who was illiterate, but yet eager to have learned men around his person, Quintilian found a patron. Vespasian, considering the importance of encouraging education throughout the vast dominions which had fallen under his sway, established annual salaries for the support of rhetoricians and grammarians in Italy and the provinces. Quintilian was the first to whom such a pension was assigned. Sometime afterwards he was appointed instructor to the Flavian house, and was honored with the dignity of the consulship by Domitian. After he had remained twenty years in his profession, and obtained the merited applause of the most illustrious Romans, not only as a preceptor but as a pleader at the bar, he, with the per mission of the Emperor Domitian, retired to enjoy the fruits of his labors and industry; giving us by his example, first, what he had given us as precept in his 12th book on oratory, namely, that the orator should withdraw from public life before he begins to be inferior to himself. In his retirement he assiduously dedicated his time to the study of literature, and wrote a treatise on the causes of the cor ruption of eloquence. Some time after, at the pressing solicitations of his friends, he wrote his Institutionea Oratories, the most perfect and complete system of oratory we possess—a work deservedly eminent as a summary of all that was taught and practised in the eloquence of the ancient republics, and as being itself a model of classical purity and beauty. The work is divided into twelve books, in which the author explains from observation, as well as irom experience, what constitutes a good and perfect ora-
618
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tor, and in this he not only mentions the pursuits and employments of the rhetorician, but he also speaks of his education, and begins with the attention which ought to be shown him even in the cradle.
The first book gives an account of the home training and school discipline which should precede the lessons of the rhetorician; the second book treats of the primary exercises of the pupil in rhetoric, and of the nature and object, and the utility and dignity of the rhetorical art. The remaining books, except the last, are devoted to the five topics embraced in every complete system of rhetoric. The seventh book closes with a masterly discussion on invention and arrangement. The next four books are occupied chiefly with the subject of style; due attention, however, being given to memory and delivery. In the twelfth and last book the author gives his opinion on the character which should be maintained and the qualities possessed by the orator; how he should be guided in assuming, investigating and pleading causes, what should be his style of eloquence, at what period of life he should retire from his work, and how to spend the evening of his days. In education, Quintilian shows how necessary virtue is to one who aspires to become an orator. And he most emphatically asserts that he who wishes to become a public speaker must live up to the simple definition, “A good man skilled in speaking.” To be virtuous, he says, must be the characteristic of every orator, for without virtue the orator cannot be formed. Virtue, he says, although it receives a certain impetus from nature, nevertheless should be perfected by education, without which (virtue) no one is able either can be called good, and, far less, said to be skilled in oratory.
Such is the substance of the only work of his extant. In itself it may be considered a masterpiece, and sufficient to immortalize his name. For the law-student, it should occupy the most conspicuous place in his library and should, be constantly read.
In Quintilian the Roman people found that perfect teacher and pattern of eloquence whom they had long desired. During the whole twenty years in which he was engaged as advocate and lecturer, his lectures and pleadings were circulated throughout the whole of the Roman empire. Crowds flocked to hear him, and eagerly desired to receive from the rich stores of his learning some knowledge of facts which could be of benefit to them in after years. When it was known that he was himself composing a work which would in itself be a legacy well worthy to be left by him, all students as well as teachers of oratory were eager for its appearance.
In the Institutiones of Quintilian we find contained everything to meet the wants of the day. It became in oratory what the codes and the pandects afterwards became in law.
When we closely examine Roman history we find that the surest avenue to power and influence was acquired, if not wholly, at least in a greater part, through public speaking. Oratory was at all times patronized, and during the Silver Age, even as in the time of Cicero, who gave it its beauties, it was one of the most earnest as well as the highest occpation of the Roman citizen. What Cicero had done for eloquence during the republican period, Quintilian did for it in the Silver Age. In the work of Cicero De Oratore, he treats only of one part of oratory; the kind of eloquence to be preferred by a perfect orator. But Quintilian treats of everything relating to eloquence; he enters into that region left unexplored by Cicero, and
cipens wide the interior, showing its defects and beauties. His work may not be in any manner able to be compared with Cicero’s; we may not find in it that freedom of digres-	|
sion and beauty of style which distinguish the De Ora-	I
tore of Cicero, yet of its kind the work of Quintilian is still	|
without an equal. In his time, the sphere of eloquence was limited to the senate and the civil courts. Those great popular assemblies which in the time of Cicero had excited the orator to his highest efforts had long disappeared. But the opportunities for speaking were no fewer, although less z stirring, and some of that grandeur which they possessed	j
in the Ciceronian age was occasionally called for in the \ courts and senate. Therefore the Institutiones of Quintilian were well adapted to the times, since at that time liberal education was placed entirely in oratory. And the means of cultivating that education by adding more beauties to it was clearly and ably explained in. his work. In him also we find a perfect critic; moreover, it was his object in his public discourses to reform the corrupted eloquence of his contemporaries, and to raise in some degree the style of Latinity to that eminence in which it was-held in the Golden Age. For in the century which elapsed between Cicero and Quintilian, civil feuds, which had agitated the republic, transformed it from an aristocratic republic to a military aristocracy. And owing to this political revolution, the style of Roman eloquence lost much of that grandeur which it had attained from the labors of Cicero, and the style of Latinity had also lost that beauty and classical purity. That elegant and pure style which has made Cicero the prince of Latin writers, had become too common for the ambitious authors of the imperial times. These ambitious cravers sought after a style more flowery, having more the smack of sensational writing. Seneca, who was their ideal, was far nore pleasing to them, owing to his boldness of expression, and to the philosophical beauties with which he clothed his writings. He sought only to please his contemporaries, and therefore he employed that style by which he thought he could the more easily gain admirers. And it was owing mostly to this defect that eloquence and classical Latin lost much of its beauty.
Thus at the time of Quintilian’s final settlement in Rome he found every department of letters pervaded with all possible enormities of corrupted taste. Seneca had taught the philosopher to declaim in moral essays, Valerius had declaimed in historical anecdotes, and Lucian in epic poetry. In fact every writer sought to appear ingenious, keen and	.
oracular. To reform and correct these abuses Quintilian applied himself; although he could not hope to bring back	,
the Latinity fo the Ciceronian age in all its characteristic features, he endeavored to induce the writers of his day	*
to employ the existing materials of the language according	1
to the immutable laws of taste. His purpose is thus distinctly expressed in the tenth book: “ I am striving to call ' back the style of eloquence, corrupted and vitiated by every fault, to severer standards.” And in this he succeeded in some degree, and pruned from it, if not all, at least the most vitiated of those defects.
Besides the Institutiones, two other works are ascribed to him, though not sufficiently authenticated. One of these is a collection of declamations, some of which are elaborate, most of them, however, merely sketches or studies, and few	I
of them bearing any resemblance to the writings of Quintilian. They are detected by want of that elegance and freedom of digression which pervade his Institutiones. The	, h
other is the elegant treatise, entitled “ Dialogue concerning
■ L
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Orators,” usually published with the works of Tacitus, and now generally conceded by critics to be from the pen of that author. However, we’are contented with haveing still extant his Institutiones, which may b? termed a ilultum in Pano-, His style of writing is very correct, having much simplicity of method, yet it is lacking that freedom of digression and noble elegance which distinguish the De Oratore of Cicero. In some parts of his work we find beautiful metaphors which render his style exceedingly pleasing. In the opening of the twelfth book he employs a metaphor which for its beauty should be read by every classical student. Also in the beginning of his sixth book, deploring the untimely death of his son, which had happened during the course of his work, he makes a very moving and tender apostrophe to him. In this passage Quintilian shows the true genius of an orator, as much as he does elsewhere that of a critic. His abilities as a critic have been highly praised by Blair in his Lectures, and in him he places the greatest confidence for authenticated rules of eloquence. In fact, Blair’s Lectures may in some degree, be, considered a free translation of the Institutiones.
In his retirement, Quintilian is said to have lived m the greatest indigence; and Pliny the younger, who was formerly his pupil, gladly accepted the honor of relieving him by his liberality. At length, worn out by excessive labor and grief, which he experienced by the loss of his wife and children, he died about the year 118 of our era, at the beginning of the reign of Adrian, leaving to the world a most precious legacy in his Institutiones, and immortalizing his name not only by his writings but also by the purity and tenderness of his disposition. His writings should be read by all having a knowledge of the classics, because they contain discussions on nearly every subject relating to the classics. But more especially should they be perused by the lawstudent, since they contain the most precise rules for pleadings, and, what is more, the mode of life to be followed by the orator; also, they should be learned by heart, as they inform him in what manner he will best gain the attention of his hearers, and show him the best course of life to be pursued, which, as he affirms, should be one of virtue.	Z.
A Poem for Our Minims.
[“A Visitor” who has come amongst us has become charmed with the innocence and intelligence of our Minims, and writes these lines in their praise. As they are almost our only students at present, it does not seem out of place that they should have their share of the poetry as well as of the prose of the Scholastic.]
O’er woodland, dales one day I hied
Where Notre Dame adorns the tide Of silver lakes befringed with flowers, ’Mid sacred shrines in fragrant bowers, Where youth from every clime and State ' At wisdom’s shrine do congregate.
Dame Nature strewed with lavish hand, Her treasures o’er that favored land, So picturesque the landscape bright, That our First Parents gladly might, Tn blissful peace, there tranquil roam When banished from their primal home.
I saw the Minims on my way, As they came bounding forth to play; And as they gambolled o’er the green,
A vision lovely to be seen, The zephyrs of the flowery May Strewed lilies o’er their dewy way.
They paced the sward in glad career, Or sought the sports to youth so dear, Velocipedes and wooden horses Of high renown upon the courses; While timid rose-buds, half a score, Preferred the steady valador.
But hark 1 the laughter on the wing Of balmy zephyrs, from the swing, Where joyful float the cherubs high, As if they’d gain their native sky; Forgetting in their childish glee,	.
Without them, what our vale would be.
One thing alone to them is wanting, Which I regret is past my granting. A pair of sparkling, shining wings To each I’d give, ’mong other things. But then, alas! with angel pinions, They’d leave us for their own dominions.
These darlings of the Minim class Are serving-angels during Mass, And this accounts, when understood, Why they’re so docile and so good; Procuring grace that cannot fail To sanctify Saint Joseph’s vale.
When once I saw that happy throng In circlets dance the mead along, Methought it would be only meet That places touched once by their feet To grow sweet lilies should not fail,	’
To grace and deck Saint Joseph’s vale.
Delightful task it was to trace Rare talents beaming in each face, Ablaze with childhood’s tender glow, And fair as driven virgin snow, So like the rose’s ruddy hue Beneath the snow, and blushing through.
I love, I love to see them pass With lighted tapers during Mass, Like angels from the realms of bliss, Who visit mortals here in this; Reminding me a tale of old, Of diamonds on two chains of gold.
To their cool bowers then flew the whole, While I, delighted, softly stole Through vistas left the pines between, That I might view the charming scene Where oft they pass the noonday hours, In cool, ambrosial, shady bowers.
Oh 1 how I wished, as that gay band Moved o’er the play-ground hand in hand, To fling my years o’er deserts wild, And be like them a sportive child, As free from guile and stain of sin, As when life’s journey did begin.
J. M.
—Character is essentially the power of resisting temptation.	•
—The power to do great things generally arises from a willingness to do small things, and do them well.
—Sincerity is speaking as we think, believing as we pretend, acting as we profess, performing as we promise, and being as we appear to be.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Privileges of the Christian Woman.
We have all heard much on the subject of “Woman’s Rights” and “Woman’s Wrongs,” so, by way of change, we will dwell for a few moments on the Privileges of the Christian Woman.
How admirable the economy of Divine Providence in the constitution of the social body! It is man’s privilege, in the temporal order, to astonish the world by the grandeur of his inventions, the magnificence of his military and naval exploits, his successes in the political arena, his more holy privilege of guarding with strong arm and brave mind the honor of his home and the dearest rights of his loved ones; and in the spiritual order he is also the conspicuous head, for God has given him this dignified place in His Holy Church. But it is the Christian woman’s happy privilege to be, as it were, the hidden heart to furnish the vivifying principle that nourishes all that is pure, noble, and elevating in the social body.
The brain, indeed, directs its exterior action, but the heart gives activity to the powers of genius, to the sublime and noble thoughts of the mind and to all its grand schemes for promoting the good of mankind. Yes, the Christian woman is truly the heart of society, sending forth through its arteries the principle of peace, of patience, of purity and humility, nourishing that spirit of self-sacrifice which is the special prerogative of the Christian woman. May we not also claim that it is her privilege, like the gentle dew of heaven, to sustain the tender stem of the feeble sapling till it attains strength and vigor to endure like the majestic oak, or the heaven aspiring pine, the glaring sunshine or terrific storms? Yes, it is truly her special privilege to nourish unceasingly the tender plants of virtue, whose fragrance fill the atmosphere of home with rich and delicate perfume, and far more exquisite is their odor when the heart is bruised by sorrow or crushed by woe. It is true, the enriching influence of the gentle dew does not always fall on good soil, but often on barren land and even on rugged rocks, but this does not militate against its power to enrich the genial soil and its privilege of blessing the drooping flowers.
But when, and under what circumstances, did the privileges of the Christian woman commence ? It was at that sublime moment when the woman by excellence, Mary Immaculate, was taken, as it were, into the Divine Councils, and responded to the angelic ambassador sent from the court of Heaven, “ May it be done unto me according to Thy word.” Then was it the privilege of this first Christian woman to deliver her sex from the humiliation and abject condition incurred by the fault of our too confiding mother Eve, and decide the destiny of the race of Adam. From this sublime moment woman dates the possession of her most precious privileges—from which, like pure and holy fountains, she draws all her peace, her joy, and her true dignity. Oh, the economy of Divine Providence is indeed most consoling, for all are willing to accord to woman the privileges she so tenderly cherishes.
Let the sterner sex go forth to the scenes of carnage, and gain renown by the number of their slain, and their glorious victories. It is the privilege of the Christian woman to bind the wounds these stern warriors have made. Let the fiery politician exhaust his time and energies in carrying out some grand scheme. It is the privilege of the Christian woman to be saved from this exciting turmoil, and in the midst of gentle and refining duties preserve the peace of
his heart and the peace of her home. Willing indeed is she to waive all right to political and military glory, for with such rights come the harsh duties of constabulary and military services; for it is the Christian woman’s privilege to deal with erime and misery, not as the representative of Divine justice, but as the angel of Divine mercy. On the field of battle, in the dreary hospitals, in the houses of penal correction, it is.her special privilege to be the messenger of peace to the suffering and heart, broken. Many more privileges might be named, but the one pre-eminently suggested by our theme as the most precious and sacred, is the privilege of planting and nourishing the seeds of piety in the hearts of the young, and of preserving in the home-circle that piety and elevation of character peculiar to the Christian family. Yes, it is the Christian woman’s special privilege to mould the hearts of the young, for when by death or misfortune the little child is deprived of a mother’s care, Holy Church has provided, in the devoted religious, tender guardians to train Christ’s little ones to virtue and religion; and the noblest of Christian men, the saintliest of priests, the holiest of Bishops, when recalling their tender childhood, remember with grateful affection the Christian woman to whose tender care and pious training he owes under God his nobility and sublime dignity. Of this fact the renowned Saint Augustine, Alfred the Great, and Saint Louis of France are a few of the many, well-known historical examples. Do the privileges of the Christian woman end with earth and time? Ah, no; for Faith teaches that in the Heavenly Court, above the patriarchs and prophets, the apostles and martyrs, nay even above cherubim and seraphim, at the right hand of the Incarnate God, is enthroned His Immaculate Mother, the first Christian woman, to whom, by His sweet will and providence, woman owes her most precious and glorious privileges.
L. O’N. (Post Graduate).
St. Maky’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	■
Religious Education.
We find in the Catholic Telegraph of last week the following, to which we would respectfully direct the attention of those who think that the training of the mind and storing it with knowledge is all that is necessary for an education. The forming of the heart, as will yet be discovered by every good man, whatever his religious belief, is not only a necessary but altogether the most necessary part of good education: “We are glad to see that the Methodists, who, form a large and influential body, are giving up their liking for ‘non-sectarian,’ that is to say infidel, systems of education. We clip the following from the Western Christian Advocate (Methodist):	’
An Examination of the statistics of colleges proves that the average number of students in the denominational colleges is greater than the average in the non-sectarian. Christian parents of all sects seek to give their children a Christian education, while those who think nothing of religion are indifferent to where they are sent, and therefore make no difference between the colleges. One is a positive influence, the other only a negative one. We may conclude that the great principle of religious education, adopted in the early colleges of America, will remain unchanged by the rationalistic reasoning of the secular converts.
“ This of course is in reference merely to colleges and the higher institutions of learning provided for the rich
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
621
or the well-to-do classes. But it cannot be long before our Methodist friends will insist upon the need of a ‘ Christian education ’ for the poor also, or for those people whose means will not allow them to send their children to college or boarding-school; in spite of the rationalistic reasoning of the secular converts.”
. The Catholic Press.
[The New York Catholic, itself one of the most charming of our literary journals, has this week the following appreciative remarks concerning some of its contemporaries. Time was when American Catholic literature was a feeble plant indeed; but the seed was sound and the soil most generous, and to-day the flower and fruit begin to delight the eye and to rejoice the heart. If Catholic writers continue to attract attention by elegant, entertaining and forcible writing, we shall have a rich and flourishing literature in this country, which will be of incalculable good. The models of English composition given us by Cardinal Manning, Cardinal Newman, Father Faber and other masters are ensuring a high order of literary culture amongst Catholic readers as well as writers.]
The Catholic press of America numbers nearly one hundred journals, nearly all of which fill an extensive sphere of usefulness. Among these is McGee's Illustrated Weekly. This elegant journal does not aim to be a religious paper, but rather a journal of pure, instructive, and entertaining literature for Catholic homes. It is the size of Harper's Weekly, and is beautifully illustrated. The current issue is a “Tom Moore number.” It contains articles from John Savage, LL. D., John Gilmary Shea, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Donnelly, and other authors; with a sketch and portrait of Moore, together with the music of “The Harp Lhat Once Through Tara’s Halls,” and a double page series of vignettes illustrating Moore’s poems. McGee's Illustrated Weekly is a most excellent and worthy publication, and richly deserves the support of the Catholic public.
At the University of Notre Dame are published two most excellent journals—the Notre Dame Scholastic and the Ave Maria. The Scholastic is enterprising and interesting, well written, and in every respect one of the best, if not the best, of the college journals of this country. The Ave Maria is devoted to the honor of our Blessed Virgin Mother, and under the editorial care of the Rev. Father Hudson blossoms each week as a gem of the finest lustre. We cannot imagine a more excellent and profitable a publication for the people of the Church to read.
The Cleveland Universe, under Manly Tello, is a very valuable defender and disseminator of our Faith. It is one of the best Catholic journals published.
The Catholic Sentinel of Portland, Oregon, has won itself a national reputation by its satirical and very funny articles on the follies of the sects. May it live long and prosper.
The Boston Pilot, founded by Patrick Donahoe, and now the joint property of the Most Rev. Archbishop Williams and John Boyle O’Reilly, is one of our oldest papers, and one of the best. Its mind is bent in the right channels, and it is not afraid to say what it thinks.
The Morning Star, the Catholic Standard, and the Western Watchman are also most worthy publications.
Our best wishes are with them all.
—An old-fashioned lady wants to know why the graduates of Vassar and other female colleges always have their ages printed after their names in reports of alumni meetings—Miss I. Smith, President, (’70); Miss Jones, Vice President, (’60); Mrs. Robinson, Secretary, (’68), etc., etc.
Some Press Errors.
Rev. Father Hudson, editor of the Ave Maria, has handed us a copy of the London Weekly Register, of May 17th, 1879, which he speaks of as one of the very best Catholic newspapers in the language; but in the American correspondence of this journal, dated New York, May the 3d, we find quite a full notice of the destruction of Notre Dame, containing several serious errors, though some of them might perhaps be rather called amusing. We print the paragraph, with the errors either omitted altogether or corrected in Italics:
Destruction bt Fire of the Catholic Universitt nr Indiana.—The Notre Dame Catholic University, near South Bend, I regret to announce, was destroyed by fire on the 23d ult., being the Feast of St. George. The college building, infirmary, old men’s home, music hall, and Minims' hall were all entirely destroyed. The loss is estimated at 200,000 dollars’, no more than 45,000 being insured. Happily, no lives were lost, but a student named Dougherty was seriously injured by jumping from the second story. The origin of the fire is doubtful, but is supposed by some to have been caused by spontaneous combustion. The Circulating Library of 25,000 volumes, valued at 10,000 dollars, seventeen pianos, and other musical instruments in the music hall, were all burned. The institution was one of the largest of the kind in the West, and was founded by Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The Emperor Napoleon was a warm friend of the institution, and made it several fine presents, including an astronomical telescope. The fire was discovered soon after ten o’clock, in the base of the dome which surmounted the University building, and vigorous steps were taken to check its headway. The dome burned like tinder, and soon the statue of the Blessed Virgin fell upon the roof, and a passage was made to the interior for the flames. By two o’clock the college and four adjoining buildings were a mass of rnins, and in the excitement that prevailed much valuable property was sacrificed. This college boasted of the largest bell on the continent, the gift of the friends of the institution in America. Very Rev. President Corby states that the college will be rebuilt at the earliest possible date—in time for the opening of the new college year on the first of September. The Very Rev. Father Sorin, 'Superior-General, had started for Europe only the day before, but was recalled by a telegram at Montreal, and will return. .... Owing to the distance from South Bend, no steam engines could be had until after twelve o’clock.
The Minims are the youngest of the students; the insurance was about 45,000 dollars; the cause of the fire is utterly unknown, whatever anyone may suppose; Very Rev. Father Sorin is the beloved Superior-General of one of the religious orders of the Church, the Congregation of the Holy Cross; the chime in the church tower, the finest but one in America, came as a gift from France, but not from Napoleon, though the late Emperor was indeed friendly to this University, as his gift of the beautiful telescope sufficiently shows; the statue of the Blessed Virgin, though, like the bodies of the martyrs, it did yield to the flames and lay prone upon the roof for some time, yet did not weigh a ton, nor did it crash through the roof, opening a passage to the flames, nor finally was it a gift of the Emperor Napoleon's, but of the friends of the University in this country. We believe that the largest bell on the continent docs swing in the tower of the beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, but it is not the gift of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart in Paris, and though made in France it was purchased there, being manufactured chiefly of Lake Superior metal. The University, God willing, will open as usual on the first Tuesday in September. It is hardly necessary for us to say that there were never any jetcels in the dome surrounding the Blessed Virgin, except those seen by the eye of faith as reflected from the Queen of Heaven, whose form was presented in this sacrificial statue.
We have been the more particular to draw attention to
622
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
those mistakes as some or all of them have appeared in almost every paper in this country, and we desired to take advantage of their appearance in our able contemporary across the ocean to correct them all, and once for all. Notre Dame has had many marks of favor from appreciative friends for the past forty years, but it is an error to fancy that she has become wealthy, or that gifts to her have been of such an imperial character. Notre Dame struggled from a condition of poverty to the satisfactory state in which she was six weeks ago; but she had not become wealthy, still less is she so now, however strong the determination of her directors that she shall not recede from the position of eminence to which she has attained among the educational institutions of the United States.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Liszt intends making a lengthened stay at Weimar.
—It is said that Barnum is to bring out an “Equestrian Pinafore Company.”
—The airs of “ Fatinitza ” are beginning to be whistled in the streets of Boston.	'
—Mr. J. R. G. Hassard, the New York musical critic and distinguished writer, has sailed for Europe.
—“ The Illustrated Weekly” says the Teachers' Guide for May, “ pronounces the Rev. Dr. Newman the greatest living master of English composition, an opinion in which the Rev. John Hall, the eminent divine, concurs.”
—The Musical Record, thinks it a bother to keep in mind the double names of American girls who Italianize their paponymic as soon as they get abroad. We were going to say that Miss Blanche Davenport had been singing in “Faust” at Naples, when we remembered that she is “ Signora Bianca Lablanche ” over there.
—A symphony is the highest form of instrumental music. It is written for the full powers of a large orchestra, and is constructed upon a large and massive plan. It consists of several movements, each of which is fully developed. Haydn was the founder of the symphonic form as we have it to-day; Mozart elaborated it; Beethoven perfected it.
—The building of the grand Cathedral at Cologne is nearly complete. In three years more the cross will, probably, surmount the two gigantic steeples, which will exceed in height the most elevated buildings in the world. The Rhenish Railroad Company has donated the Cathedral a splendid window of stained glass, representing the Council at Jerusalem presided over by St. Peter. In the upper part our late Sovereign Pontiff, Pope Pius IX, is seen holding in his hands the Bull of convocation for the Vatican Council.
—The President of the Chicago Board of Education very wisely suggests that something may be done to counteract the effect of sensational story papers, by calling the attention of parents to such books as would be beneficial to children, and through the schools inciting pupils to read them. This last is most neccessary. Young people will rarely read a really good and useful book which their taste does not demand. The right sort of teacher—one full of tact, cultivation and judgment—will know how to inspire the proper taste. The ten-minute talk, which has interested a bright boy in some suggestive, and valuable book, may serve to bend his mind for life in a noble and useful direction.
—The editor of the Northwestern Chronicle does not seem to have a high appreciation of the learning obtained in some schools and colleges he wots of, as witness the following: —“ They are contending just now in many of our colleges, and notably in the University of Minnesota, about the relative value of Latin with some Greek and Science. We beg to assure all the parties concerned that they need not be at all afraid of the classics. All the Latin and Greek studied by our young men nowadays will not prevent them from knowing chemistry or geology. We hear much talking of the selection of courses, the higher standards, and the
philosophy of this, that, and the other thing. Laboriose nihil agunt. We are reminded of a Scotchman who, having a modicum of bread and milk for his supper, asked his hostess where the bread was, to which she answered, it is in the milk. Then said he, where is the milk ? whereupon she declared, it is gone into the bread. A case of mutual absorption! You see the point ? ”
—Franz Liszt was born at Raiding, a small Hungarian village, on October 22,1811. If ever gods can be said to have showered their richest gifts unsparingly on the cradle of a single mortal, this cradle must have been that in which Franz Liszt was deposited. From his first appearance in public to the present day, his genius has been acknowledged by the whole musical world. The history of music knows of no success approaching the applause which greeted the young piano-forte hero when but a child, and the same success has accompanied him in everything he undertook. He is now the greatest of living piano virtuosi, and his numberless works for piano and orchestra are to be found upon eve^ first-class concert programme. Liszt is a warm advocate of Wagner’s theories. He has now settled down at Weimar, after tiring of the splendor of the greatest cities in Europe. A good portrait of Liszt, together with a sketch and a facsimile autograph letter, appeared in the Visitor for December, 1878.—Church's Musical Visitor.
Scientific Notes.
—A new invention of a real practical character, not a mere “ Paulo postfuturum ” invention like many we have heard of lately, has just been made by Mr. E. A. Cowper, the well-known mechanical engineer. It is a real telegraphic writing machine. The writer in London moves his pen, and simultaneously at Brighton another pen is moved, as though by a phantom hand, in precisely similar curves and motions. The writer writes in London, the ink marks in Brighton. We have seen this instrument at work, and its marvels are quite as startling as those of the telephone. The pen at the receiving end has all the appearance of being guided by a spirit hand. The apparatus is shortly to be made public before the Society of Telegraph Engineers.—III. Scientific News.
—An English journal frankly gives credit to American genius for at least fifteen inventions and discoveries which, it says, have been adopted all over the world. These triumphs of American genius are thus enumerated. First, the cotton gin; second, the planing machine; third, the grass mower and grain reaper; fourth, the rotary printing press; fifth, navigation by steam; sixth, the hot air or caloric engine; seventh, the sewing machine; eighth, the India rubber industry; ninth, the machine manufacture of horse shoes; tenth, the sand blast for carving; eleventh, the gauge lathe; twelfth, the grain elevator; thirteenth, artificial ice manufacture on a large scale; fourteenth, the electro-magnet and the practical application; fifteenth, the composing machine for printers. It is not often that American achievements in this direction receive due credit from such source.
—Dr. Dufaur, a French physician, reports this interesting case: A common brown owl built its nest beneath the projecting roof of a farm-house, where it had a brood of young. One day the farmer, moved by curiosity, drove away the old bird, took out the young ow’s, and, after looking at-them, replaced them uninjured. In the evening, as he was entering his house with his servant, the latter suddenly heard the beating of wings and felt the claws of the owl on his chin, and before he could defend himself received a blow from its beak directly under the eye. On the following day an unsuccessful hunt for the bird was instituted, but in the dusk it appeared again and attacked the farmer himself, striking him directly in the eye with his beak. Dr. Dufaur found a wound of the cornea and an abundant hemorrhage. The sight of the eye was completely lost, and the other eye was subsequently threatened with sympathetic inflammation.
—The system of subterranean telegraph wires designed by the postmaster general of the German empire will be completed, according to present arrangements, in a year and a half. Two lines will then traverse the empire diag
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.’
623
onally; the one running from northeast to southwest, from Kdnigsburg to Strasburg, the other from northwest to south east, from Hamburg to Ratibor, a town in the extreme south of Silesia. These two main lines will cross one another in Berlin. In the west of the empire a subterranean telegraph will run in a curve from Strasburg through Cologne to Hamburg; in the east another line will connect KSnigsberg with Ratibor; and, finally, a cable will traverse southern Germany, running generally east and west, though apparently the exact route for this last telegraph has not yet been definitely decided upon. When the proposed scheme is completed, therefore, all the fortresses and commercial towns of any importance in Germany will be connected with one another by subterranean wires. The cable first laid down, that from Berlin to Halle, has been satisfactorily subjected to the severest scientific tests.
—The peculiar position of the mouth in the sharks and some of their allies used to be a frequent theme of comment among the naturalists of the old school. It was pointed out as nothing less than a special arrangement to enable a destined victim to escape, while the shark was turning on one side to bite. In other words, it was plainly seen to be a structural feature disadvantageous to the species in which it occurs. Singularly enough, I have - seen no reference to this anomaly in any work, either advocating or combating the Darwinian hypothesis. It seems to me very difficult, if not incapable of explanation, on the view of natural selection. If the position of the mouth which prevails in most fishes be the original one, it would seem that any variation from such a position must be disadvantageous to the individual, and would militate powerfully against its survival. Or if on the other hand the original position of the fish-mouth was that which it now occupies in sharks, I fail to see why any variation which tended to bring it forward, should not have easily and completely superseded the primitive type among sharks, etc., as well as among other fishes.—Science Gossip.
—Dr. Temple, of the observatory of Arcetri, Florence, announces his discovery, on March 14th, of a new nebula, which he at first mistook for a faint comet. Its position for 1879 is R. A., 11 h. 18 m. 5 sec., N. P. D. 86 deg. 1 min. 4 sec. Dr. Temple describes it as a double nebula with two small but distinct nuclei from 15 to 20 seconds apart, and he adds that nebula Herschel II. 32, which is in the vicinity, is much smaller and fainter than the one just discovered. It occasionally happens that celestial bodies are lost as well as found. This has occurred several times in the case of the small planets between Mars and Jupiter, which now number nearly two hundred. There is one of these, however, which, according to Mr. Proctor, astronomers would regret to lose. This is the planet Hilda, which travels in a much wider orbit than any of the others, and can give more exact information respecting the mass of Jupiter than any other member of the solar system, coming much more fully at certain times under his influence. Unfortunately, Hilda has been searched for in vain at its first return to opposition, and astronomers begin to fear that the planet is, for the time being, lost.
—The St. Louis Academy of Sciences has been throwing light upon the lightning-rod, concerning which, said Prof! Nipher, there are many popular delusions. One is, that if one of two rods containing an equal amount of metal be hollowed out, thus giving it greater expanse, its conductive power would be greater than that of the other. The truth is that they would be equally as good conductors. Another erroneous impression which the Professor proceeded to dispel was that a current of electricity runs along the surface of a wire. In reality it extends through the entire wire when the circuit is made, Mr. Nipher said, but when the circuit is closed it accumulated upon the surface of the conductor. A strong point made was that lightning-rods do not attract lightning. They are splendid conductors, much better than wood or air, and lightning strikes them because they offer the least resistance to the passage of the electic current. It makes no difference whether a point be on a lightning-rod or not, so. far as the protection of buildings is concerned. The positive electricity in the earth will flow along the wire and accumulate at the point, if there be one, making the tension and the conducing power greater, and enhancing the probability of light.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Boston Pilot of this week is “a Tom Moore Number.” It will be worth its weight in gold for reference in future years.
—ThelT. M. I. (Kentucky Military Institute) News, published by the cadets, is a lively weekly from away down in the Blue Grass regions.
—A Catholic newspaper in the Chinese language, the first of the kind, has recently been started in Shanghai by the Jesuit Fathers. It is called the Till Man Loh (Writing about things useful to be heard). So the Universal Church speaks to every people in its own speech.
—Rounds' Printer's Cabinet, quarterly, for April is at hand. It is certainly the most elegant specimen we have ever seen of “ the art preservative of all arts.” What a printer cannot find in the elegant pages, whether editorial, select news, or advertising, is we believe not worth looking for. It is a feast for the eyes and for the mind of any printer.
—One of the most carefully edited Catholic papers in the United States is the Catholic Universe. Said a Reverend editor of a religious periodical to us the other day, “ Whenever, in reading the newspapers, Lfind anything particularly good, and say to myself, if I were editing a newspaper I should select that article for my paper, I am sure to find the very same selections in the next issue of the Catholic Universe.'' It was a compliment which could be paid to few newspapers, but which the Universe eminently deserves.
—We are glad to learn that with the July number our neat contemporary The Avalon, ot San Francisco, will be enlarged double its present size. This journal, published in the interests of “ rising Californians,” is conducted by the San Francisco Literary and Dramatic Society. Were we called upon,'however, to advise in the matter, we should suggest a weekly issue of the journal, rather than double the size of the monthly. Anything less than a substantial magazine is apt to be forgotten in the course of a month in this busy life of ours.
—“The Catholic Church in the United States,” by the Rev. I. T. Hecker. New York : The Catholic Publication Society. In this essay, taken from the Catholic World for July, 1879, Father Hecker treats of the original elements of the Catholic Church in the United States, her relations with the Republic, her growth and her prospects. The argument is that the American mind is in a state of preparation for the Church, and has been from our earliest history; that “ the Republic and the Catholic Church, under the same divine guidance, are working together in the United States, forming the various races of men and nationalities into a homogeneous people, and by their united action giving a bright promise of a broader and higher development of man than has been heretofore accomplished.”
—Bishop Ryan in his admirable sermon at the dedication of the New York Cathedral made the following beautiful application:
“Without the key of Catholic doctrine, on this and other subjects it is almost impossible for our non-Catholic brethren, no matter how well disposed towards us, to understand, to appreciate our temples and the ceremonies that are performed within. With this key of doctrine by which they may understand those temples and ceremonies they indeed should see much which perhaps without such understanding they might condemn. They look and see after the fashion of one who would look upon these magnificent stained windows around us from the outside of the Cathedral. They see but confused decoration, unharmoni-ous lines, leaden seams—all seems confused. But let them come into the Church—let them understand Catholic doctrine, and they see these windows as we see them to-day, with heaven’s glorious sunshine streaming through them all. They understand, too, that the varied colors and rays that come through storied scenes of various saints, come from the only white ray of God Himself, resolved as it were by a prism into various colors of the saints and their achievements; but all their glory and all their beauty and all their coloring come from that divine ray, from the eatrnal Son of Justice.
624
1 .THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JVotre Dame, June 14, 1S79.
The Festival of Corpus Christi.
We had been under the impression that the solemn procession of Corpus Christi would this year be confined to the aisles of the Church of the Sacred Heart; but the woodland altars, and the triumphal arches, though perhaps more simple than usual, were still.erected by pious hands as in bygone years, and the reverent procession—never more reverent—passed over the grass and flower-strewn walks, by the lakes and through the groves, even as when long lines of students followed with uncovered heads. Is there any pageant like to this blessed procession in the culminating beauty and glory of the year? and is there any service, even in the most gorgeous cathedral, like to this worship under the blue canopy of heaven and upon the green footstool of God ? It is the flower of the Christian festivals.
The Commencement.
It would seem that some of our friends took for earnest what was said in last week’s Scholastic regarding Commencement We are well enough disposed to have Commencement, even for our heroic Minims, but our friends must in this case take the will for the deed. We have no place to receive our friends. It is one of the sad results for which we grieved last April when we saw our noble students depart one by one till almost the last one . had left for home. It seemed that Notre Dame could not part with her students in that manner, but that the Commencement, with its glories, must be forthcoming in some way. That was sentiment; and sentiment, as it must always be, gives away to fact—we shall have no Commencement, because we cannot. But, dear students, and all ye that love Notre Dame, come to our commencement next September, the beginning of our new life, and rejoice with us as we have so often rejoiced with you.
.	The Engraving.	.
We have seen the ink-proof of the cut of the new College building. It is going at once to the engraver, and before a week we may expect copies. It strikes us as an exceed-I ingly handsome picture of the noble pile which we trust \ to see before long standing in the place of the old Notre Dame. The word pile is just the term to describe the appearance presented by the engraving. There is no blank, unrelieved wall, no dead uniformity of roof, but apparently a number of buildings uniting in one effect, and all crowned by the glorious dome, with the heavenly statue of our Lady over all. Whether our architectural vision is good may ■be questioned, but the Notre Dame as we saw it in the proof-picture is indeed a most fair and noble pile.
A Vexatious Delay.
An unaccountable failure occurred in the arrival of slate for the Infirmary and dressed stone for the main building, causing a cessation of work on the latter for three or four days. during the latter part of last week. This was the more provoking with regard to the Infirmary, as the room there is much needed, and plastering and other interior work cannot be safely commenced until the roof is covered. On Monday morning, however, when the contract was about to be declared forfeited and the building covered with tin, in good time came the slate, much to the relief and satisfaction of all parties. The stone was promised and arrived on Wednesday, all hands having gone to work again on Tuesday. This delay, vexatious as it was, may in the end be productive of good by keeping every eye watchful in the future. It is not to be wondered at, however, that in such a multitude of new work coming like an avalanche upon us that some things should be overlooked in hurrying on others. The lesson, though, we trust, will not be lost. The material is here now, and the work will go forward with double energy and care.
Twenty-Seven Years Ago.
In the New Orleans Horning Star of June the 1st we find a letter from Plaquemine, La., written by an old student of Notre Dame, which we here give to our readers. It contains an interesting reference to a period twenty seven years ago. That was “before our time,” and the account, although of exceeding interest to us, as it will be to all those of recent times, must be of a more peculiar interest to those who remember the day when Very Rev. FatherGeneral was “ a thin, spare-built man, dark complexioned, with somewhat long but finely cut features, surmounted by coal-black hair.” We should be pleased to know who that old student is, whose memory is so distinct and whose recollections are so kind of the early days. His letter shows that he has not forgotten the lessons he learned at Notre Dame, but that he lives to do good. The heading given the letter in the Horning Star is, “ From Pelican,” showing that the writer is a regular correspondent of that excellent paper.
Plaquemine, May 27,1879.
Editor “MorningStar”:
The beautiful month of May is drawing to a close, and with its memories of joys and sorrows will soon be numbered with the past. Two events so far, with us, aside from the joy it usually brings, will tend to keep it in mind. First, some two weeks ago, we had a Fete Ghampetre, for the benefit of our Church, which was upon the whole a most pleasant affair, and realized the nice little sum of §874; second, last Thursday, the Feast of the Ascension, some thirty-five children of our congregation made their first Communion. Our pastor, Father Hamais, spared no effort to have these little ones fully prepared for the great -act which they performed, and we believe that his labor will not fail to bring forth good fruit. To the Christian, it is a source of joy in our day to see the young, as childhood merges into youth, brought to a knowledge of the living God, under circumstances calculated to preserve in them that holy knowledge through time to eternity. The wicked of our time—and they are legion and in high places —are working with might and main to influence the youth and children against every precept of Christianity, and, it may be added, of morality as well. Few of us, in the busy tide of worldly strife, stop to think of this, and fewer still seek to avert it; though it seems to me that many of us laymen might be up and doing more or less good work in counteracting the subtle agencies of corruption and de-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	625
struction now so busy the world over. No one in particular may be able to do any great amount of the good work ,	so desirable, yet each and all can contribute his mite to
the good cause :
“ ’Tis not the amount, ’tis the will
1	That makes the virtue strong.”
•	Few of the readers of your good paper, Mr. Editor, read
with more regret the announcement which appeared in its columns ofthe destruction of the University ofNotre Dame, in Indiana, than I. It was indeed sad to think that my dear old Alma Mater had ceased to exist. Sad as it was it gathered together a host of memories of happy days gone I	by—of the wild, rollicking, good-hearted boys who worked
* for themselves and their comrades as well; the kind Professors and good old Brothers who taught us, and the ever watchful and faithful Priests who superintended all.
In April, 1852,1 left my quiet, sunny home and dear old mother to “go to college,” scarcely knowing, and in my sorrow but little thinking, where. After a few days spent in our great Southern metropolis, I set out for Cincinnati on the steamboat James M. Niles, and after an agreeable trip of ten days reached that place. Thence by rail across the growing State of Ohio to Sandusky, where we took a pretty little steamer called, if I remember well, the “Louisiana,” to Toledo, where again we set out behind the iron horse for South Bend, Indiana, which we reached late in the evening. A Madame Egan, of your city, who had a son at the college, her daughter, two boys named Foulkes, Father Gouesse, C. S. 0., and your correspondent, made up the party. Father G. left us at Cincinnati, and went to Montreal, while we “went West.”
As it was late when we got to South Bend, we put up there for the night, and next day went on to the College, a mile and a half distant. After crossing the St. Joseph River, then the northward limit of the town, we soon found ourselves in the country, with woods on either side, principally a mass of black-jack oak with a few larger trees scattered here and there. When within about half a mile of the College, we emerged into a clearing, taking a lane leading straight up to the building. “There is the College,” said our driver, and on the summit of the rising ground, half a mile away, stood a sombre-looking white building, some eighty feet long and five stories high, with another building to one side which proved to be the Manual Labor School. I had no sooner taken a view of the college than my eye rested on the grave-yard by the roadside on our left. I often think of the feeling which came over me then, as the thought came to my mind that I might never return past it!	'
I found the College well but plainly supplied, and evidently like the country through which I had just come— “growing." Father Sorin, now Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross, to which the institution belongs, was then Superior, but away in Europe, and did not return until July, and when he did he brought with him much for his institution which he turned to wonderful account, for everything seemed to grow about the College, and the whole community, including the convent of the Sisters Marian. ites, then of the same Order, situated at Bertrand, Mich., but subsequently removed to a magnificent site on the St. Joseph River a mile westward of the College.
Father Sorin was then a thin, spare-built man, something . under six feet, dark complextioned, with somewhat long . but finely cut features, surmounted by coal-black hair, and ’ heavy eyebrows, from beneath which peered through a pair of large spectacles a most searching parr of eyes.. His whole make-up showed a man of great learning, experience and a most indomitable will, energy and perseverance, qualities the growth and success of Notre Dame and his Order throughout the United States show he possessed in a wonderful degree.	'
After a year most agreeably spent at Notre Dame, j returned home, and in the beginning of. 1855 returned for another year to the institution. The building which I left a little over a year before I found trebled in size, ana everything about it necessary for use or comfort had likewise multiplied. It was evident, too, to the casual observer, that the moral and spiritual work being done by the institution was keeping pace with, if not outstripping its material advancement, and so, from all accounts, continued until reduced to ashes last month. It is indeed a hard blow
to see the work of years disappear in a few hours in spite of every effort to save it. However, Notre Dame will not stay in ashes. The will and energy which built it up from nothing, and surrounded it with an extensive estate, will, with God’s blessing, bring it up, like the fabled Phoenix of old, stronger and more vigorous than before, to go on in its career of usefulness and good through generations to come.	.	Pelican.
A Card from Prof. Schnurrer.
To the Editor of the Scholastic.
Dear Sir:—Your kind notice of me in last week’s Scholastic would require some modification, if the history of my person were of sufficient importance to make such correction; but since it is not, I would simply avail myself of this occasion to return my best thanks to all my friends and well-wishers for favors and kindnesses shown me during a pleasant intercourse of more than six years duration, and to bid them all a hearty farewell, not forgetting those whom I was unable to see before my departure to the Western plains.	Yours truly,
Otto M. Schnurrer.
How to Cure Stammering.
Stammering is the result of a functional disorder of that part of the brain which presides over the faculty of speech, according to an article by Dr. Hammond in The Voice. This is proved, he says, by the fact that all stammerers can at times speak as well as other persons. “There is no defect of the organs of speech, no paralysis of the tongue or Ups; but there is a condition present, which at times, especially when the subject is excited or interested, or specially tries to do his best, prevents the normal systematic articulation of certain syllables. And this appears to be due to an impossibility of co-ordinating the muscles by which speech is effected—of bringing them into harmonious and systematic action.” Dr. Hammond was a stammerer at nineteen, but entirely cured himself namely, by the performance of some slight muscular action synchronously with articulation of the difficult syllables. “ With each troublesome word,” he explains, “especiaUy with one beginning a sentence, I made some slight motion with the hand or foot, or even with • the finger, and I found that this plan enabled me to get the word out without stammering. In this procedure the attention is diverted from the effort to speak to the performance of the muscular action mentioned, and hence the speech becomes more automatic than it is with stammerers generally. And this is the whole system of cure. It consists in efforts to render the speech automatic.” He occupied two years in curing himself.
We find the above in the North-Western Chronicle, and it seems of so much importance that we should like to draw attention to it. We have known more than one instance of a promising student whose usefulness seemed entirely cut off by this sad defect. If Dr. Hammond’s philosophy is good, it would seem that intelligent perseverance in the way suggested by him must result in a cure. It has occurred to us that the aid afforded speech by the synchronous action of other muscles with the muscles of articulation may account, in part at least, for the greater ease and flow of speech when accompanied with gesture. The “action ’’ which Demosthenes declared to he eloquence, is, according to this doctrine, simply the movement together of the whole man—brain, heart, voice, eyes, expression, and every muscle of the body. How often have we seen a man laboring with a thought suddenly jerk his arm, his head, or some part of the body, and “jerk out ” the thought at the same time. Perhaps we have yet to learn the philosophy of gesture. A well known anecdote of Tom Moore tells us that, riding out of Paris one day with some friends he became moody and silent, evidently ,thinking of something, until the carriage wheel
626
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
entering a rut in the road and jolting the poet in his seat, he cried out “I have it! I have it!” and forthwith wrote down a word in a poem which he was composing. It would seem that the violent jolting of the carriage “ co-ordinated the muscles by which speech is effected,” and the proper word came to him. A similar anecdote is told of the poet Tasso. Undoubtedly all hesitancy in speech is an incipient stammering, and we know that many of the most helpless conversationalists are most eloquent orators. The action of the various muscles of the body sets the muscles of speech in harmonious action, and the orator standing before his audience becomes “ warmed ” with his subject, his arms move about as great tongues, his body sways, his breast heaves with emotion, he moves from side to side upon the stage—he is all action, and it is little wonder that the rich stream of thought and sentiment flows forth in a torrent that carries himself and his audience away together.
The same orator sitting quietly in the company of a parlor may be dumb as a door-post,—not altogether, as some would imagine, from diffidence or want of sympathy’ but in part from want of action; for the same silent party will sometimes rise and walk out together and soon find themselves talking together with all fluency of expression. Have we not also noticed that when two are walking together there is always a close connection between the rate of speech and the rate of walking ? The more interested they become on a given subject, and the faster they talk, the faster will they walk. Music has the same ‘ coordinating ’ influence on the muscles of speech, and those who stammer have seldom any difficulty in singing. They “ let themselves go,” as a swimmer might say, and the voice comes out clear and unimpeded. We trust that any one afflicted with stammering who reads this will follow the suggestions of Dr. Hammond.
Personal.
—Edwin Knowles, of’73, is banking in Colorado.
—Judah Halle patiently awaits the coming September.
—Rev. Jos. Smith, ’52, is the esteemed pastor at Waupun, Wis.	\
—Byron Kratzer and Otto Rettig of Peru will return next September.
—Our friend Willie Jones is troubled with ennui. Why doesn’t he write?
—Rev. Thos. Corry, ’55, has charge of the church at Menomonee, Wis.
—Father Kelly paid us a flying visit on Monday. He reports all well in Chicago.
—W. Farrar, of ’78, is studying law with his father, Judge Farrar, at Peru, Ind.
—Rev. Father Doyle, who was a student here in ’53, has charge of a large congregation at Janesville, Wis.
—C. Wernert, of ’74, is banking at Toledo, Ohio. He has not forgotten his Alma Mater m this her hour of trial.
—Eugene Grambling (Commercial, and First Honor,) of ’78, is keeping books for his estimable father at Indianapolis.
—John Wilhelm of ’66, Frank Wilhelm of ’76, B. Gorman, of’75, and Frank Weisenburger of ’75, are engaged in business at Defiance, Ohio.
—Frank Bearss, of ’77, and Frank Rettig, of ’78, and E. Pefferman, of ’78, are keeping books at Peru. Chas. O’Donnell is city clerk in the same place.
—Hon. Frank Hurd, LL. D., of ’77, is one of the most' distinguished members of the present Congress. He promises to be at Notre Dame for the grand opening.
—Rev. Father Louage, C. S. C., has been absent for a few days, preparing the children of Saint Vincent’s French settlement, near Fort Wayne, for their first Communion on Corpus Christi.
—Thos. H. Quinn (Commercial,) of ’77, is book-keeper for a large firm in Philadelphia. When here he was a distinguished member of the Columbian Literary Club and received a first honor.
—George and Hugo Hug, of ’74, lately came all the way from Indianapolis to see the ruins of their college home. Motre Dame has no warmer friends than these young gentlemen and their generous mother.
—Qus. Schnull, one of our very best students of last year, writes that he is well, and busily engaged in business with his father. We hope he will return next year to carry away his first honor and a class medal.
—B. and J. Vocke, of’67 are engaged in the grain trade at Napoleon, Ohio. Both are married and doing well. They express great sympathy for their Alma Mater and send substantial aid to assist in raising her from her ruins.
—Our friends living or sojourning “abroad” seem.to forget to send us personals and ‘ items ’—
“Send us items, send us items, Send the items that you owe us.”
—Maitland E. Cross, of ’75, now book-keeper for D. H. Moon’s Establishment, Rochester, Minn., met with a painful accident on the 3d inst. Opening a drawer to replace a pistol, the weapon “ in some way ” was discharged, injuring his hand seriously, though, we are glad to say, not permanently.
Local Items.
.—Bring on your brick and mortar.
y—Broad-rimmed hats are all the rage.
—Don’t forget the Lemonnier Library.
—“Try me; I’ll make those fellows sweat.”
—Slaters are at work on the roof of the Infirmary.
J—The Campus has been turned into a lumber-yard.
y —The Seniors’ recreation room has been converted into a dormitory for the workmen.
—Our friends should, offer a prayer for the successful completion of the new buildings.
J —Sancho and Nep have done good work since the fire. Not a rat to be seen about the Hotel Washington.
—Our agent passing through Watertown, Wis.,'called on Father Golovin and was most heartily received. He reports Father Colovin as enjoying the best of health.
—Boys, when ycu pass through Prairie du Chien, Wis., be sure and stop at Williams’s Railway Hotel, and you will receive most gentlemanly treatment at the lowest possible ■rates.
j —All persons having one or more books belonging to the Lemonnier Library are requsted to communicate immediately with Prof. Edwards, stating name and number of each volume.
—Mr. Wm. B. White, of 62 and 64 Pacific Avenue, Chicago, a rising young workman and one of whom it is said his work is his best recommendation, has been engaged for roofing with slate the Minims’ College.
—Father Stoffel, who has passed the last three or four weeks in Dubuque, returns thanks to his good and kind friends there, who are too numerous to mention. He reports all the old boys there as in the very best of spirits.
—A. member of the College faculty who lately visited Pittsburgh wishes through the medium of the Scholastic to express his thanks to Mr. James Callery, father of James D. Callery who attended class here in ’74, for favors received.
. —The repositories and triumphal arches erected for the /procession of the Blessed Sacrament on the Feast of Corpus Christi, although not so large and numerous as in former years, yet were remarkable for the skill displayed in their construction and the exquisite beauty of the decorations.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
627
—On Wednesday, June the 4th, Madame Garrity, sister of P. L. Garrity, Esq., (of ’59) died at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, in Chicago, of which Order she was a most exemplary member for twenty years. The community which she so long edified, as well as her saddened relatives, have the sincere condolence of the Scholastic and of all the inmates of Notre Dame.
—Rev. F. Veniard, C.S. C., the esteemed pastor of Saint Joseph’s Church, East South Bend, Indiana, who for some time had been in a critical state owing to his having accidentally swallowed a set of false teeth, but who, by a miracle, it would seem, cast them up again after several days, visited Notie Dame last Tuesday and dined with the community at the Professed House. All were rejoiced to see good Father Veniard again among them in excellent health after the severe ordeal he had passed through.
—Catholics should be on their guard against travelling impostors. A pretended Trappist lately imposed upon the kindness of Rev. Father Spillard, C. S. C., of Austin, Texas, stealing a watch, breviary, etc. And now the Right Rev. Abbot of Gethsemani warns the public against another, or perhaps the same impostor, who pretended that he came from England. The Abbot warns the public that these impostors have several names, follow different professions, generally speak fluently, and tell the most interesting stories.	'
—The Wisconsin Musical Convention was held this year at Watertown, Wis. Most of the cities of the State were represented by at least one band. The competition for the prizes took place on Picnic Island, on Wednesday afternoon. In the evening the Portage Band, one of the best in the State, called at St. Bernard’s to serenade Father Colovin, formerly President of the University of Notre Dame, and now parish priest of St. Bernard’s Church. They were, of course, most kindly received. Even a short acquaintance with the members of the band sufficed to convince one that they were most excellent gentlemen. On Tuesday all the bands marched in procession through the principal streets of the city, making a fine display and delighting everybody with their excellent music.
Letters, etc.
[The following letter, received by Very Rev. Father Sorin from his old friend Very Rev. Father Benoit, Vicar-General of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, gives a glimpse of the fund of kindness stored up in the great, sympathetic heart of the writer. Very Rev. Father Benoit is one of the pioneer priests of the West, and the allusion in the postscript is undoubtedly to the log hut on the banks of St. Mary’s Lake, where Father de Seille lived and died, and in which Father Sorin, then “a tall, spare-built man, something under six feet,” as “Pelican” elsewhere describes him, could not stand upright with his hat ou. This was in 1842, and the reminiscence undoubtedly touched Father Sorin’s heart as much as the self-denying generosity of his venerable confrere. A friend in need is a friend indeed, and it is not without good reason, it.would seem, that Very Rev. Father Benoit has ever been considered by Very Rev. Father General as one of the very best friends of Notre Dame.
Very Rev. Father General bids us to say that he regrets very much his dear friend’s indisposition, but trusts that he will soon jrecover his former vigor and rejoice every heart by visiting, in a few-months, our dear new Notre Dame, where he expects to treat him better than in 1842, and supply him at least with a bed. He will certainly have the best in the house, as he deserves. Above all, Notre Dame intends never to prove ungrateful.]
Fort Wayne, June 11, 1879. V. Rev. E. Sorin, Gen’l C. S. C:
Very Rev. Dear Father, but still dearer old friend: If my infirmity would allow me to travel more than is absolutely necessary, you would have seen me long ere this, and I would have expressed oretenus my sincere and very dear sympathy for your enormous misfortune, and for the sudden ruin of the result of thirty-eight years of hard and incessant labor. But locomotion is very painful to me, and most of the time I am condemned to keep close quarters. Mgr., besides, is frequently absent, and the necessary cor-
respondence has to go on; and pleased, or not pleased, I have to remain at home, and, as Mother Theodore would express it, I have to be very homely, that is to say,’fond of home. If I do not go to Notre Dame, and if I do not take a leather apron to help you in cleaning bricks, I think
| frequently of you, and as a proof of it I left in the hands of Bishop Dwenger $200 to be paid to you as soon as requested to do so.
My subscription of $300 is therefore paid, and for more help you will have to wait until I will be ready, and until . I will have saved some dollars out of my scanty income. A"
I understand you progress rapidly in your reconstruction; may God favor you in your immense undertaking, and may the Blessed Virgin Mary, as well as St. Joseph, be, and remain, the overseers of your grand work.
Hoping your strength will be parallel to your energy and courage, I remain as ever,
Your old and devoted friend,
J. Benoit, V.G.
I could again sleep in a corner of your log room, on the floor, on a straw bed, and feel more happy than in my fresh fresco-painted apartments, or in the parlor of Mrs. Coquillard.
Columbus, Ohio, June 1, 1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby:
Very Rev. Sir:—I was much pained on learning of the destruction of your fine College. I would have written before now but was waiting to make some slight offering to you—in fact to add the “ widow’s mite ” to the larger ones you receive from other quarters. Had I the means to offer a sum commensurate to the gratitude I owe you and your community, it would build Notre Dame all over. Hoping that you will accept my heartfelt sympathies,
Believe me, Rev. sir, your humble servant,
Hannah O’Donnell.
143 North 8th St.
[Our dear friend Father Dinuen, so well remembered as student, professor, and prefect, sends this kind letter, so much like himself.]
Crawfordsville, Ind., June 2,1879.
Very Rev. A. Granger, C. 8. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. Dear Father:—Pardon me for not writing you long before this, to express my sincere sympathy, which I do now, to you and all the members of your Com- , munity for the great loss you have sustained by the late / fire. I rejoice to learn of the courage of Very Rev. Father ' General in so great an affliction, and of his hopefulness of seeing, soon, his dear Notre Dame more beautiful and blessed than ever.
I hope, Very Rev. dear Father, that you may live to see the effects of so great a loss wholly removed.
As an earnest of my sympathy, be pleased to accept the small sum of the inclosed draft ($15) for the rebuilding of Notre Dame.
Requesting a remembrance in your prayers, I am your respectful and grateful son in Xto,
Jno. R. Dinnen.
Smartsville, Yuba Co., Cal., May 27,1879.
Dear Father Corby.-—I need not tell you how sorry I felt at the destruction of Notre Dame, and wish I could prove my sympathy by works. I am but a poor priest, but of my poverty I send you what little I can.	/
Yours in Xto,	Rev. M. Coleman.
[The following filial letter was accompanied with an of-ing of $60, to be placed upon the newly risen altar of Notre Dame:]
221 South D St., Washington, D. C., Thursday Night, June 5,1879.
Very Rev. Wm. Corby.
Dear Father :—To-night, with sweet old memories of our noble Alma Hater filling our hearts, we feel as if the terrible calamity of nearly two months ago was some un- r real and frightful dream, and gladly would we linger, if / z only for a little while, on this welcome thought. But stern reality dispels it, and we know that our dear old home is no more. If every thought of love and sympathy borne in the hearts of her devoted students could add a brick towards the rebuilding of the University, how soon
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
over the ruins of old Notre Dame would we see a new and imposing structure! But the rebuilding of such an edifice must be a work of patient labor, as well as one of love and sympathetic offerings. Would that pur tribute was in worth ten times its value. But, humble, as it is, it comes to you laden with the fervent prayers and heartfelt wishes that our holy Mother, who has always watched over this her institution, will still continue her loving protection, so that the work now commenced will soon be completed, and surmounting it will appear her statue peerless and beautiful.
With kindest regards and affectionate sympathy for Father General, yourself, and each and every one of our much honored faculty, we remain
Your devoted children in Christ,
Wm. H. & E. F. Arnold.
[The following is one of the many letters addressed to Very Rev. Father General inquiring how large must be the donation in order to secure a share in the benefit of the Perpetual Daily Mass. Very Rev. Father General has answered all such inquiries by a circular to the effect that any sum, even one dollar, entitles the donor to share in the Perpetual Daily Mass.]
Lemont, Cook Co., III., May 28,1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.:
I have read with deep regret in the public prints of the destruction by fire of the University of Notre Dame.
In your communication to the public thereon, I see it stated that a Daily Mass forever will be offered up for the benefit of all those that suscribe towards the rebuilding of the said University. I counselled with a few of my neighbors on the propriety of writing to you, in order to learn if poor people, as we are here, by subscribing a dollar each, would be admitted to the full benefit, of that Daily Mass for. ever. I could not venture to say how many suscribers I might happen to get. I know that I might get a few. Even last evening I was promised two subscribers if the conditions are as above stated....
Yours very respectfully,	Hugh Brady.
Napoleon, Ohio, June 1, 1879.
Prof. J. F. Edwards:
Dear Friend:—According to-promise we send you §100 to assist you in rebuilding our second home. We cannot express in words our great regret at the loss suffered by the community of the Holy Cross and the devoted faculty of Notre Dame. Remember us affectionately to Fathers Sorin and Granger, also to good Father Corby, who was President when we were at the College. Do not fail to visit us this vacation.
Your obedient friends and classmates,
B. & J. Vocke.
BoH of Honor.
JUNIOR department.
M. Foote, P. Crowley.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
W. S. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, P. S. Fitzgerald, J. M. Courtney, C. Welty, W. V. O’Malley, A Rheinboldt, C. Perry, C. J. Chaves, J. S. McGrath, J. J. Gordon, C. M. Crowe, T. McGrath, G. Woodson, A Chirhart, E. A. Howard, J. S. Courtney, F. Mattes, L. J. Young, H. A Kitz, F. K. Parsons, H. C. Snee, C. H. Long, A Hierb, A M. Coghlin, H. F. Bachmann, G. Tonrtillotte, J. B. Crowe, C. Young.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A M. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, W. A. Coghlin, G. Woodson, H. C. Snee, F. Mattes, A. Hierb, C. H. Long, C. J. Crowe, H. F. Bachmann, J. J. Gordon, P. 8. Fitzgerald, F. K. Parsons, J. Chaves, H. A Kitz, C. Perry, J. S. McGrath, L. J. Young, G. Tonrtillotte, C. J. Welty, W. V. O’Maliy, C. Young, J. B. Crowe, A Rheinboldt, J. M. Courtney, T. McGrath, A Chirhart, E. A Howard, J. 8. Courtney.

—The Corpus Christi procession at St. Mary’s will takeplace on the Sunday within the octave.
—The examination in the Conservatory of Music commenced on the 9th inst., and will continue for two hours every day until all the classes are thoroughly examined.
—The examination of the French, German and Latin Classes began on the 10th inst. and will be followed by the examination in English studies. Close application is the order of the day, and each pupil seems encouraged and hopeful in regard to her examination.
—The examination in Christian Doctrine and Sacred History took place on Sunday, the 8th, in presence of the Rev. Chaplain and several Rev. Fathers from Notre Dame, as examiners. The pupils acquitted themselves well, and the question now is: Who among so many diligent and excellent students will carry off the Phelan Medal for Christian Doctrine ?
—On Wednesdays the Graduating and First Senior Classes exercise their culinary skill. Some delicious specimens of cookery have been concocted by these candidates for the beautiful Medal given by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour. The plain sewing has been examined by a committee of ladies, and on the 25th inst. the honor will be awarded to the pupff who has shown the most skill and rapid improvement in those essential branches of domestic economy.
Visitors: Mrs'. Wilcox, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. J. Hown, Miss. M. Colliver, Miss. G. Hown, Miss. N. Hown, South Bend; Miss. M. Ball, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. O. P. Miller, Laporte, Ind.; Rev. A. I. Hobbs, Bloomington, Ill.; Rev. N. Mc-Ilvane, Rev. J. H. Stover, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. G. Cleghome, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. S. W. Brunbaugh, Warsaw, Ind.; Sister Mary, Superior, and Sister Ledoux, Assistant Superior, Sisters of Charity, Toledo Ohio; Mrs. L. A. Robertson, South Bend, Ind. Mrs. I. N. Cadart, Elkhart, Ind,; Mrs. J. M. Adams, Chicago,Ill.; Allie E. Moller, Westville, Ind.; N. M. Moller, Akron, Ohio; J. O’Donnell, Dayton, Ohio; Miss I. Calahan, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs, J. Early, Mrs. K. McGrath, Mrs, M. Brennan, Mrs, Horan, Mrs. M. Hart, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. M. Baldwin, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. S. Byerly, Mrs. B. Byerly ,Mrs. A. Byerly, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. M. Glasser, Mrs. K. Wayne, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. Wm. Cayne. South Bend, Ind.; Mr. Wm. Baldwin, Mishawaka. Ind.
BoH of Honor.-
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly.
1st Senior Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Sarah Hambleton, Annie Maloney, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Zod Papin, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Ellen Galen, Harriet Buck, Annie Cavenor, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Adella Gordon, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Angela Ewing, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Brown.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Pauline Hills, Adella Geiser, Lucie Chilton, Anna Cortright, Agnes Joyce, Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Annie Jones, Catharine Hoadley, Martha Wagner, Louisa Neu, Ellena Thomas, Josephine Mitchell, Mary Usselmann.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Caroline Gall, Ollie Williams, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Della McKerlie, Mary English, Ina Capelle.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Johanna Ba-roux, Annie Orr, Lillie Lancaster, Mary Campbell, Edith Bots-ford.
2d Div.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Julia Butts, Bridget Kelly.
Jb. Pbep. Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Maud Casey, Julia Wells, Celestine Lemontey, Hattie Arlington, Marie McN. Garrity, Mary Lyons, Matilda Kildaire.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Ada Clarke, Elise Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Elizabeth Consadine, Minnie Fisk, Jessie Pampel, Elise Papin.
Latin Class—Misses Semmes and Hills.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	629
.	FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, F.llen McGrath, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie, Celestine Lemontey.
2d Glass—Misses lorantha Semmes,Zod Papin, Ella Mulligan, Grace Glasser.
3d Class—Misses Angela Ewing, Martha Wagoner, Emma Shaw, Mary Casey, Mary Birch.
2d Div.—Misses Louisa Neu, 100; Annie Cavenor, Mary Brown, Annie Maloney, Annie Cortright, Julia Butts, Mary Campbell, Linda Eox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Ollie Williams, Annie Ryan, Johanna Baroux, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Wells, Anne Orr, Ada Clarke, Sophie Papin, Mary English, Elise Dallas, Margaret Cleghorn.
2d Div.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Josephine Mitchell.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Caroline Gall, Mary Usselman.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Catharine Claf-fey, Catharine Hackett, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Alice Donelan, Catharine Hoadley, Martha Pampel, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Maud Casey, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Edith Botsford, Matilda Kildaire.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Div—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Mary Taggert.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells, Catharine Martin.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Ann Leydon, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Edith Botsford.
t 5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel ' Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Della MeKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Pauline Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire, Mary Claffey.
6te Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes MeKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna . Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinzie, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster, Mary Tam.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves, Angela Watson._
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Celestine Lemontey, Annie Loescher, Harriet Arlington.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon. lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.	_	,
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.	_	.
Elementary Thorough-Bass Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Alice Farrell, Mary McGrath, Mary Usselmann, Annie McGrath, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best notes for the week— Misses Caroline Gall, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Rosing, Gatha rine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Annie Hermann, Catharine Danaher, Martha Pampel, Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Mabel Hamilton, Eleanor Thomas, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Casey, Mary Campbell,-Laura French, Emma Shaw, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Claffey, Pauline Hills, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Grace Glasser Mary Fitzgerald, Alicia Donelan, Lucie Chilton, Linda Fox, Philomena Wolford, Annie Orr, Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Mary
Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Elise Papin, Ada Clarke, Catharine Ward, Manuelita Chaves.
Technical Exercises—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon. Mary Usselman, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw, Anna Hermann, Angela Ewing, Martha Pampel, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Mary Taggart.	•
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Mary McGrath, Zod Papin, Annie McGrath, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing.
5th Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Mary Mulligan, Ina Capelle, Mary Plattenburg, Laura French, Mary Hake, Martha Wagoner, Annie Jones, Della MeKerlie, lorantha Semmes.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3d Class—Misses Julia Butts, Catharine Campbell, Mary Sullivan, Mary English, lorantha Semmes, Sarah Purdy,^Sophie Papin, Maud Casey, Minna Loeber, Ellen Mulligan. ~
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Teresa Killelea, Mary Campbell. Marie Dallas, Angela Dillon, Laura French, Ellena Thomas, Elizabeth Schwass.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran, Sarah Hambleton.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Anna Cortright.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. -
Misses Teresa Zahm, Martha Pampel, Ollie Williams, Catharine Danaher, Lucie Chilton, Catharine Campbell, Elizabeth Walsh, Ina Capelle, Josephine Mitchell, Mary Fitzgerald, Martha Wagoner, Bridget Kelly, Mabel Hamilton, Ellen Kinzie, Annie Jones.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Sophie Papin, Catharine Campbell, Laura French, Maud Casey, Catharine Claffey, Charlotte Van Namee, Julia Wells, Annie Orr, Margaret Cleghorn, Elise Dallas, Ella Mulligan, Agnes MeKinnis, Linda Fox, Matilda Kildaire, Annie Leydon, Jessie Pampel, Johanna Baroux, Mary Lyons, Blanche Garrity, Mary Garrity, Ada Clarke, Teresa Haney, Manuelita Chaves, Elizabeth Consadine, Mary Chirhart, Mary Feehan, Mary Paquette, Isabella Scott, Lillie Lancaster, Celestine Lemontey, Minnie Cox, Lorena Walsh.
PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Birch, Louisa Neu, Ina Capelle, Catharine Danaher, Julia Barnes, Annie Loescher, Catharine Lloyd, Henrietta Rosing, Sarah Moran, Ollie Williams, Teresa Killelea, Lucie Chilton, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Mullen, Annie Ryan, Zod Papin, Mary Brown, Teresa Zahm, Mary Plattenburg, Annie Cavenor, Emma Lange, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Schwass.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch, Teresa Killelea, Zod Papin, Emma Lange, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Annie Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Martha Wagoner, Pauline Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Caroline Gall, Ollie Williams, Martha Pampel, Catharine Martin, Mary Tam, Teresa Zahm, Mary Hake, Ida Torrents, Bridget Kelly, Edith Botsford, Ella Wright, Hattie Kinney, par excellence. Misses Louisa Kelly, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Grace Glasser, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell, Minna Loeber, Margaret Piersol, Mary Campbell, Mabel Hamilton, Sarah Purdy, Effie Attwood.
630
GTHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Agnes Mc-Kinnis, Johanna Baroux, Lillie Lancaster, Mand Casey, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadine, Isabella Scott, Mauuelita Chaves, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Mary Eeehan, Margaret Cleghorn, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Annie Leydon, Matilda Kildare, Hattie Arlington, Elise Lavoie, Jane McGrath, Mary Fitzgerald.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA E. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME
NOV. 10,1878.
TEAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave	1L45 p.m.	9.00 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,	.........	12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance.,..............	3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	5.31 “	11.00 “
Orrville,....			4.50 “	2.26 “	7.1< “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,............	7.00 “	4.40 “	9.2C “	:-..ll “
Crestline^	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave	7.50 A.M.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.			-
Torest. 	....... •	925 “	7.35 “	11.25 ‘	
Lima,.................	10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Vt Wayne, 				1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 ‘	
Plymouth,			3.50 “	2.46 A.M.	4.55 “	
Chicago,..... .Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7 58 “■	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,............	2.46 A.M.	11.48 “	8.55	
Ft” Wayne,...........	6.55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Tnma,	.......	8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A M	
Forest,			10.10 “	5.27 “	2.33 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p m.	4.15 A.M.	6.05 A.M.
Bransfield,............	12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	655 “
Orrville,			2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	915 “
Alliance,..		-	4.00 “	1L15 “	9.00 “	11 20 “
Rochester,					6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “
Trarns Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. & MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
NVeeklv Newspapers.
rpECE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published X weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of 70.
rpH AVE	a Catholic journal devoted to the
X Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 s. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 16p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.___	.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Ac'.ommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m. Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket A gt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt. Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Pera & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going	South.
1.40 a m. 12 55 “ 12.28 “ 12 07 “ 11.27 p m. 10 31 “ 9.55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.*2 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3 20 p.m. 2 30 “ 2 08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 1047 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 913 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - La Porte, - - - -	- - Stiillwell. - - - - - - - Walkerton, - - - -	- - Plymouth, - - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, - - - - - -	- Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton, - - -- - - Noblesville, - - - -	-x Indianapolis, - - -- - - Cincinnati, - - - - -	- Louisville, - - -- - - Saint Louis, - -	9 35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 1147 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 ‘‘ 3.00 “ 3 33 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m.	8.05 p.m 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 “ 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANOPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m.
“	“ 6.40 p.m. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “ '	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING- AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
^’Births $1.25- Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison stree bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via. Jack-
sonville, Ill., and Louisana, Mo......3 40 pm 12 30 pm Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line 8 00 pm 9 00 am Bringfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7 30 am	9 00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................340pm	900am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express...8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator, Wenona,Lacon andWashington Ex3 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation..................9 20 am	5 00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton,Gen. Pass. Agt,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	631
THE “AVE MARIA,”
■A. CATHOLIC JOURNAL
quoted to the ]| jonor of the 1 leased ffirgin.
(20 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LATE HOLY FATHER, PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO XHI,
And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad contributors to the pages of the Ave Maria, among whom may be mentioned Rev. Fathers Lambing and Adams, and others of the Rev. and Rt. Rev. Clergy ; Henri Lasserre, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrev de Vere, the Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” Kathleen O’Meara (“Grace' Ramsay”), John O’Kane Murray, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Misses Howe, “Marie,’ ’the Author of “Ty-borne,” and others.
TERMS:
One Year (postage free)..........................$ 2 50
Two Years.......................................... 4	50
Six Months......................................... 1	30
Five Years.........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and upward, at the rate of §2 each, with 1 free _. Copy to the one getting up the Club), §20.
Yearly Postage to Europe, 4s. 6d., or §1.04 per copy. Single Subscription and postage to Europe. 12 shillings per annum.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
jggr NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
jj^T In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of ' Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M.
Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.	.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Modem Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR, .
St. Mary’s Academy, _
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,
C. &'N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W.Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. 11, 1877,
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -Mich. City -“ Niles 			 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45 p. m 4 30 a. m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m. 3 35 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 445 “ 8 00 “
					
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		t Pacific Express	tEvening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m. 1245 a.m. 2 53 “ 424 “ 547 “ \ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 940 “ 1235 am 238 “ 415 “ 645 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So Bend—8 45’a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 38 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 pan. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind., Mich.
632
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
IN. J2. Cor. LaSalle &. Monroe Sts.
f22-ly
Uenby Styles, Manages.
Chicago.
EDWARD BUYSSE,.
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, -A-2st:d JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline. Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria ; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair-lield, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison: Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent. Eldon. Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa. Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you gat.
Appreciating the faetthat a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati <k St. Louis R. R.
At LA SALLE, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.: P., L. & D.; I. B. & W.; Ill. Midland: and T.. P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa-
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
. At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City A Northern and C.. B. k Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk de N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe: Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PAI.ACE CARS are run through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COTEETCIEi BLEFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the "Great Rock Island Route," are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	G.en’l Tkt. and Pass’gr Agt.,
....’’	'	’ ’	Chicago, Ill.