!/ . .
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS
Dlsce qiiasi semper vieturus; vive qiiasi eras inoritxrrvis.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 30, 1875.	• Number 19.
JNO.HAGERTU,	L. G. TONG,
Citt Judge.	Notart Pj3r.ro.
JJAGERTY & TONG,
•A.TTORiVE5rS-jVr-IJA.W,
REAL ESTATE ano INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS,	.
.	Dealer in	•
.	HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS,
Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co.,
•	Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
IOO MICHIGAN St.. - SOUTH SEND IND., o24-tf.
p E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to jgEN COQUILLARD’S LIVERY STJLBLES Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles,	Michigan.
* A. McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to andTrom all trains, for guests of the house DOT 28- Ji tf.
Jg NICAR & Co.,
’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA*
' HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes,.etc., o24-tf
NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH SEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO —
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
o24-tf
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR, •
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to.
Office with M. Stover, Boom S3, over Wills & Sterns,.
Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov28-J4tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’Wagon Works.-
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their JL stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
nov 7-8m	-
Q.E0RGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND.
(Up Stairs.) '	J$o24-tT
M. A. Smith.	E. P* Holloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,	-
Dealers in	■
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys’ and Musical Instruments.
No. 77, Washington St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND dec5-)i 8m
I
258	THE SCHOLASTIC.
the
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Denoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PIUS IX,
[And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests oi the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians. butsolely to sn<h as love the Mother 01 Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady-such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— hut tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month.
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space of one year.
One Year,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	§3 00
Two Years, ------	-	-	5 00
Five Years,	-	-	• -	-	-	-	-	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	20 00
• All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc., should be addressed to
Editor of “AVE NARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
J4oti^e Pane, Jndiana.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy < ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature hadanticipatedthe use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activiiy and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana
CARPENTER HATTER I
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing.
36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, ■with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov 7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
College Societies.
THE ARCHCONFRATERNITY OF THE B. V. M.
T. Murphy, President; Henry C. Cassidy, Secretary.
THE ST. ALOYSIUS PHILODEMIC SOCIETY.
T. A. Dailey, Pres't; J. J. Gillen, Pec. Sec'y; M. Foley, Cor. Sec'y.
THE SODALITY OF THE HOLY ANGELS.
W. S. Meyer, Pres't; D. J. O’Connell, Sec'y. •
THE ST. CAECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A. Lyons, Pres't; J. F. Soule, Rec. Sec'y; J. P. McHugh, Cor. Sec'y.
THE THESPIAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A. Lyons, Pres't; R. H. Staley, Rec. Sec'y; T. J. Murphy, Cor. Sec'y.
THE COLUMBIAN LITERARY AND DEBATING CLUB.
A. J. Stace, Pres't; Jos. Campbell, Rec. Sec'y; N. J. Mooney, Cor. Sec'y.
THE NOTRE DAME BOATING CLUB.
T. F. O’Mahony, Pres't; J. J. Gillen, Sec'y.
THE ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRIAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A. Lyons, Pres't; J. Kielty, Rec. Sec'y; J. Delvecchio, Cor. Sec'y.
THE FATHER GILLESPIE CHORAL UNION.
J. F. Edwards, Pres't; Thos. M. O’Leary and D. J. O’Connell, Secretaries.
THE LEMONNIER CIRCULATING LIBRARY AND READING ROOM.
J. F. Edwards, Librarian.
105 MICHIGAN St. -	- SOUTH BEND,
dec
JAMES BONNEY,
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Pbices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
CJLJSrZCUE- FACTORY 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	_	ige
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	_ 25e^
Choice Mixed Candy	-	-	_	35e'
Caramels	35e'
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c."
Proportionately Low Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coonley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring
’	o24-tf{

I:	-— 
t
I	-	’
The Scholastic-
Devoted to the Interests of the Students.
I>isce quasi senrper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 30, 1875.
Number 19.
The Four Messengers.
BY J. M. J. G.
I.
The devil one day in his prison below,
Called four of his imps and thus he did say:—
“ Princes of Darkness, give ear:—ye must go
To the glimpse of the moon and the realm of day !
The state of the Nazarene’s kingdom I’d know 1 ” ir.
Number One, he went forth and quickly returned:
“ O Satan! ” he cried, “ rejoice at my news I
The Christians are murdered: the Churches are burned,—
Great Peter is slain by the Pagans and Jews 1”— “That’s enough,” howled the devil,—“the Church is o’erturned 1 ”	.
.	hi.
Number Two, he went forth, and cheering, flew back, “0 Satan!” he screamed,—“you are conqueror, sure!
Henry the Fourth is on Hildebrand’s track, Withlanzknecht and ritter, and whiskered pandour!”— “ Ho ! ho I—Holy Church!—your chances look black ! ”
IV.	'
Number Three, he went forth, and shot home again: “ 0 Satan 1 ” he bellowed, “ with joy I am drunk,
The Church that we hate is expiring with pain,
Stabbed to the heart by our Wittenberg monk!” “Hurrah!” bawled the Devil; “she’s done fori—that’s plain!”
v.
Number Four, he went forth, and got back in time:— “ O Satan, dark master,” he said, with a leer,
The State has just fashioned a beautiful crime ;
Compulsory School Laws begin to appear ! ”
“ Say no more ! ” hissed the Devil; “ at last, she is mine ! ’’
The Oyster.
For so small a creature, and one that has so low a place in the scale of animate nature, the oyster has a wonderful history. It had a mention in classic song and story. About 2,400 years ago, one Sergius Grata turned Lake Avernus into a vast oyster-bed, and through his attention to that animal the Lucrin oysters became famous. So great was his reputation as an oyster-planter that the Romans used to say that if the oysters should stop growing in Guerin Lake, Sergius would make them grow on the houseops.
Near Bane and Cumae is Lake Fusaro. It is not more chan six feet deep, and about three leagues round. From ;time immemorial this has been a noted oyster park or plantation. Here were raised the small oysters from the seed, which, placed in proper places, developed into oysters
of an eatable size. As places for the young to rest on, in some parts of the lake, heaps of stones were placed with a circle of piles about them; in others, piles were driven in rows, and joined by ropes from which were suspended faggots on which the young fix themselves. These are pulled up at the proper time, and the young or seed are taken off by the hand to be planted elsewhere.
In France there was once a great abundance of native oysters; but as the industry was without regulations, the French natives, like our Nor’hern, came near being destroyed. But the evils were fortunately remedied by Prof. Coste, and now oyster-culture is carried on in France with better regulations than anywhere else.
In America, oyster-planting is also carried on. The method is as follows: a number of sloops and schooners are sent South in the spring of the year to collect the young oysters, called “seed.” This seed is obtained chiefly in the Rappahannock, the Nanticoke, and a few other places. The principal planting-grounds are New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut. When the vessels return, the young oysters are planted, that is, scattered over the beds. The seed is then allowed to lie from one to two years, when it is thought fit for market. Early in the fall the crop is gathered in. This is done by tonging and dredging. The oyster-tongs, the instrument used in tonging, is something like two garden rakes with very long handles, the tooth-side of each rake facing the other; a loose rivet joins the handles about two or three feet from, the teeth, so that working the extreme ends of the handles the instrument acts somewhat like a pair of tongs. After going over the beds with this, they go over them again with bags or dredges. The oysters are then taken up a fresh-water stream, into which they are thrown “to get a drink.” This is done in order to clean and sweeten them. But before throwing them into the fresh-water they are sorted; after taking them out of the water, they are opened, and packed into neat little kegs ready for shipping.
The spawning season of the oyster embraces those months which have no r in their spelling—that is May, June, July and August, the four warmest months of the year. Some, however, spawn whenever the water is warm enough; and large numbers pass the year without spawning ; and these latter, if it were not for the difficulty of assorting them, could be used for food at any time. But prejudice is against their use during the r-less months. It is true they are not in as good a condition as during the cooler months, but as to their being unwholesome during the warm months, that is far from being proven.
The oyster does not spawn after the manner of bivalves in general, but sends forth its young alive. When these little oysters first see the w’orld they are wonderful creatures whole troops of them going and coming in a little
260
THE SCHOLASTIC.

drop of water. It is stated that during one spawning-seasou an oyster emits two millions of these little oysters or embryos. These little animals are about the size of a pinhead and are lively little affairs. They are forever frisking about; but their gay frolic is soon over, and they settle down to the sober everyday life of an oyster. But to many their frolic has yielded a fruitful, but perilous harvest, and of each million that entered upon it, but a few hundreds survive. Many have been devoured by hungry enemies, of which they have a great number; many have put out to sea, but being unable to return, have perished. The survivors attach themselves to any anchorage they find, and are called “ spat,” and are the “ seed ” I made mention of before. When a month old, the oyster is about the size of a pea; at six months, about one inch more in length; at four years it is very large and fit for market, or even at three if the conditions of its growth are favorable.
I spoke above of the enemies of the oyster, and said it had many; the principal ones are the following: The first is a fish known as the Drum-fish from the curious sound it makes, like that of a drum; it has a pavement of hard teeth, with which it crunches the young oysters, shells and all. When these fish come in shoals they cause great damage in an oyster-bed. The second is a small univalve, called the Buccinum, which with its tongue-file drills a hole through the hard shell of the oyster and then inserts its sucking tube and feeds on the occupant. But the most treacherous foe to the oyster is the Star-fish. This animal opens its great sac-like mouth, and, enveloping the oyster therein, coolly digests the mollusk out of its unopened shell, as the codfish does the shells it swallows. But the oyster race has one more enemy; one that is more formidable than all the rest; one who assails their ancient waters with iron weapons and hungry fleets'; one who, like the savage cannibals, sacrifices at once the adult captives and reserves the youth to be fed for some future feast. Everyone, from the prince to the peasant, eats the poor oyster. It is recorded that the Emperor Vitellius would eat a thousand of these bivalves at one meal. It is told of Charles Lamb that one day the omnibus in which he was riding was stopped by a man who, poking his head in, asked, “All full in there?” to which Lamb meekly responded, “ I don’t know how it is with the rest, but that last piece of oyster-pie did the business for me.”
Both Virginia and Maryland are rich in oysters. Figuier states that Virginia alone has 2,009,000 acres of oysterbeds. In former times all the suitable waters of New Jersey and New York were covered with beds of native oysters, but the bivalves are now fast diminishing. So we see that the oyster, although it is a small thing, has a great deal to say for itself, and that it is worthy the attention of anyone to study and examine it.	J. G. E.
Essays on Divers Matters.
BY J. M. J. G,
No. H.—Elocution.
It has been said that a poet is born, not made. The remark is equally true of the orator. The great poet is partly an orator; the great orator, partly a poet. Each must possess .a vivid imagination, that picture-painter of the soul, and a nimble fancy to outline the form and movement of the picture. Each must be endowed with the creative faculty, that mental chemist which produces mar
vellous results from the novel combination of ancient ele-' ments. Each must be gifted with a strong understanding capable of tracing moral, intellectual and even physical phenomena to causes far beyond the ken of ordinary intelligence.	■
Brutus’ speech in Shakspeare is the most perfect oration ever delivered. Burke’s description of Marie Antoinette is poetry as noble as ever swelled in the soul of the Chian bard or breathed from the melodious lyre of Mantua.
Yet, oratory requires much greater qualities than poetry. The poet may spend his whole life in an ideal world and never emerge from its unreal seclusion. He may climb the magic mountains of Dreamland and watch goreous sunsets which light up with varied hues the 'placid seas, —pluck flowers that wave down vistas of charming loveliness,—creep to the edge of frowning, precipitous crags, and look down upon vales half hidden in the silvery mists of entrancing Elfland,—raise his eyes to skies and constellations never seen by natural vision,—clothe Beauty with a heavenly brightness, and call to mirage life forms which have no existence in heaven, on earth or in hell. He may paint a panorama or a miniature, an epic or a sonnet, but he must enwrap his creations in the Ideal. A poet is the creator of an unsubstantial world.
The orator, besides possessing a large share of the poetic faculty, must, above all, be practical. His object should be, not to please the fancy with pretty figures, but to enlighten the understanding with truth and a conviction of right. No man can pretend to oratory without possessing true common sense. In fact, oratory itself may be called inspired common sense. A profound acquaintance with the workings of the human heart, the springs of human action, the lights and shadows of the soul and the mysterious play of the passions, in connection with the march of hu man events, must characterize the orator. With intuitive power, he must be able to analyze the various causes of things, and throw light upon the sublime unity of history; which shows us man struggling, rebellious and proud, yet never able to force'the majestic current of events aside from the providential plan. The great orator must consider man and his acts as a vast synthesis of God, whose will or permission limits all within impassible bounds, and whose vindication awaits the great day of common reckoning.
No orator can be great who has not faith, for great thoughts are born of looking at history and individuals from the providential point of view. Genius grows sterile and barren if it do not believe. Atheism never produced an orator or pact. It has given us lofty figures, but they are skeletons. Faith alone could clothe them with flesh, breathe life into them, and paint the face with beauty all divine. Compare the heathen Homer who wrote or sang in the dawn of civilization, with Voltaire, the atheist, in the noonday blaze of enlightenment. Homer believed, and bis song is immortal: Voltaire disbelieved, and his Hen-riad is one of the curiosities of human vanity, laughed at and contemned.
The man who wishes to move and convince his hearers must be moved and convinced himself. He must be thoroughly in earnest. If you wish to convince the human intelligence and move the heart, be in earnest. Without this the greatest qualities will be utterly useless.
—In preparing copy for the printer make hooks to your letters, but do not hook your- ideas. •
THE SCHOLASTIC*
281
Choic-9 of a, Vocation. .
One of the many punishments inflicted on man at the fall of our first parents was that of earning his bread by the sweat of his brow. Had Adam and Eve complied with the sovereign will of the Almighty, this, as well as the other punishments, would not have been inflicted on the human race. As it is, man is placed in this world with & certain path or calling marked out for him to follow; such path or calling is called one’s vocation.
This calling is of a different nature with many persons. For one, a trade is his proper calling; for another, one of the liberal professions; some are born to be men of literature or science; others are to follow a religious calling; and so on for all. But, as I said, of the many different professions that exist, each individual has a certain one appointed for him; and in that particular one alone can he excel. Why is it we see so many in our day who work a while at one trade, and have no sooner commenced it than they try their skill at an entirely different one? They are continually going from trade to trade until they become “jacks of all trades, and masters of none.” A lifetime is spent and nothing achieved.
Now, a person to excel in a profession must be master of it: he must understand it thoroughly, have his whole mind and genius concentrated in that one profession alone and no other; otherwise, his attempts will be useless.
See yon poor professional man as he toils from day to day with an aching brow, working hard to support himself and his family. How very different might his situation be! Perhaps, instead of wearing his life away in this toilsome manner, a life of comparative ease and contentment was allotted for him. Yet, why is it thus? why should ke^be a poor, unsuccessful man if his life was to be brighter ?(how came he to aim so high, not having the ability to accomplish what he aimed at?; why did he not keep to his proper sphere? Because he never took to himself the trouble of ascertaining to which calling in life he properly belonged. Before entering on the broad field of life, he never asked himself: Now, for which profession or avocation have I the greatest desire ? have I any real taste or aptitude for law, medicine, any of the fine arts, the sciences? have I a religious vocation? And yet, to many, questioning like this is essentially necessary, in order to ascertain to which state of life they are best suited.
Again, some persons say to themselves, “It is no use for me to follow any of the learned professions; I can never rise to any great eminence; I am not wealthy enough, and it is absurd for me to think of being a doctor a lawyer, or a man of literature.” This may not be bad reasoning; nothing great can be achieved without industry and perseverance: “Rome was not built in a day.” Thebeginning may look dreary; misfortunes may stare you in the face; but press on, be resolute in what you do: “Be not cast down by trifles.” Set to work at the particular calling to which you feel sure you are best suited, with a firm determination to excel in it; and come what may, your success is inevitable.	. J. p. B.
—A young lady at home from boarding-school for the holidays, was asked if she would have roast beef, when she replied: “No, I thank you; gastronomical satiety admonishes me that I have arrived at the ultimate stage of deglutition consistent with dietetic integrity! ” Theyoung lady was never asked if she would have anything again.
The Chaims of Music.
CHAPTER I.
“ Liszt! Liszt! oh! Liszt! ”—Hamlet.
“Arc you a Singer or Howe?” was the question put b/ Mrs. Periwinkle to a man whom she imagined to be a sew* ing-machine agent. The man gassed at her in an absent sort of a way, and passed on. Clad in a suit of subdued mouse* color—(although I know not wherefore a subdued mouse should be of a different hue from the same animal in his wild and frantic state,j-^and chewing the end of a stick of sassafras, he was scarcely the beau ideal of a traveBing agent, and his preoccupied manner still further disproved any connection with that widespread fraternity. He could afford to despise the inquiries of the surrounding multitude, and Mrs. Periwinkle resumed her knitting with a sigh and told James to go on reading Moore’s “ Paradise and the Periwinkle.” She liked the poem, although she always wondered why the printer left out the last and better half of her poor dear deceased husband’s name.
But with curiosity still unsatisfied she followed with her eyes the retreating form of the man in the mouse-colored suit. His evident absence of mind—his gait, in which the frequent freak went far to establish a character of absolute insanity—all betokened one who needed looking after, and accordingly she pursued him with her earnest gaze. “Perhaps he, too, is a poet,” she said within herself, and sighed again, for she had written poetry in her youth. That sweet time had long passed away. She had married a man who was reputed to be what the old Romans would have called locuples, that is, he had a lock-up place which contained treasures unknown to any but himself—one of those men that seem to think that to invest in a safe is always a safe investment. In fact, he kept his worldly goods so very safe that no one knew how to find them after he died. His widow found that gold may turn to'paper, and paper assume the value of the rags that give it birth. A bedtick and the tic douloureux which confined her to her bed were all she had left. An old clerk of her husband’s, whom she justly regarded as the proper prop of her property* had been sent for from California, where he was conducting a branch establishment; but the news came that he had been robbed by a party of hostile Indians while crossing the plains. Intoxicated with success and a gallon of poor whiskey, his captors would have scalped him in triumph but for the timely intervention of a Civil Indian near. A belt of solid gold pieces still remained secure . around his waist. With these he rashly resolved to retrieve the widow’s fortune by playing railroad euchre with, the miners of Colorado. He was euchred while holding the joker with the right bower and left. He left immediate^ after being euchred.
CHAPTER II
“■Bright was the mom. Bkown.	•
Psychic, or rather sly-kick, force is supposed to have a great deal to do with spiritual manifestations. However that may be, Mrs. Periwinkle on awaking one morning was seized with the bright idea that her deceased spouse might be communicated with through a proper medium, and perhaps induced to reveal the whereabouts of his hoards of untold gold. She suspected that he had died of oil on the brain. To bore for oil augurs ill now-a-days for a man’s success—augers are so frequently miss-ile weapons. She consulted the medium and was bewildered by a mass
262
THE SCHOLASTIC.
of unintelligibility, which, being a word of eight syllables, might bewilder many a wiser head th tn hers. The talented author of the Voyage Autour de mon Urachoir says that hope once excited of communication with the dead never entirely dies away again, but even though chilled by deception, is ready to blaze forth in a short time with very little kindling. Such was the state of Mrs. P.’s feelings when the mysterious man in the mouse colored suit passed her door, muttering between his teeth the words “ Bum summusmusy Busczteb.
[to be continued in our next.]
Weather Prognostics,
Mr. Editor:—I send you a few lines for publication concerning the due attention Which we, that is the many subscribers to The Scholastic, should give to the signs of weather. Our ancestors were men of gr<at simplicity and faith, and saw and heard more in nature than we are able to discern. They saw many changes foreshadowed by the signs of nature, and they saw these signs in the sky and in animals, even in the little birds.
I wish to be brief in this article; next week I may give you a number of the many saws of our ancestors regarding the weather. This week I will give but one or two.
Here in America it is said that if the ground-hog, on the 2nd of February, Candlem.is-day, comes out of bis hole in the ground and sees his shadow, he will return and remain in the ground for six weeks; meaning that we will have cold weather for that length 'of time. In Canada they say that if on that day we have any snow on the ground, we will not have any deeper snow during the remainder of the winter than we have already had. Nor shall we have any less until the winter is over. In France they say that if Candlemas is white, the winter is behind ; meaning that the winter will last a long time. As the feather is that day, it will be about the same for forty-days.	Yours, etc,	A.
Sectarianism.
This word is continually thrown into the teeth of him who dares open his mouth against the crying injustice of the State School system in this country. Admitting the existence of a Christian Catholic sectarianism (which by . the way is a contradiction) did it ever occur to these persons that there is also in the world such a thing as a Puritanical, intolerant, Protestant sectarianism, and worse than all, a strong infidel or pagan sectarianism:—a State School sectarianism as well as an Anti-State School sectarianism.
Now, it is too plain to be denied that the State School system of Indiana is one wherein most of these latter “ isms” have coalesced, and established a union of “ church and state” as completely and eff -ctually as ever existed in any country, or at any period of history; and that too under the false, puritanical and counterfeit name of “Free Schools.” Under these circumstances, is it to be assumed that when Christianity and its teachings are admitted to be the only basis of society, and therefore of the perpetuity of civilized nations; nay the only controlling power over the baser instincts of man, and that alone by which he can be preserved from lapsing again into barbarism; and when it is remembered also that for nearly 2,000 years the
Catholic Church has been not only foremost but alone for the most part in this great work (discovering this continent and planting the emblems of Christianity all over it,) will it be assumed, I say, that it shall tamely submit to such injustice and subscribe to that infamous pagan theory that the child belongs to the state and not to the parent and to God?
Is it to be wondered at that Christian parents would rather follow their children to the grave, than give them up body and soul to the influence of such a system ? Hence, to their honor and praise be it said, rather than do so they continue to build up and sustain their own “sectarian schools,” so called, in which they know that their children will be safe, morally and religiously. Do so rather than subject them to the influence and the atmosphere, so to speak, of that other kind of sectarianism which means, for the most part, a religion for the body only, and death and damnation to the soul. O, what a blessed land of “religious liberty’’ this is, which compels the Cbristain mother, be she Catholic or otherwise, to pay taxes for the privilege of educating her chidren in the school of her choice.
We do not ask you to pay taxes for the support of our “sectarian schools,” as you call them; and I protest against paying taxes for the support of your “ sectarian schoolsand now you have the whole “ school question ” in a nut-shell, a very small shell at that. How do you like it, aud what can your readers say to it, logically, politically, religiously, or any other way ?	W.
. St. Peter’s at Borne.
The exterior illumination of St. Peter’s Church is an electrifying spectacle on festive occasions. The cupola is twice metamorphosed, as it were, into a hemisphere of light. The earliest illumination at nightfall displays the building’s architectural outline to great advantage. For this purpose are prepared 4,400 lamps of cylindrical form. The task of the lamplighters is apparently not without peril. It is alarming to witness them at work grasping ropes suspended high in the air, swinging to and fro, from frieze to cornice,and from capital to pillar, to arrange their lanterns, in symmetrical order.
An hour later, a thousand larger lamps are enkindled simultaneously. To accomplish the changes with all possible speed, at proper distances, od the cupola, three hundred and sixty men are suspended with ready-lighted though concealed torches. At a.third signal from the belfry, the cross on the apex of the dome suddenly glitters into a flame; the rest of the onormous fabric then seems to ignite, aud to burst forth into a splendid conflagration.
A flood of vivid light soon spreads itself over surrounding objects. At a distance, not unlike a phenomenon spangled with stars, the fiery dome seems to be agitated by a mysterious band, and to hang suspended from the vast canopy of heaven.
The Vatican home of Christ's Vicar upon earth suggests some discursive and not uninteresting reflections, did time and space now permit to turn over the wide page of its history.
Cbatard confesses that his (three octavo volumes) description of the Vatican cost him sixteen years’ labor. This will, perhaps, not be astonishing when one reflects that, besides the Basilica, fifteenfold larger than Solomon’s
THE SC HOLISTIC.
fids
Temple, he had also two church-like chapels, twenty-two court-yards, twelve assembly-halls, eleven thousand chambers, several galleries, twenty-two immense staircases, not to mention other minor avenues, to measure and survey.
To form an adequate idea of the Vatican’s extent and size, an ob-erver should survey its churches, chapels, piaz-iz is, collonnades, galleries, libraries, museums, offices and gardens. Let him also bear in mind that the site of all those irregular buildings is said to cover a space as large in circumference as the old city of Turin.—Exchange.
—The Sisters of the Holy Cross will open their new building in St. Peter’s parish on Monday next, the Wth inst, with appropriate ceremonies. Rev. Mother Angela, Superioress of the Order in the United States, whose residence is at St Mary’s Academy, near South Bend, Indiana, is here to superintend the opening of the Academy, and to complete the necessary arrangements for putting St. Cecilia’s in the front rank of the educational institutions of the country.
The new edifice will accommodate 358 young ladies as boarders or as day pupils, and will be conducted by Sister Ambrose, assisted by sixteen Sisters. The lessons will be graded np from elementary to the most advanced studies. The appointments will be as near perfect as may be, the Academy being provided with all the modern improvements, including philosophic and astronomical instruments. Much attention will be given to the study of the modern languages, and opportunities will be afforded the pupils to converse in the foreign languages, which they may select to study, during the recreations. Young ladies desiring to pursue some particular study will be received as parlor boarders.
The Sisters of the Holy Cross are already most favorably known here as teachers, and the opening of the new academy must endear them more and more to the hearts of all lovers of true education.— Washington Oor. Baltimore Catholic Mirror.
—Under the sway of Doctbr Davies, the renowned and fearless H^ad-master of Eton school, at the time “George the Third was King,” scenes the most interesting, and of frequent occurrence, took place. The monarch, it is related, made frequent visits to the school, and good-naturedly humored the pedagogue in “ magnifying his office,” it . being the boast of the latter (and no vain boast) that he taught the little boys of great men that they have superiors.” Sir Bartie Frere, in a biographical sketch of his tmcle, the celebrated John Hookham. Frere (who was an Eton boy at the time Canning, Mr. Arthur Wellesley, and other lads of distinction were there), thus remarks in con -firmation of the Head-master’s iron rule, in the important matter of governing his pupils, “ It is quite as difficult,” Says Sir Bartie, “ and as important, to teach the little boys of great men that they have superiors—indeed, to teach this to the great bankers’ and squires’ boys, as to dukes’ sons: and I know no place where this was done so effee tually as at Etou. Neither rank nor money had any con. sideration there compared with that which was paid to age, ability, and standing ia the school.” Sir Bartie has some interesting reminiscences of this period of his uncle’s life. A “barring out” at the school was got up, when eighty boys, among them Mr. Arthur Wellesley(afterwards the Duke of Wellington) were flogged. Whether Arthur
was commander-in-chief on the occasion, Sir Bartie does not say, but that he took a prominent part in the affair, and his flogging characteristically, there cannont be much doubt.—Pen and Plow.
Reputation and Charactet.—Reputation is what a person is accounted to be by others; character consists in what he really is.
A great many defalcations have come to light lately in business houses, as the records of the police courts and bankruptcy court show. The defaulters in every instance are spoken of as persons of good standing. Of course they necessarily must have been such, or they would not have been entrusted with such large amounts of money. Beggars, paupers, and vagabonds.have no opportunity to become heavy defaulters. On the contrary, defaulters are men of comely exterior lives; men who dress decently well; who attend church; who maintain a good outside show in their way of living. They enjoy a fair reputation. • Yet how different, from all these appearances, is their real character! When they look at themselves, they behold a sight quite unlike what they seem to be to the eyes of the community. A character which cannot sternly stand the the test of strict and searching self-examination is not a good character. If young men begin life with the daily habit of reviewing their own conduct, and resolutely changing it whenever it foils to square with the strictest standard of distinguishing between right and wrong, they will never become defaulters. They will prove equal to any trust which may be reposed in them, because they will be guided by a compass equally well adapted to smooth seas or rough, and which, under all .circumstances points towards a sure and safe harbor.
Skorpto, the Zodiak Skorpion.—Next tew the hornet, the skorpion seems tew me tew be pretty mutch all ded loss». I never had mutch faith in enny kind ov a kritter who was bilt only to bite. Skorpions do the best in a hot naberhood. If a man should take all the skorpions in the the world up into the northern part ov Nu Hampshire he would lose money on them. They wouldn’t thaw out thare in time for bizzness. I never hav seen a skoripion, only in the zodiak, i aint sorry for this. If thare should ever be a fite in the zodiak i hope it will be krab and skorpion. This would be a fite in whitch no one woud care whitch whipt. I kant tell yu, just now, how the skorpion got aboard ov the zodiak, but bi looking at hiz piktur i should say he stood 2 good chances tew do it, one waz tew enter bed fust, and the other waz to change ends and go in that way.
The codfish iz the fruit ov the oshun, which accounts for their being so salt. They are good eating for a wet day; they are better than an umbreller to keep a man dry. They want a good deal ov freshning before they are eaten, and want freshning a good deel afterwards. If i can have plenty ov codfish for breakfast, i can generally manage tew make the other two meals out of cold water.—Josh Billings'1 AUminax.	.
—When it was said to a Nebraska man that he didn’t use good grammar, he put on a mournful look and replied : “ Well, I didn’t have the chance some folks had. We lived more’n ten miles from the nearest tavern.”

264	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS :
Oneyear.......................................$1 00
Single copies (octa.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Yhe Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is Ji fly cents; besides which all new subscribers are requested io send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—Of the Catholic papers published in the United States, the freeman's Journal and The New Tor'e Tablet give the most attention to Catholic Colleges. The Tablet, in particular, devotes a leading article every few weeks to the discussion of practical questions affecting the management of colleges, well worth the reading by all who have charge of such institutions. . In this last week’s issue there is an article on “The Religious Training of our Youth” Which is deserving of especial attention. The -writer asserts that most graduates “betray an ignorance of the doctrines of the Church truly appalling.” He argues that the blame for this rests equally upon the faculty and the students. The faculty, he says, are to blame; because in most colleges the instructions are given on Sundays and during the week by men who have not always the knack of interesting the students. It is all well enough to tell students they shall not kill; but the students know that without being told by the professor. What the students want is a teacher who is able to . communicate what be knows to the students; who will make what he teaches of interest to them, and who will explain to them the questions which will face them when they enter the world. There they will meet with infidels and freethinkers, and men of every shade of belief; objections to their religion will be made, and unless the young man is able to overcome them he will be forced to hide his head in shame, and perhaps he may even lose his faith. What should be taught to the student should be the reasons why the Pope is infallible the nature and the grounds of faith. Instead, then, of Using up much time in lecturing on questions patent to the dullest minds, let the lecture be given to show the reasons why all should believe in the doctrines of the Church.
But, then, the students are also to blame. There is among them too much indifference towards acquiring information concerning faith. They will turn up their noses if any one suggests the reading of controversial or polemical Works. Their time is given to the reading of trashy novels, and the works which can enlighten them with regard to their religion arc neglected.
We are happy to state that we do not believe that the complaint made by The TaUet can be charged against the students here this year. Seeing the great want of a proper religious education, the authorities some time ago, in addition to the regular religious instructions, started a class for the more advanced students, in which the reasons for the faith of Catholics are fully explained. Almost the
same instructions are given in English to this class as are given in Latin to students in the seminary. This class of dogma has been very successful. The teacher has sue-1 ceeded in getting up an interest among the students of the class that is highly gratifying to the officers of the house. The members, having had their interest awakened, are be-* ginning to devote their leisure hours to the study of those dry controversial books which they formerly neglected.
The writer of the excellent article in the Tablet thus concludes: “ What these young men must understand is, that the better they know and practice their religion the more they will be respected and trusted by all men. Ir-religion damns a man in this world and in the next. It may gain him wealth here, by removing the shackles and restraints religion imposes; but, while advancing to wealth and power, all good men and true despise him who does not live uptotbe commands of the Church. Liberalism, young men, is a deceiving word; have nothing to do with it. Do not be afraid of being Ultramontane; if yon are Catholic, you must be Ultramontane. Understand that yon are the Church Militant, that you have a hard battle -to fight, and that in proportion as you are prepared for the struggle, in just such proportion will-be your defeat or victory.” What he says is true, and we hope that the students here will remember his words and follow his advice.
—It is often asked by persons differing in faith from us why it is that Catholics cannot send their children to the public schools. Is it because Catholics are opposed to Education? Not at all. There is no religious body in the United States which has so many schools as the Catholic Church. Catholics are opposed to sending their children to public schools because they believe that as the children have souls to save, the education of the child should be such as tends to this end. They believe that the religion which they profess is true, and believing that it is true, they hold themselves bound in conscience to bring up their children in this religion in order that they may save their souls. They do not believe that their children are to be left until they come of age, then to choose such a Church as suits their fancy. They act with them in the matter of religion as they do in temporal matters. When the child _ is sick they find out what is good for the child, and they make him take it. So also in religion: they know which is the true religion, and for the good of the soul of their child thejr educate him in that religion.
They believe that their child should be taught morality. This they know to be- incumbent on them, and on their teachers. But they know that the true principles of morality cannot be instilled into the minds of youth without religious instruction. Knowing it to be their dot}' to have them thus taught, they insist upon having it done.
Now they know that neither religion nor morality is taught in the public schools. It is impossible that they should be taught. To teach morality it is necessiry to teach religion, as we said before. But no one religion can be taught at the public schools, for that would make the school sectarian and it thus ceases to be a public school, and all those differing in belief from the religion taught there would cry^out against it. Now the impossibility of teaching the child its religion and the true principles of morality are the main objection which Catholics have to the public schools.
But another objection which Catholics have to sending their children to these schools is that though no religion is
THE SCH
O 1 A S T I C .	26$
guages special studies. Every year large numbers of voluntary exiles from Germany, France, Italy and other countries arrive on our shores, settle down and become citizens. With these .emigrants, as well as with those who hail from Ireland, Scotland and England, we must transact business. It is true that after they have been in this country for a while they learn to speak English well enough for practical purposes, but it is only natural that they should prefer dealing with those who are able to speak their own language. Hence it is of much service to young men, especially those who intend following commerce, to be able to speak French and German. And for those who are preparing themselves for any of the professions, it 13 of use. Many learned and able works treating on subjects connected with their avocations are written in these languages, and unless they are acquainted with the tongues they are sealed for them. Besides, for the priest a knowledge of the languages is useful in the confessional, and to the lawyer and doctor this knowledge will bring practice. For all, then, it is important that they study French and German.
How should languages be studied in order to be quickly and yet thoroughly acquired? A knowledge of a language can only be thoroughly acquired by frequent conversation in the tongue. The student should begin to talk the language the day the grammar is put into his bands. Many mistakes will be made at first—sometimes very ludicrous ones; but these will gradually become fewer and fewer. It is a knowledge of words which is the trouble to the student; when he has acquired these, the remainder of the study becomes easy enough. Exceptions as to gender, -etc., should of course be learned, but these can be learned afterwards, and no student will ever be able to master a language if he devotes himself to learning simply the rules and the exceptions. Practice in conversation is the great teacher, and unless the student practices he will find it uphill work.
After the student has accustomed his tongue to pronounce words, and is no longer afraid or ashamed of making grammatical blunders or of not pronouncing with the precision and the elegance of a native of Paris or Vienna; after he has accustomed himself to use French and German words, and has acquired a goodly number of them, then it is time for him to ttouble himself with the strict grammatical construction of his sentence. There are many students who,’hot having a natural taste for languages, have been discouraged on the very start, and never made any progress, because they were frightened by the formidable array of exceptions which they were required to learn. They had to load their memory with not only rules, but with excep- ' tion after exception, and this without being able to frame a single sentence. They had to plunge into irregular declensions and conjugations, and had not a thorough knowledge of the regular ones.
Now this is not right. The languages should be taught in a proper manner. The student should be accustomed to express himself in the language which he is learning, and taught to learn just as children learn their own language. They are not bothered by learning rules, etc.; they are taught first to pronounce the words, and then they learn the meaning of them. So should it be with persons learning a foreign tongue. After they have been taught the pronunciation of the words and their meaning, then give them the rules which they are to follow in speaking the language correctly.
taught in the school yet the students are taught to disbelieve the Catholic religion, and they are filled with false notions with regard to the acts of the Popes and other prelates of the Church. It is impossible that it should be otherwise. The history of English Literature is a history of continuous libel on the Church, its rulers and its doc-I	trines. From the days of Elizabeth down to our day there
is scarcely an Englishman of note who has not had his fling at the “ superstitions ” of Rome; and in all the read-i	ers and books of declamation there are to be found inuen-
I	does and libels on the Church. What text book of history
*.	used in the public schools has a correct account of the
Massacre of St. Bartholomew’s Day? What one has a g truthful account of the Reformation ? or of the reigns of | Elizabeth and Mary ? Not one.
I	But it may be objected that the parents can teach their
|	children religion at home. It is all well enough to talk
K	about what a parent can do; another thing is what
I	they do do. How is a father who has spent the whole
'	day at steady work to sit down and teach his child in the
evening? Is it not expecting too much of a poor man to perform faithfully the works proper to his calling the whole day, and then spend the evening in the work of teaching? All men require some respite after work. Even a common-school teacher w’ill tell you that some .	recreation is required by all who work. Besides, of what
good is the instruction given by the father in the evening, when the next day the child is untaught, if you will allow the expression, all of it the next day ?
The priest, however, you may say, should attend to the religious and moral training of the child, and leave the merely secular teaching to the schoolmaster. It is true I	that the priest is bound to give instruction to children as
Well as grown-up persons; but how difficult is it for the priest to reach the child who attends the public schools? The child having been taught at the public school to despise the Church and the teachings of the Church, pays but slight attention to the words of the priest. Experience proves how difficult it is for the parents of that child to enforce his attendance at the catechism-classes (aught on Sundays. No: the place for religious and moral training is in the .school-room. The child should learn his morality and his religion at the same time that he learns }	his history, his grammar aud his geography. If he does
‘	not learn them at that time he will not learn them at all.
These are some of the reasons which Catholics urge for not sending their children to public schools. Is it not plain that they cannot in conscience do so? and is it not plain that a Protestant who really believes in the truth of the religion which he professes cannot in conscience send his child to the public schools? For if he really believes his religion to be true, how can he wilfully expose his child to the danger of departing from it?
Aud if these people cannot in conscience send their children to the public schools, is it not manifest injustice to force them to pay taxes to support such schools, from which they are debarred from sending their children? They have their own schools, built by their own money, and supported by their own money; why, then, should they be compelled to pay taxes to support schools for others? No, no: let the taxes levied upon Catholic .parents go for the support of Catholic schools, aud we then will be content—but not until then.
—It is of the greatest Importance in this broad country V1 of ours that our young men should make modern lan-
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
[We •will give each week a great number of Personals, for the purpose of letting the old students know the whereabouts of their former comrades.]
“~F. Reade, of’71, is in Nashville, Tenn.
—EJward Sweeney, of ’71. is in Erie, Pa.
—Casper Kuhn, of’70, is living in Nashville.
—Jas. Graham, of ’63, is now living in Texas.
—	Austin Cable, of’67, is away out in Kansas.
•	—Frank Calhoun, of ’68, is now in Chicago, Ill.
—	C. W. Hodgson, of ’71, is now living in Louisville, Ky.
—	Rev. Jas. Curran, of ’68, is stationed at Paterson, N. J.
—	John P. Rogers, of’68, is practising law in Pittsburgh, Pa.
—William Hoynes, of-168, is practising law in La Crosse, Wis.
—Henry Buter, of ’74, is keeping books in New Haven, Ind.
—	E. Otwell, of ’71, is with his father, in business, in Nashville.
—	Thos. Cunnea, of ’59, is travelling in Ireland, for his health.
—	Dr. H. C. Allen, of’68, is practising medicine in Clinton, Mo.
—	W. P. McClain, of ’69, is practicing law, in Henderson, Ky.
—	H. H. Owen, of’68, is practising medicine in Henderson, Ky.
—	Jno. Broderick, of ’67, is engaged in commerce, in
Cairo, Ills.	’
—	Charlie Butler, of’64, is married and settled.at Nashville, Tenn.
—	Albert Chase, of’64, is in a mercantile house in Nashville, Tenn.
—Of the ex-students of Notre Dame nearly one hundred are priests.
—	Joseph M. Rotbchilds, of ’68, is practising law in San Francisco, Cal.
—Bin F. Roberts, of’72, is in his father’s bank, in Independence, Mo.
—	Rev. El ward J. Spellman, of'64, is now stationed at Rushville, Ind.
—	A. Maierhoif, of ’68, is doing well with Hugh Gillen, in Ottawa, Ills.
—	A J. O’Reilly, of ’67, is in business with his father, in Reading, Pa.
—	J. Blaine Walker, of ’68, is editing a newspaper in
Helena, Montana.	'
—	Ed. Fisher, of ’69, is book-keeper for Brown & Macey, in Nashville, Tenn.	.
	__Michael Brannock, of ’68, is doing a very good business in Chicago, Ill.
	__Christian Burger, of ’74, is with the firm of Heizmann & Bro., Reading, Pa.
—	The late Rev. N. H. Gillespie, of ’49, was the first graduate of the University.
—	Moses Letourneau, of ’44, was the first to receive the Premium of Honor here.	.
—	H. H. and Henry Schnelker, both of ’68, are in business in New Haven, Ind.
—Rev. Father Toohey filled Father O’Mahony’s place in South Bend, last Sunday.
—Mrs. Clarke, of Chicago, spent last Sunday here, visiting her son at the College.
—	Harry Schaub, of ’68, is local Editor of the ShJwning Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio.
—	William Walker, of’68, having travelled through Europe, has settled for life, in California.
—	Rev: L. J. Letourneau, of ’49, received the Premium of Honor oftener than any other student.
—Jas. Wilson, of ’70, and Laurence Wilson, ’69, are in business with their father in Trenton, N. J.
—	Alex. Coquillard, of ’44, now living in South Bend, was the first student ever entered in the University.
—	Ivo. Buddeke, of ’69, will receive himedic-al diploma in a few months. He will practise in Nashville.
—	Edward Klages, of ’64, is in partnership with his father in the wall-paper business, in Nashville, Tenn.
—	Merrit Pilcher and his brother Alex., of’64. are doing a good business in transportation, in Nashville, Tenn.
—	The five Burns boys, of ’64, are all married, and doing a good business in Nashville. They are owners of a wholesale house.
—	Very Rev. Father Granger was quite uhWell at the beginning of the week. We ate rejoiced that he is now much better.
—Albert Heizmann, of ’65, is in partnership with his brother in Reading, Pa. The business is the importing of musical instruments.
—Two ex-students of Notre Dame are with the Paulist Fathers, preaching missions in California,—Elliott, of ’58, and Rosecrans, of ’65.
—George Mayers, of ’64, was married on the 20th to Miss Churchill, of Rockford, Ills. George does a fine trade in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael, Law-Student of ’73, called at the office on Saturday last. Mr. McMichael, it will be remembered, was elected to the Legislature last year.
—Bernard M. Drake, of’72, is in the real-estate business in Chicago, Ill. He is, we are told, to he married on the 4lh of February, to Miss Ida M. Reid, of Lemont, Hi. We wish him and his bride every happiness.
—Jas. McCormack, of ’67, was at Notre Dame this last week on a visit. He called at the “den,” and gave us considerable news of the old students. He is, we are happy to say, getting alonsr finely. We are pleased to see the old students calling often at Notre Dame.
—RrGitT. Rev. Dr. Borsess, Bishop of Detroit, paid us a visit last Thuesday. He attended the examination of some of the classes. We are always highly pleased to see the Worthy and energetic Bishop of Detroit; and so are all the people about Notre Dame, who hope to see him in our midst frequently. He is one of the most companionable, and at the same time dignified, members of the Catholic Hierarchy In the United States.
Society Notes. .
—Prof. A. J. Stace has resigned, on account of the great press of work, the presidency of the Columbiahs. He has been succeeded by Prof. O’Mahony.
—At a meeting of the Junior Branch of the Father Gillespie Choral Union, held Jan. 22nd, Messrs. R. Walker, E. Courtney and H. Rice were admitted to membership.
—At a meeting held on the 25th, the following persons were elected officers of the Sodality of the Holy Angels for the second session of the scholastic year: President, W. S Meyer; Vice-President, Jos. Beegan; Secretary, D. J. O’Connell; Treasurer, Jas. Dore; Censors, R. Downey and E. Minton.
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held January 16th, 1875. At this meeting, Masters O'Connell, McIntyre, Meyer, Soule, Schmidt and Foxen, delivered declamations. Master James Dore read an essay on “Lying.” Mast. Henry Rice applied for membership, and, after fulfilling the necessary conditions, was elected a member.
—The 17th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on Monday, Jan. 18th, 1875. At this meeting Master Geo. Budd was unanimously admitted to membership; after which there was a rehearsal of the play entitled “The Gentlemen of the Jury.” The President having made a number of pertinent remarks the meeting adjourned,
THE SCHOLASTIC.	207
—The 18th.regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Thursday, January 21st, 1875. At this meeting Master E. Courtney was unanimously admitted into the Society. The following delivered declamations : J. Lambin, W. Roelie, L. Pilliod, J. Nelson, J. Hayes and G. Budd. J. French read an essay, after which the meeting adjourned.
Local Items.
—Eh?
—Outch I
—C. 0. D.
—Honor bright ?
—Lent is coining.
—Kieeie has retired-
—Everything quiet.
—“Oh! how funny!”
—Very good sleighing,
—The weather is uncertain.
—Examination’s everything,
—No excitement in the yards,
—“You are putting on airs.”
—How about that §5.00 bet? Eh ?
—Music in the Parlors occasionally.
—“It’s so nice and snuggy in here. ”
—“ All promenade	to the Study Hall,
—The Class of Telegraphy is quite large.
—“ Rec.” is a very expressive contraction,
—“It’s all a mistake,—mistake—mistake! ”
—These moonlight nights are magnificent
—Our friend John says “it’s outrageous.”
—Bro. Alpheus’ horses are kept very busy.
—We have had many visitors to our “den.”
—There is plenty of hard work in the printing-office.
—There is a bud of promise in the Junior Department.
—The Juniors are reading “ Fabiola’’ in the refectory.
—It was a pretty cold walk over to St. Mary’s last Sunday.
—“The Little Fiddler” makes very good time on the road.
—The blacksmiths have been kept very busy the last week.
—Hand in your contributions as early in the week as possible.
—Refused.—The application of a sixth-rate basso for the cymbals.
—They who clear the walks this snowy weather are real benefactors.
—It was busy, this last week. Examinations took up most of the time.
—There are experiments daily in the Laboratory. The students enjoy them.
—It is a fact. Everybody knows how to edit a paper better than the editor. ,
—Proi. J. A. Lyons went to Cleveland, Ohio, on business last Tuesday night.
—The catechetical instructions on Sundaysand Wednesdays are very entertaining.
—Only a few weeks more, and then all who are over twenty-one will have to fast.
—About lOORs. of coffee were shipped to Detroit one day last week, from Notre Dame.
—The dorgs have made themselves scarce. They have an antipathy to being made into sausages.
—There was a meeting of Conference last Wednesday. A number of interesting papers were read.
—The picture of the First Station now at the Presbytery excites the admiration of all who see it.
—The Juniors are the greatest in number of those wh patronize the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—Flowers are in bloom in the Classical Study Hall, making it very Springlike in appearance there.
—Why should the men at the tailor shop be able to go sleigh-rtding often ? Because they have a good cutter.
—During the Lenten season, or rather from Septuages-ima Sunday until Easter, the organ will not be played at Mass.
—Mr. Bonney, the Photographer, is expected out in a week or two, when all who desire them can have photos taken.
—After a good week’s work surveying more than he was monarch of, Prof. Stace arrived home last Saturday night.
—On Sunday last there Were a great number of sleighs, cutters, etc., at the College. Good sleighing brought them there.
—The Medical Classes under Rev. Dr. Neyron are very successful. The Doctor was a Surgeon under the great Napoleon. .
—There was not a great number at the Infirmary this last week, after all. The Examination didn’t affect many to that extent.
—A stove that smokes is a great nuisance. In the room next to our ‘ den” there is such a stove, and we wish it was in Halifax.
—Rome and Notre Dame are almost precisely in the same latitude, while their difference of longitude is a little less than 100 degrees. .
—We were shown by Prof. Lyons a large picture-frame beautifully made. It is his intention to have placed in it the photographs of old Cecilians.
—Our friend John is too high-toned to take his recreation in the Hall. He is lond of calling around at the Students’ Office “just for a few moments.”
—We hope that parties will so understand the difference between mine and thine as not to walk off with our exchanges when we are not about. Verbum sat. _
—We received a note from a correspondent at the Manual Labor School. Will the writer please furnish us with a translation of it ? We don’t understand Scandinavian.
—After some hard work last Wednesday, scraping the snow off the ice on the upper lake, the hoys managed to have a little skating. The thaw in nowise improved the ice.
—How he shivered and shook; and he says he would sooner shoulder a musket and face singly a whole armycorps than he would an Examining Committee, Won-der-ful!
—Scene.—The Examination Room of the Commercial Board. Professor—“Now, sir, what isa tort?” Student of Commercial Law—“"A tart? a tart? Oh, yes!a tart is what we have at dinner!”
—Some followers of good old Isaac Walton will not let the winter interfere with their piscatorial pleasures, and every day they may be seen cutting holes in the ice and fishing away as happily as though the Spring-time fiowers were in bloom.
—There is a goblin or spirit at work at the telegraph wires. At least those through whose rooms the wires run think that there is—as they say no human being would be so foolish as to keep at work the way this goblin or spirit, or whatever it is, does.
—We acknowledge the receipt of the message of the Governor of Indiana. Although it is very well written, we think if he would follow Mark Twain’s advice to the Secretary of the Treasury, and put a few conundrums in it, he would make it more interesting.
—“ Father Demers has taken one dog away. Good!” So, in our happiness last Tuesday afternoon, we wrote; but bright and early Wednesday morning that selfsame dog came frisking in front of our door. Such is life. We can’t depend upon our happiness being of long duration.
—We were sorry that we could not attend the grand concert at St. Mary’s, last Tuesday afternoon. Press of
268	THE SCHOLASTIC.
business prevented our leaving the office. The concert was, we understand, a most excellent affair,-and reflected great honor on the young ladies who took part in it. .
—In our last issue a typographical error was made, Viz.: Carlo Dolci was printed “Carlo D’elci;” and again, the size of the tableau (First Station of the Way of the Cross) was given as 5x4 instead of 6x4.
—To see the absurdity of the editors of one college paper lecturing others how their papers should be edited and printed, it is merely necessary to read the Archangel's advice to the Niagara, Index- There’s richness in the counsel When we consider the “get up” of the Archangel.
—It don’t pay to clean the snow off the ice on the lake such weather as this. One crowd cleared off the snow last Saturday morning; another crowd did the same work in the evening. During the night it snowed again, and the ice was worse than ever. It was “love’s labor lost” that Saturday.
—Last Sunday, Bro. Thomas lost a pocket-book containing a large sum of money. It was found by Master Philip Fitzpatrick, who prompty returned it to the owner. We believe Bro. Thomas “set it up” for the honest finder. As a reward for his honesty, though the young gentleman desires none, we would think that a “set up” every day for a week would be the thing.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association acknowledge, with many thanks, the receipt of donations from the following persons. Bev. Father Cooney, 3 vols.; Bro. Bruno, 2 vols.; Bro. Fidelis, 2 vols.; M. M. Foote, 2 vols.; F- Ewing, 1 vol.; J. Crummey, 1 vol.; and Nathan Mooney, 2 vols.	J. F. Edwards, Librarian.
—We once knew a good old Italian Professor who was much better acquainted not only with Italian but Latin than he was with Engli<h. After in vain endeavoring to explain to his class the beauties of a passage in one of the Italian poets, he lost all patience and exclaimed “ Well, well, it’s no use! I must not throw my margarets before porhsI”
—A young friend of ours at Memramcook, N. B., Ned by name, as fine a boy as ever broke bread, writes to us that they have had a public debate, or rather two debates, one in French and oae in English. The French debate was given in the public hall on New Year’s night—the young gentlemen debating the question, “ Was Napoleon of a real benefit to France?' The English debate was held on the 6th of January, a:.d was debated by Me-srs. Charles Collins and E. J. McPhelim on the affirmative, and George V. Mclnerny and Arthur B. O’ Neill on the negative. The question debated was: “Did the Ancients excel the Moderns in Literature and Art?” The officers of the Debating Club are as follows: President, G. V. Mclnerny; Vice-President, N. Robideaux; Secretary, H. A. Meehan; Treasurer, Charles Collins; Councillors, C. H. Donahoe, J. Levasseur and N. Landry. Our correspondent reports the Academies under the charge of Messrs. R. L. Walsh and A. Roy as flourishing. Knowing the ability of the two gentlemen, we could not imagine it to be otherwise. He reports also a singing society and a terpsichorean club as having been started. If a certain young gentleman at Memramcook had not sent us word not to put his name in print we would say something about “the great O’—.” There, we almost said it!
Literature.
—Sir William Boyd of Edinburgh, author of a “History of Literature,” etc., died recently.
_____J. Boyle O’Reilly, of the Boston Pilot, is in the lecture field. If his lectures are as good as his poetry they are great treats.
• —A new illustrated weekly is announced to appear in London. It will be called The Theatrical World and Musical Observer.
—Messrs. D. & J. Sadlier & Co. have in press “ The Victims of the Mamertine,” by Rev. A. J. O’Reilly, the accomplished author of “ The Martyrs of the Colosseum.”-
—Bullions’ School Grammar, with Practical Lessons
and Exercises in Composition and Analysis. ' By Peter Bullions, D. D. New York: Sheldon & Co. 1872.
We have received from W. B. Kean & Co., Chicago, a copy of Dr. Bullions’ Grammar, and can recommend it as an excellent text-book in grammar schools. The book, serves at the same lime that it teaches grammar to train pupils in English Composition.
—Introduction to Algebra.—By Edward Olney, Professor of Mathematics in the University of Michigan! New York; Sheldon A Co. 1874.
This is an excellent book for those beginning the study of algebra. The order of the arrangement is such as to lead the pupil by degrees into the most difficult parts of the study without frightening him with definitions which are of no practical use to the beginner. We would not have it understood that the author is deficient in definitions; he gives all the definitions required by the student, leaving those which are of no practical use to be learned after he is more familiar with the study.
—Hooker’s New Physiology. By Worthington Hooker. Revised by J. A. Sewall, M. D. New York: Sheldon & Co.'; Chicago: W. B. Kean & Co. 1874.
This is the best text-book on Physiology which we have met with. The author is clear on all points, avoiding the technical terms as far as possible. It is not only a good book for the class-room but is well adapted for general reading.
—Of the exchanges which we receive, the Catholic Review is one of the very best. Catholic young men should keep themselves well-informed on the prominent questions which agitate ihe religious world both at home and in Europe. We can safely recommend our students to subscribe for the Review. In it they will find the prominent questions of the day treated in an able and scholarly manner, while of foreign news it contains a complete summary. The terms are §3 00 per annum. Address P. V. Hickey, 37 Park Row, New York city.
—Lloyd, the famous map man, who made all the maps for General Grant and the Union army, certificates of which he published, has just invented a way of getting a relief plate from steel so as to print Lloyd’s Map of the* American Continent—showing from ocean to ocean—on one entire sheet of bank-note paper, 40x50 inches large, on a lightning press, and colored, sized and varnished for the wall, so as to stand washing, and mailing anywhere In the world for 25 cents, or unvarnished for 10 cents. This map shows the whole United States and Territories in a group, from surveys to 1875, with a million places on it, such as towns, cities, villages, mountains, lakes, rivers, streams, gold mines, railway stations, etc. This map should be in every house. Semi 25 cents to the Lloyd Map Company, Philadelphia, and you will get a copy by return mail.
Musical Notes.
—The Arions have regular rehearsals.
—The Musical Examination at St. Mary’s was one of the finest ever held.
—The Gillespie Choral Union have a number of fine glees, choruses, etc., in rehearsal.
—The quartette of male voices promises to take a leading part in the soirees and exhibitions during the remainder of the year.
—The organ is not played at Mass on Sundays from Sep-tuagesima Sunday until Easter, with the .exception of Lwtare Sunday. On all Feasts the organ is played as usual.
—A new Mass, with orchestral accompaniment, by F. Uhl, has been received by the Director of the Choir, and work will be commenced on it at once, sb as to have it ready for Easter if possible. Two or three good sopranos are wanted. For particulars apply at No. 4, Music Hall.
—“ Doctor, what do you think is the cause of the frequent rush of blood to my head? ” “Oh, it’s nothing but an effort of nature. Nature, you know, abhors a vacuum,”

SCHOLASTIC
26a

Roll of Honor.
.	.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
. W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, L. Chamberlain, G. Crummey, J. Cullen, M. Clarke, J. Dry-foos, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, J. Flaherty, J. Girard, P. Guiiloz, T. Grier, C. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handiey, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, F. Hebard, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, A. Lonstorf, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, M. McCormack, T. Murphy, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, H. Marble, Patrick Matti-more, Peter Mattimore, E. Maas, L. Moran, A. Mohan, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, F. O’Brien, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, M. Reagan, P. Skahill, F. Sehlink, P. Shaul, E. Seibert, F. Scrafford, J. Verment, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, L. Zeitler.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT..
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, A. Buecker, J. Beegan, L. Best, A. Bergck, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, L. Evers, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, G. J. Frauenknecht, J. French, J. Egbert, J. T. Foley, J. M. Green, G. J. Gross, F..X. Goldsberry, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, C. Greenleaf, E. D. Gleeson, W. Hansard, C. Hake, H. Harvey, W. Meyers, H. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, P. Kelley, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, H. Kreigh, C. V. Larkin, A. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, G. J. Lonstorf, J. Lambin, V. McKinnon, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, A. Mosser, M. J. Murphy, R. Norris, D. Nelson, G. Nester, J. Nelson, H. Newman, F. Palmer, J. L. Perea, A. Reinke, F. Raymond, E. Sugg, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon, A. Schmidt, T-. Summers, W. Smith, F. Smyth, T. Talbot, S. Tobias, C. W. Welty, C. Walsh, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, F. J. Weisenburger, E. Washburn, F. Rosa, W. Fawcett, H. H. Rice, T. Quin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
EOF. THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1875.
Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Francis McGrath, Lee J. Frazee, Eddie Raymond, Ralph Golsen, Louis Goldsmith, John Duffield, Colly Clarke, Colly Campau, John O’Meara, Samuel Goldsberry, Tommie Hooley, AlbertBushey, Eddie JoiceDubois, Harry Ordway, Charlie Bushey.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JANUARY 28.
Francis McGrath, John G. Duffield, Eddie Raymond, Lee J. Frazee, Michael McAuliffe, Ralph Golsen, Colly Clarke, Tommie Hooley, Albert Bushey, Colly Campau, Harry Ordway, Willie Lindsey, John O’Meara, Charlie Bushey, Louis Goldsmith, Peter D. Nelson, Willie Van Pelt, Otto W. Lindberg, Sylvester Bushey.
Class Honors-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1875.
John Duffield, Ralph Golsen, Eddie Raymond, Colly Clarke,. Samuel Goldsberry, Clement Moody, Oscar Bell, Joseph Caner, Willie Van Pelt, Peter D. Nelson,'Francis Campau, Michael McAuliffe, Willie Lindsey, Albert Bushey, Lee J. Frazee, Francis McGrath, Robert Haley.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JANUARY 28.
Eddie Raymond, Lee J. Frazee, Samuel Goldsberry, Francis Campau, Francis Carlin, Ralph Golsen, Colly Clarke, Clement Moody, Joseph Carrer, Hugh Colton, Harry Ordway, Albert Bushey, Colly Campau, Otto Lindberg, Tommie Hooley, Robert Haley, John Duffield, Oscar Bell.
SAINT MANY’S ACADEMY.
—“ Who was Henry Hudson ? ”
—“Do I lisp when I say sassafras?”
—Much pleasure isanticipated by the little girls who are on the list for a sleigh-ride to Mishawaka.
—Miss Belle Wade is taking advantage of the snow-clad landscape and is painting a fine winter-scene from na-tuie.
—The little ones are enjoying their sleds very much, and their merry laughter resounds through the keen air during the recreation hours, as they glide over the white surface of the paths around the Academy.
—On Tuesday, 19th inst., Miss Starr met the young ladies in the Sludy-Hall and imparted a most important instruction on Art. Her-subject was Leonardo da Vinci. The. strict attention and deep interest depicted on the countenances of all manifested the appreciation of the listeners. These instructions rank high among the advantages enjoyed by the pupils at St. Mary’s. A poition of a letter dated at Milan, and lately received by the accomplished speaker, she kindly read, as it contained a description of an original painting by Leonardo.
—The names of the officers of the Society of the Holy Angels and of the St. Agnes Literary Society were not reported at the time of their organization, and are therefore given below:
St. Agnes’ Literary Society.—President, Miss B. Wilson; Vice President, Miss Lizzie Kirchner; Treasurer, Miss Mary Carlin; Secretary, Miss Mary Ewing.
Holy Angels’ Society.—President, Miss Maiy EwingVice-President, Miss A. Callen; Secretary, Miss B. Wilson ; Treasurer, Miss M. Schultheis; Librarian, Miss M. Pritchard.
—On Sunday, the 24th, the Catholic pupils, were examinedin Christian Doctrine, in presence of Very Rev. Father General, the Reverend Chaplain, and the members of the Faculty. The pupils acquitted themselves in a very satisfactory manner. The notes of each pupil will be sent to parents and guardians.	.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 1875.
In order not to interrupt the regular music lessons, two hours each day were given to the examination of the vocal and instrumental departments, commencing with the little Minims, who proved, by counting aloud, that they understood clearly the true value of minims and crotchets.
In passing through the different grades, scales, exercises, position at the piano, and precision in time, were carefully noted by the whole musical faculty, who were present everyday under the presidency of the Directress of Music, and (also of the Directress of Studies.
As the standing in each grade will be marked on the Bulletins sent to parents, we shall only mention here the promotions, and those whose diligence, and consequently progress, deserve to be honorably mentioned.
We advise a few, who, through a want of application, diffidence, or other reason, have not done themselves full justice, to be more in earnest the ensuing five months, and not deprive themselves and their respective teachers the satisfaction of hearing and seeing their real standing; for we neither give nor receive false notes.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
10th Class—Misses M. Hoffman, M. Derby, A. Peak.
2^0
THE SCHOLASTIC.
9th Class—Promoted to this Class: Misses M. and C. Hughes and little Rose Goldsberry.
8th Class—Miss K. Hudson. Promoted to this Class: Miss A. Ewing and M. Bell.
7th Class—Misses Ella Edes, Ida Edes, C. Maigrey, M. Anthony. Promoted to this Class: Miss J. Brown.
6th Class, 2nd Drv.—Misses N. McGrath, R. Ne tel er, M.Brady, S. Edes, E. Simpson, L. Brownbridge, A. S weeny, I. Fisk, M. Summers, M. Quill, G. Hill.
6th Class—Misses N. McAuliffe, A. Goewey,E. Dougherty. Promoted to this Class: Misses S. Hole, P. Gaynor, A. McGrath, F. Middleton, H. Parks, M. O’Connor, E. Lappin, B. Siler, M. Reynolds, M. Siler.
5th Class, 2nd Div.—Misses A. Curtin, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, R. CanolL Promoted to this Class: Misses C. Woodward, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, L. Walsh, H. Peak.
5th Class—Misses M. Pritchard, A. Allen, L Ritchie, S. Reising. Promoted to this Class: Misses M. Thompson, A. O’Connor, E. Thompson.
4th Class, 2nd Drv.—Misses A. Pool, K. Joyce, B. Golsen. Promoted to this Class: MissesL. Hutchinson, E. Bowman, M. A. Roberts, M. Redfield, L. McKinnon, M. McKay, F. Dilger, C. West.
4th Class—Misses L. Bradford, A. T. Clarke, J.’ Bennett. Promoted to this Class: Misses H. Kraus, M. Faxon, E- Haggerty, A. Duncan.	•
Habp—Miss M. Wicker, Miss M. Walker, (Miss O’Connor excused examination, on account of a very sore finger; stands No. 1)
Organ—Miss E. Cody and the Misses Moran. -
3rd Class, 2nd Div.—Misses A. St. Clair, J. Stimpson, M. Koch, L. Arnold. Promoted to the Class, Misses C. Morgan, L. Kirchner.
3rd Class—Miss S. Harris. Promoted to the Class, Misses A. Harris, L. Wyman, B. Wilson, A. Byrnes.
2nd Class, 2nd Drv.—Misses M. Julius, E Greenleaf. Promoted to the Class, Misses E. O’Connor, J. Kearney, K. Hutchinson.
2nd Class—Promoted, Miss J. Nunning. The others prolonged the Holiday absence^too long to take a standing.
1st Class. 2nd Drv.—Promoted, Misses B. Spencer, R. Green. Promoted to the 1st Class, Misses H. Foote, A. Smith.
Candidates for the . Graduating Medal, to be awarded in June—Misses E. Quinlan, R. Spier.
.	VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Misses H. A. Foote, E. O’Connor, E. Haggerty.	'
1st Class, 2nd Div.—Promoted to the Class, Misses J. Riopelle, B. Spencer. •
2nd Class—Miss J. Kearney. Promoted, Misses L-Bradford, M. Riley.
2nd Class, 2nd Div.—Miss E. Dougherty. Promoted, Misses C. West, L. Arnold.
3rd Class—Miss C. Morgan. Promoted, Misses M Walsh, A. Walsh.	’
3rd Class, 2nd Div.—Misses J. Bennett, L. Walsh, M. Koch, M. Anthony.
Several young ladies in the different classes were not examined on account of hoarseness.
The First Vocal Chorus Class—comprising all the young ladies who take private vocal culture—acquitted themselves in a very creditable manner in the rendering of Oratorios, Choruses, perfect time, phrasing, and clear pro-
n,uuciation; show careful and attentive pupils; the gratifi- —Don’t tell an editor how to run a newspaper. Let th. cation they now feel in their success must amply repay I poor fool find it out himself.
them for the labor of the session and inspire still greater efforts for the June Examination.
2nd Vocal Chorus Class—Misses E. York, M. Carlin, K. Greenleaf, M. A. Roberts, L. Kirchner, S. Edes, M. Brady, I. Edes, L. Moran, E. E les, G. Hill All did remarkably well for the first time singing in public.
The General Classes in both Senior and Junior Departments have made marked improvement in notation, and part-singing. We recommend strict attention in these classes, as they are preparatory to choir-singing and the higher choral societies after they leave school.
The Examination closed by a matinee on Monday, and a concert Tuesday—rendering the following Programmes:
Monday, Jan. 25,1875.
Recollections from “Oberon”—Weber—Miss Sophia Harris.
Song, “Esmeralda”—Levy—Miss M. Reily. Accompaniment, Miss E. Quinlan.
“ Ricordati”— Gottschalk—Miss J. Kearney.
“ Martha "—Lysberg ’’—Miss K. Hutchinson.
Song, “ Sounds so Joyful,” (La Sonnambula)—Bellini—Miss J. Kearney. Accompaniment, Miss Spencer.
“ Last Hope”— Gottschalk—MissE. O’Connor.
Fantasia—“Norma”—Leybach—Miss M. Julius.
Song, “Flower Girl”— Campana— Miss B. Spencer.
“Jerusalem ”—Gottschalk—Miss Katie Greenleaf.
Una Voce Poco Fa—Rossini—Miss J. Riopelle. Accompaniment, Miss Spier.
Sehnsucht am Meere, (Longings by the Sea),—Willmers—Miss J. Nunning.
' .	Tuesday, Jan. 26.
Chorus, “Trust thou in GodMendelssohn—Accompaniment, Miss Spier.	’
Dramatic Fantasie, “ Miserere	Gottschalk— Miss B. Spencer.
Cavatina, “In Felicia”—Verdi—Miss E. Haggerty. Ac-> companiment, Miss Quinlan. ■
“ Allegretto Graziosa ”— W. Sterndale Bennett—Miss R. Green.
Vocal Quartette, (from a Cantata)—Rossini— Misses H. Foote, E. O’Connor, E. Haggerty and E. Dougherty.
Grand Fantasia, “ Huguenots”—Thalberg— Miss A. Smith.
Song,“ La Farfelleta.” Miss E. O’Connor. Accompaniment, Miss Foote.
Fantasie Brilliante, “Ernani”—Prudent—MissH. Foote.
Vocal Trio, “ Belisario "—Donizetti—Misses E. O'Connor, B. Spencer, E, Haggerty. Accompaniment, Miss A. Smith.
“ Sonata Pathetique ”—Beethoven— Miss Spier.
Romanza, “ Addio Terra Nativa,” —Meyerbeer—Miss Foote,
Grand Polonaise, Opus 26, No. 2— Chopin—Miss Quinlan.
Chorus, “ The Hart Pants”—Mendelssohn.
—The Kammel Leopard iz a 2 story and attik animal. They are az spotted az a coach-dog, and hav a split fu' They are a bad job tew mount, and a wuss one tew sti$ tew. They are perpindikular in the bak, and hav an ea. like a yung mule. They kan kik further and faster than the mule kan. Thare iz no more hair on their tails tha thare iz on a rope. They chew the kud, and swallo the juce. They kan run faster than a ghost, and jump klean away from their shaddo. They are natiffs ov Afrika,, and cum here, az our colored brethern did, on spekulashun. They are one ov the luxurys ov civilizashun I believe, but which one of the luxurys i cant state. They are useless at home, and are only worth here 25 cents for a chance tew look at them once. If i owned all the Kammel Leopards in the world i would sell them for a dollar a hed (if i kould git it), and buy me a farm out in Iowa.—Josh Billings' Allminax.
THE SCHOLASTIC
J ■
pALMER & Vanwinkle,
'	Dealers in	.
COjSTFECTIOjSTERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
JRELAND & SON,
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54, MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(.Opposite the Dwight House). ----------o--'
HACK JLINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	}£o24 2m
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-t^
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory’ He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A. AL, to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
R. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
JgDWARD BUYSEE,
•	Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
70 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
A HANAUER,
* Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, .	South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ BURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	z o24-tf
-Students wishing well made Clothing should go to
^UZBY & GALLAGHER,
y	CLOTHIERS,
”	MERCHANT TAILORS,
AND DEALERS IN
r	Gents’ Furnishing Goods,
.	HATS, CAPS, &c.	'
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH SEND, IND. o21-2m
U E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
>05 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
' . -octal attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old ' . .*!ish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
■	iecl-Htf.
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
--------------0---
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND See the Curiosities. No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24Af.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIG-HT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it witu new, first cla?s furniture. rlhe travelling public may rely on finding the best accomu odation.
Ladies and gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hou e during their stay, JERRY'KN.GHT,» Captain MILLS, proprietors.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
--o--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
94= jMicliigan St., Soxitli. Bend, Ind^
We invite the^attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FTJFmiSIUKG- GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.-Otrr Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely . ever teen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the seme material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotliingr is Cheap. If yon don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring’ Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis. Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. . We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STEEET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND! *
Fresh Candies Made Daily,	.
272
SCHOLASTIC
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO	.
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Michigan Central Railroad,
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1874.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE
UMVERSirr OF NOTRE DIME, INDIAN!.
Going East.
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	■ Arrive at Detroit
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02 am	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 a m.	6 30 pm
Accommodat ion	-	3 35 p tn	7 35 p m.	8 45am
Atlantic Express	- 515pm	8 55 p m	3 50am
Night Express -	- 9 00 p m	12 45 p m	8 00am
$1.00 1?ER YEAR.
THE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published every week, except in vacation, at the University* of Notre Dame. The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and fnends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline a' this University and at St. Mary's Academy, and of the progress of their sons and daughters in these two institutions. For this p'irnosp. regular weekly reports are given, consisting Of the names ol those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professors and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive: while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and ability, render “The Scholastic” a valuable publication for all who desire variety and utility in their reading. “The Scholastic” consists of sixteen wide two-co umn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matter and the remainder with advertisements.
Going W cst.
Trains	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 a m	4 05 pm	8 05pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a in	5 20 p m.	9 00 pm
Accommodation -	1 50 p m	6 30am	1035am
Evening Express	- 5 40pm	2 30am	6 30 am
Pacific Express -	- 10 00 p m	5 00 a in	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 00 a m, 3 00 pm. 0 30 pm, *9 00 am, *700pm. Arrive at Niles—S 45 a m, 3 55 pm, 710 pm *9 40 am, *740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 30 a m, 9 20 a m, 5 10 pm, * 8 00 am. + 5 00 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 00 am, 555pm,+ 840 am,+540pm
. NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, via Wiles.
Depart—807 am, 6^38 pm,+ 9 07 am, +7 07pm.
Arrive—7 07 am, 9 42 a m, 5 46 pm, +8 32 am, +5 32 pm.
Going West, via Wiles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
53“ Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
Notice to A-cLvertisers:
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the following list o
prices:	‘	f
Oue Page,	(per month,) -	-	- ■	-	§10 0
One Column	“	-----	6 Op
Half Column,	“	....	4 00
One-Third Column, “	-	-	-	.	-	2 50
One-Eighth Column, “	-	-	-	-	1 50
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING. Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,
General Passenger Agent, ■	Chicago.
W. B. STRONG, General Superintendent, Chicago.
Address,	Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
flJfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Qp Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. x.; Buffalo,-8.55 P. m.
10.12 a. x. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. m. ; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a x. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4.20 A. M.
9.11 p x.(Vo. Gt, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Ari-iyos at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. m.
8.00 p. M. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,’ 2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1-10 p. sr.
5.44 p. x. [No.70], Local Freight.
•	GOING WEST.
3.18 a. si. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. sr.
5.24 a. sr. (No. 5), Pacific Express. .Arrives at Laporte, G.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. u.
6.31 p. x. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7 30; Chicago, 10.00 p. sr.
<■5.44 p- x. (No. 1). Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9 00.	.
8-00 a. sr. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. x , Chicago 11.10.
9*15 a. x. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.	-
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’i.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
ARRIVE.
•9:30 a.m,
*8:00 p.m
*9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m,
♦9:40 a.m,
♦4:30 .m,
$9:00 p.m.. 17:15 a.m,
$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a. m
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex* cept Saturday. I Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	-
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. MCMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
.Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PE.miLVA3IlA CENTRAL DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago,Pittsburgh,Philadelphia and New .	York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m*
3rd train	“	“	9.00.p.m.	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’lManager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
*Second day.	.