Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morltnms.
Volume X.	NO THE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 11, 1876.	Number 10.
Over the Leaves.
Dripping with mist and dew The last brown leaves drop one by one, And glistening tears do fall, And sylvan creatures sigh;
The glory of the world is gone.
The sun moves red and dull, ' Save fitfully the sad wind sweeps Athwart his shrouded face, And lifts his vapory veil, When earth looks up and smiles and weeps.
Measured and low and far
The church bell comes upon the ear: The scene hath found a voice, A fitting tongue to wake
The knell of this poor dying year.
It is the Day of Souls, The dead are with the dead to-day, And glimpse of heavenly light: So nature’s sympathy
Doth cheer us while for them we pray.
Nov. 2,1876. 	 E.
Pindar.
Pindar, the most celebrated of lyric poets, was born at Thebes, in Boeotia, in the first year of the 65 th Olympiad, 520 years before Christ. He was the son of Scopelinus, or, according to others, of Daiphantes or of Pagondas. From his earliest years he was carefully trained to the study of music and poetry, and was taught, together with Corinna, how to compose verses with elegance and simplicity by Myrtis, a Greek lady distinguished for her poetic talents. The earlier part of his history presents us one of those extraordinary facts which fabulous antiquity was wont to invent to throw a mysterious reflection on the glory of its great men. It is said that when Pindar was young, he, while on a journey to Thespiac, being overcome by fatigue, lay down on the grass and fell asleep, upon which a swarm of bees settled on his lips, and, without injuring him in the least, left there some honeycombs. This fact was taken as an augury of his.future greatness and celebrity and of the superiority he would obtain over all his rivals.
And indeed a short time afterwards he gained a brilliant victory over Myrtis in a musical contest. He was, however, less successful against Corinna, by whom he was beaten five or six times in succession. But Pausanias adjudges this triumph of Corinna rather to her JEolic dialect, which was more pleasing, and perhaps also more intelligible to the judges, and more especially to the charms of her person, rather than to the brilliancy of her genius or the superiority of her composition; and even Corinna herself,
notwithstanding the sentence which secured her the victory, acknowledged the superiority of her rival.
This little disappointment, however, did not break down the courage of our young poet, and he soon arrived at the greatest distinction. In the public assemblies of Greece, where females were not permitted to contend, Pindar proved far superior to all those who contested with him for the prize in poetry, and during his lifetime the greatest honors were bestowed upon him and the most eminent statesmen sought his friendship. He had gained the favor of Alexander, son of Amyntas, and of Gelon and of Hiero, kings of Syracuse. At Delphi an iron chair was furnished him to sit upon while he sang the Apollonian hymns, and the Pythia declared that it was the will of Apollo that Pindar should receive the half of all the first fruit-offerings that were annually heaped on his altars. These honors, which had been paid to the poet himself in life, were likewise extended to his posterity, and at the celebration of one of the festivals of the Greeks a portion of the victim which had been offered in sacrifice was reserved for the descendants of the poet.
Nor is Pindar less remarkable for his virtue than for his genius. His sincerity and his simplicity were without limit, and to all the criticisms of many jealous persons he simply replied that “ it was better to excite jealousy than pity.” The only thing blameworthy in him was a somewhat too great fondness for riches. Yet, notwithstanding this, he was so much admired for his integrity of character and his genius that during his lifetime the Thebans erected a statue to him in the public place of the city where the games were held. Pausanias, the geographer, found this statue six centuries afterwards still in good condition, and it filled him with admiration and a feeling of pleasure. Even the most inveterate enemies of the Thebans showed regard for his memory; and Alexander the Great, who ha^destiued the property of a whole people to destruction felt his auger give way when he saw the inscription:
“ Pindarou tou mousopoiou tan st6gan m6 caiete.” * and whilst he reduced Thebes to ashes he spared the house which the prince of lyric poets had inhabited. The same respect was also paid him some time previous to the Macedonian invasion by the Spartans when they destroyed the houses and the walls of Thebes.
But what especially proves his success is the great number of odes which he composed on the same subject, namely for the conquerors at Olympia. Each victor was jealous to have Pindar for his panegyrist, and they would have thought that something was wanting to the pomp of their victory if the Theban poet had not sung it.
* “ Do not burn the house of the poet Pindar.”
4
146	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pindar had composed a great number of lyric poems, hymns to the gods, poems in honor of Apollo, dithyrambics to Bacchus, odes for processions, songs of maidens, paeans, dancing songs, dirges and encomia or panegyrics on rulers, and thronisms or speeches for initiation into the Eleusinian mysteries; besides which more than seventeen tragedies and different epigrams in heroic verse are attributed to him. All these works however have perished, and the only compositions of Pindar that have come down to us are his “ Epinicia ” or triumphal odes, together with some fragments of his other productions. The “ Epinicia ” are written, with the exception of the eleventh Nemean, which was composed when Aristagoras celebrated his installation as prytanis at Tenedos, in honor of victories gained at the four great public games of Greece, at Olympia, Delphi, Nemea and Corinth, and accordingly they are. divided into four books, the first containing the “ Olympic Odes,” to the number of fourteen; the second the “Pythian Odes,1’ to the number of twelve; the third the “ Nemean Odes,’’ eleven in number; and the fourth the “ Isthmian Odes,’ numbering eight.
The subject matter of these odes generally consists of the praise of the victor or of his city, with many allusions to the mythical origin of the former, the legendary events connected with the early history of the latter, and with frequent self-praise and depreciation of his rivals. Either the victor himself is praised, and this in case he had shown personal valor or incurred some danger in the contest, or the means by which he won the victory. As to the mythical stories which always form a prominent feature in his odes, we must remark that Pindar has, to a certain extent, a mythology of his own. Although he was a pious wor-. shipper of the gods, and even seems to have believed in the marvellous and almost incredible accounts of Greek legendary history, nevertheless he did not accept all the ancient traditions. In his religious conceptions he was quite original. All the stories representing the gods endowed with human passions and depravities he either entirely rejected or transformed according to the ideas he himself entertained of the gods.
Although Pindar thus merited the esteem and admiration of all learned antiquity, still some modern scholars have not hesitated to reproach him and attribute to him a barbarous style, emphatic expressions, and a rash and irregular way of proceeding which does not stand any analysis; and the hearty praises that were bestowed upon him they attribute to the enthusiasm of the people amidst the triumphs and national solemnities rather than to the songs of the poet. This accusation however is rather harsh, and we dare say proceeds from the want of a thorough acquaintance with Pindar’s writings. But by a deep study of the same, these persons would arrive at the conclusion that our poet proceeds with method as much as the sublimity of his subject permits, that his studied disorder is but the very ef feet of art, and that in his digressions, always voluntary, we find this impetuosity of genius, these violent transports, and this so-to-say divine impulsion which characterize the lyric poet. They moreover could not but admire the sublimity of his sentiments, the grandeur of his expressions, the energy and magnificence of his style, the boldness of his metaphors, the harmony of his numbers, the elegance of his diction and the skill with which he knows, notwithstanding all his degressive flights, how to bring his hero back to the eye of the reader.
To fully understand and appreciate a poet, and to receive
a spark of the fire and enthusiasm which animated him, we must read him in his original language; and, even if we read him in our own tongue, we must absolutely, to do him justice, transport ourselves to the times in which he wrote. This is a theory which no one denies, but the t practice is more difficult than we may imagine. We are so penetrated with the ideas, manners and opinions of our day, that we are apt to reject anything deviating from them; and we must confess that the family of Hercules and of Theseus, the adventures of Cadmus and the war of the Giants, the Olympic games and the expedition of the Argonauts, and so many other tales of this kind, have never for us the same interest they must have had for the Greeks; as they formed a great part of their history and were the foundation of their religion; the Olympic, Isthmian and Nemean games were religious rites and solemn festivals in honor of their divinities, and the poet could not have better pleased these people than by joining the names of the gods who had instituted these games to those of the athletes who were victors in them. He thus consecrated the praise of the conquerors, and availed himself of every opportunity to bring in those marvellous stories so calculated to excite the enthusiasm of the lyric poet and to display the riches of poetry.
But if we do read Pindar in Greek, at the very beginning we are astonished at the enthusiasm, variety and beauty, which we find expressed in every line of his odes. Impetuous, boiling over, he thunders, he precipitates himself. He is the eagle that wings his flight through the air and outstrips the north wind; terror precedes him, and lightning flashes from his eyes; he is the crest-tossing and fire- । exhaling horse which breathes forth war; his thoughts are sublime, his expressions sonorous, he gives everything an appearance of dignity, and captivates the attention of his reader, transporting him into a sphere altogether divine; his diction is extremely bold in figures, and the connection between his pictures is sometimes to be supplied; his lines are admirably made up by an assemblage of syllables always sonorous, by a harmony always imitative of the subject, and by a grand and majestical rhythm which seems to be owned only by Olympus itself. He is, in one word, the first of lyric poets; the only fault that can be found with him is that he possessed all his great qualities, poetical imagination, vigor of genius, force and boldness of expression, and precision and grandeur of style to excess.
To judge Pindar well and to find pleasure in his magnificent digressions, to share his enthusiasm and admiration for the conquerors, and to be moved by his fables and religious traditions, we must, besides reading him in the original text, be Greeks ourselves, participate in their ideas, beliefs and passions; we must imagine for instance ourselves in the wealthy city of Syracuse; Hiero is victor; his palace is richly ornamented, and the whole city in joy celebrating the triumph; around the monarch’s table are seated * the first poets of Greece, singing in turn the praises of Jove ; Pindar’s turn comes; he takes his Doric lyre from the wall a perfect silence reigns throughout the dining-hall, and every one’s eyes are fixed upon him. Suddenly the poet’s mind is at Olympia; there he beholds the stage and the fights, and the clappings of the applauding multitude resound in his ears. He sees, not far off, the tombs of Pelops surrounded with religious and national remembrances. With this Pindar begins, and after having sung the struggles and bloody battles between the Eleans and the Pisatw for the possession of Olympia, he gives severe lessons on the duty
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of being moderate in prosperity, and finishes naturally with the praises of Hiero. If we add to all this the charms of music, the intoxication of joy, the pomp of the triumph, and especially the exaltation and glory of the country, we may readily understand how the Pindaric flights, less numerous for his hearers than for us, could find so many admirers in antiquity.
Nor should we dare to undertake a criticism on Pindar without being well posted concerning the history of certain cities and of certain families. For as the victories in the public festivals of Greece were not personal, but belonged by right to the whole family and to the whole city of the conqueror, Pindar had evidently to sing the principal particulars connected with either the victor, his family or his city; and the harsh reproaches made for his frequent digressions are not so well founded as is generally believed. On the contrary, we would greatly expose our incompetency were we to find fault with what the Greeks have not reproached him for, but have so highly admired.
Such then is the character of Pindar’s writings, and we think that an upright and impartial mind can find in this complication of ideas nothing strange, nothing extravagant, and nothing contradictory; he on the contrary will acknowledge that everything in them is necessary, and that his ideas are rendered with such a judicious abundance of pictures, turns and expressions, that there is not one verse we could omit or would see expressed in another way.
These few remarks may suffice to make any faithful Hellenist accept the favorable judgment given of Pindar by the Greeks and confirmed for more than twenty centuries by all nations not strangers to literature. We give here the testimony of Horace, who being the faithful echo of antiquity, is an authority of weight. He speaks of him with a religious admiration, and considers him as the most sublime of poets, as a writer unsurpassed, inimitable. He says:
lulus, he, who’d rival Pindar’s fame, On waxen wings doth sweep The Empyrean steep,
' To fall like learius, and with his name Endue the glassy deep.
Like to a mountain stream, that roars From bank to bank along, When autumn rains are strong,
So deep-mouth’d Pindar lifts his voice, and pours His fierce tumultuous song.
Worthy Apollo’s laurel wreath, Whether he strike the lyre To love and young desire, While bold and lawless numbers grow beneath
His mastering touch of fire ;
Or sings of gods, and monarchs sprung Of gods, that overthrew The Centaurs, hideous crew,
And fearless of the monster’s fiery tongue, The dread Chimaera slew.
Or those the Eldan palm doth lift To heaven, for winged steed, Or sturdy arm decreed,
Giving, than hundred statues nobler gift, The poet’s deathless meed;
Or mourns the youth snatch’d from his bride, Extols his manhood clear,
And to the starry sphere	•
- Exalts his golden virtues, scattering wide
The gloom of Oreus drear.
When the Dircdan Swan doth climb
Into the azure sky
There poised in ether high,
He courts each gale, and floats on wing sublime, Soaring with steadfast eye.
—Martin's Translation, IV, 2.
The death of Pindar was not less peaceable than his life was glorious. In his eighty-sixth year, leaning on the knees of Theoxenes, a young man whom he tenderly loved, he died in the midst of a large number of admirers who crowded around him in the theatre.	N. S.
Gladiators.
The word gladiator is derived from the Latin gladius, a sword, and the name was given to a body of men whose duty it was to attack one another with the sword for the amusement of the Roman people. Originally, only captives, slaves and criminals took part in these combats; and, bound together two by two, they were obliged to fight till death. Afterwards, however, this art of murder rose to the dignity of a profession, which freemen felt no dishonor in embracing. They bound themselves by oath to figbt till the last gasp, under penalty of being dispatched with the sword or of being whipped to death should they violate their engagement. Schools were established in which the profession of gladiator was taught, in order to have always on hand a sufficient number of artists.
Gladiators always wore a special costume by which they could be recognized. Gladiatorial combats took place at first only at the funerals of those who had been prominent in the state, but in course of time it became a point of honor with rich private citizens to leave a certain sum of money to defray the expenses of combats at their obsequies. At a still later date the magistrates and emperors in their thirst for popularity made these sanguinary exhibitions an occasion of rejoicing for the people, especially at the Satur. nalia and festivals of Minerva. In early times, women were allowed to assist at these combats only with the permission of the authorities; but the universal corruption of morals soon caused this prohibition to cease, and reserved seats were assigned to women on the highest benches of the Amphitheatre. Senators, ambassadors from foreign nations, and vestal virgins, occupied the seats adjoining the emperor’s throne. The passion for these atrocious amusements eventually became so violent that the most prominent men in the state—knights, magistrates, senators, and even the emperors themselves, adopted the profession of gladiators, and 0 temporal 0 mores! even women, trampling underfoot all the laws of modesty and all the decorum of their sex, unblushingly entered the arena to oppose brutal mercenaries in single combat. Fathers and mothers witnessed and applauded the butchery of their own children and considered themselves amply rewarded by the acclamations of those ferocious monsters who delighted in drowning in the enthusiasm of their brutal joy the last sighs of the unhappy wretches hacked to pieces before their eyes or given over to the fury of savage beasts. The number of victims thus sacrificed to the amusement of the Roman people can scarcely be imagined. Nero, wishing to enjoy a spectacle of a novel kind, obliged four hundred senators and six hundred knights to murder one another in his presence. Trajan, whom some historians profess to regard as a model prince, celebrated his victory over the Thracians by a grand combat in which ten thousand gladiators took
148	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
part. Gommodus, from his exploits in the arena, added to his long list of titles that of “ Conqueror of a thousand gladiators.” A reliable historian informs us that more lives were destroyed in these sanguinary games than in war.
In spite of the protestations of philosophers, the unbridled passion of the Romans for the combats of the arena communicated itself to the Greeks. It must be acknowledged also that many Roman writers raised their voices against these frightful amusements, but in vain. Livy and Marcellinus tell us that many dreaded to see Drusus and Gallus ascend the throne on account of their passion for these bloody spectacles. Seneca in different passages of his works declaims against the disorder to which they gave rise. Human philosophy, however, with all its pompous but powerless maxims, could not, as might be expected, triumph over the dispositions of a people habituated to regale itself with scenes of blood and slaughter. This glory was reserved for Christianity. Our Saviour by the institution of Baptism rendered sacred the life of man; the 1 clergy never for an instant ceased to condemn these scenes of carnage, and in fact nothing less than the divine authority of Christianity would have been able to overcome a custom which had existed for centuries, or triumph over the pleasure which the Romans took in these infamous games. A people which asked of its tyrants only bread and games —“panem et circenses ”—had to be taught that man has not the right to sacrifice the lives of his fellow-men simply for his own amusement. Gladiators were not admitted to baptism until they had renounced their profession. If they ever re-entered the arena they were excommunicated and considered as apostates, because, besides rendering one guilty of the crime of voluntary murder, these combats were also public acts of idolatry, since they were given in honor of the pagan gods. Tertullian, Lactantius, St. Cyprian, St. Augustine, and all the other fathers, denounced these cruel and shameful amusements in accents of the bitterest indignation. “ Games are prepared,” says St. Cyprian, ‘'in order that eyes accustomed to carnage may be recreated with scenes of blood; men already robust are fattened like beasts that they may sell their lives more dearly. A man is slaughtered for the amusement of his fellow-men. It is now an art, a talent, a proof of skill to know how to kill. Crime is now not only committed, but taught. What can be more horrible than that one man should glory in taking away the life of another! What can, what must we think bf those senseless beings who, of their own accord, abandon themselves to the fury of savage beasts? in the prime of life and the flower of health, these victims are crowned with garlands for a voluntary death, and the unfortunate wretches themselves are vain of what they consider an honor and a privilege. They fight against beasts, not as criminals, but impelled by a sort of blind fury. And yet, such is the fate to which fathers condemn their children, which sisters every day see their brothers meet, and to which, 0 horror! mothers not unfrequently entice their own sons.”
Gladiatorial combats were forbidden by the Christian emperors, the first edicts of prohibition being issued by Constantine and his son. These princes were nevertheless obliged to tolerate them for a time, as the people were furiously opposed to their entire abolition. The anchoret Telemachus having come from the Holy Land to Rome during the reign of Honorius to procure their final suppression, a great excitement immediately arose in the city and the venerable hermit was stoned to death by the enraged
populace. Honorius, justly irritated at this murder, completed the task which his predecessors had begun; the bloody sports of the arena were finally and forever suppressed and this suppression enforced by the severest penalties.	W.
The Mound-Builders.
Throughout the valleys of the Mississippi and Ohio, embracing all the States, extending either side their banks,	;
do we find the remains of an ancient and unknown race.
Having no name for the builders of these monumental remains, we have called them the Mound-Builders, from the . almost numberless earthen and stone mounds they have left scattered all over their ancient land. These mounds they have constructed with great art, intelligence and labor, they being generally terraced and truncated pyramids. They are square or rectangular, octagonal or hexagonal at times, and occasionally have winding stairways leading to their summits. When closely examined, they bear a remarkable resemblance to the teocallis of Mexico. As to their size, the Great Mound at Grave Creek, West Virginia, ( is 70 feet high, and 1,000 feet in circumference; that at Miamisburg, Ohio, 68 feet high, and 852 feet in circumference, and the truncated pyramid at Cahokia, Ill., is 700 feet long, 500 wide, and 90 in height. As a rule, however, these mounds range in height from 9 to 30 feet, and towards the southern portion of the Mississippi Valley they are generally larger in horizontal extent, with less elevation.
Many and curious have been the conjectures with regard to the uses of these mounds, but the most probable is that they were used for the same purposes that the similar struc- 1 tures in Mexico and Central America were put to. In Mexico, the similarly constructed mounds have stone temples or other buildings on their summits, and it was doubtless to the same purpose that our mounds were put, the builders placing on them structures of wood or other material that has perished with time. The conclusions ar-	*
rived at by Messrs. Squier and Davis, our greatest workers	I
in this field, may be taken as conclusive. They divided their mounds into four classes. “ Altar mounds, which occur either within, or in the immediate vicinity of enclosures, are stratified, and contain altars of burned clay or stone, and which were places of sacrifice. Mounds of Sepulture, which stand isolated or in groups more or less remote from the enclosures, not stratified, contain human remains, and were the burial-places and monuments of the dead. Temple Mounds, occurring mostly within the walls of the enclosures, and possessing great regularity of forms, containing within altars or human remains, and which were “ High Places ” for performing religious rites and ceremonies. Lastly, Anomalous Mounds, including a few whose object is indeterminate.” These mounds, thus classified, were the principal though not the most imposing works of this an- J cient race.	’'
We now come to treat of the different enclosures mentioned above, and which are divided as follows by the same authors. They say: “It has been shown that while certain works possess features demonstrating a military origin, others were connected with the superstitions of the build-ers or designed for other purposes not readily apparent in our present state of knowledge concerning them.” Therefore they divided them into works of Defence and Sacred Enclosures. The square and the circle were the favorite figures with the Mound-Builders, and most of their works
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149
are of these forms. In cases of the occurrence of the circle, the ditch or fosse, if there he any, is almost invariably interior to the parapet, while in those of the square and the irregular works it is exterior, excepting in the case of fortified hills, where for the best of reasons the earth is thrown from the interior. As to the skill of the builders of these strange remains, we would observe that nearly all of the circles are exact, and the squares and rectangles are perfect ones. This fact has been proved even in cases where the works included 40 and 50 acres in th eir enclosures, and where the embankments of earth extended one and two miles in length. Such exactness, as has been well remarked, proves that “the builders possessed a standard of measurement, and had a means of determining angles. As to the size of these enclosures, “ lines of embankment varying from 5 to 30 feet in height, and enclosing from 1 to 50 acres, are very common, while enclosures of 100 to 200 are not unfrequent, while occasional works are found with as many as 400 acres enclosed.” As to the number of these works, 100 enclosures and 500 mounds have been examined in Ross County, Ohio; and the number in the whole State of Ohio has been estimated, at the lowest, at over 10,000 mounds and 1,500 enclosures. The most remarkable works of defence are the ones in Butler County, Ohio, and on the North Fork of Point Creek, near Chillicothe, Ohio. The latter has by many been said to be a fortified city. As to the Sacred Enclosures, the most remarkable are the Hopeton Works, those in Liberty Township, both in Ross County, those in Pike County, and those at Newark, all in Ohio. The works in Pike County, in which the square, the circle, and the ellipse are formed, separately and in combination, with geometrical accuracy, and those at Newark, which cover over two miles square, are by far the most astounding and interesting remains of this great race.
The remains, above treated of are divided into three great divisions, which merge one into the other. On the Lakes, in Michigan, Iowa, and Missouri, but especially in Wisconsin, the outlines of the enclosures represent on the surface of the land, like hugh relievos, the figures of animals, birds, serpents and men. Of this there remain a few examples in the next division, especially in Ohio, of which the most noted is that of the Great Serpent, in Adams Co., Ohio. “ It is in the form of a serpent, upwards of 1,000 feet in length, extending in graceful curves, and terminating in a triple coil at the tail. The embankment constituting this figure is more than five feet high, with a base of 30 feet wide at the centre of the body, diminishing somewhat towards the tail and head. The neck of the figure is stretched out and slightly curved. The mouth is wide open, and seems in the act of swallowing or ejecting an oval figure which rests partly within the distended jaws. This oval is formed by an embankment 4 feet high and is perfectly regular in outline, its transverse and conjugate diameter being respectively 160 and 80 feet. The combined figure has been regarded as a symbolical illustration of the Oriental cosmological idea of the serpent and the egg; but, however t K that may be, little doubt can exist of the symbolical character of the monument.” On the Ohio and its tributaries we find the next division, the mounds being more numerous and the enclosures having more regular forms. Farther south is the last division; the enclosures are finer and smaller, or rather the great enclosures and high mounds give way to low truncated pyramids and pyramidal platforms or foundations with dependent works. The favored sites of the mounds were the whole of Southern Ohio, St. Louis, Mo.,
and Frankfort, Ky. “ This ancient race seems to have occupied nearly the whole basin of the Mississippi and its tributaries, with the fertile plains along the Gulf, and their settlements were continued across the Rio Grande into Mexico; but towards their eastern, northern and western limits the population was evidently smaller, and their occupation of territory less complete than in the Valley of the Ohio and from that point down to the Gulf.”
As to the civilization of this race, they doubtless rank along with the ancient races of Mexico and Central America, whose remains, if their stone monuments had been destroyed, would have resembled in every particular those of the Mound-Builders. To construct such works as they constructed we must consider that they had a degree of civilization that raised them far above the savage. They must have had settled life, habits of industry, and intelligence in no small degree; and besides, they must have been a united nation, possessing a fixed government and laws. The perfection of their geometrical figures implies a knowledge in the builders we may call scientific.
“Relics of art have been dug from some of the mounds, consisting of a considerable variety of ornaments and implements, made of copper, silver, obsidian, porphyry, and greenstone, finely wrought. There are axes, single and double; adzes, chisels, drills or graves, lance-heads, knives, bracelets, pendants, beads, and the like, made of copper. There are articles of pottery elegantly designed and finished; ornaments made of silver, bone, mica from the Alleghanies, and shells from the Gulf of Mexico.” The articles of stone especially are elaborately carved and show the finest workmanship. From the remains of spun cloth found in the mound, it appears the Mound-Builders had the art of spinning and weaving. They also mined the copper of Lake Superior, and worked the pure copper there found without smelting it. In the mounds the copper utensils and ornaments have blotches of silver, which is characteristic of the Lake Superior ore alone. The mines of this race have been found. They worked but on the surface, in open pits and trenches, but they extended their works over the whole region. “At the Minnesota mine, the greatest depth was 30 feet; and here, not far below the bottom of a trough-like cavity, among a mass of leaves, sticks, and water, Mr. Knapp discovered a detached mass of copper weighing nearly 6 tons. It lay on a cob work of round logs or studs six or eight inches in diameter, the ends of which showed plainly the marks of a small axe, or cutting-tool, about two and a half inches wide. They soon shrivelled and decayed when exposed to the air. The mass of copper had been raised several feet, along the foot of the lode, on timbers, by means of wedges.”
The number of this race must have been great, for, owing to the imperfection of their tools of copper and stone, they must have relied mainly on their bare hands and weak means of transportation for excavating and collecting together the material for their works, such as the 20 millions of cubic feet of material in the great mound at Cahokia. They must have been an agricultural race, numerous, and stationary, with fixed laws, customs and religion.
As to the antiquity of this race, I will but point to one fact, namely to the great primeval forests covering their remains. When first seen by Europeans, they were covered as was the rest of the land by one unbroken forest, containing trees of an age of over 800 years, and over all their works and over their mines were scattered the decayed fragments of other forests. They evidently occupied their
150	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
settlements long, having their centre in southern Ohio, and their latest abandoned remains in the lower Mississippi valley. Some have held, and it is very probable, that the Natchez tribe—which differed in language, customs and condition from all the other Indians, and who pointed to Mexico as their native country—were a fragment of this great race.
Lastly we come to the history of this great people. Who can tell it ? Even their name is lost, and we can but conjecture who they were. Still we can conjecture, and we can go to the books of the old Mexican races, whose remains are so similar, in order to find mention of this race. We can in vain go to the Indian tribes, for to them, as to us, this people were unknown and mysterious; but in the old books of Central America, says Abbe the Brasseur de Bourbourg, who translated one of them, there is mention of Huehue-Tlapalan as the country in the Northeast whence the Toltecs or Nahuas came to Mexico, and the Abbe thinks that this Toltec nation was the same as the race of Mound-Builders. Long ago it was this race left the land of Huehue-Tlapalan, and sought the shores of Mexico, being driven out of their own country by barbarians from the Northwest. The Mexican books and traditions state that their country was ruled first by the Colhuas, who founded the great cities of Yucatan and Central America, and who were the most civilized; then by the Toltecs, a race who came to Mexico about 1000 B. C., and drove out and exterminated the Colhuas; and lastly by the Aztecs, who destroyed utterly the Toltecs, coming from the south, from the land of Aztlan, about 1200, A. D. Speaking of the connection between the Toltecs and the Mound-Builders, Abbe de Bourbourg says: “Previous to the history of the Toltec domination we notice in annals of the country the fact of the existence of an ancient empire, known as Huehue-Tlapalan, from which the Toltecs or Nahuas came to Mexico, in consequence of a revolution or invasion, and from which they had a long and toilsome migration to the Aztec plateau.” He says that Huehue-Tlapalan was the country of the Mound-Builders, and also adds, that, according to the ancient books, the Toltecs came, some by land, some by sea, from the Northeast, to Mexico. Sahagun, Torquemada and Cabresa say the same, and Torquemada says that they “ were people of fine appearance, industrious, orderly and intelligent, and that they worked metals and were skilful artists and lapidaries.” Cabresa states that the simple name of this empire was Tlapalan, called Huehue—“Old,”— to distinguish it from the three other Tlapalans founded by them in Mexico. We can not reject a fact so often reiterated ; the most we can do is to doubt it. Therefore it seems probable that the “ Old Tlapalan” was the country of our Mound-Builders. It is said that Huehue-Tlapalan was invaded by Chichumecs—barbarians—“there was a terrible struggle, but after about thirteen years, the Toltecs, no longer able to resist successfully, were obliged to abandon their country to escape complete subjection, about 1090 B. C. Two chiefs guided the march of the emigrating nation. At length they reached a region near the sea, named ‘ Tlapalan-Conco,’ where they remained several years. But they finally undertook another migration and reached Mexico, where they built a town called “ Tollanzuico,” and later the city of Yulian, which became the seat of their government.”
In the above essay I have striven to give a short account of the works and the civilization of the ancient people whose name I have taken as a heading for my subject, and I have also endeavored to gather up what slight reference we find
made to them in authentic history. How scant is the history of this race, who once ruled over the fairest and richest portion of our Union! how little do we know of them, their cares, their troubles, their pleasures, and their delights ! and yet they have left monuments that have outlasted the storms of above three thousand years, and that still challenge the wonder and admiration of all beholders. What a lesson does their record give us of the glory of nations, which will all be in like manner buried in oblivion by the lapse of time!	M. S.
An Anecdote of Garrick.
The celebrated English actor, Garrick, travelled to Paris in 1757,—a time when he was in all the splendor of his talent and fame. This journey had not for its object the speculation so greatly practiced by the artists of our age. Garrick did not come to Paris to act and to gain money; he travelled for pleasure, as a simple tourist anxious to see a beautiful country,—partly his own; for the family of the English actor was of French origin, exiled by the revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
In the mail-coach which brought him from London to Dover he had as fellow-traveller a gentleman named Sir George Lewis, whom he had already met at several places, and who used often to go to Drury-Lane Theatre. They took advantage of the occasion to increase their aquaint, ance, and were delighted with each other. Having travelled in the same vessel, they continued their journey together in the French coach, but when arrived at Paris they separated. The actor went to lodge with some friends who were expecting him, the other gentleman went to one of the hotels in the fashionable quarter of the Chaussee d’ Antin.
The two fellow-travellers expected often to see each other during their stay in Paris, but the totally different life which each of them led prevented them.
Sir George Lewis was about forty-five or fifty, of a strange figure, irregular and striking features, and an expressive and singular countenance. Despite his age, which should have tempered the ardor of his character, and made him renounce the follies of his youth, Lewis lived in dissipation and pleasure. He had come to Paris to amuse himself, and to spend a large sum of money which had been left him. It was a surplus with which he wished to satisfy his love of prodigality. He was very fond of gaming, and this passion led him into a very mixed circle, in which people are estimated according to the amount of gold they put on the cards, and in which sharpers thus easily keep each other’s company.
The actor lived in other company, and he scarcely met his fellow-traveller twice or three times during a stay of four months at Paris.
The day before his departure for London, Garrick went to Lewis to bid him good by, and to ask if he had any commissions. He learned that the unfortunate gentleman had been assassinated. His body had been found that morning in the forest of Bondy, stabbed, and covered with blood. Garrick, astonished, wished some account of this sad accident. The following are the details he obtained:—
Lewis had gone on a party of pleasure to a chateau on the borders of the forest of Bondy, where a great number of hunters and gamblers assembled. He was to stay there several days. The first evening he won a considerable sum; the next day he received an invitation from Paris to a ren
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
dezvous, so he soon took leave of the company. They tried to make him stay, less through politeness than from the desire of winning back what they bad lost; and they went so far as to injure his carriage; Lewis therefore went on horseback.
“It is a fine evening,” he said: “it will be a fine ride.”
They represented to him the danger of going through the forest of Bondy at nightfall; but he went.
The account went no further. It was supposed he had been assassinated in the forest by robbers; but Garrick was of a different opinion. Lewis was armed. Besides, his watch, gold snuffbox, and ring, had not been taken. He therefore thought him the victim of private revenge, and not murdered for his jewels.
Garrick, who knew something of law, held an inquest, while every one sought the murderer. Suspicion at last fell on a person named Chevalier Gatan, who left the chateau about the same time as Lewis, and had returned in about two hours. Garrick asked for permission to try a method which would clear all doubt. He was able to make his features closely resemble those of other persons. Sir George Lewis had lately his portrait painted, and it was still in the painter’s workshop. Garrick went to see it, and study to make himself resemble it.
The judge caused the chevalier to leave the prison, and to be brought with a guard to Lewis’s house. When he arrived he said, “ Sir George Lewis has not died of his wounds. He wants to see you, for he accuses you.”
He was brought into the room where Garrick represented Lewis.
The illusion was complete. It was Lewis’ expression of countenance, and it was his voice, when he said,—
“ Miserable assassin! will you now, before me, dare to deny your crime! ”
The chevalier fell on his knees, and begging for pardon, avowed his guilt.
He was hanged.—From the French.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The London Athenaeum furiously attacks Wagner’s Centennial March.
—Germany published 12,516 works of all classes in 1875, 12,070 in 1874, and 11,315 in 1873.
—The time occupied in performing the “ Ring of the Nibelungs,” at Bayreuth, was 13 hours and 50 minutes not including waits and other intermissions. '
—The statement that the third series of performances at Bayreuth was less successful than the preceding ones has been contradicted by the German papers.
—A London literary journal congratulates the suffering book-trade that one of the good results of the hard times “ will be found in publishers having restrained their power of production.”
—Several manuscripts of Dante’s “ Divina Commedia,” hitherto unknown, have been discovered, in the libraries of Sicilian convents. Their readings modify the received text in important particulars.
—Another of the younger opera-composers, Edmund Kretschmer, the author of “ Die Folkunger, ” has also followed the example of Wagner in writing bis own text for a new opera, just finished, entitled “Heinrich der Lowe.”
—The London Saturday Review is loud in its praise of the scientific publications of the United States'Government, especially the recent stately quartos of the medical department of the army and the “ Geological Explorations and Surveys of the Territories.”
—There has been a meeting of the New York Philhar
monic Society, the Arion, Liederkranz, and Siingerbunde, to make arrangements for a grand Memorial Concert to the late Carl Bergmann. The performance will take place Nov. 12, at Steinway Hall, New York city.
—Dr. Leopold Damrosch, editor of the New York Musik-zeitung, and conductor of the Philharmonic Society, has written to that Society that he will bring with him from Germany an overture of Wagner’s in manuscript, and a new composition of Liszt’s, in order to give them their first performance in New York.
—Mr. G.Carlberg has organized an opera company for the sole purpose of bringing out Wagner’s “ Flying Dutchman ” for the first time in America, and he has chosen Philadelphia as the city which is first to pass the verdict upon it. Mme. Pappenheim will be the prima donna, and the rest of the cast contains Mr. Felix Preusser, Mr. Alouin Blum, Sig. Baccel, Mr. T. J. Sullivan, Miss Minnie Cooney, and Mr. W. A. Morgan.
—Prof. E. H. Palmer’s metrical translation of the works of the Arabic poet, Behased din Zoheir, is now completed, and will be shortly issued by the Cambridge University press. The Arabic text was published some few months ago. Messrs. Triibner (London) have also in the press a volume of poems by Prof. Palmer, entitled “ The Song of the Reed,” and containing translations from the Persian and Arabic, and humorous English pieces.
—William Morris, the poet, lives in a charming house in London, brightened by a wife who is very beautiful, and three pretty children. His study was reached by three flights of stairs, and is a bare room hung with lumps of tobacco, and having for writing purposes a curious old hacked table and an ancient ink-horn. Herein the “ Earthly Paradise” was written. The shaggy-haired, kind-faced poet never looks handsomer than when his little ones are dancing about him and climbing over him.
—Paul Lindau, the editor of the Berlin Gegenwart, has written of the Bayreuth performances from the sober standpoint ofan irreverent theatre-goer who is unmusical enough to enjoy an opera for the sake of enjoyment. He testifies to the overpowering effects of some parts of the trilogy, but pronounces the scenic display a failure. This opinion is singularly divergent from all others that have been publicly expressed, but it is entitled to respect as coming from an able, unprejudiced, and experienced observer.
—Mme. Essipoff, the distinguished Russian pianist, lately arrived in New York, is but 25 years of age. She has a brillant European reputation, and Rubinstein testifies that she has no superior as an artiste in the world. She made her debut in Germany in 1872. Rubinstein was one of her early masters, but she is indebted to Mr. Lechetzky, director of the piano classes at the St. Petersburg Conservatory, for her method, which is essentially different from the Von Bulow and Liszt school. She afterwards married this instructor, retaining her maiden-name for the stage.
—A memorial tablet was lately placed upon the homely little house at Arenella wherein Salvator Rosa was born. At the banquet of artists, given to celebrate the event, was displayed a treasure in the shape of an original autograph MS. of the great painter. Signor Palizza, a distinguished Italian painter of animals, arose amid profound silence, holding upon a silver platter a time-stained MS., which each of the 60 artists present was permitted to examine without touching it. It is an original unpublished poem of Salvator Rosa’s, and has for a century been jealously preserved in the private library of the Borromeo family.
—Prices of Books among the Ancients.—It is recorded of Plato, that notwithstanding he had a very small paternal inheritance, he bought the books of Philolaus, the Pythagorean, at the price of ten thousand denarii— about £300 sterling. It is also said that Aristotle bought a few books belonging to Spensippus, the philosopher, after his decease, for three Attic talents, about £581 5s. St. Jerome almost ruined himself in order to purchase the works of Origen.—Hartwell Home.
r
152
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
faint
Notre I>ame» November 11, 1876.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Student’s Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid. Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Nothing to Do. •
Every day there are any number of tramps applying here for something to eat. They have nothing to do, they say; there is no work for them, and they have not, as a consequence, any means of earning a livelihood. For those who are willing to work and yet are unable to obtain employment we have commiseration, and feel that it is an act of charity to give, but in ninety-niue times out of every hundred that the complaint is made it comes from those who, even when there is an abundance of work to be done, will never do more than what is sufficient to obtain for awhile the gratification of their appetites, by those who prefer sloth to honest industry, by those who would live off the work of their fellows, by those who live without any aspiration as long as drink can be procured.
When they, have eaten from the frugal repast set before them by the mistress of a farm, they invariably, as a rule, take up their pack and begin again their tramp lest they be asked to do some work about the house. What! they work! not they. Times are hard, and they must be off. They have never accustomed themselves to this manual labor, and cannot begin now. Leave chores to be done by the working man; they want better employment.
There are times when the very best of workmen are out of employment, but this is the exception rather than the rule. There is always some work to be done, and a man skilled in some of the various trades and who bears an honest reputation is certain to be called upon. The hardworking, painstaking, skilful laborer is never for a long period of time altogether without employment. It is the man who has no desire to work who passes month after month in idleness.
It is true that every man is not skilled in some one of the various trades, and it is more the pity that such is the case. Men cannot all be printers, or moulders, or blacksmiths ; no more can they all be philosophers or physicians or lawyers or clergymen. But all men can be skilled in some one of the useful arts. They can all work, and do this work in a systematic manner, whether it be in holding the plow or tempering the iron at the blacksmith’s forge, adjusting the type in the prining-office or mastering the steam in the engine, working in the mines or making the tools the miner uses. It is not necessary for a man in order to be able to obtain work that he be skilled in many arts; one is sufficient, and it is given to each one to perfect himself in one of these.
The great fault with us just now is not want of education. There is plenty of learning in the land. What is wanted in the United States is skilled workmen, men who are not
led away by an inordinate desire of wealth to give up their	;
trades to embark in speculation and stock-gambling, but	f
who, having mastered their trade, stick to it though the returns it brings them are not equal to those which come by	i
commerce on stocks and grain. If the returns of the	I
mechanic be not so large, they are always sure, and will	;
always keep him in comfort if not in luxury. Men like	’
these need never fear to be long out of work. They need not seek it, for work will come to them.
That man is well off who has mastered some trade in his	£
youth. It may be that in the course of years his money has accumulated until he has become master of the shop	.
where he formerly worked on wages. If misfortune then	I
comes upon him, and he loses his wealth, he has that back	:
of him which will support him. A stout arm, a brave	I
heart and his good trade will enable him to make headway	|
against adversity. But if he embark in some mauufactur-	•
ing enterprise with capital alone and with paid labor, when misfortune comes he is left to struggle without anything to	'
back him in his efforts. He will be a man with nothing to	:
do, while the skilled tradesman who has suffered reverses	i
has work from which to gam his support.	*'
Religious Liberty.	:
Religious liberty is the watchword and cry of many people in this world. It is of this that they make their boast and to it they proclaim their allegiance. The stump-orator grows eloquent when portraying its beauties, and the press of the whole world proclaims its fidelity to it. And yet	l
we doubt whether among the thousand terms furnished by languages of modern times there is one more misconstrued, misrepresented and misused than the word liberty.
There is no party or cabal of men who scruple in the use of it. The tyrant will use it in justification of his highhanded acts of despotism and oppression; the zealot, encased	<
in bigotry and intolerance, clothes under its fair garb the	.4
foulest, darkest and most criminal deeds of religious perse-	J
cution. At its beckon, human blood has flowed in torrents,	’
and in its name the worst and most hideous crimes have	I
been committed. According to its own false opinion the prejudiced mind will construe every act; and what, when	।
selfish motives intefere, is claimed as right, will, when of	i
benefit to others, be condemned as wrong.	■
Thus according to their standpoint and prejudice do men form their estimate of religious liberty. The goddess of Liberty was invoked by Voltaire and his infidel associates and successors; it was in her name that wrong was committed throughout a broad kingdom, and the blood of the innocent was shed and the guillotine did homage to th e hideous deity. In Spain the rights of the Church were outraged and trampled upon, and the perpetrators sought approval under	,
a name of the same inviting character. Irish robbery and Irish persecution were but holy acts of justice and humanity, for England called upon the name of liberty when she stained her hands in the blood of the people and made her	,
sons rich with the spoils of her victims. Italy has appropriated the property left for religious uses by pious peo-pie in days gone by, and justifies her wholesale and sacrilegious robbery by her desire to free from conventual bondage the blinded and misguided subjects who would give up their lives and all to the service of God and of humanity.	,
Russia procures homes among the snows of Siberia for her Polish subjects who will not conform to her schismatical
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
153
tenets, and tells the unfortunate exiles that their sacrifice is necessary for the defence of the Empire’s idea of the principles and practice of liberty. Prussia and Switzerland banish and imprison the priests and Bishops of the Church, and endeavor to take from them all jurisdiction, because their teachings are not in accordance with liberty as defined by the Kaiser and the Republic. Thus do the infidel and irreligious world dishonor that holy name of liberty when they would endeavor to conceal the real motives which actuated them in the persecution of the just and the innocent.
Rules for Success in Study.
In an old book which we glanced over some few days ago we came across a number of rules for success in study which we think may be of service to many of our readers. They are given by Morhoff, from the Arcana Studiorum hfethodus of Fichet; but though they are old, this fact does not detract from their merit.
In the first place the author advises young men to know all subjects but profess one, to have a definite object in studying, and to love labor and despise pleasure. If we have not a real love for the work of study we will find that knowledge will come to us slowly and imperfectly; while if if we take delight in the labor, we will each day lay up abundance of wealth for the mind. The great trouble with most students is that they prepare for class because they are aware that preparation must be made, not because they have a sincere love for it. This is the cause of the failure of nine out of every ten.
Learning comes to us, he tells us, in various ways—by reading, hearing, teaching and writing. Such being the case, his advice to all of means is to acquire information by having others to read for them. “Let them,” he says, “ read by the eyes of others, write by the hands of others, improve by the studies of others; let them have Anagnostos to point out authors to them, give them either by word of mouth or writing the cream of the best authors.” This is really what is done in the class-room; there, the students, in addition to their own private reading, read again by the eye of the teacher, and, in the explanations given, profit by his study and experience.
But though, as he says, learning may come by reading, hearing and writing, yet he lays the' greatest stress on learning by teaching. “The moment,” he says, “you have made some progress, strive, if possible, to be teaching all day. Teach what you know, if you don’t know everything. Take special care, either by begging or bribing, to have one person to whom you can repeat what you please. The expense will be well laid out, even if you have to spend a few crowns in paying a person to attend you for an hour for this purpose.” This mode of acquiring knowledge he claims as a great help to memory. “ I have read many things,” he says, “ but a month’s interval so destroyed all recollection of them that I hardly remembered them on reading them again. But what I have taught others, I know as well as the very limbs of my body. They are as clear* as daylight before my eyes. My knowledge of them is firm, certain and fruitful. I could hardly believe that death itself would extinguish the remembrance of them.” As to the truth of this assertion of the writer that teaching others what you know yourself strengthens the memory, there can be no doubt. We have known young boys of tender age attending the parish schools who could recite
all the important events of American history, not because they had simply learned it as a task in the school but because it was customary with them to relate on their way home the events described in the day’s lesson to those in lower classes.
With a love for study, with ears open on all occasions to acquire information, and by imparting to others that which we have learned during the day, we cannot fail to master a great deal—and, having mastered it, to retain it forever.
The Election Here.
In the month of October there were two men running for office whom people connected with the various institutions at Notre Dame were very anxious to see elected. These two men were Hon. Judge Stanfield and Prof. Stace, the former running for Circuit Judge on the Republican , ticket, and the latter for County Surveyor on the Democratic. Interested as they were in the election of these two men, the people at Notre Dame turned out in large numbers to vote, and as a consequence the poll of votes in Clay township was almost double that of any previous year. Men who had refrained from voting for years again exercised their legal right, in behalf of the two candidates whom they sincerely desired to see fill the offices for which they were running. Many of these had intended voting in October only, and would not have gone to the polls in November had it not been for the reason we now give.
It seems that certain persons imagined that because the poll in Clay township was far in excess of former years there must have been illegal voting, and this they determined to stop. Now the community at Notre Dame will join hands with any party endeavoring to prevent fraud,— and, as far as voting goes, none from the College approached the polls who had not a perfect legal right to so do. At the November election a number of voters from the College repaired to the polls in the morning to deposit their votes. To their surprise they were challenged; and on inquiring as to the cause of this, they were told by the challengers that they “had orders from headquarters” to challenge “every voter who came from the College.” That -the people of Notre Dame should become indignant at such treatment is but natural. Here were men who did not belong to the township, sent by “orders from headquarters ” to challenge all voters from Notre Dame for no other reason than that they came from this place! Men who were known because of business relations to all the farmers in the township and to merchants in South Bend were challenged without any show of reason. Men born near the College and men who had lived here for thirty years were molested in exercising their rights as American citizens. The manager of this paper, who was born in the neighboring State of Ohio, whose ancestors on his father’s side were among the early settlers of New England, and whose maternal ancestors at an early date settled in Virginia, was forced to swear his vote through. Men who carry in their bodies bullets received whilefighting in defence of the Union, and some whose forefathers fought in the Revolution, the war of T2, and in Mexico, were challenged by men who never smelled the smoke of gunpowder and whose ancestors probably were numbered among the “Tories” one hundred years ago. These voters would not let an insult of this kind pass unheeded, and they determined to let the hired gang from
154	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
South Bend see that they would resent it. Returning to the College, they made known how things were going on at the polls, and urged all who had the right to vote to do so. As a consequence, those who would not have voted did go to the polls. Instead of about fifty votes being polled, there were at least double that number, and fifteen more than in October, all votes cast being of course against the party sending those challengers into the township.
Will the party managers in South Bend allow us to give them a word of advice? When next they send men out here to guard the “ purity ” of the election, let them send men for whom the people of the township have some respect. Don’t send men here who will simply endeavor to annoy and overawe legal voters from Notre Dame, but men who will strive to prevent fraudulent votes from being cast. Let them send men whose qualifications are not merely those of consummate cheek and invincible ignorance of the common courtesies of life. These were the traits which particularly distinguished the bullying lawyer and three politicians who challenged the legal and independent voters from the College on Tuesday last.
Resolutions of Sympathy.
At the sixth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Society, held Nov. 4th, 1876, the following resolutions were passed:
Whebeas it has pleased our Almighty Father to remove from us our dear friend and fellow-member Arthur, S. Ryan, who died in Dubuque, Iowa, therefore be it
Resolved, That in him we have lost a companion whose amiable and manly disposition, whose intelligence and uprightness of character made his friendship most precious to our hearts, and his example most valuable to every member of our Society. It is with a melancholy pleasure that we now recall to mind his never-failing attention to duty, his active interest in all the exercises of our Society, his assiduity and success in the study of literature, science, art and history, his exemplary conduct and devotion in church and in all religious exercises, in a word, the uniform excellence of his life as a Christian student.
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved relatives and friends, from whom an all-merciful Providence has seen fit to withdraw the fast maturing promise of a wise and virtuous manhood. They have lost him, but Heaven has won him. So bright a spirit was not destined to have the lustre of its pinions soiled by contact with the dust and toil of this earth. In the death of the young there is this consolation, in all our sorrow, that they go untainted back to the hands of their Maker; and this must be the sweet solace of the parents and near friends of our young companion.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Society and that a copy be sent to the relatives of the deceased, and also to the Scholastic, to the Dubuque Times and Herald, and to the Chicago Evening Journal, for publication.
A. Widdecombe, C. Clarke, I
M. Kauffman, A. J. Burger, >■ Committee.
J. Healt, C. Orsinger, )
Personal.
—J. Rhey Boyd, of’69. is practicing law at Paducah, Ky.
—Prof. Stace is kept quite busy with the duties of his office.	’
—Rev. P. Lauth preached a mission at St. Joseph’s last week.
—T.P. White, B. S., of’74, is practicing medicine in Versailles, Ky.
—Rev. James Curran, of’68, is pastor of a church in Paterson, N. J.	•
—Mr. M. Livingston, and others, were at the College on Sunday last.	,
—John Davlin (Commercial), of ’60, is in business at Waukegan, Ill.	—
—	Rev. D. J. Spillard, A. B., of ’64 is pastor of the Church, in Austin, Texas.
—	Gen’l R. W. Healey, A. B., of ’58, is residing at Montgomery, Alabama.
—	H. B. Keeler, B. S., of ’68, is in the real-estate business at St. Mary’s, Kansas.
—	Hon. John M. Gearin, A. B., of’71, is practicing law at Portland, Oregon.
—	Michael H. Keeley, A. B., of ’72, has an extensive law practice at Waseca, Wis.
—	James O’Brien, A. B, of ’59, has a large and lucrative law practice at Caledonia, Houston County, Minn.
—	Rev. M. Connolly, A. B., of ’67, is pastor of the Catholic church in Hudson, Wis.
—	John Coppinger (Commercial), of ’69, is engaged in the practice of law at Alton, Ill.
—	Daniel E. Maloney, B. S., of ’74, has been admitted to the practice of the law at Elgin, Ill.
—	Dr. E. von Donhoff, B. S., of ’69, is engaged in the practice of medicine in Louisville, Ky.
—	M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., of ’64, is residing in Milwaukee, Wis., where he is attending to his real-estate.
—	Henry P. Beakey (Commercial), of ’69, is connected with a wholesale hardware firm in St. Louis, Mo.
—George P. Colvin, (Commercial), of ’61, is connected with the United States Express Company at Chicago, III.
—Rev. President Colovin, and others, have gone to attend the dedication of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis.
—Joseph McKernan, B. S., of ’67, is doing a large realestate business in Indianapolis in connection with his father and brothel s.
—Dr. J. Cassidy, B. S., of ’66, is still the attending physician at Notre Dame. The Doctor has an excellent practice in South Bend and vicinity.
Local Items.
—The lakes were very rough on Monday last.
—A large gate has been put up between the College and the kitchen.
—More than one hundred of the old students of Notre Dame are priests.
—Arrangements have been made for printing the Scholastic Almanac.
—The sacristan has been engaged for some days past in numbering the pews in the new church.
—The secretaries" of the various societies are none too prompt in sending in reports of meetings.
—The number of persons in the Infirmary is very small, showing that Notre Dame is very healthy.
—The close of navigation is fast approaching, when the boats will have to be put into winter-quarters.
—The Band and Orchestra rehearsals should be well attended by every member of these organizations.
—“ A play upon words ” as the proprietor of the Babcock Extinguisher said when he deluged a windy orator.
—The first number of the “ Philomathean Standard ” will be read in the Society in the course of a few weeks.
—A Solemn Requiem Mass was sung yesterday for the repose of the soul of the late Rev. Father Lemonnier.
—To-morrow is the second anniversary of the death of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, the first graduate of Notre Dame.
—A number of ecclesiastics teach Catechism everyJSun-day at various stations in the country near Notre Dame.
—The members of the Junior department have used up six foot-balls since the beginning of the session. It shows life.
—It is not the thing nowadays to say “Pve got coms”; rather observe, “I am afflicted with sebaceous excrescences.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
155
I
—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library is having a rather pretty design painted on the north wall of the room.
—The Senior and Junior classes of penmanship are progressing rapidly under the direction of their able teacher, B. Philip.
—Rev. Father Letourneau is making it quite convenient for visitors to and from St. Mary’s to visit the little Chapel of the Portiuncula.
V —To-morrow, the Feast of the Patronage of the B. V. M., /Vespers is from the Common of the Blessed Virgin, page 36 of the Vesperal.
—Baseball, alley-ball, and rackets were not very popular at the beginning of the week, when the cold drove every one to the recreation halls.
—A match game of football was played by the Seniors on the 8th, with W. T. Ball and P. J. Cooney, as captains. Cooney’s men were victorious.
—St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., of which Rev. Father Corby, formerly President of Notre Dame, is pastor, will be dedicated to-morrow.
—The young gentleman now engaged by the Scientific ‘ Department to “stir up the bugs” will on the approach of winter find his “ occupation’s gone.” ■
—All local items should be put in the “box” by Thursday evening, as after Friday morning the manager of the Scholastic does not open it until Monday.
—A glee club has been formed among the members of the Junior department. There certainly should be no lack of members, as there are so many good voices to be found among them.
—There will be a lecture in Phelan Hall by Prof. A. J. Stace week after next. As many as can should make it a point to attend this lecture, which will undoubtedly be very interesting and instructive.
—The Juniors are getting up their billiard-tables and are also speaking of introducing parlor skates. We often wondered why they had not been introduced heretofore, as their play-hall is quite spacious.
—It would be well if some persons would observe the old advice, namely: “Call on business men, on business, during business hours, transact your business, and go about your business that others may attend to their business.”
—Would it not be well to have a general plan of all the grounds about Notre Dame drawn, and have all improvements made with reference to it, thus securing a unity of plan in all things done here for the improvement of each house ?
—“Beware”—said a man famous for drinking wine,— “ beware of the wine-cup! ‘ Look not upon the glass when the wine within is red.’ Wine makes a man feverish.” “ My gracious ! ” was the response, “ what a continual fever you must be in! ”
—The Curator of the Museum returns his thanks to a kind friend in Washington, D. C., for a box of beautiful shells donated to the Cabinet of Natural History. He also gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a piece of the Charter Oak from Master F. E. Carroll, of Boston, Mass.
—The Western Citizen, the first number of which we have just received, has been added to our exchange list. It is published in Indianapolis in the interest of Irish-Americans. It has our good wishes of success, and we trust that each number will bring to it additional subscribers.
—Chess is the favorite amusement of a great number of people here, and for this reason we wonder that a club is not formed. We witnessed a very interesting game the other evening, and were really delighted to witness the consummate skill exhibited in the play of the winning party.
—With billiard-tables, parlor-skates, hand-ball and racketalleys, we don’t see why the Juniors shouldn’t spend their, recreations pleasantly. We also understand that the Librarian is to have a book-case in the Juniors’ study-hall and that all No. 1 boys are to have access to it on rec. days
—A change in the weather on Monday last was really startling. As we sat by the warm stove .in our room and heard the winds whistling without and the snow beating against the window-pane we could imagine ourselves in the
depth of winter and bothering ourselves about those heelstraps.
—The following are the readers in the Senior refectory, viz: Sunday, C. Otto; Monday, T. C. Logan; Tuesday, W. P. Breen; Wednesday, E. F. Arnold and L. D. Murphy; Thursday, W. T. Ball; Friday, Jno. G. Ewing; Saturday, N. J. Mooney. They are now engaged on“ Rollin’s Ancient History. ”
—A member of the Junior Department gives us a new version of an old poem:
“ Pity the sorrows of these poor young men
Whose trembling limbs have borne them to your door, If you will kindly give them ‘ Rec.,’
They’ll call around next week for more.”
—Quite an interesting game of foot-ball was played in the Junior Department on the 5th. Master R. Keenan was leader of the “ blues ” and Master G. Sugg filled the same position for the “ pinks.” The “ blues ” seem to have fallen under some lucky star this year and were again victorious. The game lasted nearly two hours, when, after the running and excitement, the “ pinks ” proved themselves equal to the “ blues ” in disposing of the fruits of the victory.
—The 6th and 7th regular meetings of the St Stanislaus Philopatrian Association were held October 30th and November 6th respectively. Declamations were delivered by Masters Taulby, Congar, Pleins, Phelan, Roos, Anderson, Nicholas, Keenan, Donnelly, and Ingwerson. After this a debate on the subject “ Whether is the Warrior more beneficial to Mankind than the Statesman ? ” took place. The following members took part in the debate: Masters Taulby, Keenan, Fox, Congar, Phelan, Pleins, Roos, Nicholas, Donnelly, Anderson and Ingwerson.
—We have just been shown a splendid vertical sundial which Brother Peter has constructed for the orphan asylum near Lafayette. Brother Peter has made several such instruments that are remarkable for their accuracy, and are well known to all students and visitors at Notre Dame. The vertical dial that is placed against the front wall of the College is believed to be the only one of its kind in the United States, and this one for the orphan asylum is made of the same size and upon the same principle. It will be an ornament, and at the same time of great use to that meritorius institution.
—The “Blues” and “Reds” again met on the Campus to contend for two barrels of apples. The contest took place last Wednesday, and was a stubborn one to the end. You may talk about “ that ar’ barrel of money that elected Tilden,” but that ar’ barrel of Northern Spy and Pippin apples were as eagerly sought for as any politician ever sought for an office. The Reds were worsted after a struggle of two hours. Those persons wearing the blue color seem to be in luck this fall. J. English acted as captain for the Blues; A. Keenan for the Reds. Alec’s team was as strong and kicked as well, but it was noticed that John’s tactics were far superior and won him the game. Among those that distinguished themselves were Ohlman, Keenan, and White for the Blues. Sugg, Orsinger, and Kauffman for the Reds.	•	"
—The 9th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held Nov. 4th. The old members were present, and delivered several choice declamations An extemporaneous debate took place, the subject being: “Which is the more destructive to Mankind, Liqnor or War? ” Affirmative, Messrs. T. Logan, J. P. McHugh and R. Kirby; negative, Messrs. W. P. Breen, L. Murphy and E. Fishburne. The President requested Mr. Ambrose Hert-zog to decide the question, which he did in favor of the affirmative. The 10th regular meeting was held Nov. 7th. The question “ Who deserves the more praise, Columbus for discovering America, or Washington for gaining the Independence of the Union?” was debated. Affirmative, Messrs. F. Schlink, G. Saylor and A. Baca; negative, Messrs. J. Fitzgerald, J. Burke, R. Kirby and W. Arnold. Decided in favor of the affirmative.
—A concert was given on Thursday evening, Nov. 9th, in Phelan Hall, by the students in the musical department. Violin solos were given by Messrs. Schmidt, Kauffman, and Burger; cornet solos by Messrs. Maguire, Quinn and Evers, besides a number of quartettes, songs, etc., by the other
156
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
students. The young men all acquitted themselves with great credit. We are sorry that want of space prevents a further notice of this enjoyable concert. By Thursday evening we have all the columns of the paper set up except those in which the personal and local news appear. Had we been informed last week that this concert would take place we would have saved the necessary space in which to report. As we knew nothing of its taking place until Thursday everybody will have to be satisfied with this short notice.
—Rev. Father Zahm seems determined not to let the course of Science Lectures be a failure for want of apparatus, for, in addition to the large collection of instruments which he procured during vacation, a list of some of which we gave not long ago, he during his late trip to the East bargained for a large number of other fine pieces of apparatus, many of which are now on exhibition at the Centennial. We may judge of their excellence from the fact that several of them obtained for their exhibitors the highest awards given by the judges for philosophical instruments. One of the magnificent apparatus, made by the celebrated acoustician, Rudolph Koenig, of Paris, consisting of fourteen Helmholtz Resonators, for resolving in a manner to be seen by the eye the “ timbre ” of a sound into its elementary notes by means of manometric flames, is among the number. There is also, besides many others, a large and beautiful Dielectric machine with accessories. What with these, which will be forwarded shortly, and those now in Phelan Hall, the Cabinet of Physics is quite complete. We take this occasion of again earnestly recommending all the students to attend the course of Science Lectures. We can safely say, judging from what we have already seen, and the large number of beautiful instruments Father Zahm has lately procured expressly for the course of Lectures for this year, that few, if any, will ever again have such a fine opportunity of learning something about the Physical and Natural Sciences—sciences which can be taught successfully only when illustrated by experiments.
RoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Arnold, A. Ames, W. Ball, W. Breen, H. Cassidy, P. Cooney, R. Calkins. AL Cross, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, T. Garso, G. Gross, A. Hertzog, F. Hastings, J. Hermann, J. Kinney, T. Logan, J. Larkin, G. Laurans, N. Mooney, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery. P. J. Matti-more, P. W. Mattimore, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, W. McGorrisk, C. Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. H. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, E. Riopelle, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof, J. Kuebel.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A Bergck, W. Brady, A Burger, J. Boehm, F. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, W. Connelly, E. Curran, J. G. Duffield, F. Ewing, J. English, C. Faxon, A Gerlach, B. Heeb, M. Roughan, R. Healey, P. Haney, J. Haney, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, R. E. Keenan, J. Krost, J. Knight, J. Mosal, E. Moran, T. Nelson, J. Nelson, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, E. Pennington, E. Poor, J. Phelan, C. Pel-tier, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, S. Ryan, C. Roos, G. Sugg, G. B. Streit, J. White, W. Widdecombe, F. Wagner, L. Wolf, E. Zeigler, J. Johnson, J. Lumley, P. Schnurrer.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Hadden, J. Seeger, E. Carqueville, W. McDevitt, C. Reif, W. Coolbaugb, J. Scanlan, G. Lowrey, P. Nelson, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman, A Reinboldt, Jos. Inderrieden, John Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, F. Carqueville, F. Gaffney, R. Pleins.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
German—D. Ryan, M. Cross, J. Fitzgerald, W. Dodge, J. Fishburne, G. Fishburne, G. Donnelly, W. Ohlman, W. Widdecombe, J. Larkin, G. Sampson, F. Phelan, A Cougar, C. Roos, C. Faxon, J. Herrmann, W. Roelle, A Abrahams, C. Orsinger, B. Heeb, R. Mayer, J. Hagerty, P. Schnurrer, M. Kauffman, F. Reinboldt,
A. Gerlach, J. F. Krost, J. Murray, J. O’Rourke, E. Pefferman, H. Henkle, J. Krost, R. Golsen. T. Wagner, J. Boehm, J. Inguer-son, F. Rettig, A. Burger, F. Vandervannet, J. Gray, F. Lang, G. Crawford, J. English.
French—G. Laurans, A Hertzog, L. W. Proudhomme, K. Scanlan, R. Hayes, E. White, E. Anderson.
Piano.—J. Herrmann, T. Quinn, W. Turnbull, J. D. Montgomery, E. Sugar, W. Breen, F. E. Carroll, C. Orsinger, R. Mayer, W. T. Ball, W. Davis.
Violin.—C. Walsh, J. Skahill, T. McGrath, A. Schmidt, J. McHugh, W. Taulby, E. Moran, J. Rothert, M. Kauffmann, G. Sampson, E. White. G. McGorrisk.
Cornet.—L. McKernan, A Ames.
Flute.—W. Chapoton, J. English.
Guitar.—A. F. Ames.
Medicine.—G. Greenwood, W. Chapoton, V. McKinnon, E. White.
Drawing—L. Proudhomme, A. Schmidt, J. Mosal, J. Knight, P. Skahill.
Painting—A K. Schmidt.
Telegraphy.—J. Proudhomme, J. Herrmann, M. E. Smith, G. Streit, F._Ewing, H. Henkel, J. Murray.
minim department.
J. Scanlan, G. Lowrey, R. Pleins, P. Heron, G. Rhodius, W. McDevitt, C. Reif, E. Carqueville, P. Nelson, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Hadden, W. Coolbaugh.
German—C. Kauffman, E. and F. Carqueville, A. Reinboldt, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, A Sehnert, G. Lowrey, C.Reif, R. Pleins.

—Apples and nuts are almost too abundant.
—Mother M. Angela (Superior) has returned from the East.
—Hallow-Eve was kept according to ancient customs by the “ Original Thirteen.”
—The autumnal decorations in the Minim recreationroom are very graceful.
—Musical soirees and parlor receptions, with French and German conversationals, vary the evening recreations.
—The number of tickets of conduct distributed last Sunday evening speaks well for the pupils of the Senior Department.
—The lively evening recreations give evidence that even chill November cannot dampen the spirits of light-hearted school-girls.
—The news that Rev. Father General is recovering from the severe illness from which he has been suffering is a cause of great joy to all.
—The Second and Third Seniors intend to edit a monthly paper entitled “St. Mary’s Chimes.” The first number will be read next Sunday.
—“The Original Thirteen” gave an original musical soiree last Friday. Very spicy affair. For comicalities commend us to the merry Minims.
—Thanksgiving turkeys are being highly pampered so that they may be in the very best condition to grace the festive board on Thanksgiving Day.
—Mr. Wm. Schultheis, of Detroit, has been engaged to make the memorial Cross to be erected at St. Mary’s in memory of the late Rev. Father Gillespie, C. S. C., who died while chaplain at St. Mary’s.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society was reorganized Sept. 20th. The following young ladies received the majority of votes for officers: Miss Mary Pomeroy, President; Miss Julia Burgert, Vice-President; Miss Amelia Koch, Secretary, and Miss Grace Conklin, Treasurer.
—The “ Children of Mary ” do not have the election of officers until the Sth of December, but on the 5th of October appointments pro tern, were made as follows: Miss Helen Foote, President; Miss Maria Brady, Vice-President; Miss Annie O’Connor. Secretary; Miss Katie Hutchinson, Treasurer; Miss Mary Walsh, Sacristan; and Miss Anas-tasia Heneberry, Librarian.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	157
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall, J. Nunning, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, M. Dailey, R. Casey, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Neill, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, B.Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, H. Russel, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, L. Rodenberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelley, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, G. Wells, M.Dalton, M.Davis, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, L. Kirchner. L. Tighe, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, J. Wilhelm, D. Locke, M. Usselmann, M. Halligan, M. Smalley, J. Loman, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, L. Kelly, E. Lange, M. Coughlin, A. Cavenor, L. Schwass, G. Conklin, L. Davenport, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, 100.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses C. Corrill, M. Ewing, N. McGrath, M. Mulligan, A-Morgan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, D. Gordon, A. McGrath, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. Peak, M. Hayes, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, E. Mulligan, L. Cox, M. Lambin, L. Ellis, M. Cox, C. Van Namee, N. Hackett, A. Williams, J. Butts, E. Wootten, A. Getty, F. Fitz, M. Robertson.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Misses M. and E. Thompson.
5th Class—Misses M. Smalley, J. Richards, C. Silverthorne, L. Davenport, M. Spier, J. Cronin, A. Getty and A. Williams.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss A. Cullen.
3rd Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses L. Ritchie, C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses E. Lange, A. Koch, S. Moran, D. Cavenor, M. O’Connor.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B.'Spencer, H. Julius, J. Nun-ning. 2d Div.—Misses K. Hutchinson, B. Wilson, M. Cravens, H. Hawkins.
2d Class—Misses G. Wells, M. Julius, A. Harris, A. Byrne, L. Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, J. Cronin, M. Spier, L. O’Neill, C. Morgan, A. Koch. 2d Div.—Misses A. Hennebery, M. Usselman, D. Locke, M. Pleins.
4th Class—Misses D. Cavenor, A. O’Connor, G. Kelly, D. Gordon, J. Bennett, M. Thompson, K. Burgie, E. Thompson. 2d Div.—Misses L. Johnson, J. Burgert, A." McGrath, A. Kirchner, L. Hutchinson, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. Dalton, M. Schulthies.
5th Class—Misses N. McGrath, L. Walsh, M. O’Connor, A. Walsh, L. Forrey, P. Gaynor. 2d Div.—Misses G. Wilhelm, A. Morgan, H. Dryfoos, M. Walsh, L. Weber E. Forrey, J. Burgie.
6th Class—Misses M. Hayes,, M. Robertson, E. Dalton, E. Bouton, A. Woodin, M. Brady, I. Cook, L. Beall, A. Getty, C. Corrill, A. Ewing, L. Schwass, M. Mulligan, L. Kelly, A. Cavenor, M. Ewing. 2d Div.—Misses G. Conklin, L. Wier, N. Hackett, R. Casey, M. Coughlin, M. Halligan.
7th Class—Misses L. Davenport, C. Boyce, J. Loman, A. Peak, L. Tighe, E. Wright.	■
8th Class—Misses L. Cox, C. Van Namee, M. Davis, E. Mulligan.
9th Class—Misses L. Lambin, M. R. Cox.
10th Class—Misses L. Ellis, E. Wooten,
Harp—Misses E. O’Connor. 2d Class—D. Cavenor.
Organ—M. Usselmann.	.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGRAPHER
Comer Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BETSTZD, TTsTTOTJATSTJA.
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to
The Naturalists’ Agency
TAZIDEBMY.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to ren, the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shellst Fossils, Mound-Builders, Relics, and all objects of Natural History except Minerals. These latter we still keep in No. 3725.
The demand upon me for taxidermists’ work has induced me to secure the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, a gentleman who was employed by the Smithsonian Institution in South America for 3 years. I am now fully prepared to do the best kind of taxidermists’ work at exceedingly low prices. I have a very large stock of Western and Southern birds on hand. Also, Heads and Antlers for Museums, DiningRooms, Halls and Libraries.
As it is the intention to issue a Zoological Catalogue at no very distant date, those having collections or specimens for sale will consult their interests by forwarding particulars at as early a date as possible.
Our Mineralogical Catalogue, illustrated by over $300 worth of engravings, is now ready for distribution. Free to all customers; to others on receipt of 10 cents for postage. I desire especially to call attention to my remarkably fine specimens of Amazon Stone, of which I have or have had nine-tenths of all the specimens ever found. I have made six trips to the locality and think I may safely say that no more will be found. Good crystals from 15 cents to $1 each.
My Titanium Minerals are the finest ever known. Besides the Hydrated Titanic Acid, Hydrotitanite, a mineral recently analyzed by Dr. Kcenig, of Pennsylvania University, I have also remarkably well-crystalized Perofskites, Brookites of enormous size, Rutiles geniculated till they form a circle, Schorlomite, Warwickite, &c.
In Peganite we have large surfaces covered with minute bright-green crystals. We have the most beautiful green Wavellite ever known, colored by vanadic acid.
The Columbite crystals that occur in the Amazon stone are very interesting. The Graphite from New Mexico occurs in hexagonal prisms.
The Embolite from New Mexico is the best ever found at any locality. We are selling Amethyst at far lower prices than it was ever sold before. We have sold over $1,000 worth since the 10th of July.
Oct. 20th.—We have just received over 3,500 lbs. of minerals from the Yellowstone National Park Company, comprising magnificent Amethyst, Agate, Zeodes, saddle-shaped dolomite crystals, several inches; fine chalcedonies, geyserites, Pealite, &e., &c. I have also just received 2,000 lbs. of Amethyst from north of Lake Superior. These I am selling at about % the rate that they have ever been sold for before in the East. Have also received boxes from North Carolina, New Hampshire, Canada, Colorado (Hamiltonite, Bismuthinite) Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland, &c., &c.
100 Crystals and Fragments for Study,............$	1.00
100 Specimens, Students’ Size, Larger, ......... 5.00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2X+1X inches, 10.00 Chalcophanite, Rcepperite, Ludwigite, Jacobsite, Trogerite Zuenerite, Hexagonite (?), and most new species on hand. Lithia mica, 20 cents per pound, or $15 per hundred weight.
We have on hand a magnificent suite of erinoids from Illinois; Trilobites, coal measure plants, &c., from Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and other States.
In Shells we have recently received invoices from the Pacific coast and islands, Florida, &c.
Of Prehistoric Relics we have a very interesting assortment
Water vessels in the shape of frogs, fish, women, some painted. Pipes, axes, skinners, arrows, &c. Water bottles of the present fashionable shape made thousands of years ago. We shall soon issue a circular illustrated by engravings of some of the more remarkable forms that we have. _ _
Our collection of plants is very fine, comprising many that are rare, from the far North and West.
We have several hundred volumes of rare old works on Mineralogy, Chemistry and the Natural Sciences. Among them are many of the most interesting of the State and Government Reports.	_
Collections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Art or in Agriculture, on hand or put up to order.
We have in stock a large number of showy Specimens for Museums, of Amazon Stone, Cairngorum Stone, Loadstone lifting horse-shoes, &c., &c.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D., Prof. Chemistry and. Mineralogy,
Fellow Am. Ass'n Adv. of Science.
3725 and 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. O. SPEER.
N. S. MITCHELL (Class of ’72.)
SPEER & MITCHELL,
ATTORNEYS AT LAW,
Has Brady St., . . . Davenport, Iowa
CALIFORNIA
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is tn the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
Sacramento, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other. '
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth, well-b’lasted and perfect track of ste<4 rails, Westinghouse a.r brakes. Miller's safety platform and couplers, the celebrated otullman Palace Sleeping Oars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i raveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road-
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
Eor rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hngbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City tnd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....2	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	40	am	9	00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express..........4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express.....................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 40 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....? 50 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Chablton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
LUCIUS G. TONG,
ATTORNEY & COTTNSELOB AT LAW.
REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE AGENT.
Collections Promptly Hade. General Business Solicited.
Examination of Titles to Real Estate made at reasonable charges.
Office, Boom Ho. 2, Arnold’s Block,
P. O. Box, 1411.	SOUTH BEND, IND
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TINIE TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Trains with Through Cars 1
NEW YORK.
Lv. CHICAGO................ Ar. FT. WAYNE..............
“ Rochester...............
“ Pittsburgh..............
Lv. Pittsburgh.............
Ar. Cresson................
“ Harrisburg.............. “ Baltimore...............
“ Washington..............
“ Philadelphia........... “ New York...............
“ New Haven............. “ Hartford...............
“ Springfield.........'..
“ Providence..............
“ Boston..................
No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. Ex Sa&Su
9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
2 10 p.m.	11 25 “	6 15 a.m.
1 04 a.m.	11 12 a.m.	5 54 p.m.
2 10 “	12 15 “	7 05 “
2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
11 30 a.m. 6 25 p.m. 9 07 “	11 05 “	3 45 a.m. 7 35 “ 9 02 “
3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
11 52 “ 1 27 a.m. 2 20 “	10 40 “ 12 11 p.m. 12 57 p.m.	3 26 p.m
5 10 “	3 48 “	7 4“
6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “ '
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. M7EBS, G. P. & I. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05.
10 36 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 n m: Cleveland 10 10.	’
13 37 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo. 2 40; Cleveland, 7 00; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
11 35pm, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50 a m: Cleveland 710 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.	•
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
I
s
3 41 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06a m,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
4= 54, p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50:
Chicago, 8 20	’
8 O1 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.	-	-	’
3 38 am., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a. m.; Chicago.
6 55 a.m.	“ ’
8 55 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	159
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOR ALL THE STATES,
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special A-ttcntion Given to Deposition.
ZF.	Agent
FOK
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SBTRB’S, 184 B. Badison Street, Chicago.
s30-ly
MCDONALD,
TELLE FHOTOGTAFHET,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-honse, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
Th® Biwtd
A. McKay, Prop., NILES, TLTOTLTG-JMLT. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IH
Watches, Clocks,
-A-ISTT)
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year-
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner. Our Flag is there. Red, White and Blue. Yankee Doodle. ' To thee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on the Rhine. Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’.
Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn.
Austrian “	“
Plice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents.
Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (§1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
MUSIC BOOKS,
FOR MUSICAL SOCIETIES, CONVENTIONS, ETC.
Male Voice Glee Book o.1Perkins? Just published; a large number of new Glees and Quartets of the very best quality.
Emerson’s Chorus Book By L. O. Emerson. Ali the choruses are first class, and worthy of practice by the best singers.
■d-.-iJU	or S9-°° per dozen)-
* eople S GUOrUS A00&. For mixed voices. The glees and choruses are all “ gems.”
Bor Choirs, Singing Schools, Conventions;
mua	<SL38- Per dozen §12.) By L. O. Em-
J. Xlo WnlU&AUOn. erson. Hymn tunes, Anthems and Music for Singing Classes. One of the best Church Music Books of our publication.
TVa ffraa.a (75 cts- or S7-50 Per doz-) L- Em' * ne AiuGwre. erson. Designed especially for Singing Schools, for which it is an admirable book.
For Schools, Academies, Seminaries, etc.
(5° ets-) By W. O. Perkins.
Tae W nippoorwm. KHed With the best of Songs for Common Schools, new, very bright and attractive.
The High School Choir.
p eared.
OLTVHUEd ZDITSOJST & CO.,
BOSTON.
C. H. DITSON & CO., J. E. BITSON & CO., 711 Broadway, Nn’ff YORK. Successors to Lee & Walker, PhUa.
160
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	I
HOLIDAY, WEDDING, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.
zpjvtzrzlCTc sttioikzzey,
FBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE J
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to the National Hotel, and _A <1-jacent to tlie Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the atrons of Notre Dame and St. MMj’b, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Novcmber 21.1S75.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson		2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express.	12 40 a m	4 52
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	t> 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 00 p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 p m
“ Jackson		0 40 “	12 32 p.m	715 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago		7 30	8 00 “	10 20 *■	6 30 *•	8 00 “
Wiles and South. Bend Division,.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22
Ar. Niles— 9 CO “
7 15 p m. §9 06 a.m.
7 23 “	9 07 “
8 00 “	9 40 “
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
Patented Feb. 7, 1871.
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8 32	“
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “	8	40
§5 00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
•Sunday excepted.
G. L. Elliott, -Agent, South Bend,
tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sunday only.
Wm. B. Stbong,
Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Price Complete $15.
More elaborate styles furnished; also, Fountains for Counter use, with only silver-plated basin and jet in sight.
(^“Address for Circular, .
J. W. TTJFTS,
33 to 39 Bowker St., . . Boston, Mass.
Heney C. Wentwobth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
CHICAG-O, ILLINOIS.
M. Livingston & Co.,
-AuiaZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
They Have the Best Critter in the City, nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.	-
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE,
94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, DUB.