The Scholastic
JDeVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 10, 1874.
Number 3
Simplicity.
A SOXNET.
As God has made thee why not always be ?
Why try to soar above thy humble nest?
Or seek to change what God has made the best ?
Why not reflect, and know that it is He
Who made and gave all -blessings unto thee ?—
All life and hope, all happiness and rest;
All that our weak and mortal life has blest.
Take only these, and of all else be free.
Try not to speak in phrases big and grand;
Speak as you did when you were but a child.
Dress not in fashion’s pomp and gaudy show, Eat only that which nature’s wants demand;
And act in all things simply, free and mild,;
For thus to you all earthly gifts must flow.
Flo.
A Tale of tEe Slack Forest.
In the 11th century Germany suffered much from the wars which the nobles continually waged amongst themselves. The Empire was in continual commotion, for no sooner had one petty war ceased than another commenced. In the year 1024 Conrad II ascended the throne. He used all his energy in restoring peace and tranquillity to the ' country; and if anyone dared to wage war against his neighbor he was sure sooner or later to receive due punishment. It happened that during his reign the Count Lupoid, a brave and gallant warrior, engaged in a broil with a neighboring baron, and resort was had to arms. The parties met with their followers, and many a brave soldier was left on the field of battle. When the news of this occurrence reached Conrad, he threatened the parties with the greatest punishments and sent a detachment of his army to destroy the castle of Lupoid. But the Count, knowing well that it was useless to wage war against the Emperor, fled far away from his home and buried himself in the farthest parts of the Black Forest. There he built himself a hut and dwelt with his wife, and with no vassal to serve him he led the life of a hunter.
Years passed by; the Count and his wife led a very happy life in the forest. Nothing came to disturb them. It happened, though, one day, that the Emperor went out hunting. He with his troop chased a deer during a great part of the afternoon, and succeeded in killing it only when the sun was quite low in the west. They saw then that they must pass the night in the forest, and prepared to look for some shelter to protect them from the cold. While thus employed they discovered the hut of the Count Lupoid. They approached it, and as they did so the Count
came out and gave them welcome. He was so changed by time and exposure that he was not recognized by the Emperor, whom he welcomed to his humble home. There the party partook of their evening repast, and chatted for a long time with the host.
That night a child was born to the Count—a fine healthy boy. The Emperor and his suite congratulated the happy father and then retired to their beds. But the Emperor did not pass a very pleasant night. Scarcely had he fallen, asleep when he dreamed that the boy who had that night come into the world had grown up to be a noble youth and that he had seated himself in the Emperor’s throne. He awoke greatly troubled, and related the dream he had to one of his companions, who told him to give no heed to idle dreams. He went to sleep again, and a second time he dreamed that the boy sat in his throne. Then towards the morning he had the same dream for the third time. Now the Emperor was greatly disturbed, and when the morning came he ordered two of his servants to steal the child away and murder it in the forest. He bid the Count Lupoid goodbye and with his suite drove off". As the Count was attending to the Emperor the servants stole the child, and, going off into a dark and unfrequented part of the forest, they prepared to kill the infant. But they took pity on the child, moved to compassion by its smiles. They placed it under a tree, and killing a hare they took the heart and brought it to the Emperor who rewarded them for the murder of the child.
But the same day Count Ulrich, a powerful nobleman, happening to pass through the forest came to the tree under which the child was laid. He took pity on the boy, and taking it home to his wife adopted it as his own. After many years, the Count Ulrich received a visit from the Emperor, and in the course of his conversation related the manner in which he had found his adopted son, nineteen years before, in the forest. Then the king began to suspect that his victim had escaped. He questioned him closely, his suspicions were confirmed and he sought how he might get possession of the boy. He made the proposal to Count Ulrich to take the boy into his service as a page, and the Count was only too delighted to accept the proposal. Having him in his possession, Conrad sent the boy with a letter to the queen. In the letter he charged the queen under pain of his displeasure to put the bearer to death. The youth set out, and after travelling seven days came to the house of a priest, who received him with hospitality, as God commands. This priest was a good, holy man. He took a liking to the boy from the first because of his frank, open countenance which showed how innocent was his heart. He felt pity for him, a young lad travelling so • far alone. He suspected that there was some treachery.
18
THE SCHOLASTIC.
at work against the lad. While he slept, the priest looked at the letter and discovered the horrible fate which awaited the poor page. Determining to thwart the designs of the -.Emperor, he erased the writing and substituted these words: “This is the youth whom I have .chosen for the husband of my daughter; I charge you give her to him -.quickly.” In the morning the lad awoke refreshed, and said “ Adieu, dear host,”—who in reply said: ‘ Remember me when you are king.” The boy only laughed, esteeming it a joke - so he departed, the priest sending with him a number of his own servants. On arriving at Aix-la Chapelle he delivered the letter; and so well did the stratagem succeed that when the king wrote soon afterwards to ask if his orders had been obeyed, the queen assured him that the nuptials had been'celebrated with great celerity, as he had ■desired.- The ctesar could not believe his eyes when he read herletter. Mounting his horse he rode off immediately and travelled with great-speed to Aix-la-Chapelle, when on his arrival the queen presented their daughter and son-in-law. For a long time the Emperor seemed lost in astonishment and uncertain what to do. At length nature prevailed, and he exclaimed, “The will of God cannot be resisted.”
Then he compelled the two servants to reveal what they had done. He ordered Count Lupoid to come from the Black Forest and receive back his son with peace from the Emperor. He proclaimed the boy his heir, and he whom Conrad once sought to murder succeeded him as Emperor of Germany under the title of Henry III. On the spot where the child was born was erected afterwards the famous monastery of Hirschau.
Oa Conviviality.
Address oS1 J. F. Kelly, Delivered Society Day, 1874 ■ Rev. Fathers and Gentlemen,—In coming before you as the representative of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, I deem it a fitting occasion to answer the often asked question, why we have chosen- to retain the title “ Club,” rather than exchange it for that of “Society,” in name of our organization. It is, in fact, because we believe that the word “ club ” is more expressive of that convivial character which we would wish to see prevailing amongst us; and here it may not be inappropriate to say a few words in explanation of what ought to be understood by “ conviviality ’ —a term frequently misunderstood and misapplied. -
Conviviality does not consist in drunkenness, as some imagine, nor even in moderate drinking. To lounge across a bar in a room thronged with strangers or chance acquaintances, and to swill glass after glass of the unwholesome mixtures found in such places, chiefly for the ostentation of spending money freely, or of exhibiting how much you can “stand”—this is not conviviality. Drinking, properly conducted, may, it is true, be made an important accessory to conviviality, but the latter can by no means be said to consist in the former. It consists, in fact, in that pleasant interchange of agreeable thoughts and that overflowing of mirthful emotions—that “feast of reason and flow of soul ” which is the true motive for festive social gatherings, and which is so bountiful a source of human happiness that among the numerous metaphors by which our Saviour symbolizes the beatitude of the king
dom of heaven, none occurs so frequently as the figure of the convivial banquet. •
The benefits arising from conviviality are manifold— both in the physical, social, and moral order. In the physical order it leads to health by conducing to cheerfulness; it banishes dyspepsia, that bane of our native land—for truly we may say that there is more real misery caused by dys pepsia in free America, than by the evils of abject poverty and slavery itself in less favored lands. Conviviality may be said to be the strongest rivet which unites society; without it, men would associate together with mere utilitarian views and aims, seeking each other’s aid as one would seek the aid of an animal or a machine. And in the moral order, conviviality is an active means of developing benevolence, generosity, and all those virtues embraced in the generic term of amiability.
Ostentation is the sworn foe of conviviality. This vice it is that makes so many of our social gatherings worse than useless, where each strives to outdo the other in dress, in the provision of choice and expensive luxuries, or in the display of remarkable musical talent,—for music, to be convivial, must be participated in by the whole assembly. A social party where each sings in turn, and where all occasionally join in chorus, is convivial; but a musical party at which two or three exercise talents which it is the labor of a lifetime to cultivate, and where the rest of the guests can only listen—this is not convivial. That favorite musical instrument of modern times, the piano, has done much to banish conviviality from our social gatherings. The performer, ensconced behind a huge piece of furniture, and isolated from the rest of the party, plays rather for stage effect than for the promotion of general good humor. How different the violin, the guitar, or even the flute, all of which instruments promote conviviality. I am far from censuring the taste of those who delight in artistic musical performances. Let us have these, but let us have convivial entertainments beside3, for artistic music is no more convivial than painting or sculpture.
On comparing America with other civilized nations, we find that we are lamentably behind in this matter of conviviality. Intellectual occupations, public libraries and reading-rooms, museums, works of art, all these we have in abundance, and all these contribute in their measure to make us better and happier men. But not one of these, nor the whole united, can supply the place of conviviality —conviviality, without which the milk of human kindness turns sour—conviviality, which makes the black bread and sour wine of the European peastint sweeter to him than Delmonico’s bill of fare to the Wall-Street broker.
Such, Reverend Fathers and gentlemen, is one of the chief objects of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club—one of the most necessary wants of the age and country in which we live; and if I have persuaded one among you that time spent in conviviality is not time lost, neither I nor the organization which I have the honor to represent will have labored in vain.
Horne Tooke was the son of a poulterer, and when called upon by the proud striplings of Eton to describe himself, replied: “I am the son of an eminent Turkey merchant.”
“How many deaths last night?” inquired an hospital physician of a nurse. “Nine.” “Why, I ordered medi-> cihefor ten.” “Yes, but one wouldn’t take it.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Walt Whitman's first poem after losing his Government cleiksliip:
Cursed, .wretched, stupefied.
Through me, indeed, to-day, a million or thereabouts Of withering and gall-embittered emotions, disgusted, Ripple and regurgitate;
Through me, the ancient privilege too,
’ To get upon my ear and imprecate;
Foul be the wind that blows thee, and swift The trap that traps thee. O, zealous Bristow I Implacable Kentuckian!
Behold me! Thine and retrenchment’s victim/ Thrust, heartlessly, with only two months’ wages, On a cold, cold world !
With heaven kissing Mercury 93 deg. in the shade I O, scanty pittance ! O. played-outuess I Gone up 1 Obliterated !
Scooped 1 ----------------------1 » »----------r
“Life bears us oh like the stream of a mighty river. Our boat glides down the narrow channel—through the playful murmuring of the little brook, and the winding of its grassy borders. The trees shtd their blossoms over our ybung heads, the flowers of the brink seem to offer themselves to our young hands, we are happy in hope, and grasp eagerly at the beauties around us—but the stream hurries on, and still our ha nds are empty. Our course in youl h and manhood is along a Wilder flood, amid objects more s'rik-ing and magnificent. We are animated at the moving pictures of enjoyment and industry passing us, we are excited at some short-lived disappointment. The stream bears us on, and our joys and griefs are alike left behind us. We may be sbipwrecktd, we cannot be delayed; whether rough or smooth, the river hastens to its home, till the roar of the ocean is in our ears, and the tossing of the waves is beneath our feet, and the land lessens from our eyes, and the floods are lifted around us, and we take our leave of earth and its inhabitants, until of our further voyage there is no witness, save the Infinite and Eternal.” —Heber.
Society Reports.
,83?. ALOYSIUS PHILODEMIC SOCIETY.
There have been four regular meetings of the above Society this year. The first on the evening of Sept. 15th, for the purpose of reorganization and the election of officers with the following result:
Director—Rev. M. J. Zahm, C. S. C.
President—T. A. Dailey, B. S.
Vice-President—T. E. Grier.
Recording Secretary—J. J. Gillen.
Corresponding Secretary—M. Foley.
Treasurer-—E. G. Graves.
First Censor—J. Caren.
Second Censer—P. Skahill.
The second meeting was held on the evening of Sept. 22nd, for the purpose of transacting miscellaneous affairs relating to the Society, which chiefly consisted of the appointing of committees and the choosing of a subject to be discussed at the following meeting.
The third meeting was held on the evening of Sept. 29th, at which many new members were present, having been previously elected. The debate of the evening was: “ Resolved, That Chinese Immigration should be Prohibited by the Government of the United States.” The speakers on the affirmative were Messrs J. J. Gillen and
3. Caren; on the negative, Messrs. T. Grier and M. Foley. The fourth meeting took, place on the evening of Oct-.
6th. The exercises consisted of an extemporaneous de* bate, in which many of the newly-elected members par-1-ticipated; two declamations, and the reading of two essays.
M. FoLey, Cor. Sec
ST. CECILIA Fnil-OMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
The 4th and 5th regular meetings took place Sept 22nd. and 29th respectively. At these meetings the following members delivered declamations: J. F. Beegan, W. 8. Meyer, D. O’Connell, A. Schmidt, V. McKinnon, J. Dore, J. F. Soule, J. McHugh, E. J. Wood, J. D. O’Hara, P. McNamara, C. Hake, W. Lawless ,and E. Riopelle. The' following deserve honorable mention for compositions: T. Solon, R. Downey and J. Minton. After this, Master H. Faxon presented himself for membership, and was elected. The names of Messrs. V. McKinnon, E. J. Wood and James > Minton appeared by mistake, in the last report, among • those of the new members. They are old members, and di serve their proper place.	J. P. McHugh, Cor. Sec'y.
COLUMBIAN LITERARY AND DEBATING CLUB.
We are reminded of an omission of the report of the re* organization <>f this Club, which took place Sept. 15th and resulted in the election of the following staff.-
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. 8. C.
President—A. J. State, A. M.
Promoter—T. F. O’Mahony, A. M.
Vice-President—H. C. Cassidy.
Secretary—Jos. Campbell.
Treasurer—A. Horne.
Corresponding Serretai-y—N. J. Mooney.
Censor—G. W. Crummey.
MarsluAl—T. C. Logan.
The Club is preparing for .a glorious career through the. present scholastic year.
NOTRE DAME BOATING CLUB.
This Club held a meeting Sept. 20th for. the purpose of electing officers for the first scholastic term. -The following is the result of the election:	- - -
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C.
President—T. F. O’Mahony, A. M.
Treasurer— A. J. Horne.
Secretary—J J. Gilh-n.
Commodore—-E. G. Graves.	-	• . -
Captain of Minnehaha—B. L. Euans.	1.
Captain of Hiawatha—E. G. Graves.,	....
There are, at present, twenty active members in the
Club. The crews are in training for a race which is ex-pecied to take place on the 13ch inst. The members being in good condition, an exciting race is expected. All dam* ages done to the boat-house during vacation have been repaired, and everything connected with the organization^ is in the best possible order. J. J. Gillen, Secy.
Notice.—We request the secretaries of the different Societies in the College to send us-weeft^r reports of their meetings. ' We desire, however, that they make them very-short, stating in few words whatever of interest may have transpired at their meetings. The Scholastic Is not a-large paper, consequently we wish to make good use of-every line in it. If the secretaries do not make their re-, ports brief, vie wilt Let them also put their communica* tiom in the Schqjastic box ih the lydl ‘
W	THE SCHOLASTIC.-'
Published evsry.Weelc during Term Time a
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Afi communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana. .	.
TERMS: Oft e year.........,................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at tb'e Students’ Office.
We hope that all our friends, the students who have been here in years past, the parents of the students who are here now, and the many persons who are interested in Notre Dame, will not only subscribe for The Scholastic? but will also endeavor to persuade their friends to go aud do likewise. Should our subscription list this year become sufficiently large to justify it, The Scholastic will be enlarged the following year. We will endeavor through the course of the year to learn the whereabouts of all the students who have left bright and honorable names behind them, who have figured in our exhibitions, our societies, etc., and having obtained the information we will print it for the benefit of those who knew them in the days of avid lang syne. We will give to all the news of the current year, so that those who have been here in years past may know how matters now progress.
We expect in the course of a few weeks to publish a History of the St. Aloysius’ Literary Society, to be followed by the History of the Thespian and other clubs. We know that it will be a source of great pleasure for all who have at any time been members of these societies to refresh their memories concerning that time of their lives when, say what you will, there is the most pure enjoyment.
Let outbid friends aud our new friends then rally to our support by subscribing themselves, and by procuring others to subscribe for the Scholastic.
Prof. Edwards informs us that, he has purchased a number of new books for the Circulating Library. The number of volumes is we believe somewhere in the neighborhood of 1200, most of them standard works. ■
There may be some few books in the Library to which, perhaps, we might object, but the greater part of them are, as we said, standard works. The students, then, cannot complain of a lack of good reading-matter. They have plenty of it in the Library if they will but make use of it.
Allow us here to siy a word or two about the books which a student should read. The first books which all should read are their text-books. And they should not simply read the lessons given, but should thoroughly master them. Until they have done this they should not read any other boot ‘ So long as one lesson is unlearned, or one duty unwritten, no other book should be in their hands. -
But granting that they have all their lessons and duties well prepared, and that they have plenty of time on hand, what books should they read? The answer to this question of course depends a great deal upon the peculiar disposition of each pupil. If the pupil has no taste for a particular kind of reading, it is certain that that kind of reading will not be much of a recreation to his mind. But we are not to consider the reading which we indulge in; outside
of classbooks, to serve simply as a-recreation for the mind. Our reading should be of a nature to improve us either by imparting general information, by serving to improve our style in writing, or ill some other way. Let the books you read, (hen, be of such a nature as will tend to do this. Patronize the library, but while doing so, make use of those books which will improve your minds and at the same time will cultivate all the good qualities of your hearts.
( Father Lemonnier.
We are unable to chronicle any improvement in the health of Rev. Fr. Lemonnier.
—- ■  ----' o *	-■
L:cal Items.
“The Brigand” is in rehearsal.	.
The Minims are thirty-one in number.
Rev. Father Frere is busy.preparing the Or do. • Monthly Bulletins were made out on Wednesday. Father Louage has the Novitiate grounds in fine order. Bros. Neal and John are kept very busy nowadays, There has been no report of the Scientific Association handed in. .	'
The New Clock will be put up in the church steeple this month.
The walk between the College and St. Mary’s might be improved.
An ordination or two, it is said, ■will soon take place at Notre Dame.
We- hope to be able in a few weeks to announce the regular monthly soirees.	’	.	•
A change of doors in the “ Ave Maria'' Office would by no means be a bad thing.
It is about time—isn’t it ?—that the statuary be placed in the Senior Refectory.
The Arion Quartette Clue has reorganized and. will give us an air on the 13th.	-
All the Societies have been reorganized, but the Secretaries of some are slow in reporting.	-
• Thirteen is the numb?r of the Thespians, and twenty-two is the number of Philomatheans.
The H. O. B. Club return their heartfelt thanks to their worthy treasurer for fivors received.
Soft and dulcet strains of music are wafted collegeward, occasionally from the’Professed House.	'
On the 30th of September certain Seniors had their lunch, one week later the Juniors bad it. .
The pump in the steam-house is broken. This is the reason why we have had no steam these cool mornings.
There are any number of strangers visiting Notre Dame these days. It is needless to say they are all welcome. .
The corner-stone of the recreation-hall at the Manual Labor School was laid with appropriate ceremonies last Wednesday.	'
Would it not be well for the Choir to give us a few English hymns on Wednesday morning at the low Mass, for the Students ?	‘
Mr. Shickey’s ’bus is a great convenience. We recom-' mend all persons visiting Notre Dame to ask for Mr Shickey when they get off the cars. .	. .

THE SCH
OLAS TIC.	*1-
3s
The Classical Students moved into their new study-hall cn Thursday last. They did not have a house-warming— at least if they did we were not invited to it.
The photograph car, to the east of the Scholastic Office, belongs to Mr. James Bonney, the popular photographer of South Bend. Mr. Bonney will be on hand every Wednesday from nine o’clock in the morning, until evening, to take photographs of all the good looking students in the College. Of course all will have their “ photos” taken.
For some time now, the health of the eminent President of Notre Dame University, Rev. A. Lemonnier, has been failing, and, within the last week, the symptoms of his disease, an affection of the kidneys, has assumed such a dangerous form that his life has been dispaired of by his friends. He fully appreciates his condition, and, true to the inspiration of an exalted faith, he is ready to obey the summons that may come at any moment to call him hence, only regretting the earthly work that remains unfinished. The report on Sunday of his death was untrue.—Sou'.h . Send Register.
The following books have been added to the Circulating Library:—Goethe, 5 vols.; Schiller, 3 vols.; Cowper, 15 vols.; Queens of England (Agnes Strickland), 12 vols.; Swift; Goldsmith; Speeches of Daniel O’Connell, 2 vols.; Autobiography of General Scott, 2 vols.; Jules Verne, 3 vols.; Book of Authors (W. C. Russell), 1 vol.; Don Quixote; Milton, 5 vols.; History of the Rebellion; Drake’s American Biography; Life of Stonewall Jackson ; Life of Andrew Johnson; Lives of the Signers of the Decla-ation of Independence; Lossing's Biography; History of the War of 1812; Men of Our Times; MoliSre, 2 vols.; Lincoln and Seward; History of the Jesuits; Koethen’s Church History; History of the World (Smith), 3 vols.; History of the Church (Translated by Patrick and Byrne), vol. 1st; Sherman and his Campaigns; Steps to Heaven ; Old Grey Rosary (Mrs. A. R. Dorsey); The Flemmings (Mrs. A. H. Dorsey); Land of the White Elephant; Roughing it (Mark Twain); History of Catholicity in the United States; Calderon’s Tragedies, 2 vols.; Life of Lafayette; Washington and his Generals; Sermons of the Council of Baltimore; Ceremonial of the Church; etc., etc., etc. ’
- E’ersoaal.
’ Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour is nearly recovered. Visitors are all courteously received by Bro. August. Catechism is taught by Rev. Father Toohey, C. S. C. Rev. Father Neyron is the best walker about the place.
Rev. Father Letourneau is building a new house in Lowell.
Dr. Lundy is now established in Bellevue Hospital. New York.
Rev. Father O’Sullivan, of Laporte, was at the College on Monday last.
Mark Foote of the Class of ’72 is with us once again. He will enter the Law Class this year.	’
Harold V. Hayes of the Class of ’74 returned to the College Wednesday last. He will also attend the Law Class.
For Texas, in good health and ready for hard work, Rey. Father Cooney started last Tuesday.	.
Rev. Father VaOnier, C. S. C-, occasionally comes over to the College from the groves of St. Mary’s.
Mr. Wile, an old friend of the College, came over from Laporte last Sunday to see Rev. Father Lemonnier. .
On Tuesday Bro. Francis de Sales returned from a brief visit to Watertown. He reports all there in good health.
It is a pleasure to see the smiling countenance of Fr. Ford. He spent the Thursday of this week at the College.
Prof. A. J. Stace, one of the best of fellows, is candidate for Surveyor, on the Independent ticket, for St. Joseph County.	\
Another of our friends, Mr. W. C. McMichael, is a can-, didate on the Democratic ticket for Joint Representative for St. Joseph and Marshall Counties.
Prof. Clarke, who left last month on account of ill health, is rapidly recovering and will’ be with us again-next winter.
Lucius Hudbard, an old student of Notre Dame, is a candidate for State Senator on the Republican ticket in St. Joseph County.	’	’	.
Dr. Cassidy seems to have quite a large practice throughout the country. We meet him frequently on his way to visit the sick.	‘	'
Joseph Henderson, one of our great friends and an excellent man, is a candidate for State Senator on the Indi' pendent Ticket in this County.
The Convention of the N. A. T. A. Union will meet in Chicago next week. Rev. Father O’Mahony, C.S. C., will attend as a delegate from Indiana.
John Gearin, a graduate of Notre Dame, has recently, been elected a member of the State Legislature of Oregon. We offer him our congratulations.	•
Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, is expected here next week. He is always welcome. We hope the Students will give him a fitting reception.
At times the venerable form of Bro. Vincent, thePatri-aicli of the Congregation,-may be seen about the College. He looks as though he had many years in store for him.
Very Rev. Father General arrived home last Monday from Washington. He was present at the Fitch-Sherman wedding, which he represents as both grand and edifying-	' '	'	' ’
Notre Dame was favored with a visit from Rt. Rev.’ Dr. Borgess, Bishop of Detroit, on Thursday last. We are pleased to see the Bishop looking so well and hearty. We hope he may find it convenient to come over and rest from his episcopal cares frequently.	■	’
Musical Notes.	,
The, Choir last Sunday sang the Mass of “Santa Lucia” by F. Witt. It was very well rendered, considering the time, allowed for rehearsal. However, a little more attention paid to the pianos, fortes, and- crescendos, would, we think, be a decided improvement.	■	*
The first rehearsal of the Band took place on Sunday; ’Twas too thin—there being but about eight instruments.
The Psalms at Vespers would sound much better if sung in four parts. Why could not this be done? And'why. could we not have different psalm-tones each Sunday ?
W	THE SCH O L A STI Ch.
JProf. Paul played the organ on last Sunday. Weare glad to see that he has revived the old custom of playing a inarch immediately after Mass. -
' A Quartette composed of Bros.-Basil and Leopold, Messrs. Mayr and O’Leary, sing at the students’ Mass in the College Chapel on Saturdays.
The' Vocal Class, under the direction of Prof. Paul, is practicing the Chorus of “ The Heavens are Telling,” from Haydn’s Oratorio of The Creation. We hope soon to have the pleasure of hearing them, especially as there are some very good voices in the Class.
There is an improvement in the singing of the Iniroit and'other parts of the Mass sung by the chanters. Heretofore the number of voices was too small. Gregorian music requires a large number of voices in order to be effective. Father Fibre deserves a great deal of credit for his endeavors. But give us the Iniroit, etc. a little faster.
' Art Notes.
'Jilt Gregori, we understand, is engaged on another portrait of Bishop Gilmour.
The statues of the four Evangelists, carved in wood by Mr; Pendl, are nearly finished. These statues are intended for the new church of Our Lady of. the Sacred Heart, and will no doubt be highly ai preciated when they are in their proper places.
We called in to see the modelling and stucco work of Mr. Fred. Almanraeder the other day. Our church will for interior decorations rival, if not excel, any church in the Northwest. Mr. Almam seder is no ordinary workman, and his work gives evidence that he is a man of taste and ability; . ;	.
The crayon portrait of Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S.C., executed by Bro. Albert, and now hanging in the College parlor, is excellently well executed, it is really the only good picture of Father Genet al which we have seen. No photograph coming under .our observation has ever done him justice. .	..	.
Signor Gregori s fresco wotk in the new church is of the highest order of Art.. The College authorities have reason to be congratulated for having secured an artist of Mr. Gregori’s ability tp fresco the church. Tnere is nothing so displeasing to a' man of cultivated taste as to be forced to. worship in a church where poor paintings dis grace.the walls. There will be no pause to complain of poor paintings In the church if the work is continued in Mr. Gregori’s hands.
We made a shortcallon Bro. Albert at the drawing-room the other day and were highly pleased with all that we saw. Bro. Albert is pushing thingsalongin fine style. In machinedrawings, we were particularly pleased with those of Mr. C.-M. Proctor. -Messrs. J. Cullen, J. Leitelt, J. E. Obert, L. Smith and A. Leitelt are following this branch with considerable success. Of. those following figure-drawing we will speak hereafter, when we shall have more specimens to examine. In landscape-drawing, Mr. P. Lawrence shows considerable talent, and for a beginner promises very.well.. E. Gramling, J. Delvecchio and J. P. Kurts deserve considerable praise also for their endeavors in this department. Master A. Schmidt is the most proficient in the drawing of solid objects,1 and W. Schultheis in ornament work.- “Of the young- architects, who are quite
numerous, we will not say anything, except concerning Masters E. and J. Sugg, who show considerable talent in. architecture. Some other-time we will speak at greater: length about them..	.	•
.' Literature.	.
Brownson’s Quarterly Review, published by I'r' Pustet'No. 52 Barclay street, New York,	.
The contents of this Review for October are as follows!
I. Answer to Obj ctious; II. Controversy with Protestants; III. The Problem of Casuality; IV; Authority in Matters of Faith; V. Letter to the Editor; VI. The Outlook at-Home and Abroad; VII. Literary Notices.and Criticisms,
Though not agreeing with Dr. Brownson in all his opinions, we do not hesitate in recommending his Review to the careful attention of all our readers.	•	-
The Catholic World comes to us full of excellent matter. Its contents for October are as follows: I. Matter; II. Hope; III. The Veil Withdrawn; IV. September—Sabbath R,st; V. The Present Slate of Anglicanism;.VI. Antarand Zara; VII. A-suuta Howard; VIII. A Discus-' sion with an Infidel; IX. A Legend of'Alsace; X.' Facsimiles of Irish National Manuscripts; XI. Congress of~ tbe Catholic Germans at Mayence; XII. Switzerland in 1873; XIII. Roger the Rich; XIV. Ttie Poem of Izdubar; XV. New Publications.
Young men wanting good instructive reading will find that they cannot put their money to better use than by subscribing for the Catholic World.
Church's Musical Visitor, containing eleven pages of interesting reading-matter and ten pages of music, has been received, and was welcomed by our musicians. The Musical Visitor is published monthly by John Church .& Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. $1.50 per annum.	.
A course of lectures on History will be delivered the' coming fall and-winter by Prof. T. E. Howard.
Father Colovin, we understand, will deliver the opening lecture in aid of the Catholic School in South Bend. We have not been'notified of the time appointed for the-lecture.
WE learn that the Philodemic Society intend giving us' a literary treat in the shape of a Public Debate, sometime about the first of December. .
The c miing ye<tr, Messrs. Beegan, Meyer, Soule, McHugh, O’Connell, Wood, McKinnon, and others, will be connected with the Philomathean Standard, either as Editors or contributors. They are a good crowd, and will make the paper lively.	‘
Speaking of a mission preached in Chicago by Fathers Elliott, Dwyer and Brady, the correspondent of the Catholic Bedew says:	- -	'	.
“ The church was crowded to its utmost capacity, and the ser-. mon was eloquent, eamest-and impressive, and was listened to with rapt attention. The subject of missions, their divine origin, their object, the great results accomplished by them, com-' posed the theme of Father Elliott’s discourse, and he closed it with an earnest call upon all present to assist the missionaries, by their regular attendance and constant prayers, by which they could share in the reward of the missionaries as well as in the benefits of the mission. Taking for his illustration the tall/ black mission-cross erected in the sanctuary, as the sign of penance, and the pure white cloth hung over its arms, as the sign
THE ’ S CH OLA STIC.?	23
of that divine mercy by •which sin was to be forgiven, the speaker touchingly portrayed the scene.of the first great mission-cross raised on Calvary, and bearing the suffering body of God's only begotten Son, as the sign of God's love, mercy and forgiveness, for all time, to all nations and peoples, and tribes and individuals, who heard the words of that great Missionary.”
Father Elliott was for a number of years a student at Notre Dame.
Holl of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berrenger, J. Brown, T. Culliton, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, M. Caldwell, W. Dechant, F. Devoto, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, J. Ferry, C. Favey, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E.. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, J. Hackett, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman, J. Kennedy, S’. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G-. Kelly. J. Larkin, P. Lawrance, C. Lane, G. McNulty, J. Marks, R. Maas, W. McGavin, T. Mui phy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, F. Miller, J. MeManns, H. Marble, T. O’Leary, T. O’Mahony, C. Otto, F. O’Brien, J. Obert, C. Proctor, T. Pugh, G. Roulhac, J. Retz, C. Robertson, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahill, S. Studebaker, P. Shaul, G. Summers, S. Thompson, J. Van Dusen, C. Villeneuve, C. Walters, F. Wilhelm, R. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Betchcr, J. Beegan, J. W. Connolly, A. Crnnkilton, A. Byrne, A. Bergck, F. Buckman, A. Burger, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, F. Ewing, L. Evers, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, J. T. Foley, L Guetig, J. M. Green, J. Griffith, J. Golscn, C. Greenleaf, E. D. Gleason, F. Huffman, J. Hamlin, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, C. V. Larkin, V. McKinnon, A. H. Mitchell, J. McIntyre, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, F. Monaham, W. S. Meyer, W. Nicholas, W. P. Nelson, D. Nelson, G Nester, J. Nelson, D. J. O’Connell, J. D. O'Hara, F. Palmer, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, F. Rosa, A. Reinke,“F/Raymond, L. P. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon, T., Talbot, H. Weber, C. J. Wipple, J. Wood, J. Colton, C. Hake, G. J. Gross, G. Woodward, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, M. E. Murphy, E. Gramling, F. Bugncr, H. Newman.
MINIMS DEPARTMENT.
Samuel Goldsberry, Clement A. Moody, Joseph Querre, E. Joice Dubois, Alexis Campau, Frank Campau, Charles Bushey> Francis Carlin, Francis McGrath, Colly Clark, John O’Meaia Eddie Raymond, Michael McAuliffe, Harry Ordway, Tommy Hooleyj L. Frazee.
------—--- ■ o I * — *~ -
. Class Honors.. '
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, OCTOBER Sth.
COLLEGIATE COURSES.
Senior Class.—T. H. Grier, T. J. Murphy, C. Walters, J. E. Hogan. •
Junior Class.—E. Graves, F. Devoto; T. F. Gallagher, J. Caren, G. Kelly.
Sophomore Class.—J. J: Gillen, H. Cassidy, B. L. Euans, J. A. Brown, G. W. Crummey.
Freshman Class.—N. J. Mooney, J. G. Ewing, M.L. Keeler, M. Foley, J. F. Rudge, J’. Kopf, T. McNamara,- W. Dechantj A. Horne, Jerome Mathews.
“Your handwriting is very bad indeed,” said a gentleman to a friend, more addicted to boasting than to study; “you really ought to-write belter.” “Ay, ay,” replied the young man, “ it is all very well for you to tell me that; but if I were to write b-tter, people would find out how I spell.”	....	.
Salad far ths Social.
Charley is better.
Students still arrive.
How about Telegraphy ?
JusT a little steam, please.
Who won the dictionary ?	:
Everyone is hard at work. ,
Club-life—A baseballist’s.	;	/•
Bro. Thomas is kept busy.
It is foggy these mornings.
How about that “ dead ball.”
It is great folly not to be jolly.	- - . . - -
NEXT'Tuesday will be the 13th.	-
No more apples in the orchard.
Words that bum—Rejected communications. -
The “ Ave Maria” Office does considerable job-work. ' Ducks frequent the lower lake. They are undisturbed. The Infirmary is almost empty; we write on Wednesday. Some thirty persons are engaged at work in the “Ave Maria” Office.
If Bro. Thomas will send us over a box of cigars we will give him a puff.
In London a young lady took the highest prize in an’ examination in law. .0, law!
Ought a hog be considered as advanced in Arithmetic because it is good on the “ square root?”
“ Too rural, too rural, too rural, I lay,” sang a drunken fellow, as he.lay down to rest in a hay-field.
There are two things to be considered in every undertaking—the right thing and the wrong thing.
Prof. Lyons and his Thespians make Washington Hall quite lively, night after night, with rehearsals.
“Johnny, what would a schoolmaster do if all his pupils left his school ?” “ I give it up, Tom.” “So would he.”
Bells of all sizes are being placed in the tower of the new church. When will we have them chime us a tune or two ?
What is that which every one can divide butno one see where it has been divided ? Water.—Index Miagarenaia.
Wat-er conundrum!
queries.	-
If a Surveyor were to attempt to run the “ line of beauty,” ought he to use the Transit of Venus ?
When they say a man receives the “ Last Sacraments,” do they mean Holy Orders and Matrimony?—these are the last on our list.	“	'
When a stranger crowds you out of your pew, ought you to exclaim “ Prolt! pew door? ”
If they had a standpipe in Chicago, bearing the same proportion to that city as ours does to South Bend, liow would that be for high, and would it have put out the great fire, ceteris paribus?
Is a skunk a person of distinktion and if so, how does’he rank? and can you get a little one for a scent?
Is Arthur Helps the originator of “Every Little Helps,” and if so, how many ?	•
That elegant English writer, De Quincey, in his interesting work on “The Ciesars,” speaking of the tragic end of the emperor Commodus, tells us that z
“ On this occasion, Marcia, agreeably to her custom, rep-

T HE S C H O L A S T I C ;
sented him with a goblet of wine medicated with poison.”
If this was agreeable to her custom, it could not have been a very agreeable custom, and it is wonderful how long Commodus stood it, and still more wonderful that having stood it so long, he should have succumbed to it at last. We don’t like to criticize De Quincey, but he really must have meant,
“ Agreeably to her custom, Marcia presented him with a goblet of wine; medicated, on this occasion, however, with poison.”
Out Door Sports.
We noticed some ancient fisherman on the lower lake indulging in the pastime so much praised by Isaac Walton.
Handball is not played to an alarming extent just now. A few interesting games, however, have been played lately.
We see Prof. Stace and companions on pleasant Wednesdays, sallying forth from the College with their guns upon their shoulders in quest of game. We do not know what success they have had.
An interesting game of baseball was played on the 4th inst., between the first nine of the “ Quicksteps" (Minims) and the third nine of the “Excelsiors” (Juniors). After a change of umpires the Minims won the game by a score of 17 to 13.	.
It seems to us that the students are more given to walks this year than in the few years past. It looks like a return to the olden times, when long walks were “all the go.” Have we a Weston amongst us? Couldn’t we get up a walking match ?
The first two games in the championship contest between the “Star of the East” and the “Excelsiors” were won by the latter. The “ Excelsiors ” are now playing the “Juanitas” to decide the championship. The first game was won by the “Juanitas” by a score of 52 to 69; the second game was played last Wednesday and was won by the “Excelsiors” by the following
Score :
“ excelsiors.”
o. R
Geo. Gross, s. s....
R. Downey, p........
J. Hayes, c.........
V. McKinnon, r. f....
L. Bosh; 2d b.......
J. Soule, 2d b......
J. Beegan, c. f.....
J. Minton, 1st b....
W. Meyer, 1. f.......
0
3
5
4
2
4
3
3
3
6
3
3
2
5
2
3
4
4
“JUANITAS.” 0. R,
E. Gault, 1st b...... J. Brennan, s. s..... C. Hess, c. f........ J. Hackett, c........ J. Campbell, r. f.... J. Grummey, 1. f..... J Lyons, 2d b........ E. Graves, 3db....... L\ Culliton, p.......
Totti.............. 27	32
Total................
INNINGS : .
“Excelsiors"...	3	7	2	2	5	4	8	1	3	—32
“ Juanitas ”: ....	1	2	7	5	1	1	0	0	0	—20
Umpires—J. Ryan. Scorers: A. Crunkilton and G. Crummey. Time of game: Two hours and fifteen minutes
PJE-VNSYL. VAAl I A CiMTltAL
.	DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Tnree daily Express Trains, with Pallman's Palace Cars, are rut between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
•	York withoutiChange.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m i Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p.m. “	“	6.11am*
' 3rd train “	*•	9.00. p. m.	|	“	“	1130 p.m.*
‘ ’ Connections at Crestline with trains North and Qomh, and . ; ’ Mannafield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Letters '
Remaining in the Notre Dame Post-Office, Saturday, October 10:—Christof Sloppel, J. A. Turnbull, R. Hill, Jacob Eaton, Guy. Kahmann, Mr. Ballendiine, Denis O’Connor, Thomas Guirac, Rev. Jas. A. Quinn.
L. S. & M. S_RA1LWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
.	GOING EAST.	'
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.35 P. 3i.; Buffalo, 8.55 P. it.
10.38 a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. .v.; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 a. at. (No. 4;, special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 P. m.; Buflalo 4 C5 A. 31.	’
9. JI p. 3t. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buflalo. 1.10 p. sr. .
7.54 • p. 3i. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2.30 a. st., Cleveland 7.05 a. at., Buflalo 1'10 p. ar.
3.55 p. 31. [No.70], Local Freight. GOING WEST.
3.20 A- m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. sr.	'
4.50 a. 3t. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. si.
5.5 3 r. ar. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. -Arrives at Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 1’. ar.
4.51 r. sr. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. M. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. 31, Chicago 11.10.
790 a. st. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon I hrough Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Cieket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	■
J. H Parsons, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.	.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend. -
" CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
EST* Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9, anu 71; East, Nos. 2 and70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. 31., running through to Wabasn. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets Insurance tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will he furnished upon applies* tion to the Ticket Agent.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central JR ail-
road leave Niles as follows: TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express,	---------	12.45	a.m
Mail. -----------	9,io a.m
Day Express,	12.12 a.m
Accommodation,	---------	7.35	p.m
Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	---	-	8.55 p.m.
Way Freight, -	--	--	--	--	8.00 a.m
TRAINS WESTWARD.
Evening Express,	- -	.	.	-	-	-	-	2.35 a.m
Pacific Express,	---------	4.40	a.m
Accommodation,	- --	--	--	--	5.25 a.m
Mail -	--	--	-	-	--	--	-	3.57	p.m
Day Express -	--	--	--	--	- 4.35 p.m
Way Freight -	--	--	--	--	-	1.45	p.m
. AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles	-	-	--	-	.	-	-	.	9.15 p.m
Three Rivers Accommodation ------- 7.40 p.m
Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	9.0up.m
Way Freight ----	-------	10.30 a.m .
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles	-	-	- G.C5 a.m
Mail -	--	-- -------	-	3.45 p.m
Pacific Express - -- -- -- -- - 5.05 a.m Way Freight- ---------- 5.05 p.m
'	SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains lease South Bend—8 15 am. 1110 a m.3.00 pm, 6.30 pm.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 a m, 11 40 a m, 3,30 p m, 7.60 p m
Leave Niles—6.30 am, 9.20 a m, 12.45 p in, 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 am, 915 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.U0 am, 7j»0 pm.
“	“ Arrive at Niles—9.3u a in, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 p m.
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a in, 3 05 p m, 6.35 p m.
Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.31 a m, 5.30 p m.	Leave—9.15 a m, 7.05 p m.,
H. E. SARGENT, Gen‘1 Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.’
S. R. KING, Passenger and Fi eight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELbSTINE, Agent Notre Dame	.