Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper victurus; vlve quasicras morlturus.
ir Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 1, 1877.	Number 14.
Parachute Poetry.
If bathos, as a figure of rhetoric, be deserving of commendation, it is certainly the most admirable feature in the poems of 0. 8. Calverley, as published in a volume of the “Leisure Hour Series ” under the title of “Fly Leaves by 0. S. 0.” Written originally, if we mistake not, for “ Punch,” they ape the sublimities of the modern British poets—Tennyson, Browning, or Tupper,—until a sudden precipitous descent to the absurd betrays the caricature. In rhyming, too, Calverley is singularly felicitous, as is to be noticed especially in the pieces entitled “ Play,’’ “Under the Trees,” and others, while there is a peculiar raciness,— a facility for bringing the conventional phrases of modern society into unexpected juxtapositions,—which constitutes the main charm of his writings. But they must be read to be appreciated. As a perfect example of bathos, take the .“Arab,” beginning:
- On, on, my brown Arab, away, away!
Thou hast trotted o’er many a mile to-day.
And I trow right meagre hath been thy fare
Since they roused thee at dawn from thy strawpiled lair, To tread with those echoless unshod feet
Yon weltering flats in the noontide heat, Where no palm tree proffers a kindly shade And the eye never rests on a cool grass blade;
And lank is thy flank, and thy frequent cough,	.
Oh! it goes to my heart 1—but away, friend, off 1
And yet, ah 1 what sculptor who saw thee stand, As thou standest now on thy native Strand
With the wild wind ruffling thy uncombed hair, And thy nostril upturned to the od’rous air, Would not woo thee to pause, till his skill might trace At leisure the lines of that eager face; ’
The collarless neck and the coal black paws
And the bit grasped tight in the massive jaws ;
The delicate curve of the legs, that seem
Too slight for their burden—and, 0, the gleam
Of that eye, so sombre and yet so gaj’ 1
Still away, my lithe Arab, once more away I
So far, the conclusion seems inevitable that the poet has been describing a spirited but ill-used Arabian horse. With what a shock do we come down to the fact that this whole description applies with equal fidelity to that neglected specimen of the genue homo, the “ Street Arab ’’! for as he concludes:
“ Thy swarthy hues .
. Arc due not to nature but handling shoes ;
And the bit in thy mouth, I regret to see* _
Is a bit of tobacco-pipe—Flee, child, flee! -
As good as this, perhaps, is a piece entitled "Sad Memories,” beginning:	'
They tell me I am beautiful; they praise my silken hair, My little feet that silently slip on from stair to stair;
They praise my pretty trustful face and innocent grey eye;
Fond hands caress me oftentimes, yet would that I might die! A sentimental exordium verily, and one calculated to call forth the inmost sympathies of every susceptible heart, and yet reading on we find that they have been evoked in behalf of a cat, whose woes are the calumnies to which she is exposed, thus:	.
Should china fall or chandeliers, or anything but stocks—
-Nay stocks, when they’re in flowerpots—the cat expects hard knocks;	. •
Should ever anything be missed—milk, coals, umbrellas, brandy—
The cat’s pitched into with a boot or anything that’s handy.
But from the comic he rises again to the tragic as he describes the hero of a cat-fight:
He stood, an ebon crescent, flouting yon ivory moon;
Then raised the pibroch of his race, the Song without a Tune: Gleamed his white teeth, his mammoth tail waved darkly to and fro,	‘
As with one complex yell he burst, all claws, upon the foe. It thrills me now, that final Miaow—that weird unearthy din; Lone maidens heard it far away, and leaped ont of their skin. A pot-boy from his den o’erhead peeped with a scared wan face; Then sent a random brickbat down, which knocked me into space..
vr	vr	#	#	*	■#
For me they fill the milk bowl up and cull the choice sardine; But ah! I nevermore shall be the cat I once have been!
The memories of that fatal night they haunt me even now; In dreams I see that rampant he, and tremble at that Miaow.
Our limits do not permit extended quotation, or we should like to give the “Ballad” written apparently after Tennyson,—after him indeed, in more senses than one; “ The Schoolmaster Abroad with his Son,” which is didactic as well as lyric; “Forever,” which must be read entire to be appreciated; “ Motherhood,” which equals the Arab in bathos, and the “ Cock and the Bull,” which emulates that celebrated spittoon story which has latelybeen so thoroughly engrafted on the memories of a certain classic circle which revolves in an eccentric orbit not many million miles from the asterism of Notre Dame.
But we cannot dismiss him without giving a specimen of his Latin, for he is a University man too, and evidently inured to hexameters. He is describing a familiar scene in winter; and we ought to explain perhaps that galero is not the classic helmet but the more familiar "stovepipe”:
Parte senex alia, prarepto forte galero, Per plateas bacehatur; eum chorus omuls agrestum Bidet anhelantem frustra, et jam jamque teuentem Quod petit; illud agunt venti prensumque resorbent
• Post, ubi eompositus tandem votique potitus Sedit humi; flet crura tuens nive candida lenta 1 Et vestem laccram, ct ventures conjugis iras.
210	• THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The outdoor as well as the indoor recreations of the season are happily described:
Mille modis reliqui fugiuntque feruntque laborem Hie vir ad Eleos, pedibus taiaria gestans, Fervidus it latices, et nil acquirit enndo:
Ilie petit virides (sed non e gramine) mensas,
. Pollicitus meliora patri, tormentaque flexus Per labyrintheos plus quam mortalia tentat, Acre tuens, loculisque pi'as immitit et aufert.
Let us here explain that what we call “caroms’’are called “cannons” in England, for which therefore “tor-menta” is an apt classic equivalent. Plus quam mortalia is very descriptive of some caroms that we have seen attempted by amateurs that shall be nameless. By the loculis we must infer that Calverley’s friends played the old pocket game. But all his friends were not so dissipated:
Sanctius his animal, cui quadravisse rotundum Musaj suadet amor, Camique ardentis imago, Inspicat calamos contraeta fronte malignos, Perque mathematieum pclagus, loca turbida, anhclat.
But it is impossible almost to select passages free from local allusions to the notabilities and public resorts of Cambridge, for which University the poem was evidently written. Our readers will understand, however, the allusion to setting the river Cam on fire,—a familiar proverb enough, leaving out the name of the river. The Eleos latices we ought also to have mentioned before, are the skating ponds of Ely, a small place near Cambridge—skating ponds which, however, do not appear to have afforded very remarkable facilities for the prosecution of the favorite pastime, if we may judge from the author’s note on “nil acquirit eundo” which is as follows:
“Aqua enim aspera, et radentibus parum habilis. Im-ersum hie aliquem et vix aut ne vix quidem extractum refert schol.”
We trust we have given enough to awaken an interest in Calverley, and to enable our readers (to many of whom he has probably been hilherto a stranger) to estimate the place he holds in modern English literature; and we do not doubt they will find in his poems the means of pleasantly whiling away a leisure hour.	S.
Thales.
Thales the Milesian seems to have been the first who bore the name of sage. He was of Phoenician descent, and counted Cadmus, the son of Agenor, among his ancestors. His father’s name was Exumi us, and his mother’s Cleobula. In consequence of the indignation which they had conceived against the tyrants by whom the populace were continually oppressed, they left their native country and fixed their residence at Miletus, a town of Ionia, where in the first year of the 35th Olympiad (610 B. C.) Thales was born. The wealth which he inherited, and his own superior abilities, raised him to distinction among his countrymen, so that he was early employed in public affairs and ■ pissed rapidly to the highest offices of the state. During his magistracy he consecrated all his free time to the study of nature, and at an early period, extricating himself from the embarrassment of public affairs, he, like many of the ancients, travelled in quest of knowledge, and for some time resided in Crete, Phoenicia and Egypt. At Memphis he devoted several years to intercourse and conversation with the priests, the depositaries at that lime of the knowledge of their country. Here his mind was stored with a
knowledge of the mysteries of their religion, and, it is said, given an insight of mathematics, astronomy and philosophy. It is probable, however, that he never attached himself to any one master, and that he was more indebted to his own ingenuity than to the instructions of others for that valuable stock of knowledge with which he enriched the field of science and philosophy. On the contrary, we are told that whilst among them he taught them, to their great astonishment, how to measure the height of their pyramids. It cannot be supposed that Thales could acquire much mathematical knowledge from a people incapable of solving so easy a problem. The method. pursued by Thales was this: at the termination of the shadow of the pyramid, he erected a staff perpendicular to the surface of the earth, and thus attained two right-angled triangles, which enabled him to infer the ratio of the height of the pyramid to the length of its shadow, from the ratio of the height of the staff to the length of its shadow.
Upon his return to Miletus, Thales lived very retired, spoke little and thought much; and so great was his love of wisdom that he preferred the repose of celibacy to the cares of matrimony. When he was but twenty-three years of age, an advantageous match presented itself, and which his mother warmly urged him to accept. “When a man is young,” replied Thales, “ it is too soon to marry; when old, too late; and between these two periods he ought not to have the leisure requisite to choose a wife.”
A true philosopher, he was altogether indifferent about the riches and honors of the world; study was his only delight, and we know how his continual efforts met with success. In mathematics, he is said to hive invented several fundamental propositions which were afterwards incorporated into the elements of Euclid, particularly the following theorems: that a circle is bisected by its diameter ; that the angles at the base of an isosceles triangle are equal; that the vertical angles of two intersecting lines are equal; that if two angles and one side of one triangle be equal to two angles and one side of another triangle, the remaining angles and sides are respectively equal; and that the angle in a simicircle is a right angle.
Astronomical science also received considerable improvements from Thales. His observations on the different motions of the sun and the moon were great and ingenious. According to Eudemus, he was the first of the Greeks who discovered the solstices and equinoxes, and Callimachus says that he was the first who made any discoveries concerning the Ursa Minor, or Lesser Bear, of which the Phoenicians availed themselves in navigation. He supposed the earth to be in the midst of the universe, to revolve round its own centre, and to be placed upon the waters of the sea, by which it was agitated in such a manner as to produce its motion. He was so well acquainted with the celestial motions that he was able to predict the solar eclipse which took place B. C. 609, though probably with no great accuracy as to time; for Herodotus, who relates this fact, only says that he foretold the year in which it would happen. He supposed the sun to be a luminous body, one hundred and twenty times larger than the moon. The moon he supposed an opaque body, of which one side only was capable of reflecting the light of the sun; and on this hypothesis he solved the phenomena of the moon’s different phases. He also taught the Greeks the division of the heavens into five zones, and in the solstitial and equinoctial points approached so near to the knowledge of the true length of the solar revolution that
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
211
he corrected their calendar and made the year to consist of 365 days. The month he limited to thirty days, and to every twelfth month added five days more to complete the solar year. This method he had learned from the Egyptians.
When on one occasion he went out to contemplate the stars he through inadvertency fell into a ditch. An old female domestic immediately ran up to him, and, having disengaged him, said to him in jest: “ What! Thales, do you suppose yourself capable of discovering what is going on in heaven, when you cannot see what is even at your feet ?”
Like Homer, he looked upon water as the principle of .. all things. The earth is condensed water, and the air ratified water. All things continually undergo a change, and at last everything is resolved into water. It is probable, however, that by the term water he meant- to express the same idea as is expressed by the word cAaos,. the notion annexed to which was a turbid and muddy mass from which all things were produced. He made similar conjectures concerning the origin of winds, from the matter of which thunderbolts consist, and the cause of thunder and lightning.
Thales was the founder of the Ionian sect, which dis-* . tinguished itself by its deep and abstruse speculations under his successors and pupils, among whom we count Anaximander, Anaximenes, Anaxagoras, and Archelaus, this last the master of Socrates.	.
Thales used to say: “ There is nothing more ancient than God, for He has not been created; there is nothing more beautiful than the world, because it is the work of God; there is nothing quicker than the mind, it passes in an instant over all.the world; there is nothing greater than space, because it contains all beings; there is nothing stronger than necessity, because it accomplishes every purpose; there is nothing wiser than time, since there is nothing, however secret, which it does not discover; there is nothing more agreeable and lovely than to gratify inclinations; there is nothing so base as to see a tyrant allowed to grow old; in misfortune it is a great consolation to learn that our tormentors are as unhappy as ourselves ;* a man ought never to do that himself which he would blame in others; of our friends we ought to be equally mindful whether they be present or absent; we ought to assist our parents that we may deserve the assistance of our children; truly happy is he who enjoys perfect health and a moderate fortune and spends his life free from effeminacy and ignorance; hope is the only thing that is common to all; there is nothing more hurtful than malice, it wounds even the good man when it touches him; to talk much is no mark of superior understanding.”
To Thales nothing appeared more difficult than selfknowledge. This consideration led him to that excellent precept which was afterwards engraved on a plate of gold in the temple of Apollo and which Juvenal attributed to the god himself:) KNOW THYSELF. He also taught the immortality of the soul, and maintained that there was no
* We must remember that these are the sentiments of a pagan, who was not enlightened, by the sublime principles of Christianity. We ought to excuse Thales, but at the same time not to , forget the precept of Him who said: “Love your enemies; bless them that curse you; do good to them that hate you ; and pray for them that calumniate and persecute you.”
+ Juvenal. - E ccelo descend'd to gnothi seauton.
difference between life and death, and having been asked why then he did not kill himself, he replied, that since to live or to die was the same thing, there was no motive left to induce him to choose the one in preference to the other.
There are several other stories told about our Milesian-philosopher. He used to thank the gods for three things: that he was born a rational creature rather than a brute; a man rather than a woman; and a Greek rather than a barbarian.	v
There came to him one day a man who asked him whether we could conceal our actions from the gods ? “ To them,” he replied, “ even our most secret thoughts can never be unknown.”
Some young men of Miletus intending one day to ridicule Thales, told him that his science must be very barren, since it had left him in indigence. The philosopher endeavored to show them that if wise men did not amass great riches, it was through pure contempt of them, and that it was easy for them to acquire things on which they set no value. By his astronomical observations he foresaw that the year would be very productive. He bought up before their season all the olive fruits in the neighborhood of Miletus. The crops proved abundant, and Thales made considerable profit; but being quite disinterested, he assembled the merchants of Miletus, and among them distributed all his gains.
Mandretus of Priene, who had been his scholar, having come to Miletus to pay him a visit, said to him: “ What reward, Thales, would you have me bestow upon you, in testimony of the gratitude which I feel for all the excellent precepts for which I am indebted to you ? ” “ When you have an opportunity of teaching others,” said Thales, “ let them know that I am the author of the doctrine you teach. In you, this will discover a laudable modesty; and to me it will be a valuable reward.”
Thales maintained a very high degree of respectability during his whole life. He was consulted on the most important affairs. Croesus, having engaged in a war against the Persians, advanced at the head of a numerous army to the banks of the river Halys, and found himself much embarrassed how to pass it. He had neither bridges nor boats, and to ford it was impossible. Thales, who happened at that time to be in his camp, assured him that he could enable his army to pass the river without either boats or bridge. ’He immediately engaged men in digging a large trench in the form of a crescent, beginning at one end of the camp, and terminating at the other. Thus was the river divided into two branches, both of which were fordable and the army passed without difficulty.
Thales would never allow the Milesians to make an alliance with Crcesus, who earnestly desired it. The prudence of Thales was the safety of his country; for Cyrus, having conquered the Lydians, sacked all the towns which had joined the confederacy, but spared Miletus, which had taken no active part against him.
When feeble with age, Thales caused himself one day to be carried to the amphitheatre, to witness the combats. The excessive heat had such an effect upon him that he died suddenly on the spot. This happened in the fiftyeighth Olympiad, the ninety-second of his age, about 550 years before the Christian era. His funeral was celebrated with the greatest pomp by the Milesians. On his tombstone was written the following epitaph: “ As the tomb of Thales here below is small, so the glory of this prince of astronomers is great in the starry regions.” Diogenes Laertius wrote in his honor an epigram alluding to the
212	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
circumstance of his death, and ending with the following words: “It is a great kindness of Jupiter to have taken into heaven an old man, whose eyes, obscured by age, could no longer from such a great distance obseive the stars.”
‘	S.
A Glance at the Stars.
When the uneducated man looks at the beautiful stars which glisten in the clear night, what does he see? what are his thoughts ? He sees many lights seemingly suspended from heaven. He knows not what they are, and hence they are of no particular interest to him', except as far as beanty goes, and even this he cannot fully appreciate, since he does not know its origin. His thoughts do not take in their origin or history. He cannot perceive their fantastic shapes, from which they were divided into numerous constellations, and which form one of the many attractions of the delightful study of Astronomy. With what different feelings does the learned student gaze upon them! A sense of awe comes over him as he thinks of their enormous distance, their vast size, their history, and, greatest of all, the powerful Hand of Him who placed them in the firmament—revolving in endless space, without other support than the will of the Creator—a brilliant evidence of His power. When the student, first commencing the study of Astronomy, is able to trace out the constellations of Ursa Major and Ursa Minor, Cygnus, Scorpio, and perhaps Taurus, a new interest is awakened in his breast and he becomes eargerly desirous of learning more. So fascinating is this study, that, once commenced, it is very difficult to discontinue it and take up another, no matter how delightful,—as, for instance, Geology. Every time the scholar glances up at those bright orbs suspended from the blue vault of heaven, he recalls to mind the trials and misfortunes of the ancient astronomers, and the great length of time occupied by them in the solution of a single problem, such as discovering that the course of the earth about the sun is in-the form of an ellipse. When we think of Virgilius, Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, and other celebrated astaonomers of the olden time, we may truly say that they were gifted with a remarkable degree of perseverancce.
The uneducated man knows nothing of all these things; he sees those little twinkling orbs dotting the beautiful canopy of heaven, and thinks, no doubt, that they look very pretty, that is all. He knows nothing of their wonderful magnitude—does not for a moment think that some of them are far greater in size than this Earth which we inhabit, being dwindled down to a mere point in our eyes by the immense distance separating them from us. He may know that they do not always retain the same position in relation to our Earth, but he is unacquainted with the regularity of their movements or the relation of one heavenly body to another. All these facts, which make the study of Astronomy so intersting, are hidden from the uneducated man; whereas the astronomer reads the heavens like a book, and as he beholds so large a number of bodies whirling in space, without any apparent support, yet moving in regular order, each in its own orbit, he cannot help admiring the omnipotence of God, who created all these things by His word, and who by a simple act of His will supports them in boundless space. ’
F. W. B.
The Elizabethan Drama.
In glancing over the literary annals of a nation, we are forcibly struck with the fact that in the rude time of its early history—when the people were comparatively unlearned, and the resources of art less cultivated—poetry flourished more, and reached a loftier standard of general excellence than it afterwards attained when the sun. of science and education had cast its resplendent rays upon the nation and refined the people. In England this fact is particularly noticeable in regard to dramatic poetry, which, from the middle of Elizabeth’s reign until the end of that of James the First, was the most dazzling not only of the poetry of the period, but of any in our literature. No other -age presents such a splendid array of dramatic writers —no other possesses dramas so pre-eminent for originality and poetic sentiment. During this era Shakespeare, Beaumont and Fletcher, Ben Jonson, Massinger, Ford, Shirley, Webster, and others, form a brilliant constellation, and their gigantic powers of thought marvellously developed the English drama, and produced compositions which arc among the rarest poetic gems in the casket of literature. Their style is singularly beautiful. Their diction is marked by a fascinating simplicity, while their scenes abound with intensely rich creations of fancy.
In selecting figures of speech, they do not confine themselves to any particular range, but they draw them indiscriminately from the inexhaustible fountain of nature. When we compare the narrowed manner of the French dramatists in choosing their embellishments according to classic rules, with the wide-spread ramblings of the Elizabethan school, we are forced to acknowledge the vast superiority of the compositions of the grand old English masters. Another charming peculiarity in the works produced by these seemingly inspired writers of this golden period, is that their characters discourse in unsteady and irregular dialogue, like real men and women; while in the Continental drama every speech is ostentatiously set forth in pompous declamation.
French dramas are inferior, in as much as their studied and digested speeches are not characteristic, since they are not natural. As works of “eloquent argumentation” we do not deny them the first place; but as true representations of nature—as exact portraits of human character—as vehicles of the virtues and passions—we hold them inferior to the effusions of the old English dramatists. But although the composition sproduced by the Elizabethan masters abound in excellencies which cause them to far outshine the dramas of any other period, although they are masterpieces, displaying elegance of diction, rich creations of transcendent genius, extended flights of poetic fancy—yet they have faults, and that these faults are numerous and glaring cannot be denied by any one not carried away by an idolatrous love. They sometimes allow their florid passages to degenerate into downright bombast; again, they are often sometimes heavy and inelegant; but by far their most unpardonable fault is the employment of low, vulgar and obscene expressions and allusions; for' although we may make some allowance for the customs of the age in which they wrote, we cannot by any means deem these customs an entire excuse for their maleficence in these respects. ‘
But if the faults of those writers are to be severely condemned, their excellencies are to be highly extolled; and the common verdict of critics is that their works are among

THE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	213
the most imperishable monuments ever reared by dramatic genius. The judgment of Lord Jeffrey is so just and impartial a criticism of the age about which we are writing that we have been tempted to quote it: “When we look camly and candidly,” he says, “ to the works of our early dramatists, it is impossible, we think, to dispute, that after criticism has done its worst on them—after all deductions for impossible plots and fantastical characters, unaccountable forms of speech, and occasional extravagance, indelicacy and horrors—there is a facility and richness about them, both of thought and of diction—a force,of invention, and a depth of sagacity—an originality of conception, and a play of fancy—a nakedness and energy of passion and, above all, a copiousness of imagery, and a sweetness and flexibility of verse, which is altogether unrivalled in earlier or later times; and places them, in our estimation, in the very highest and foremost place among ancient or modern poets.	E. F. A.
►
Perseverance.
It is related that at one time the abbot of a certain monastery interrogated his brethren as to w’hich is the greatest virtue a man can possess. One answered meekness; another, chastity; and a third one, voluntary poverty; in this way did they all answer, until finally one very old and holy monk being asked his opinion, replied that the great-of all virtues is perseverance. A man may possess all the cardinal virtues, but if he lacks the grace to persevere in those virtues, all will avail him naught. So it is with regard to the attainment of any object. Although a young man is endowed with great talent, a bright intellect, and all the prerequisites .of genius, he never will succeed without perseverance.	'
Perseverance is, as it were, the motive power which propels the human mind onward in the acquisition of knowledge; that gives to mediocrity a higher place than genius unaided by perseverance can obtain; in short, perseverance is like a crown of great magnificence, and genius and talent are the gems which adorn it. That was a happy reply, indeed, that Archimedes made to the tyrant of Syracuse, Dionysius, when desired to instruct him in geometry by an easier method than the common: “I know of no royal road to geometry.” There is, however, a royal road to geometry, and alike to everything else—that is, the road of perseverance. What is the cause of this seemingly vast intellectual superiority of one student over another? For instance, two young men enter college together and in the course of a few years they go out into the world; one is a a young man of well-developed mind and superior education, the other is scarcely above mediocrity. .
The one of average intellect hassurpassed the bright and talented young man. Now, to what is this attributable? Undoubtedly to the perseverance of the one, and the neg. ligence or lack of energy of the other. Who does not at once see a similarity between these two young men and the tortoise and the hare? The one, over-presumptuous and confident of his own powers, lies napping; while the other, in his slow but steady pace, wins the race.
If- we glance over history, we find that all the great men, both of ancient and modern times, were men of great perseverance, of the most undaunted courage, and who were never disheartened by obstacles—in fact, seemingly acquiring fresh energy the more obstacles they had to sur
mount. Perseverance is, indeed, the characteristic of greatness. Demosthenes was the greatest orator the world produced—he became so by perseverance. Hernando Cortes, with a few thousand men, by the most unexampled perseverance, combatted and defeated Montezuma and the millions at his command. In our own country do we not. behold proofs of what can be accomplished by perseverance ? are not the greatest of our men self-made men ? men who by the power of their untiring energy and industry have raised themselves to the high and honorable positions they now occupy? Yes: and we may say without fear of contradiction that there is not a country in the world where perseverance and merit are so well rewarded as in our own. What an incentive this should be to young men to use their time and talents to some purpose— not to waste those precious moments of the seed-time of life; but to work assiduously and earnestly, that they may gain the end for which they are destined. Like the faithful servant mentioned in the Gospel, there are so many talents entrusted to us, and with this faithful servant we should be able to answer, when the Master comes and reckons with us,. “ Master, Thou didst deliver to me' five talents; behold I have gained other five over and above.”
B. C.
Bare Books in Trinity College, Dublin.
When Mr. Gladstone visited the College in October, 1877, some very old and interesting books were shown him, He was much amused at seeing G4 vols., all finely bound, of his own writings. He was shown the first book ever printed in Ireland, it being Edward VPs first Protestant prayer-book; Humphrey, Powell an Englishman, was brought over expressly to print it (Ireland had been so long under the tyrant’s heel that there were no native printers—least of all Protestant ones); its date is 1551; Cax-ton (an English Catholic) had his press at work in Westminster in 1477. There were also two vols. of Edward VI’s second Protestant prayer-book, of which there is but one vol. more in existence. -
There are also beautiful Venetian editions of Virgil, Ovid and Lactantius, of 1474, the “Faerie Queen”of 1609, John Elliott’s translation of the Bible into an American Indian dialect, which, with the tribe that used it, is now extinct. Also Mary Queen of ■ Scots’ copy of Sallust, with her autograph.
When the party came into the librarian’s room some of the real treasures of the College were exhibited, in manuscript. First of all, in order of time and of value, came the Book of Kells, which with the gorgeously illuminated Roman Missal, dates from 1459, and is considered to be one of the most elaborate and exquisite specimens in the world. Mr. Gladstone particularly noticed in the Book of Kells the pictures representing “ the procession” and the likeness of God the Father, as being very remarkable productions of the iconoclastic 6th century. The Book of Durrow compiled in 916; the Book of Armagh, the original of the “ Senchus Mor,” containing the BrehonLaws; the Codes Montfortianus, which is remarkable for containing the passage relating to the “Three that bear witness in heaven,” from the first Epistle of St. John; and the “ Codex Rescriptus,” one of the very few recovered manuscripts of Ireland. Mr. Gladstone made many enquiries about it, and truly called it a palimpsest.
It is many a long day since the treasures of Trinity Col*
4
214
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lege got such an overhauling, and it is equally long since Old Trinity entertained so illustrious a guest or one so capable of appreciating the literary feast that was laid out for him.
It is supposed there are 200,000 volumes in the library.
Scientific Notes.
-=lt seenls that in Germany there is a regular trade in furnishing dissertations to students desirous of obtaining honors at the universities.
—M. Faye, the celebrated French astronomer, recently addressed the quarterly meetingof the five Paris academies, taking for his subject “The non-existence of any lunar action on weather.
—The conditions under which diamonds are found in Australia and Africa have led to the conclusion that they have been formed in volcanic vents opened in sandstones and shales in which thin coal seams are intercalated.
—A Dumfriesshire (Scotland) gentleman protests against ravages caused by botany classes. He says that the intense desire to obtain specimens will lead, by and by, to the actual extinction of many British flora.
—Prof. Colladon insists that most of the metallic wires used as lightning conductors on buildings are by far too slender. He says that they should be at least 503 millimetres in section, otherwise they are more likely to do harm than good.
—The French government is to begin work for the utilization of the Rhone in irrigating the departments of the Mediterranean, and it is expected that the loss sometimes resulting from drought will not only be prevented, but the general fertility of the region will be greatly increased:
—The celebrated French aeronaut, M. Gaston Tissandier, and his brother, recently made a balloon ascension for the purpose of collecting cosmic dust in the atmosphere. The method employed has been to condense the moisture of the air and analyze the water and ice thus obtained with a microscope.
—Blind fish are found in some Swiss lakes, but they are not as large as similar animals obtained from subterranean waters. This fact is explained by the fact that in the illumination of the open lakes they encounter a rivalry from their better-furnished brethren that prevents them obtaining a full supply of food.	-	.
—The wonderful magnitude of the least operations in nature is illustrated by the quantity of honey that can be gathered from flowers. Two hundred thousand pounds have been taken from bees kept witbin an area of ten miles, and on this basis it is plain that our continent might be made to produce thousands of tons yearly, and the honey crop outdo the sugar crop.
—A stretch of 120 miles of the River Indus has now for the first time been explored. It extended from the northwest of Kashmir to the India frontier of Derbend; and although lying very near the boundaries of Hindostan, has been hitherto a totally unknown region.
—During a hot term in England in the last summer, the honey-dew was noticed in several places to be remarkably abundant. It dropped from the trees, especially the sycamores, like rain; and to stand under one of them was to run the risk of having the clothes thickly sprinkled with the clammy shower.
—A. catalogue of Wisconsin plants, made by Mr. T. A. Bruhin, of Centerville, mentions 450 species which are common to Wisconsin and Europe. Of these, 239 species are supposed to have been originally common to the flora of Wisconsin and Europe, the remaining having been introduced from one country to the other.
—It is stated in the Naturalist that some specimens of the mollusk Littorina muricata were found to be alive two months after they were collected, although kept in a dry place. A few survived a month longer. Specimens of the Littorina irrorata were still living in the cans in which they had been placed, four months after their capture.
—Some seeds of the Guilandina Bonduc, that were borne by ocean-currents from the West Indies to the shores of England, were planted by the finder, and proved their vitality by sprouting. It is supposed that they were at least three months afloat on the sea, and soaked with the briny water. The Guilandina belongs to the beau family, and its seeds are as large as those of the Kentucky coffeetree.	•
—An English paper lately gave an interesting account of the productiveness of different species of bulbs. Some produce annually a large number of offsets, while others yield but few. The tulip named “ Goldham’s Mary ’’ makes but one new bulb each year; other species make a dozen or more. One variety of Gladiola, called “ Brenchleyensis,” multiplies a thousandfold in the course of half-a-dozen years.
—A note on the change in color of the common frog is published in Hardwicke's Science-Gossip. A gentleman noticed, at the time of feeding a pet specimen in his vivarium, that he was of a beautiful lemon color, with drab spots and markings. The frog at the time had been in a secluded, spot in the vivarium; but, an hour after his meal, which was followed by a bath, his color changed to a dark drab bordering upon black.	'
—The singing of mice is a phenomenon which was affirmed by Dr. Bernier in a letter to La Natura. A distinguished herpetologist, M. Laraste, suggested that he may have made confusion with the singing of the raniform ba-trachian, the liombinator igneus, but Dr. Bernier said there was no marshy ground near the room in which he had heard it, and he stuck to his assertion. His observation has been confirmed at a recent meeting of the French Societe d’Acclimation, by M. Brierre, who stated that he, with several others, had heard mice sing at Saint Michael-Sur-l’Herou (in Vendee), in 1851-1853. The singing—which at first was attributed to reptiles—came from a cupboard bought in a market-place, and concealing mice. It wasaboutsunsetthat the sounds generally commenced. M. Brierre soaped the joints of the wood so that he might open the cupboard suddenly without noise. He did the latter one evening soon after the sounds had commenced, and succeeded in observing, for about a minute, the movements of the throat of a mouse, which emitted a song like that of a wren, the snout being elongated and held up in the air as a dog does when he howls. He seized the animal with his hand and called others to see it, but it got off. The singing was resumed the same night and those following. M. Brierre is unable to attribute the singing of the mice—as Dr. Bernier does—to imitation of that of canaries, for he had no birds in the house, nor had the previous proprietor of the cupboard any.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Paul Feval, a recent convert, has written a defence of “ The Jesuits.”
—It is proposed to make a fac-simile reprint of theMiz-arine Bible, the edition to be limited to 300 copies.
—M. Horoy has written “ La Cie du Syllabus. Nouveau Commentaire Historique et Doctrinal d’apres les Acta.”
—L’Abbe Vacaudard has just written a study of St. Bernard—the sources, the principles and the effects of his eloquence.
—Hachette & Cie., of Paris, have just published Bour-gault-Ducondray’s “Etudes sur la Musique Ecclesiastique Grecque.”
—The seventh edition is announced of Alph. Chassant’s “Paleographie des Chartes et des Manuscripts du XIe au XVIIe Siecle.”
—The second edition of Pfire Ledoux's “ Les Sept Eein-heureux Fondateurs de 1’Ordre des Servites de Marie ” has just been issued.
—Signor Verdi has, on the plea of “ prior engagements,” declined to act as musical commissioner for Italy at .the Paris exhibition.
—The sonnets of Michael Angelo and Thomas Campanella have been translated into English rhymed verse for the first time by John Addiston Symonds.
—Urbano Lucchesi of Lucca is at present the most
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
215
promising young sculptor of Italy, ranking third to Monte-verde and Dupre, who are much older in the profession.
—M. Paul Baudry, who executed the paintings in the foyer of the Grand Opera at Paris, is to decorate the Church of St. Genevieve (the Pantheon) with twelve frescoes representing deeds of Joan of Arc.
—“ Une Colonie Feodale en Amerique” is the title of a book by M. Rameau (Paris, Didier), which recounts the history of the French colony of Acadia, on whose misfortunes Longfellow built his poem “Evangeline.”
—“Nero,” Rubenstein’s new opera, calls for three first tenors and many leading singers. There are also said to be lingual difficulties in the way of its production. It has been written in French, translated into Russian, published in German, and will be performed in Italian.
—There has lately been printed in England for private circulation a very curious collection of Jacobite ballads, songs and satires, which have been dug out of the library at Towneley Hall, Lancashire, the seat of theTowneleys of Towneley, one of the half dozen oldest Roman Catholic families in Lancashire.
—The following objects of virtu, collected at great pains and cost by the late Grand Duchess Marie of Russia, in her villa of Quarto, near Florence, were sold at auction on the 1st inst.: Modern and ancient furniture, tapestries, rare leathers, majolicas, bronzes, porcelains, crystals, embroideries, carpets of sundry patterns and dates, paintings, and statues. Amateurs from a distance vied with each other in securing specimens.
—The admirers of the late Theresa Tiliens in England are discussing plans for doing honor to her memory. A monument over her grave in Kensal Green Cemetery was first discussed, but, we believe, abandoned, because of a request of Mlle. Titiens to the effect that a simple stone alone should mark her resting-place. A movement to found a musical stipend in her honor has therefore been substituted. A portrait bust of the great singer will be placed in the vestibule of her Majesty’s Theatre. .
—Concerning John Rutherford’s Book, “ The Secret History of Fenianism” (London: C. Kegan Hall & Co.), the Dublin Irishman says: “ With the exception of a few facts picked out of the newspapers, the narrative is purely a work of fiction. Even these facts are distorted and discolored, and so veiled in exaggeration that they are barely traceable.” It denounces the book as libellious, full of inaccuracies, misstatements and falsehoods, and to be regarded as a “ monstrous farrago of fiction.”
—A photographer of Bologna, by dint of importunity, obtained the signal favor of the Pope sitting to him. After two unsuccessful attempts, his Holiness was waxing impatient, but the artist besought him to give him a third trial. The trial was allowed, and the result was a good likeness. A few days later the photographer reappeared before the Holy Father with the specimen of his skill; but the Pope was still somewhat displeased, and said: “ You tried my patience too hard, but it will be the last time.” Then he took one of the photographs and wrote under it: “ L’ultimo mio ritratto (my last portrait). Pio IX.” A French Ultramontane offered four thousand dollars for the negative of the photo, but the artist would not part with it at any price.
—The stage manager, Rudolph Waldman, at Dortmund has lately begun a series of plays in the low German (Platt-deutsch) dialect with unexpected success. More than two thousand spectators were present the first evening, October 8th, and the applause was incessant. Since Frederic Renter, and others, have published works both in poetry and prose in this idiom, more attention has been paid to it. Philologists have taken an interest in the Saxon roots of the English language, and the study of this dialect is of peculiar importance, since the sound and meaning of a great many low German words are very much like words in English. This is the reason why in the United States the emigrants from Northern Germany generally learn the English language much sooner and have a better pronunciation than their “landsmen” of Southern Germany. That the low German dialect is much in vogue even in this country, is evident from a recent advertisement in a leading German daily at Chicago, offering situations for commercial
travellers, who, among other things, are required to be fa- . miliar with the Plattdeutsch idiom.
—Mr. W. W. Story, the sculptor, is now on a visit to this country, and has given to the New York Tribune some facts regarding his recent works: “ The last work on which I was engaged prior to my departure for this country,” said Mr. Story, “ was Clytemnestra,—that is, the last work of importance. I did a little Eros in bronze just before leaving Rome. Clytemnestra is represented standing with foldedarmsafter having committed the murder of Agamemnon. She is shown glorying in the deed. This work is now being transferred from the clay to marble. I also did recently an Electra. She is represented at the tomb of Agamemnon. Another work which I completed recently is an Alcestis being brought back from the lower regions by Hercules. The figure is draped. All these works are of heroic sizes.” Mr. Story is now 58 years old, and is described as “a handsome, well preserved gentleman. . . . whose well-shaped head, covered with frosty hair, pointed mustache and goatee, and sparkling eyes set in a bronzed oval face, strongly call to mind some mousque as painted by Meissonier.”
Books and Periodicals.
—One of our most welcome monthly visitors is Barnes' Educational Monthly. It is a magazine which must be of incalculable service to the teacher, more especially to the mathematical teacher, for the excellent problems which it contains are just what he wants.
—The November number of the Catholic Record is entertaining as could be wished. We would suggest to the publishers that with the coming year the cover of the magazine be changed for a better one. The contents of the Record are: I, The Conclave. How the Pope is elected; II, The Three Canticles of Divine Love, by St. Francis, of Assisium; III, Not of the Earth, Earthy; IV, St. Paul on Rationalism; V, The Voice of Conscience; VI, Light in the Dark Ages. Manners and Customs; VH, A Ray of Sunlight; VIII, Eudoxia. A Picture of the Fifth Century; IX, The Ocean Bed; X, Some French Churches; XI, TheReider Alp; XII, Editorial Notes; XIII, New Publications.—New Ireland. Miniature Lives of the Saints. The Christian Reformed in Mind and Manners.
The Lives and Times of Illustrious and Representative Irishmen. By Thomas Clarke Lubj', A. B., T. C. D. New York: Thomas Kelly, 17 Barclay Street. 1877.
“The main and primary ideaof this most striking and interesting work.” says the author, “ is the selection of those representative Irishmen, whose careers may be said to embody and impersonate, as it were, all the constancy and heroism of Ireland’s unparalleled resistance to foreign domination, and' also those whose lives illustrate whatever is striking and noteworthy in the varying phases of Irish manners and intellectual progress, especially since Irish intellect had to contend with the manifest disadvantage of having to incarnate, so to speak, its thoughts and fancies in an alien tongue. Thus the reader of these lives, without being obliged to wade through the tedious and uninteresting portions of Irish history, will have unfolded to his view a series of life-like pictures of Ireland’s glorious struggles, against fearful odds, for her freedom; of all the principal periods and critical turning-points of Irish story; while, in addition to the achievements of the men of action, the work will give entertaining and instructive biographies of those intellectual giants—literary, artistic and scientific—who have vindicated the intellectual claims of Ireland’s sons, in every age, from that of Brian Boroimhe down to the most recent times.” The writer has done his work in an excellent manner; his style is strong and vigorous, and at the same time there is an elegance which captivates the reader. The publication is by subscription, on these conditions: The work will be completed in about twenty parts, at fifty cents each. Each part will contain about fifty pages of letter-press. There will be two engravings in every part. The parts are payable on delivery, the carrier not being allowed to give credit, or receive money in advance. No subscriber’s name received for less than the entire work.
216
4
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
't	'
Notre Dame, December 1, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ihd., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students. “
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
No Taxation Without Representation.
For this did our fathers rise in their power as a people; for this right most sacred was their blood shed on the battlefields of our land, and they fondly imagined that by their death this truth was firmly planted on our soil, and would ever abide in the hearts of the people. Yet is not this privilege—foundation as it is of our liberties,—is it not violated in our day ? Can we not point to a most flagrant violation of it? Is not our present School System a standing denial of this truth? We propose to discuss, not the violation of this right as seen in the secularization of our schools, but the violation as seen in what are known as the High Schools, which form the greatest injustice on not only the Catholic, but also the poor man.
We lay down, in the beginning, three evident truths to which we would invite the attention of all our readers. It is the design of a free government to legislate for all; and public institutions—such as the Public Schools—are not to be directly for the sole advantage of certain classes. Secondly, moneys raised by taxation for the public good should be applied so as to satisfy the conscientious demands of all citizens. Thirdly, taxation otherwise directed than for the good of all, is a violation of the maxim, “ Taxation without representation is tyranny.” These three truths are at the base of all the outcry against our present school system. Each and every one is violated in the case of the ■ poor men of the land, and also in the case of the Catholic, be he poor or rich. These are evident truths, and need no proof: all that is necessary being to apply them to the case of our High Schools. As the last is but the foundation of the other two, we will consider them first, and then show, or rather point out, for no demonstration is necessary, that ' the High Schools are a violation of our fundamental rights.
That government should legislate for all, is to Amer
icans a self-evident truth; and that public institutions should be conducted for the general good, must also be allowed. The High Schools of America in this respect violate the rights of the poor and the Catholic. It violates the rights of the Catholic, for if he were able to use the temporal benefits these schools hold out (as he generally is not, on account of poverty), he yet cannot, on account of his belief that they destroy the morality of their inmates, and hence violate in his eyes, and we trust in those of every true American, the second truth laid down. They violate the rights of the poor, man, for he cannot use them and yet must support them. As poor here understood, we include our working men and laborers, every one who has no sup>| port but the daily earnings of his labor, and in this class must we rank at least three-fourths of our people. They cannot use these schools, owing to their inability to keep their children at them, and therefore they are taxed for the good of the rich. What use to the child of humble parents to learn Latin, music, drawing, and the sciences? It but ’ cultivates a dislike for work, and unfits it for its station in life. “ We have but few American laborers now. Our children are educated above it, and the industry of America is given up to foreigners,” who believe in education of the heart, not the head, for the poor man. But the vast majority of poor children cannot afford to attend these schools. They can go to the primary schools, and then when they have risen to our High Schools, certainly never into them, they are old enough to work, and their parents are obliged through poverty to place them at some trade for life. They do not enjoy what is good in our High Schools, and thus they have the injustice of legislation for the few placed on them. As Horace Greeley says, they, the High Schools, offer “ studies intended for the children of the rich at the expense of the public”; and of that public the poor man is the most oppressed tax-payer; for capital adds the tax on its articles, and thus places the burden on the consumer. Therefore we contend that our High Schools are an injustice on the poor, and an evident violation of the rights of legislation for the good of all.
Our High Schools violate in a most unjustifiable manner the second truth, that taxes must be applied to satisfy the conscientious demands of all citizens. All our people believe in the necessity of morality for the preservation of the State, and do not our High Schools sap this morality and destroy it in the mind of their pupils ? Let us take the opinions of men of note in the world, of statesmen. Lord Derby says: “Public education should be considered as inseparable from religion; and the contrary system is the. realization of a foolish and dangerous idea.” Mr. Gladstone: “Every system of education which places religion in the background is pernicious.” Lord John Russell: “Religion should regulate the entire system of discipline in schools.” Guizot: “It is necessary that national education should be given and received in the midst of a religious atmosphere,- and that religious impressions and religious observations should penetrate all its parts.” This is, then, the opinion that the most enlightened minds outside of the Church hold in regard to religious influences on education. Do not our High Schools violate it? Nay, do not even the primaiy schools also violate it ? Says Professor Taylor Lewis, in the Christian World:
“ ‘But what shall the child read ? It would be very difficult-to find a mere reading book—unless its contents were an empty gabble, like the nonsense Latin verses of some schools—that would not somewhere and in some way, betray moral or immoral, religious or irreligious ideas, according to the judgment of some minds.’ * * ♦ A lower dogma was never main-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	217
taincd than this of a -wholly secular education, or one more ■ utterly impracticable."
Speaking of the higher branches, the Journal of Commerce says:	‘	•
“It is all in vain to say that geography, arithmetic, history, hotany, etc., may be taught as sciences without any necessary -' connection with religion, "true or false.”
Thus do the High Schools pretend to teach morality without religion against the opinion of all ages and men, and yet our nation upholds them in it. “Are ye then men alone, and shall wisdom die with ye?’’ We have in this * violated the right that citizens possess, of having taxes applied so as not to conflict with their conscientious demands.
But it may be said our schools are a public charity to the ' poor. Close them up, and what will be the result? We - saw above the fallacy of this objection. The poor must pay for them, and cannot use them. Is the rich man the only tax payer? “Thousands of children would grow up in ignorance that are now afforded the means of becoming intelligent and useful citizens.” Intelligence and education • are here confounded. Education makes a good and useful citizen, not intelligence. The schools do not, as alleged, place rich and poor on a common ground. The truth is that in no nation is there such a gulf between rich and poor. Again, it is a fallacy to suppose all men should be made equal in intellectual development. Some men must be leaders, and others must be led. Consider the folly of a nation of leaders. “ The State must educate for its own protection, and for the public good, or the good of the community.” True. But is' the State educating for its own protection when it educates without religion? “Only church towers prop the domes of State.” Is it educating for the public good when it educates only for a class, not for the public, and when it educates against the opinion of enlightened men and ages? No: the State is not the educator, but it should have its citizens educated.
We are not of those who would destroy our free school system, founded on the taxation of property for their support—we would retain it, but freed from the unjust system of High Schools, and the pernicious system of no religion, and therefore no morality. Let us have no High Schools, for they are a burden to the poor man, and makers of useless men and women. Let us have morality in schools, and therefore religion, for the absence of religion will prove the downfall of the State. Give us only Primary Schools, supported by public taxation, in which morality, the safeguard of States, is taught. For higher education let each pay and receive as much or little as he or I	she may.need. Remove the injustice of High Schools, and
of the absence of religious training. Let us no longer have the Government taxing all for the support of thejfeo, using such taxes against the conscientious demands of its citizens, ■ and violating the fundamental truth of our Nation that we shall have “No Taxation without Representation.”
The Musical Soiree. .
We cannot say that we arc entirely satisfied with the musical soiree, given on the Feast of St. Cecilia. Perhaps we expect too much at this time of the scholastic year; but we feel that with a little more effort the soiree of last week . might have been vastly improved, and we might as well say it now, as to wait later in the year to make the observation, that enthusiasm and hard work oh the part of both
pupils and teachers are necessary in order that our musical entertainments be entirely successful. Where either of these two things is wanting there must be drawbacks in an entertainment to mar, -if'not destroy, the effect it is designed to produce.
We do not mean to say that the soiree was a failure; on the contrary, there was much of the music really excellent, and none that could be called bad; yet, taken altogether, it did not come up to the high standard which we have a right to expect and which we know can be reached.
The quartette of string instruments was an excellent thing. Kreutzer’s “ Night in Granada ” was rendered with a feeling and expression which are worthy of great praise. The violin solos by Messrs. A. Sievers, J. P. McHugh and A. K. Schmidt were given in a manner highly creditable to the young performers, and were really worthy the generous applause bestowed upon them. Messrs. L. Sievers, Carroll, and Fischel were felicitous in rendering their parts on the piano, and we hope to hear them frequently during the year.	.	.	.
Of the singing, some of it was given very well. We fear, however, that in the choruses the parts are not quite evenly balanced, and some young gentlemen do not pay attention enough to expression; the softer passages were lacking in sentiment—owing, probably, to a disregard of the teacher’s instructions in regard to expression. We have sympathized with music teachers at rehearsals when, after dinning the words "piano" or “pianissmo” for an hour ata time, and giving and repeating over and over again the signs for depressing or swelling or diminuendo, some of the class would nevertheless seem to think it a duty to give everything forte or fortissimo. With a little more attention to these points the singing would be much better enjoyed. The forte passages were given with fine effect.
A pleasing variation in the programme was the recitation of Dryden’s “ Ode to St. Cecilia,” by Master Frank McGrath, though we must regret that the young gentleman was not satisfied with the good effect his first effort had produced, and therefore saw fit to supplement it with a thoroughly worn-out selection. By the way, would it not be well for our Juniors to give up the habit of encoring everything in the shape of a declamation ? Now that the first soiree of the year has been given, we trust that all cott cerned—knowing how much good can be accomplished by such musical reunions, and seeing the weak as well as the strong points in their work, may be incited to renewed ex’ ertions, so that the soirees may not only be frequent but also first-class.
Personal.
—Denis Gorman (Commercial, of ’74,) is living at Arcola, Ind.
—Henry Borden (Commercial, of’71,) is living at Muskegon, Mich.
—Dr. J. Lavelle, of ’69, is practicing medicine at Loogootee, Ind.
•—M. Blackburn (Commercial, of’76,) is teaching school near Lincoln, Ill.
—Henry Cooney, of ’76, is cleik of one of the Catholic Indian Agencies, in Dakotah.
—Louis Loser (Commercial, of ’74.) is cashier of the Nashua Bank, Nashua, Iowa.	.
—William R. Hibbard, of ’60, has a large horticultural establishment at Jackson, Mich. -
—We were honored with a visit from Mr. Jos. Rumely, Sr., of Laporte, Ind., on Tuesday.	,
218
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
—Edward Davis (Commercial, of’72,) is the proprietor of a large ranche near Austin, Texas.
—We were pleased by a visit of our friends Rev. Fathers Shorlis and Sulnier, of St. Mary’s.
—	Joseph P. Beegan (Commercial, of ’76,) is deputy clerk of the Superior Court, Fort Wayne, Ind.
—	Win. P. Breen, of ’77, is reading law with Messrs. Coombs, Morris & Bell, Foit Wayne, Ind.
—	John Mahon (Commercial, of’66,) is at the head of the Tile Manufactoring Co., London, Ontario. ■	.
—	John P. Broderick (Commercial, of ’69.) is keeping books for the firm of Haliday Bros., Cairo, Ill.
—	James Mahon (Commercial, of ’66,) is one of the proprietors of the Globe Foundry, London, Ontario.
—	James M. Dinnen.(Commercial, of ’67,) is reading medicine at the Rush Medical College, Chicago. Mr. Dinnen is a brother of Rev. John R. Dinnen, of Fort Wayne, Ind.
Local Items.
—Good notes this week.
—The various classes are visited regularly.
—The boats have now been put in winter quarters.
—Scrub games of baseball, etc., continue to be played.
—The rain spoiled most of our Indian Summer this year.
—The Band was out serenading on Thanksgiving Day.
—Alley ball is occasionally indulged in in the Senior yard.
—The weather at the beginning of the week was very disagreeable.
—Very Rev. President Corby lectured before the Juniors on Monday evening.
—The trapezes, rings, etc, now furnish most of the athletic amusements in the Junior department.
—There are a good number of subscribers to the reading room, and all take much interest in it.
—Some of the new-comers have introduced a new game amongst the Juniors. It is a field game.
—Prof. Gregori is at work upon his portraits of General Sheridan and Very Rev. President Corby.
—A number of the students received boxes on Thanksgiving Day. Of course they felt thankful.
—It is said that A. Widdicombe and M. Bannon are the champion racket players of the Junior department.
—The Juniors have the required number on the Roll of Honor this week and will, no doubt, receive the promised reward.
—We understand that the tables will be put up in the Junior hall. Quite a number of clubs will be started In a short while.
—Next Saturday, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the members of the religious societies will receive Holy Communion in a body.
—The Bulletins were made out last Wednesday. All should endeavor to have a good bulletin for the month of December. End the j ear well.
—There is a great deal of work going on at the tailorshop and shoeshop for the students. With good workmen there, the trade is made quite brisk at this season.
—A small package was found on the Scholastic box in the college corridor. Anyone owning it should call upon thehead Prefect of the Senior department.
—The following are the officers of the Academia for the ensuing year: President, John G. Ewing; Secretary, Patrick J. Cooney; Teasurer, Joseph P. McHugh.
—It is said that the moot courts held every Saturday morning are finely carried on, and are a source of much instruction to the members of the Law Class.
—The competitions given this past week in the Collegiate department show great improvement in all the classes. Some of the competitions are worthy of particular praise.
—Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. President
Corby on Thanksgiving Day. After- the Gospel, the Rev. celebrant preached a short sermon on the duty of thanksgiving to God.	„
—The St. Cecilians will give their Entertainment shout I the 20th of December. They will play “The Father’s Re-j venge,” a play originally written for them, and they will, t no doubt, do it full justice.
—The members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Assoc’a-tion are preparing their orations and essays for the coming literary Entertainment which they will give some time about the second week of December.
—At the farm-house here at Notre Dame there is a goat which is getting into bad habits. Among other things he has acquired the habit of chewing tobacco, and may be seen almost every day quietly chewing his quid.
—Very Rev. President Corby is under obligation to Mr. Charles F. Mueller, of Milwaukee, for favors received. Mr. Mueller is a man of fine taste, and will always receive a courteous welcome at Notre Dame.	.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are from the Common of a Confessor not Bishop, page 50 of the Ves-peral. Next Saturday, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, they are from the Common of the B. V. M., page 36.
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. (Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place Nov. 24th. At this meeting declamations were delivered by Masters J. Burger, A. Widdicombe, J. Healy, F. Cavanaugh, G. Cassidy, M. Burns and G. Sugg. Essays were read by Masters F. Carroll, R. Keenan, C. Hagan, R. Mayer, C. Clarke, J. Baker, aud F. Bloom.
—At the 13th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, held Nov. 25th, Messrs. Bannon and Shugrue were elected members. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Keenan, Barry, Gintz and Fischel. Essays were read by Messrs. McConlogue, Guy Williams, Claggett and Fitzgerald. The President congratulated the Society on its prosperity, after which the meeting adjourned.
—The 12th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society wTas held Nov. 26th. After a very stirring debate, the following declaimed: Masters K. Scanlan, A. J. Burger, L. Sievers, F. Clarke, E. J. Pennington, J. O’Hara, A. Abraham, F. Lang, C. Van Mourick, A. J. McCarthy, F. Pleins, and A. Rietz. Master A. Heitkam was elected a member. A vote of thanks was tendered to Bro. Leauder, C. S. C-, for his kindness to them on their festival.
—An old student writes: “ I remember well while a student at Notre Dame how we would rush for the office on Saturday afternoons for our Scholastics, especially if our names were on the Roll of Honor, or if it gave an account of a victory for our baseball club. Those happy days are gone, and with them many of our school-day companions; but the Scholastic has lost none of its charms for me. In fact it is . more interesting to me now than then. I find every column entertaining and instructive.”
—We would state, for the benefit of parents having sons here, that classes will be called until Saturday, December 22d, and that the day selected for students to leave for the Christmas vacation is Monday, Dec. 24th. It is to be hoped that no one will ask to have his son leave before that time, as it may seriously interfere with classes and study here. We would also call the attention of parents to the fact that this announcement is official, and that they need pay no attention to any rumors or reports different from this.
—The Junior Roll of Honor has reachedits premium number this week. We are glad to see this. The steady, stately and serious Seniors have a long list every week— one that does them much honor,—but the Juniors have heretofore only occasionally made a “home-run”—if a well-known phrase be allowed in this case. They have made a good one this week; and we hope—now that they see how easy it is, when one is really determined, to get on the roll of honor—those who have heretofore been backsliding will put on as good a front as the rest.
—The meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary on Sunday evening was well attended. Besides the regular members (some fifty in number), there were many of the clergy and professors of the College pres-

I
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC.	219
।	ent. The hymns were sung in a manner which showed
|	that the students of the Senior department ought to take
more partin the singing in the church. The ten-minutes’ instruction, given by Rev. D. E. Hudson, was well appreciated. Essays were read as follows: “The Rosary,” Jos. P. McHugh; “The Scapular,” Ambrose Hertzog; and the “ Life of St. Liguori,” S. Spalding. All were excellent. Before the close of the meeting Very Rev. Father Granger i - made, a short address, and alter singing a hymn the meeting I	adjourned.	"
i	—Some weeks ago we spoke of a valuable collection of
|	skeletons -which Very Rev. President Corby had purchased
for the Museum of Natural History, and promised to give
* a more detailed account of them in a future issue. They i	-were received here some time ago, and in a few days will
|	be placed in the beautiful cases which have been made for
?	them, where they can be seen by all. In order that our sci-
entific friends and others interested in such matters may be able to form an estimate of their value, we will give the list of them as it has been handed to us: 1 Human skeleton; 1 Gorilla—Troglodytes Gorilla; 1 Chimpanzee—Troglodytes Niger; 1 Black Spider Monkey—Ateles Paniscus; 1 Brown Spider Monkey; 1 Weeper Monkey—Gepus Gapucinus; 1 Pig Tailed Macaque, Macacus Nemestrinus; 1 Tee-Tee Sairmiri, Callithrix sciureus; 1 Marmosett, Jachus vulgaris; 1 Potto; 1 Serval, Fdis Serval; 1 Commom Cat, Fdis domes-tica; 1 Gray Wolf; 1 Beach Marten; 1 Brown Coati Mundi, Nasua fusca; 1 Fisher, Mustella Ganadensis; 1 American Sable, Mustdla Americana; 1 Ferret, Mustella Furo; 1
.	' . Mink, Putorius Vison; 1 Weasel, Putorius Neoboracensis;
.	1 Skunk, Mephitis Mephitica; 1 Otter, Lutra Canadensis; 1
,	Black Bear, Ursus Americana; 1 Raccoon, Procyon Lotor;
'	- 1 Mole; 1 Fox Squirrel, Sciurus ludovicianus; 1 Chipmunk;
?	1 Cappyhara; 2 American Beavers, Castor Canadensis; 1
f	Muskrat, Fiber Libdhicus; 1 White-Haired Porcupine,
Erethison dorsatus; 1 Porcupine—not identified; 1 Jackass Rabbit, Lepus Gallotis; 1 Gray Rabbit; 1 Pocket Gopher, Geomys Bursarius; 1 Prairie Dog, Cyomys ludovicianus; American Bison, Bos Americanus; 1 Common Sheep, Oois '	aries; 1 Wapiti, or American Elk, Cervus Canadensis; 1
|	Common Horse, Equus Gaballus; 1 Collared Peccary,
« Bicotyles torquatus; 1 Opossum, Didelphys Virginian; 1 I Two-Toed Sloth, Gholoepus didactylus; 1 Chicken Hawk;
11 Condor; 1 Emeu, Domauis Novos Hollandios; 1 Whistling Swan, Cygnus Americanus; 1 Mute Swan, Cygnus olor; 1 Black Swan, Cygnus Atratus; 1 Chicken Hawk; 1 Condor; J Silvery Spoonbill, Platalea Argentatus; 1 Bald Eagle; 1
।	Green Turtle, Ghdoma Mydas; 1 Snapping Turtle, Ghelydra
I	Serpentina; 1 Mud Turtle; 1 Alligator, Alligator lucius; 1
■	Boa Constrictor; 1 Toad, Bufo Americana; 1 Bullfrog,
•	very large; 1 Gray Parrot; 1 Red and Yellow Macaw; 1
:	Blue and Yellow Macaw; 1 skull of Sun Bear; 1 Babyrusca
;	skull; 1 Lynx skull; 1 Marmosett skull; 1 Crane skull; 1
I	Owl skull; 1 Alligator skull; 1 Elephant’s tooth, very
i	large. Besides the above there are a number of skulls of
1	monkeys, carnivores and others, not yet identified. All the
J	skeletons are artistically mounted on beautiful black walnut
f	pedestals with bronze standard, and, on the whole, constitute,
|	with what the Museum already contained, one of the most
»	select and complete collections of specimens of Comparative
.	Osteology possessed by any college in the country. Many of
. ;	the specimens, as will be seen by inspecting the above list,
are as rare as they are valuable. The number of Gorillas, ’ for instance, that have been brought to this country can . j	be easily counted on the fingers; indeed it would not be a
I	matter of very great difficulty to give, at least approxi-
Imately, the total number ever captured. To the student of Physiology, Zoology, Comparative Anatomy and Paleontology such a collection is invaluable, and renders his studies, at. times dry and often difficult, comparatively easy and interesting in the extreme. Indeed it is only quite recently that the necessity of studying Comparative Osteology in order to acquire a proper understanding of the above branches \ has been realized, and the advantage of having a well-arranged collection of typical skeletons appreciated. For.	merly it was thought sufficient to have a collection of stuffed
■ specimens illustrating the different classes, and it may be |	' genera, of the animal kingdom; but this is not enough to
I	give that accurate knowledge of the mechanism of the an*	imal frame demanded by the present generation of students
of biological science. They are no longer satisfied with eX'
ternal appearances and a general knowledge of the form and structure of the various organs of the body, but direct their attention rather to the studying the relations of the va-‘ rious animals, aud parts of individual organisms, to each other, and to the chemical combination of the anatomical elements of which the body is composed. As in chemistry and the cognate sciences, the student is not satisfied until he has decomposed and analyzed the various forms of matter presented to him, so in biology nothing short of a detailed examination of the homologous parts of thd different species, orders and classes of animated nature, the relations which they bear to each other, the functions peculiar to each, and the composition of the various tissues, will satisfy his searching and exacting mind. This direction which the teaching and study of natural science has recently taken renders, it is evident, the possession of a collection of preparations and specimens not only valuable but indispensable. As the student of Geology and Mineralogy can make little or no progress without a well-arranged collection of fossils, crystals and minerals, so neither can one study intelligently the comprehensive science of biology without a typical collection of skeletons, alcoholic preparations, shells, etc., which he may examine and compare for himself. For these reasons we rejoice in the above mentioned addition to the already extensive Museum of the University, and note with pleasure the rapidity with which the Cabinets of Mineralogy and Geology have been enlarged and enriched by the numerous collections of fossils and minerals lately obtatined by purchase or donated by friends of the Institution. The Curator of the Museum, Rev. Father Zahm, feels proud, and well he may, of the treasures which the liberality of the authorities and the generosity of friends, among whom are many of the old students, have contributed to his department, which he confidently hopes, with the co-operation of those who have heretofore aided him so materially, to make at no distant day the most valuable and extensive in every respect possessed by any institution in the West.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who daring the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
E. F. Arnold, T. Barry, T. Barrett, M. W. Bannon, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, I. Chatterton, B. J. Claggett, J. Carroll, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport. J. M. Devine, E. Dempsey, J. J. Dougherty, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, F. Fulkerson, R. Francis, J. Feuerstein, E. Gramling, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, P. Hagan, J. J. Houck, W. Hoyt, M. Hogan, L. Horn, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, J. O. Hamilton, J. Q. Johnson, A. W. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F.. Keller, A. Keenan, J. Kueble, J. Krost, J. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, L. D. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. J. Murphy, H. Murphy,' J. D. Montgomery, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. McKone, F. McMullen, J. P. McConlogue, T. F. O'Grady, W. L. Prudhomme, J. L. Perea, E. Poor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, J. Rothert, A. K. Schmidt, L. C. Stuckey, 8. T. Spalding, C/H. Taylor, F. Walter, J. Smith.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Areutz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. ABurger, A. J. Burger, H. E. Canoil, F. T. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, R. French, L. Garceau, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healey, J. Halloran, G. Ittenbach, W. Jones, R. Keenan, J. Lumley, J. MeNellis, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, T. F. McGrath, J. Matthews, T. Nelson, F. P. O’Hara, G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, J. L. Perea, E. J. Pennington, K W. Reynolds, A. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, F. J. Singler, E. 8. Walter, 8. P. Welty, W. A. Widdicombe, F. Weisert, C. F. Walsh, A Sievers, C. Van Mou-rick, J. Bcrtcling.
.	Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director ofStudies.J
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G, Ewing, Jos. P. McHugh, Jno. Coleman) J. McEniry, W.
220
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dechant, A. Hertzog, L. Evers, H. Maguire, J. P. Kinney, J. A. Burger, J. D. Montgomery, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, A. Widdi-conibe, G. Cassidy, P. E. McCullough, F. Bloom, A. K. Schmidt.
List of Excellence.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their -classes during the month past.] *
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—J. G. Ewing, A. Hertzog, Jno. P. Quinn, F. Bloom, J. A. Burger, J. Healy; Greek—J. P. McHugh, J. G. Ewing,_L. Evers, H. Maguire, A. Hertzog, F. Bloom, J. P. Quinn; English Literature—C. Clarke, L. Evers, H. Maguire ; Rhetoric—P. F. McCullough; Essays and Criticism—L. Evers; English Composition—if. Fitzgerald, W.Murphy, R. P. Mayer; Algebra—W. A. Widdicombe, J. D. Montgomery, J. J. Houck, G. Cassidy, F. Bloom ; Geometry—P. F. McCullough, I. Chatterton; Trigo-nomety—J. P. Kinney; Calculus—J. J. McEniry; Descriptive Geometry—J. Coleman; Astronomy—J. Coleman; Civil Engineering—J. Coleman; Mechanics—J. McEniry, W. Dechant; Physics—J. Coleman, J. A. Burger; Chemistry—J. A. Burger; History—J. P. McHugh, J. J. Quinn.
The following names should have appeared on the List of Excellence for Book Keeping in last week’s Scholastic : O. McKone, A. Ginz, A. Sievers, I. Chatterton, J. Feuerstein, J. Pembroke, J. Hoffman, W. Van Valkenburg, J. J. Houck, J. Q. Johnson, F. Hellman, A. Hettinger, J. Baker, C. Walsh, F. Hoffman. .
—By mistake of the reporter, the name of M. Hake was omitted from the Tablet of Honor last week.
—A lovely, bouquet was left in the Confraternity Room on Thursday. The recipient presents thanks to the donor.
—In the eighth paragraph of last week’s report, please read for “M. W. B. Thompson,” "M. Way, B. Thompson, etc.”
—Recreations are now spent in planning pretty preparations for the Thanksgiving Entertainment, to come off next Wednesday evening.
—The St. Cecilians celebrated the Feast of their patron with great satisfaction to those most interested in getting up the memorial entertainment.
—A beautiful tribute to the great St. Catherine of Alexandria, the patroness of science, was paid by Very Rev. Father General after Mass in Loreto on Monday morning, j
^-The Minims presented a programme, all their own, in I presence of their confidential friends, one evening last week. The report is that it was more than creditable to the young performers, that it was excellent.
—On Sunday evening the readers of the English selections, were Misses D. Gordon and F. Cregier. The French selection, read by Miss J. Burgert, was Lamour de la Patrie, by Bossuel; that in German, read by Miss N. Davis, was “ Barbarossa,” by Buckert. Mother Supei ior read a very amusing article when the young ladies had completed their share of the reading for the evening.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE. ' honorably mentioned in the
Gkaduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, B. Reynolds, A. Piet, P. Gaynor, A Henneberry, M. Spier, M.-O’Connor, L. O’Neill, A. Reising.
1st Senior Class—Misses H. Russell, M. Ewing, S. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, I. Fisk.
2d SA Class—Misses A. Dopp, C. Silverthorne, L. Keena, M. Lnce, N. McGrath, M. Way, H. Hoag, L. Keenan, S. Hamilton, N. Davis, M. Birch, A Woodin, M‘. Danaher.
3d Sr. Class—Misses J. Burgert, C. Ortmeyer, Li Schwass, H. Millis, L. Otto, M. Plattenburg, L. Hoag, L. Papin, T. Pleins, A Thomas, M. O’Neill, M. Wagner, L. Tighe, K. Riordan, E.
Shaw, H. Buck, K. Hackett, A. Brown, K. Lloyd, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A Farrell.
1st Peep. Class—Misses J. and M. Winston, L. Neu, S. Rhcin-boldt, M. Usselman, M. Hayes, M. Cleary.
2d Peep. Class—Misses E. Miller, E..Thomas, M. Whiteside, A. Peak, J. Barnes, N. White, O. Franklin, E. Richardson.
iionoeably mentioned in the junior department.
3d Sb. Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Ewing, A. Morgan, A. Gordon, M. Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Chilton, A. Geiser, A. McGrath.
2d Prep. Class—Misses J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, F. Fitz.
Jr. Peep. Class—Misses M. Hake, L. Fox, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, L. Van Namec, L. Wood, M. MeFadden, L. French, M. Lyons.
1st Je. Class—Misses J. Butts, E. Wootten.
2d'Jr. Class—Misses N. Lloyd, L. McFarland.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses J. Cooney, A. Piatt.
2d L vein Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Luce, M. Plattenburg, M. 0. Franklin, H. Hoag.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, A. Harris, H. Russell, B. Wilson, N. Keenan, N. McGrath.
'2d Class—Misses J. Cooney, M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, A. McGrath, J. Burgert, H. Millis, A. Geiser, S. Moran, M. Ewing, N. Galen. •
4th Class—Misses A. Dopp, M. Casey, E. Shaw, Z. Papin, M. Danaher.
german. •
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Gordon, M. Usselman, L. Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses C. Ortmeyer, S. Henneberry, A. Reising,'L. O’Neill, S. Rheinboldt, K. Barrett.
3d Class—Misses M. Way, S. Hamilton.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
3d Drv.—Misses A. Geiser and C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses L. O’Neill, M. Spier, E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses N. Galen, H. Buck, M. Usselman, T. Whiteside, Al Henneberry.
2d Div.—Misses A. Gordon, L. Neu, J. Burgert.
4th Class—Misses H. Millis, A. Kirchner/E. Lange, A. McGrath, A. Reising, N. McGrath.
• 2d Div.—Misses J. Cooney, A. Farrell, K. Hackett, P. Gaynor.	v ■
5th Class—Misses M. Winston, M. Mullen, B. Anderson, M. Danaher, H. Hoag, F. Cregier. .
2d Div.—Misses J. Winston, M. Way, M. White, L. Papin, M. Cleary, K. Riordan, L. Hoag, B. Thompson, K. Barrett, E. Shaw, E.‘Richardson, L. Otto, L. French.
6th Class—Misses N. Hackett, C. Van Namee, A. Ewing 8. Rheinboldt, 0. Franklin, C. Boyce, M. Ewing, M. Halligan A. Thomas, M. Plattenburg, E. Thomas, L. Schwass, M. Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses F. Brazelton, E. Wright, M. Hake, B. Parrott, I. Fisk, A. Brown, E. Tighe, M. Casey, A. Peak.
7th Class—Misses 8. Hamilton, L. Fox, A. McGinnis. L Chilion, M. Burch.	•
8th Class—Misses E. Mulligan, L. Ellis, J. Kin^burv L.
Wood, L. McFarland.	°
9rn Class—Misses E. Wooten, M. McFadden.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A. Reising.
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, A. Brown, K. Hackett, L. Otto.
4rn Class—Misses K. Reardon, J. Winston, M. O’Neill A. Farrell, S. Rheinboldt, E. Richardson, A. Geiser, M. Casey. ’
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, M. Mulligan, M. Hake L.
Schwass, E. Galen, M. and A. Ewing.	’
Chorus Singing—Misses B. Thompson, N. Hackett. B Parrott.	’
General Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee.
‘ ART DEPARTMENT.
drawing.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
So Class—Miss M. Spier.
Promoted to the 3d Class—Miss N. Davis.
4th Class—Misses T. Whiteside, 8. Rheinboldt, M Plattenburg.
5th Class—Misses J. Burgert, A. Kirchner, 8. Hamilton A Farrell, E. Thomas, J. Butts, L. McFarland, E. Mulli°an’ L* French.	.&>+■•
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
■ • Misses M. Winston, E. Shaw, B. Thompson, L. Neu, M. Luce,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
221
C. Ortmeyer, K. Hackett, M. Way, L. Otto, B. Parrott, L. Keena, Z. Papin, L. and H. Hoag, A, Dopp, A. Brown, B. Wilson, _M. Birch, M. Cleary, M. Danaher, M. Warner, N. Galen, E. Thomas, K. Lloyd, N. McGrath, K. Barrett, F. Cregicr, E. Wright, M. Sullivan, J. Barnes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. McGiath, A. Ewing, L. Ellis, A. Morgan, D. Gordon, N. Hackett, M. Hake, F. and J. Sunderland, F. Fitz, E. Wooton, E. Mulligan, L. McFarland, M. Lambin, M. McFadden.
. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses S. Moran, L. Kirchner.
.	OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, E. Lange.
3d Class—Miss M. O'Connor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE WORK.
1st Class—Misses M. Usselman, C. Ortmayer, H. Millis, L. Neu, L. Otto, J. Kingsbury.
2d Class—Misses M. Winston, L. Schwass, M. Mullen, D. Gordon, B. Anderson.
DRESS-MAKING.
Misses B. Thompson, L. Kirchner, K. Barrett, M. Plattenburg, L. Tighe, L. Walsh, M. Halligan, M. Cleary, A. Harris. “
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING.
Misses E. Shaw, O. Franklin, K. Lloyd, L. Chilton, L. Ellis, 2V. Kirchner, M. Lambin, A. McGrath, A. McGinnis.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, L. O’Neill, B. Reynolds, A. Piet, M. Ewing, S. Moran, C. Boyce, C. Silverthorne, A. Dopp, M. Way, M. Casey, S. Hamilton, M. Luce, M. Danaher, K. Reordau, M. Halligan, L. Otto; M. Brown, T. Pleins, K. Hackett, J. Burgert, M. O’Neill, L. Schwass, L. Papin, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Farrell, J. and AL Winston, M. Hayes, L‘. Tighe, M. Clearj’, L. Neu, E. Wright, E. Thomas,, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Henneberry, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, A. Reising, B. Wilson, N. McGrath, B. Thompson, N. Keenan, IL Hoag, N. Davis, M. Burch, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, K. Barrett, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, H. Millis, M. Wagner, M. Plattenburg, A. Brown, L. Walsh, L. Hoag, C. Ort-meyer, F. Brazelton, A. Thomas, 8. Rhcinboldt, M. Usselman, B. Parrott,- T. Whiteside, E. Miller, J. Barnes, M, Mullen, 0. Franklin, N. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, N. Hackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, L. French, L. Van Namce, L. Wood, E. Mulligan, M. Lyons, E. Wootton, J. Butts, L. McFarland, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Gordon, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, L. Ellis, J. Sunderland. .
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTER&OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality fora .’emale academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are tauaht here. Music, both veeal and instrumental, and the modern languages,form prominent features in the course of instruction. ■
Particular attention is paid to the revisions instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominatiolns are received, and for the sake of order required so attend the pubic religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious' suited to the educational requirements of the day. and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of tha bnildirg is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartm ents.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that churning seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two insti'utions to each other is a gre at convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit iheir sons and daughters
For further uartimlars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentv-Second Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1S77-3, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
. Hotrs Dame, Indiana.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOGH-AFHBR, • Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts., SOUTH BnnSTTD, TTSTTDIA-TTA.-
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere’s	'
EE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME, .
and arranged for Male Characters only,
By A. J. STAGE; and. Edited, by JOSEPH A. LYONS.
This -play is dedicated to the Members of the St Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present and yet to be.	■
Price 25 Cents.
“The Upstart” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahony,.Staley, Dum, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
Every JI ember of the . St. Cecilia Philomathean
’ Association, .	■
PAST AND PRESENT, ,
should procure a copy.	’	'
Ij^ Sent post free on receipt of price.
P. F0Z, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.. .
ST. LOUIS, mo.
. (
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
Attornevs at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN & HARVEY’ (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELE (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of .’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.	_
JOTUV	McIIUG II [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office
65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge's Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CIIAMRERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McRRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIA	J, CL A RK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law,
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.Jkl.ES A.. CPTt/ETT .T/V—of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attomey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Time Table-June 24, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	(Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	<9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “		12 69 a.m	4 5“
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	fi 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 am	3 15 p.m	9 59 p.m	6 05 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	6 10 “	2 45 a.n	9 30 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 35 p.m	2 40 “	9 00 “	12 53 “	12 16 s-m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 a.m	4 24 “	2 35 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	5 47 “	4 05 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 30 “
INiles and Soxitli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—S 30a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 837 “	6 35 Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 740 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
^Saturday and Sunday excepted. H. B. Ledyard,
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Henry C. Wentworth,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.
A., Chicago, Ill.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of’75] Civil Engineer of City end
. Count}' of Elkhirt. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Spcciil attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
Aimi. LJ R J. STAGE [of’61], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN.pnb'ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum. •
D. A. Clarke, or ’70.
THE A-VE 31 ARIA, a.'Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pnb’ished every Salnrdav at Notre Dame, Ind. . Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, §2.50.	‘
THE YOL’NG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre* *Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH REND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) §1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE ROND HOUSE. A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St.. Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the" Matteson.
Visiting Cards.
Qjy CALTjING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZiU • neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
*	Mishawaka, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.	•
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.	•
I received ths highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for“ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name,' composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more conv®ient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	10D in box
Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger		§ 50 1 50	SI 3	§1 50 6
Amateur’s size, 2J4 in. x. 1*4................
High School or Acad. sizc,2%x3>4 in.shelf specimens I
College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens.....|
100	200	360
5 1	5 2	$ 3
5	10	• 25
10	25	50
25	50	ICO
500	100	3C0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement
A. E. FOOTE, M. 20.,	‘
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scienc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sci(-cnees and of the American Museum of Natural
'	History, Central Park, New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
223
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday. May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m;
Cleveland 10 30 pm; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
T” 16 pm, Special Now York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a'm.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
40am; Cleveland, 7 05am; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
41 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
. 2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. ArrivesatLaporte5 50am; Chicago 20 a m.
4= 38 o m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chi cago, 11 30 a. m.
8 4=5 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gcn’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Liv, Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’I Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TI3IE TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1S77.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	ho 7, Pac. Ex.	ho .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,;	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 P.M. 12.53 “ 3 10 A.M. 446 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12 50 p.m? 2.30 “ ; 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5 35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A M. 7.45 “ 11.00 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,..;	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 1225 a.m.		
Lima,					
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago	Arrive			2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.5S “		
GOING EAST.				
	Ao. 4, Night Ex.	Mo. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pae. Ex.	No 8, Mai’.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,			 Ft. Wayne,	1.... Lima,			9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M.		
Forest,					2.48 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6 22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 11 9.38 “ 11.15 " 1.21 A.M. 2.80 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 " 11.06 “ 1215 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3 30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. *
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullmax Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
. F. E. MTERS, G. P. & T. A.
SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR Of THE
NOTRE DAME AAD ST. MARY’S ’BUS LIKE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’e, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is ihebest Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
. Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite SHermait House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS § TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, -	-	- nMLTATOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, A.3STD
jf Engraving Done.
5END, INDIANA.
All Kinds
SOUTH
M. Livingston & Co.,
TSE
Leading* Merchant Tailors in South Send.
91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
224
THE NOTKE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
1878.	NEW YOBE. '	1878.
As the time approaches for the renewal of subscriptions, THE SUN would remind its friends and wellwishors everywhere, that it is again a candidate for their consideration and support. Upon its record for the past ten years it relies for a continuance of the hearty sympathy and generous co-operation which have hitherto been extended to it from every quarter of the Union.
The Uaily Sun is a four-page sheet of 38 columns, price, by mail, post paid, 55 cents a month, or $6.50 per year.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is an eight-page sheet of 56 columns. While giving the news of the day, it also contains . a large amount of literary and miscellaneous matter specially prepared for it. The Sunday Sun has met with great success. Post paid, $ 1.30 a year.
TJic Weekly Sun.
Who does not know The Weekly Sun ? It circulates throughout the United States, the Canadas, and beyond. Ninety thousand families greet its welcome pages weekly, and regard it in the light of guide, counsellor, and friend. Its news, editorial, agricultural, and literary departments make it essentially a journal for the family and the fireside. Terms: One T>ollai* a year, post paid. This price, quality considered, makes it the cheapest news-paper published. For clubs of ten, with §10 cash, we will send an extra copy free. Address '
PUBLISHER OF THE SUN, New York City.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains arc run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for ail points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland U oxi to to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH, ' H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk-Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois,-Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its	■
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	’
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its .
’ CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.	.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. KinzlO and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to .
W. H. Stexnett,	Marvix Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, Tl., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30 am
Peoria Day Express...................    3	40 pm
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am Chicago’and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm
Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20 am
12 30 pm
9 00 am
9 00 pm
9 00 am
9 00 pm
9 00 am
12 30 pm
5 00 pm
•I. C. McMullix, Gen. Supt. J. Charltox, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In theimmeliate vicinity of Notre Dame, and .very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story framo house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal house young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, No. Notre Dame, Ind.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
TLsTTDIALHSTAL- '
Founded 1842.	. Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up witli all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to sd cure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance, ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.