KSMSBB
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI^ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 27, 1875. Number 27.
JNO. HAGERTY,	. L. G. TONG
City Judge.	Notary Public.
£AGERTY & TONG,
ATTORNEYS- AT- IL,A.'W,
REAL ESTATE ano INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block. -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o21-ly
, Before going elsewhere, go to
TH S. PECKS,	_ . .
lut	Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
£ J. HOLLAND, & Co., • Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o21-tf.
E. CUMMINS,
- DENTIST.
Ho. 96 Michigan Street, - South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN CO QUILL ARD’S
LIVERY STABLES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, ----- Michigan. -
A. McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the hous nov 28-% tf.
NICAR & Co., .
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIAN*-
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc.,
621-tf
y NICAR,
’ DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF	_
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
. Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. .	o24-tf
J. STAGE,
’ COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to..^
Oilice with M. Stover, Room 22, over Wills & Sterna Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-% tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
iSoutli Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Bailway Depot, opposite* Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel. .
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7-8m	■
QEORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR, -
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STBEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Staiis.) •	%o24-tf
M. A. Smith.	E. P" Hoixoway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys and IVIxisIcal Instruments.
No. 77, Washington St., :	- -SOUTH BEND, IND
•	dec5-% 3m '
386
THE SCHOLASTIC.
jjalmer & Vanwinkle,
'	Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	• South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
J^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. JJ-tf
hanauer,
Nos. 33 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
‘ GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
BURKE’S
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
JRELAND & SON,
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, .
No. 54 MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(Opposite the Dwight House). ■
HACK JLEVE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	J^o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” ---------------0--- DROP IN AT
“THE MAE (EXT STORE!”
. AND
• See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. -
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managen of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNtGHT, 1 ProDri„t(lrB Captain MILLS, j rr°Pnetors.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
‘	--o---
M. LIVINGSTON & 00;
94, Alicliigan St., (South Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention-of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—	*
FUTtisrisiiiixrG- goods,
O'UR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves, our Full DRESS SUITS .show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clothing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths. Cassini eres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
140 and 142 Madison Street.
(Between Clark and LaSalle,)
CHICAGO, -	-	- IX.X<.
f6 3m.
E. MAYR,
Engra¥er$ Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
srawi
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watchea»Rings and Badges.
•*	<ecl-Ktf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STBEET, - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
gy Fresh’Candies Made Daily.
Mo34-tf
ESEBSSOBRSS
f The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 27, 1875.
Number 27.
Bismarck Loquitur.
BY J. M. J. G.
I.
“ I am lord of the Reichstag and Kaiser;
My order is Europe’s sole law;
I am king of the Rhine and the Weser, And Elsass lies under my paw;
I laugh, and my Teutons laugh with me,— When the Kaiser says grandly, “ My realm,”, I—Zam the Kaiser, believe me. And not the old dotard, Wilhelm !
H.
“ The Austrians’ pride I have battered—
I have shaken the Hapsburg line;
The glory of France I have shattered On the banks of the bloody Rhine,
I have pounded the Danes out of Holstein, In spite of the Englander’s frown, With their Dukes and their Duchess Gerolstein, And their pinchback and tinsel crown!
nr.
“ The ice-fields of Russia are gleaming— With acres of Tartaric steel,
And the god of the Arctic is dreaming That Turkey is under his heel,
Let him polish his uncouth battalions, And cast his colossal war guns ;
What care I for masses en haillons Of barbarous Cossacks and Huns I
iv.
“ If he won’t be my slave I shall strike him, As I mean to strike England soon,
So vote me the money, slave Reichstag, For your freedom to vote is my boon.
But, before the red flag of George lowers,' The Lion of Flanders must die,
And Artaveldt’s land with its boors Must unfurl Prussia’s banner on high.
v.
“ I found our poor Germans barbarians, I’ll leave them quite civilized,
In religion wise nothingarians,— Faith donner und blitzenized!
The Pope shall succomb to my mandate, Money can buy his Dutch friends,
Ho! ho 1—every kingdom and state, Shall serve mine—Prince Bismarck’s—ends!
Prester John.
In the beginning of the eleventh century there was a great sensation caused throughout all Christendom by the conversion of a prince, known as Priest, or Prester John. The fame and renown of this mighty prince continued to
increase through the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, for he seems not to have been subject to the laws of mortality. It was acknowledged by all that this mighty prince surpassed all other sovereigns in riches and possessions. But where to place his kingdom? There is where they differed. Some place it in Ethiopia; others claim that he held sway in Asia—in India, Tartary, or Thibet. Many disser'ations were written by the learned men of those times, and fables and contradictions innumerable were circulated, concerning the country, title, and religion of this mysterious monarch. Every traveller, nay, every writer of the time, speaks of Prester John, and relates the most wonderful things concerning him.
But all of these tales are surpassed in extravagance by the letter written by.Prester John himself to the Emperor of Constantinople. As regards the authenticity of this letter, critics are divided. L’Abbe Hue, in his History of Christianity in China, Tartary and Thibet, gives it entire. It contains a most extravagant account of the power of this pontiff-king; but it does not give any exact indications of the situation of bis empire. The following extracts give a good idea of the general tenor of the letter:
“ Do you desire to know the grandeur and excellence of our dynasty, the extent of our power and dominion? Know and believe that I am Priest John, the servant of God, and that I surpass in riches, in power, and in virtue, all the kings of the earth.-----We believe that we have no equal, either for the quantity of our riches, or the number of our subjects.------------Our empire extends on one side four months’ journey, on the other no one can know how great it is. If you can count the sands of the sea, and the stars of the heavens, you may number my domains and reckon my power.” Missives written in like style were sent by Prester John at different times to the Emperors of Germany and Constantinople, to the Pope, and to the Kings of Fiance and Portugal. Everyone believed firmly in the existence of this prince, and the riches and wonders of his kingdom were the theme of all. It was the Eldorado of the time.
Pope Alexander HI, induced by the fame of Prester John, wrote to him in 1177, and he called him “King of the Indies, and the most holy of priests.” It appears from this letter that Prester John had expressed a wish to be instructed in the doctrines of the Church of Rome; and also that he and his subjects did not profess a very orthodox creed. Indeed all the historians of the time agree that Prester John and his subjects were tainted with the Nestorian heresy. In 1143, the Bishop of Gabala, the legate of the church of Armenia, writing to Pope Eugene IH, said: “ Some years ago a prince named John, who dwelt beyond Persia and Armenia, at the extremity of the East, professing with his people Nestorianism, and uniting in
388	THE SCHOLASTIC.
himself the characters of sovereign and priest, came and waged war against Media and Persia, and having seized upon Ecbatana, cut the armies of his enemies to pieces.” . Jacques de Vitry, Matthew Paris, and many others, state that Prester John and his people were Nestorians. From these and many other documents we may infer that Pres. ter John was a real personage, who dwelt in Upper Asia, and, with his people, professed Nestorianism. •
. . In the first year of the eleventh century, a Tartar prince received baptism with two hundred thousand of his subjects. This fact is recorded both by Mares, and Aboulfar-ages. The circumstances according to Mares were as follows. There dwelt, at that time, at the northwest of the ’ Great Wall of China, beyond the Desert of Gobi, a tribe of ■ Tartars, called Keraites. The sovereign of these hordes> * while hunting the yellow sheep and wild yaks among steep mountains covered with snow, lost his way. After he had ' sought for a long time in vain to regain the right track, there suddenly appeared to him a mysterious personage, who said, “If thou wilt believe in Jesus Christ, I will rescue thee from this peril, and show thee thy way.” The king, struck by this apparition, promised. Thereupon the mysterious guide brought him back to the right way, and then suddenly vanished.
' The king, when he returned to his camp, determined to fulfil his promise. As there were then in his country many Christian merchants from the West, he had them brought to him, and asked for information concerning the religion of Jesus Christ. Then, having studied the Christian doctrine, he was bapl ized, together with two hundred thousand of his subjects. • Such are the facts related by Eastern histo-. rians concerning this conversion. Whatever may have been the causes, it is certain that the Nation of Keraites was con-
' verted in the first year of the eleventh century. On this, Ori. ental writers are unanimous. TheNestorians were the principal propagators of Christianity among the Tartar tribes, . and they would not fail to publish such a remarkable conversion as that of a powerful sovereign with two hundred thousand of his subjects. Travellers added to the stories a thousand marvels of their own, and so spread them. Thus, in all probability, arose the story of Prester John and his empire, which for three centuries agitated the minds of the East and West.
The Keraite nation kept for a long time the faith imparted to them; and the important part which they played in revolutions in Asia justifies the brilliant renown of the kingdom of Prester John. In 1046, the King of the Keraites, having subdued several neighboring tribes, led his victorious armies to Khafghan. The name of Tartar then began to be repeated among the Asiatic nations, and bring with it a kind 'qf terror. But the progress of the Tartar Keraites towards Western Asia was but the prelude to their enormous con-.quests. In the middle of the 12th century, one of the Keraite kings, also known as Prester John, made war against the sovereigns of Media and Persia, took Ecbatana, and planted his camp on the banks of the Tigris. He then prepared to lead his victorious armies to the assistance of the Christians in Syria and Palestine, but he seemed to have been suddenly checked by some mysterious obstacle, and led his powerful and victorious army back to the deserts of Tartary. This was the prince to whom the letters to the Pope, the King of France, and the Emperor are attributed. Ung-Khan was the last sovereign of the Keraites. He exercised an uncontested supremacy over the Tartar nations, until he came into collision with Temoutchin or Dshingis;Chan
These two chiefs, however, made an alliance, but their friendship was not eternal, and they did not long share “ the sweet and the bitter.” Afi er a long contest they prepared for a great battle. In this battle, which occurred in 1203, UngKhan was slain, and the kingdom of Prester John vanished, together with the power of the Keraites.
The head chief of the Tartar tribes always bore the name of Khan, and this had been written by the travellers of the day, Chan, Caan, Gban, Gehan, and finally John. All the Khans of the Keraites bore the same title, and this accounts for the astonishing longevity of Prester John, whom travellers in the East never failed to meet with for two centuries. The assumption of the title Priest was doubtless due to the common practice of Oriental sovereigns to unite in themselves the political and religious authorities, and to be at the same time the temporal and spiritual head of their nation. The Keraite khans having embraced Christianity, it seems likely they would adapt themselves to Asiatic practices, and assume the sacerdotal dignity as a title of honor. From all this we may conclude that Prester John was none other than the Khan of the Keraites, whose kingdom was overthrown by the Mongols, under Dsbingis Chan, in 1203. With this conquest of Dshingis Chan, the kingdom of Prester John eeased to exist, except in the imaginations of Europeans. Yet all the travellers from the West, during the Middle Ages, continued to search for Prester John and his Empire, and wherever they found a prince, be it in Asia or Africa, professing Christianity, they never failed to declare that they had found Prester John.	Fairfield.
Allegri’s Miserere.
On the Wednesday and Friday evenings of Holy Week the Sistine Chapel is crowded with people from all parts of the world, who are gathered there to hear tbat-most remarkable of musical compositions—the Miserere of Allegri.
Gregorio Allegri was born at Rome, of the family of Correggio, and in 1629 was admitted into the Papal Chapel as a singer and composer. His compositions are all of a sacred character, and even to the present day many of the churoh services in Italy, remarkable for their simplicity and purity of harmony, bear testimony to his skill as a composer and counterpointist. He was noted for his mildness of disposition and benevolence. He visited the prisons of Rome daily, alleviating the sufferings of the prisoners by his kindness and charity. Having led an exemplary and useful life, he died in 1652, and was buried in the Chiesa Nuova, before the Chapel of San Filippo Neri.	‘
Mozart, Haydn, and many other of the great composers, have examined the score of Allegri’s Miserere,'and have wondered whence it derived its great beauty. The air is simple, the harmony more so. Much of its sublimity is owing to the solemnity of the place, and to the occasion on which it is performed, as it cannot be sung elsewhere with the same effect as in the-Sistine Chapel. The peculiar way of rendering the price has been kept a secret by the singers, and it is sung to this day by the choir of the Sistine Chapel as it was taught to .their predecessors over two hundred years ago by Allegri himself. The score is carefully preserved, only three copies having ever been made by authority;—one of those was for the Emperor' Leopold-I, for his imperial chapel at Vienna?,
THE SCHOLASTIC.	ssa.
which numbered amongst its singers some of the best of the age. He had instructed his ambassador at Rome to petition His Holiness to grant him the privilege of obtaining a copy of this celebrated work. The petition was readily granted, and the Maestro di Capella ordered to • make a copy. It was transmitted to Vienna, and in due
time performed before his majesty, Leopold, who, not only a good judge of music, but a good composer, found the Miserere to be nothing but a dull chant, and ordered his chapel-master to appear before him and explain. No reason could be assigned, unless it was that the Maestro di Capella at Rome, jealous of his laurels, had made a spurious copy. This so enraged his majesty that he at once sent a messenger to the Pope, entered a complaint against the poor Miestro di Capella, who, notwithstanding his many protestations of innocence, was immediately dismissed. He afterwards, through the friendly interposition of a Cardinal, to whom he had rehearsed his woes, regained his position in the Choir, and the Pope and his majesty were fully satisfied that only at the Sistine, and by the Sistine Choir, could the Miserere be properly rendered.
Mozart, not yet 16 years of age, went with his father one Wednesday evening to the Sistine to hear the Miserere. Knowing that it was prohibited to take a copy from the Chapel, the young Mozart listened attentively, and upon his return home made a complete score of the music. He returned to the Chapel on Friday, and by means of holding the manuscript concealed in his hat was enabled to make any necessary corrections. He afterwards was requested to sing it at a concert, accompanying himself on the harpsichord. Christiofori, the first soprano of the Sistine, was present, and, with surprise, pronounced Mozart’s copy to be correct and complete.
When the Miserere commences, the Pope and Cardinals are prostrated on their knees; the “Last Judgment” of Michael Angelo is seen above the altar, brilliantly illuminated by tapers; the thirty-two voices of the Choir pour , forth a volume of tone which penetrates the very soul; the movement varies, the maestro now accelerating, now retarding; the tapers are one by one extinguished; the demons painted with such terrible energy by Michael Angelo become more and more imposing as seen by the pale light of the remaining taper; the maestro insensibly beats slower and slower; the singers decrease the volume of tone to almost a whisper, and the listener is left with alasling recollection of the Sistine Chapel and the Miserere.
J.
Black wood’s Magazine.
In periodical literature, the Lemonnier Circulating Library of Notre Dame is now one of the richest, in the West, for which Prof. Edwards is deserving of everybody’s thanks. In this connection, the recent addition to the library of complete sets of the Edinburg Review, Blackwood's Magazine, the Atlantic Monthly, Catholic World, and, others, will render thb following article from the Chicago Tribune of peculiar interest:
In 1816, magazine literature was chiefly represented in Scotland by the Edinburg Review, then in the fourteenth year of its age, and by Scot's Magazine, which was established in 1739, and was at this time in the hands of Constable. The Tory party was at this time without a literary organ in Edinburg, and the witty and audacious writers of the Review imposed
their Whig prejudices upon the community without opposition. Both in literature and politics there was an excited and embittered state of feeling, and party lines effectually divided men who on all other subjects were of congenial minds. In December of 1816, Mr. William Blackwood, a rising bookseller lately established in Prince’s street, agreed with two literary men, James Cleghorn and Thomas Pringle, to publish a magazine, of which they should be the editors and joint proprietors. The first number appeared the following April, under the title of the Edinburg Monthly Magazine.
The new publication did not display any especial intellectual ability, while in politics it moved in an uncertain way between the two warring parties. E litors and publishers soon found it unpleasant and unprofitable to work together, and in the June number of the magazine notice was given that the periodical would be discontinued three months from date. The'services of several clever contributors hid been engaged for the monthly, among whom were James H igg, the Ettrick Shepherd, and Mr. R. P. Gillies. On the appearance of the sixth number, according to the announcement, the partnership between Mr. Blackwood and his editors was dissolved, and the former assumed the control of the copyright.	'
Contrary to expectation, in October a fresh number of the magazine was forthcoming, but it was under a new name, that of Blackwoods Elinbarg Magazine, and in a totally new and extraordinary style.
Three papers in the number were especially notable. The first was a violent assault on Coleridge’s Biographsa Literaria; the second was a merciless attack upon Leigh Hunt; and the third was the famous “ Chaldee Manuscript,” with which every intelligent reader is more or less familiar. Great was the excitement over the advent of this brilliant but unscrupulous periodical. The Chaldee 318. of itself created a tremendous tumult. As a vigorous writer remarks, “ A yell of despairing pain arose from one portion of the Whig party, who, if they bad no administrative power in their hands, had hitherto held a patent of all literary ability.” Alarmed at the commotion aroused, 'Mr. Blackwood withdrew the offensive MS. from the second edition of the magazine, suppressed what he could in the first, and in the following number inserted an apology couched in these terms: “ The editor has learnt with regret that an article in the first edition of the last number, which was intended merely as ajeu d'esprit, has been constructed so as to give offense to individuals justly entitled to respect and regard ; he has, on that account, withdrawn it in the second edition, and can only add that, if what has happened could have been anticipated, the article in question certainly never would have appeared.”
But who were the writers whose geuius and daring had provoked such serious agitation among the literary circles of Edinburg? Mr. Blackwood maintained a discreet silence when questioned on the subject, and his contributors had no intend tion of disclosing their identity. But at the metropolis of Scotland there dwelt at this period two young and briefless advocates, who were frequently to be seen together, pacing the Parliament house, or lounging carelessly into Blackwood’s shop of an afternoon to examine the newspapers, and exchange the small coin of chit-chat with each other and passing acquaintances. The one was a man of splendid physique, with a shaggy mane of yellow hair falling around his ruddy face, and shading a pair of deep-bluq eyes that shone with mirth and gay humor. The other was a jaunty-looking gentleman, with a Spanish cast of features, an olive complexion, piercing black eyes, thin lips around which flickered a smile of sarcasm, and a cold and haughty manner. A greater contrast in outward aspect and innate character no two men could present than they did, between whom there existed a most cordial intimacy. And it was these two apparently careless idlers—John Wilson, afterwards the celebrated Christopher North, and John Gibson Lockhart," the future son-in-law and biographer of Sir Walter Scott—who were rapidly carrying Blackwoods Magazine on the points of their strong pens to the height of a splendid success. ' ,
390
THE SCHOLASTIC.
In her “ Memoir of Christopher North,” Mrs. Gordon, the daughter of Wilson, states that the Chaldee Manuscript was composed at her grandmother’s house, where Wilson resided, No. 59 Queen street, “amid shouts of laughter that made the ladies in the room above send to inquire, in wonder, what the gentlemen below were about. . . . Among tho~e who were met together on that memorable occasion was Sir William Hamilton, who also exercised his wit in writing a verse, and was so amused by his own performance that he tumbled off his chair in a fit of laughter.” Prof. Ferrier, a son-in-law of Wilson, says: “ The conception of the Chaldee MS. and the first thirty-seven verses of Chap. I., are to be ascribed to the Ettrick Shepherd; the rest of the composition falls to be divided between Prof. Wilson and Mr. Lockhart, in proportions which cannot now be determined.” This account of the origin of-the M3, is directly contradicted by “ an old contributor to Blackwood," who •wrote a history of Haga for the Bookseller, in I860. This writer declares, with regard to Hogg’s share in the MS., that there is no foundation for his claim to the conception of the work. “The hare was started by Wilson at one of those symposia which preceded, and perhaps suggested, the Noctes. The idea was caught up with avidity by Hogg, and some half-dozen verses were suggested by him on the ensuing day ; but we are, we believe, correct in affirming that no part of his ebouche appeared in the original or any other draft of the article.”
Mr. Blackwood was himself sole editor of the magazine, although it was a long time supposed that Kit North stood at the helm. “ From an early period of its progress,” writes lockhart, “ it engrossed a very large share of his (Blackwood’s) time; and, though he scarcely ever wrote for its pages himself, (three articles, we believe, he did contribute), the general man agement and arrangement of it, with' the very extensive literary correspondence which this involved, and the constant superintendence of the press, would have been more than enough to occupy entirely any man but one of his first-rate energies.”
The first number of Bla-kwood appeared in London under the patronage of John Murray, whose imprint was upon it, but the Chaldee M3, alarmed the discreet bookseller, and he withdrew his protection from the hot-brained, high-spirited foreigner. Three successive London agents undertook to manage the circulation of Haga in London, but, with the sixth number, Murray again assumed control of it. It was too erratic and reckless for him to chaperone it, however, and at the seventeenth number he discarded it entirely, and the agency was given to Cadell and Davies, who found it so profitable that they gave it almost their whole attention. Cadell was scarcely less nervous over the frisky periodical than Murray had been, and to protect himself from the wrath of victims who, assaulted in its pages, rushed into his shop for vengeance, he kept on hand the stereotyped defense : “I know nothing of the contents of the magazine ; I am merely the carrier of a certain portion of its circulation to English readers.”	.
Meanwhile, the dashing and fearless contributors to Haga continued to cut and slash friend and foe alike in their brilliant and witty papers. Scarcely a number omitted an attack upon somebody, and the blows were administered by skilful and powerful hands. Sometimes substantial blows were given baek by the writhing victims: yet these availed very little in the way of redress. Early in 1818. a Mr. Douglas, of Glasgow, was so enraged at an unflattering mention of his name by Haga, that he went down to E linburg to castigate the editor. As Mr.Blackwood entered the shop one day, Mr. Douglas followed him, and suddenly applied the rawhide to his shoulders and then quickly withdrew. Mr. Blackwood instantly procured a stick, and, searching out Mr. Douglas, fell foul of him ‘ as he was entering a carriage, and gave him in turn a sound beating.
_ Haga had now a large corps of clever contributors, including 'William Maginn, a rollicking young Irishman, sporting at four and twenty the title of Doctor of Laws; Sir William Hamilton; his brother, Thomas Hamilton, author of “Cyril Thornton;” Sir David Brewster; and Fraser Tytler. In 1820, John Salt be
gan with K The Ayrshire legatees ” the extended series of popl ular tales and sketches furnished by him to the magazine. Id the March number of 1822, Kit North published the first of the Nodes Ambrosian®,—a Work that attracted admiring readers to Haga, and gave the author a lasting reputation. For thirteen years there papers illuminated the pages of Blackwood with their humor, eloquence, and poetry. It was in 1824 that the genius of Carlyle received its first tribute in Blackwood's; anti in the same year Dr. Moir furnished for Haga his most famous production, the “Autobiography of Mansie VVanch.” This last writer was a young surgeon of only 19, when his articles in the Bdinburg Honthly attracted the notice of Mr. Blackwood, who induced him to continue his pleasant pieces for Haga. His pseudonym was “ Delta,” and his work gained for the nom de plume extended favor.
Lockhart had from the beginning plied his pen diligently in the service of Blackwerods, but, in 1825, he accepted the editorship of the Quarterly Review, and the Edinburg periodical lost one of its strongest writers. Soon after this, Mr. Maginn also departed southward, and thus the two satirical spirits who had done most to make Haga a terror were no more to be feared in its pages. The bilterly personal tone that had heretofore distinguished the magazine was now dropped, and it settled into staid and peaceable habits. De Quincey first presented one .of his marvellous discourses to the readers of Haga in 1826; while in 1830 the publication of Warren’s “Diary of a Late Physician ” was begun. This most successful fiction had gone begging among the London publishers before it made applica. tion to Blackwoods. It had, says its author, “ been offered successively to the conductors of three leading magazines in London, and rejected as ‘ unsuitable for their pages,’ and ‘ not likely to interest the public.’”
Blackwood regarded his magazine with the affection that a father feels for his child, and surely there was good reason for his looking upon it with fondness and pride. He was generous and prompt in his relations with its contributors, acknowledging their communications with wonderful alacrity. To quote again from the “Old Contributor”: “Along with the mailcoach copy of the magazine, or by an early post after its publication, came a letter to each contributor, full of shrewd hints for his future guidance, and often, not merely suggesting the subject for a future paper, but indicating with delicate hesitation the mode in which he fancied it might be discussed with the best advantage. The ‘pudding’ was invariably associated with the praise. At the head or foot of the welcome missive was a cheque for your article, the amount of which was not carved and patted like a pound of butter, into exact weight, but measuied by no penurious hand.”
At the same time that Warren’s Diary was being published, “Tom Cringle’s Log,” by Michael Scott, and “Sir Frizzle Pumkins’ Nights at a Mess,” by the Rev, M. White, were being carried along tn Haga. In 1832, Wilson reviewed the first volume of Tennyson’s poems, and rasped the feelings of the young poet by the ridicule with which he treated the affectations that disfigured Tennyson’s maiden verse, Tennyson expended his anger in some lines to “ Rusty, Crusty Christopher,” which his later good sense had led him to suppress. Two year after this, the editor of Haga was stricken with a mortal illness and the management of the publication, together with Mr. Blackwood’s extensive book-trade, devolved upon his sons, Robert and Alexander. Within a year or so from this event, Wilson ceased his connection with the magazine, but his place in its pages was eventually filled by his son-in-law, Prof. Aytoun.
On the death of Alexander Blackwood in 1845, and of his brother Robert, which followed soon after, Blackwoods fell into the hands of the third son, John, who still retains the charge of it. Since the decease of the elder Blackwood, Douglas Jerrold, John Sterling, Walter Savage Landor, and Lord Lytton, have been reckoned among its staff. It was in 1848 that the first installment of the “Caxtons” appeared in Haga, to be followed by novel after novel from the same pen. Among women writers, Mrs. Oliphant and George Eliot may be mentioned as two who
THE SCHOLASTIC.	Ml
won their first recognition from the public through the encouragement of Air. John Blackwood.
Ths Effects of Climate on a People.
One of the plausible explanations yet brought forward to account for the difference in color, form, and character of the different races of mankind, is that climate has an influence in developing both the bodies and the minds of a people. It is not positively known why men are of different colors, neither is it known why some races of men are much more intelligent than others; but those who have spent the most time in studying the question have come to the conclusion that climate has as much as, if not more than, anything else to do with it. Travellers who have journeyed to the far North all bear testimony to the fact that the inhabitants of those countries are not so intelligent as the people of a warmer climate. The reason given for this is that the extreme cold blunts their sensibilities and renders them incapable of reaching to a high degree of morals and intelligence. But if extreme cold is not favorable to the advancement of the human race, neither is extreme heat. A tropical climate produces vegetation in such abundance that the inhabitants can secure food with little labor, and they are never troubled with the thought of coming to want. They become careless and indolent, and it is found to be almost impossible to get their minds interested in education and general improvement. Thus it is in neither the torrid nor frigid zone that the people are found who have advanced to the highest state of civilization ; but rather in the temperate zone, where men are free from the two extrmes.	L. M. K.
Bayreuth.
News comes to us from Bayreuth, where the Festival Theatre of Herr Richard Wagner keeps up its legitimate business of swallowing the money of Herr Richard Wagner’s friends. As at present calculated, the monster will be gorged by the spring of next year—in other words, the house will be finished, and everything ready for the performances which are to result in the artistic salvation of the world. Nous verrons. Repeated postponements make cautious people dubious; and they will believe in the opening of the Bayreuth theatre only when it has taken place. For ourselves, we trust sincerely that nothing will further put off so desirable a consummation. Hope deferred may make the heart sick even unto death, and we do not want to lose our Richard. Far from it. We want our Richard to live long, and write, if not more operas, more letters to his friends, full of the hard hitting which gives even his foes delight, because it is so well done. As, therefore, he cannot yet be spared, let him realize the dream of years, and let the Festival Theatre be opened in due time.
But our news from Bayreuth is of a more particular kind than any question of dates. Herr Richard, it seems, is resolved that the audience at his Festival performances shall be a real audience, and not a mere gathering of folk who stare at each other as much as at the stage. Such is the influence be exerts that he might probably secure this result by placarding the house with “ You are requested not to take your eyes off the stage.” But Wagner—if not from experience, from observation—knows the weakness of human nature, and can understand the supreme necessity of the-prayer, “ Lead us not into temptation.” The eye, like the tongue, is an unruly member, given to wandering, and taking the mind with it. Moreover, Herr Wagner appreciates the fact that he himself—he, the Richard of Richards— will be there to absorb the reverent attention of the multitude
and fix their gaze. But the performances are not to suffer from any such counter attraction. To the audience there will be the stage and nothing but the stage, just as to the congregation in a convict chapel there is the parson, and nothing but the parson. Richard, in point of fact, means to box his friends in so that they can see nothing but what they ought to see. Each man will, for the nonce, be incelled—cut off from the world, by half-inch deal, and with no outlook save into the land of romance bounded by the stage. Bold and daring Richard! May your shadow never be less!
But is this all? Nay verliy. We can supplement the Bay-reuth news with much more conceived in the same spirit. Here, for example, are the terms upon which admission to the Festival performances will alone be granted:—
I.	All persons desirous of attending, are candidates for admission as a favor, and not as a right.
II.	Aloney, though very much wanted, is the slightest qualification for admission. Art is not honored by gross, material offerings.
III.	All candidates must make solemn oath that there is but one true opera, and that Wagner is its prophet.
IV.	All candidates must be prepared to pass an examination in German legends, and to give evidence that they have, for a year past, read nothing else.
V.	All candidates must solemnly declare their belief that the said legends are not only the fit associates of art, but are in themselves, edifying, refining, and calculated to strengthen the natural modesty of young people.
VI.	All candidates must wear an appropriate dress, so as to present outward and visible harmony with the subject of the opera.
VII.	All candidates must submit to be searched as a guarantee against the use of wool in the ears—that being strictly forbidden.
VIII.	A scale of fines will be rigidly enforced against all who sneeze, cough, blow their noses, or otherwise show a want of mental and bodily absorption in the performance.
IX.	Persons detected in the act of speaking to each other, or themselves, will at once be turned out of the theatre.
X.	Any person expressing disapprobation will be promptly handed over to the police of his Bavarian Majesty.
XI.	Those who approve, and are ready to abide by these rules, may at once send their money, accompanied by a filled np form (to be had at “all the libraries,”) stating their full name, address, and profession; their opinions on things in general, and a certificate of their baptism.
Having thus prepared his audience, and boxed them in, there will be triumph in Bayreuth next year. May we see it.
—Dwight's Journal of jUusic.
—“ Herbert,” said a perplexed mother, “ why is it that you’re not a better boy? ” “Well,” said the little fellow, soberly, looking up into her face with his honest blue eyes, “ I suppose the real reason is that I don’t want to be! ” We think the child gave the real reason why all of us, big as well as little, are not belter than we are.
“Yes, sir,” yelled a preacher in a Dakota church, one Sunday morning, “ there’s more lying, and swearing, and stealing, and general deviltry to the square inch in this here town than all the rest of the American country,” and then the congregation got up and dumped the preacher out of the window.
'—Here is a good thing on the “tater hug.” Three men comparing notes: One says, “ There are two bags to every stalk.” A second says, “ They have cut down my early crop and are sitting on the fence waiting for my late crop to come up.” “ Pshaw! ” said the third, “ you know nothing about it. I passed a seed store the other day and saw the bugs looking over the books to see who had purchased seed potatoes.”

392	T HE 3 C H O L A 3 T I C.
Th® Scholastic, Published every Week during Tenn Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AU communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEBM8 : One year............................$1 00
Single copies (S cts.) can be obtained at the Students'1 Office.
The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is .fifty cents; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—It is to be hoped that every member of Congress who Toted for the New Postal Law will be elected by his constituents to stay at home. Under the new law, a two-cent stamp is required in order to forward a copy of the Scho-I/Astic, or other paper, through the mail. The injustice of the law becomes apparent when we know that it was passed for the benefit of the Express Companies. They were losing too much of their traffic on account of the cheapness of postage, and the accommodation it afforded the people. The Postal Department was doing too much of what the Express Companies considered their business; hence they lobbied a bill through Congress by which they make the cost of sending by mail equal to that of transmitting by express.
It is a well-known fact that the cheaper the rates of postage are, the more money is made by the Postal Department. Years ago, when the postal rates were very high, the receipts of the Post-Office Department were not as great as they have been these late years. We believe that if the postal rates were reduced to one cent per half ounce for letters, and a half cent per ounce for papers, the receipts of the Department would be greater than in any former year. Besides, the people pay for the maintenance ■ of the Departme .t, and are entitled to have their mitter sent as cheaply as possible. Express Companies are able to live, even though they do not reduce their rates. They have been charging just such prices as they pleased, and have been grooving wealthy. Reductions in postal rates Will force them to reduce theirs, and thus the people will , be henefitted in two waj s.
—In bestowing the Cardinal’s hat upon Archbishop McCloskey of New York, the Pope has not only conferred an honor upon an able and devoted member of the Amer-can Hierarchy, but upon the whole Church in the United States. It is also an honor conferred upon the American people, and as such is recognized by those great organs of public opinion, the daily journals of the large cities. The American Hierarchy has been made illustrious by such men as Kenrick, Purcell, Hughes, Spalding, England', and others, and is to-day composed of many men distinguished in literature and in theology. The course pursued by the Prelates of the Church in this country when troubles have come upon us has been characterized by prudence, firmness, and discretion. Prudent they have been in their counsels, firm in their defence of faith, energetic in the cause of religion, and discreet in their dealings with all. The proceedings of the last Plenary Council of Baltimore commanded the unreserved praise of all theologians in
Europe. The spread of the faith under their direction has been the astonishment of all mankind. The liberty of the Church here has received the testimony of the Pope himself, who declared that in the United States alone could he act without the interference of the Government.
In recognition, then, of the learning and ability of the Hierarchy, as a proof of the high estimation in which the Catholic Clergy of the Union are held in Rome, and as a proof of the love which the Pope bears towards the zealous laity in the United States, his Holiness has bestowed the Cardinal’s hat upon Archbishop McCloskey, whose chair is in the largest city in America. That other hats will, in the course of time, be given to American Prelates, there can be no doubt, for it will be the just recognition of the services and importance of the American portion of the Catholic Church.
—The telegraph on Monday last announced the death of John Mitchel, the newly elected M. P. for Tipperary. He was a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, and for six years had been a lawyer in Ireland, when be embarked in the revolutionary agitation which culminated in the brief and hopeless rising of 1848. He was arrested, tried for treason, and sentenced to transportation for fourteen years. He was taken first to Bermuda and thence to Australia, but escaped from there and came to New York in 1854.
John Mitchel was a man of extroardinary and noble qualities. He was-honest through and through, not in any sense of mere pecuniary integrity, but in all his opinions, motives, and impulses. There was no taint of falseness about him. While he bated the English Government with a supreme hatred, his detestation of every form of sham was even greater. He not only spoke the truth at all times, but he spoke the whole truth by a kind of moral necessity. He knew no reserve and no disguise, and we may even say, no prudence in this regard. Beyond all other men, his sincerity was perfect, and his courage fearless. He possessed the highest bravery—the bravery which scorns every compromise and glories in avowing an unpopular conviction. He was always ready to do battle for his ideas and the odds be never counted. A crust with truth seemed better to him than untold wealth with a compromise. Yet, while he was always armed and ready for fighting, he did not love fighting in itself; and execept for an idea or a sentiment he would not contend. His heart was as kindly aud tender as it was sincere, and in friendship he was as true and faithful as in patriotism.
Mr. Mitchel possessed many scholarly accomplish-! ents. His reading was extensive, his learning varied and substantial, and his English style simple, idiomatic, and vigorous. He had also a great deal of humor, with a tendency to paradox and a ready appreciation of wit; but he was too intensely in earnest to be witty himself. His nature was Puritanic, and not entirely at home in an age of commerce, amusement, and money making. Had he been more capable of adapting himself to the world and to views of ordinary common sense, his career mignt have been much more successful, but ‘ it would have been pitched upon a lower key, and would have lacked the austere virtue which makes it memorable.
—The Vox Humana quotes with approval an article on Circulating Music Libraries ” from the Boston Transcript.
The writer of the article, after speaking of libraries for the reading public and their great utility, goes on to show the great difficulties experienced by persons who wish for
THESCHOLASTIC.	393
music books, etc. Every person must purchase his music or go without it. Although the price of sheet music may be small, yet when one comes to buy a great deal of it he • finds that it takes considerable money to get it, and no musician can escape big bills for his new music. Everyone who plays must have music, and but one way remains for him by which to get it, and that is to buy it. But which music will he buy? He may invest his money in some publications and-then find that the music is altogether too difficult for him. Again, he may purchase the music and find that it is perfectly worthless. What is he to do? Use bis money buying difficult or worthless music? No. He mus^find out what music is suitable for him to buy.. There should be circulating music libraries from which he can procure the music suitable for him. From these libraries he will be able to obtain the music he . wishes. Then if he finds that it is the proper music for his collection, he can purchase and know what he is buying. There is no such thing in this country as a Circulating Music Library, though the writer tells us that other countries have them.
We have no doubt but that, although the repertory, here at Notre Dame is perhaps very good, in a few years it could be made very valuable were there a Circulating Music Library formed for the musical student*, on the same plan as the Lemonnier Circulating Library for the students generally.
Art STotes.
—Prof. Grigori has nearly finished a beautiful portrait of Ver}' Rev. E. Sorin.
• —The municipality of Rome lately offered two large sums of money as prizes, on<* for the best work of sculpture, the other for painting. That for sculpture was adjudged, bu' that for painting was not, there being no works worthy of the prize. Evidently, regenerated Italy is going backwards as far as the arts are concerned.
—A magnificent centre piece in silvergilt, the work of the celebrated Nuremberg goldsmith, Wenzel Jamitzer, has recently been acquired by the director of the Germanic Museum in Nuremberg. This centre piece had been long treasured in the Merkel family, but on the recent suspension of the bank’ng firm of Loedel & Merkel it was placed in the museum for the benefit of the public. The Merkel collection contains also three hundred engravings by Albert Durer, and many valuable curiosities.
—The Empress of Russia, having heard that in the Garbarini palace of Sin Remo there was a famous picture by Raphael, called the Madonna della Rovere, sent her secretary to its owner. Dr. Peir.tno, to entreat him to sell it to her for a large sum of money. He refused to hear her majesty’s proposal, and has thus saved Italy one of her treasures. This picture, which is little known, was painted, as a tokmi of respect, and gra’itude, by Riphael for the Duchess Feltria dell Rovere. Duchess of U. bino, who had recommended the master painter when a young man to Pierre Soderini, Goufaloniere of Florence.
—The mortality among painters during the last two or three years has been noticeably great. Landseer, Kaulbach, Maclin, and a crowd of others of sufficient celebrity to make their loss generally observed, have, died within that time, and the list has been lately swelled by several additions. Among the recent cases are the deaths of two talented painters at Dresden and Paris, on the same day—the 7th of December, 1874. These were Otto Georgi, a landscape painter of Dresden, chiefly known by his Oriental scenes, and Gustav Wrappers, painter to the King of Belgium, whose portraits and historical pieces have been greatly admired.
—Late numbers of some of the German papers contain
accounts of the newly discovered art which has been called “Pinakoplastic.” As the name implies, this art is really a combination of painting and sculpture. It is true that the “tinted” statuary which was already in existence is, in reality, such a combination. But the new art is quite sui generis, and altogether different from anything that has, as far as we have any means of knowing, preceded it. The pinakoplastic sculpture-pictures are largely composed of cork, and as this is an especially durable sub-tance, they have the advantage of been remarkably free from elements conducive to decay. They are usually covered with glass, and this encasement not only serves its principal purpose, which is to keep them free from dust and others impurities, but also, it is said, has a desirable effect in heightening and bringing into relief such beauties as they mav possess. Some of these pictures— if they may be called pictures—were lately exhibited at Munich, and excited a great deal of admiration and curiosity. They were all landscapes, and were upon the following subjects: The City of Bristol, in England; the Lake of Geneva and the Waterfall of St. Sebastian; Fluellen, iu Canton of Uri, Switzerland; the Castle of Cbillon; Ni-acara Falls and the Snsp-nsion Bridge; Sandrigen, iu Norway; Rhemstein, in Germany; Ammerland, among the Bavarian Alps; Grijpsholm, in Holland; and the ruined castles of Falkenstein, in Germa ly, and Atting-hausen, in Switzerland. The credit of discovering this new art is due to Conrad Hock, a landscape painter of Bergen, in Norway. He has spent many years in perfecting it, and has only very lately been able to present it to the world in a tangible form. It is too early yet to tell what results will ensue from this innovation upon the old order of things in ait; but whatever may be its ultimate consequences, it is certainly a very remarkable and interesting invention. •
—James Jackson Jarvis, the most notable specimen we have of the connoiseur, writes interestingly in the Independent of “bric-a-brac” at Florence, and, apropos, says of the Montpensier gallery that “the nrstake of Boston in believing that a royal gallery must necessarily be a good one’’ was “a cos’ly blunder, which has greatly prejudiced the American public against‘old masters,’” and, he fears, put back the interests of art museums in America. More and better pictures, he says, can be bomrht in Europe for one-tenth the value put upon th<« Montpensier paintings bv the Duke. Mr. Jervis savs: “There are onlv two ways of securing choice objects. Either you pay t.heir full value, or a rare opportunity thriws them into your hands for nothing. There is no medium price for things of real importance. I have known a Perugino bought for 50 francs, a Titian for 39. a valuable antique Grecian bronze in the street for 6. and so on. Every one has heard of the ‘Fortune’ of Michael Angelo, a tempera panel, bought of an old-clothes man for 4 francs, and at once sold for 1,500 francs cish and a pension of 5 francs a day for two lives; but which proved a bad fortune to the buyer, being,-after ail, only an old copy.” “The freaks of fortune sometimes attending valuable objects are quite curious. That unique Greik easel painting on slate at Cortona, known as the ‘Muse,’so perfect as to prove that classical painting was on tt par with sculpture, was used for a time by its finder to stop a hole in his oven. Now it i* worth its weight, in diamonds. Recently a peasant, near Siena picked up what appeared to be a heavy metallic ring, incrusted with dirt, and gave it to his children to play with. A peddler passing took it up. scratched it. and offered him 10 francs for it. Had he said 1, he would have had it. given him. But 10 francs excited suspicion; so it. was taken to a jeweller, who gave the finder 500 francs. It proved to be an.Etruscan armlet of pure gold, beautifully wrought, and worth not less than 10,000 francs. The Prince Chigi, to whom the land belonged, brought an action to recover it; but the precious relic had been resold and probably gone to the crucible, for no further trace of it could be obtained.” The average of sales, says Mr. Jarvis, of the regular bric-a brae dealers of Florence, is computed at 2,000 000 francs, and the private sales about 1,009.000 more. Venice almost., rivals Florence, and since the occupation of Victor Emanl uel, Rome is doing considerable in the same line, while al-the smaller cities of Italy have their collectors and dealers.
§94	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Many of those art-treasures and curiosities nowadays come to America.
Literature.
—“The Story of a Convert,” by the author of “The Widow Bedott Papers,’’ is announced as in press, by O’Shea.
—O’Shea, of New York, is issuing a series of Juvenile works written by a lady under the nom deplume of “Winnie Rover.” Her latest book is .entitled “The Neptune Afloat.”	.
—The recent declination of aristocratic titles by Tennyson and Carlyle has occasioned unusual remark in England, and given to literary men a fine opportunity to “glorify their office.”
—The Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin is writing a book on the Franco-Prusrian war of 1870-71, which is more especially devoted to the events in which his division took an active part.
—The King of Burmah announces that he is about to start’a newspaper, and will do the leaders himself. Every Burman who does not subscribe will be shot, or in some quiet, economical way removed from the planet.
—Max Muller goes soon to the Continent, where he will make arrangements for the great work which he has undertaken—the translation into European languages of all the Oriental Bibles. The great Oriental scholars of Europe will co-operate with him in the work.
—Mr. Alfred Tennyson is one of the few poets who have productive lands and money. He possesses manors in several English counties, besides his fine home and estate in the Isle of Wight. His house at Haslemere, in Surrey, was occupied by Earl Russell during the writing of his Recollections. We suspect, however, that, with the single exception of Samuel Rogers, no poet of this or any previous time has enjoyed so large an income as Mr. William Cullen Bryant. Besides owning several fine country places and the income from his copyrights, his revenue as part proprietor of the Evening Pod is of a princely' character. Indeed, he could live elegantly on the interest of his income. Rogers was a very opulent banker, and poetry one of his pastimes. Mr. Bryant’s whole life has been devoted to writing.
—The April number of that ablest of magazines. The Catholic World, has been received and read with the highest pleasure. The publishers say that “ its aim is to furnish desirable reading for all the members of a household: articles on Theology, Philosophy, or such subjects in Natural Science as have a direct bearing on current discussions, for the thougluful; H storical, Biographical, and Critical Essays and Sketches, for those in pursuit of information under inviting forms: Stories, Poetry, and Miscellanea for those who desire mental recreation that is at once attractive and elevating in its character—in short, a magazine which the clergy can commend with confidence to their people, both for its own sake and as a corrective of the influence of the unwholesome literature to which they are 'frequently exposed.” We believe that they have succeeded in the present number in accomplishing their aim, as a glance at the table of contents will show: I, Religion in our State Institutions; II, The Veil Withdrawn; III, March; IV, Calderon’s Autos Sacramentaks; V, Are You My Wife?; VI, The Future of the Russian Church: VII, S'ray Leaves from a Passing Life: VIII, In Meinoriam; IX, The Tragedy of riie Temple; X, Spring; XI, Substantial Generations; XII. The Leader of the Centrum in the German Reichstag; XIII, An Exposition of the Church; XIV, Odd Stories; XV, New Publications. Published by the Catholic Publication Society, L. Kehoe. Gen. Agt., No. 9 Warren street, New York city. Terms, $5.00 per annum in advance.
Musical Notes.
—The singing during Holy Week was well rendered.
—Dr. H. T. Leslie, of Haydn Villa, Reading, England, has made a metrical setting of Collins Graves’ Ride.
—Sir Julius Benedict has composed a fantasie upon the “Star Spangled Banner” for Mde. Arabella Goddard.
—N. W. Gade and J. Brahms will each furnish a new choral work for the next musical festival at Birmingham.
—Vocal culture is not neglected among the Minims. They have a regularly organized glee club, and sing frequently for their own amusement.
—A Mr. Hamilton, of Uaiversity College, Oxford, England, has been at work for some time perfecting an /Eolian harp. In addition to strings he has employed reeds, aud by their use obtains notes of great sweetness and power.
—An amusing incident is related of Rossini and an old Neapolitan priest. The good old Padre having just listened to an excellent rendition of Ro«sini’s Messe Solenneile, accosted the composer in the following strqjn: “ Rossini, if thou dost but knock at the gates of Paradise with this Mass, in spite of all thy sins, St. Peter will not have the heart to refuse thee an entrance.”	’
—We have received from Geo. Woods & Co., Cambridgeport, Mass., The Vox Hamana for April. Among the articles are “The Dread of Criticism,” “Unmusical Ministers, (a very readable article), “The Early Dance Forms,” “Circulating Music Libraries,” “Absolute Music,” and “ The Programme wit h Notes.” The music of the number-is very good. Among others is a selection from “Lohengrin.”
—Haydn .was the most religious of all composers. “When I was working at the ‘Creation,’ said he, “I felt myself so penetrated with religious feeling, th-it before I sat down to my piano I prayed confidently to God t<» give me the talent necessary to praise Him worthily.” If when composing his Masses he felt troubled for want of ideas, he rose fiom the piano, took his rosary and prayed for inspiration. This means, be said, never failed him.
—The Review de ifusique Sacree, we learn from the Catholic Review, contains a very interesting article on the Stabal Eater. It proves that the introduction of the famous chant is due to Innocent III, and not to Jacopone as has hitherto bt-en as-erted. The Franciscan (Jacopone) only imitated and amplified the work of the Pope. The writer is, however, in error when he informs us that the early Christians had no bells or organs in the churches, and that their manner of summoning the faithful to prayers is unknown.
—We have received from S. T. Gordon & Son, No. 13 East 14th St., New York city, a copy- of “ Silver Threads of Song,” an excellent, new school b >ok of music. The book was compiled by Millard, the great song writer, and contains, i i addition to a large number of songs written by Millard for this bonk, some of the choicest popular songs of the day, such as “ Sliver Threads among the Gold,” “ Under the Dairies. ’’ etc. It will make an excellent book for seminaries and schools; ami some of the younger students here would find it useful to them. When out walking, riding, etc., there are many of these songs which would add much to their enjoyment. It contains 203 pages, and costs only sixty cents. It is just the book for the Philoma-t beans and Philopalrians.
Scientific Notes.
—Sir Charles Lvell, Bart., F. R. S., the celebrated geologist, died on the 2 2nd of Feb. last, at the age of 73 years.
—It has been calculated by Helmholtz that the rapidity with which an impression is transmitted through the nerves is about 93 ft. per second.
—A party of German professors, under the lead of Prof. Christ of the Universitv of Munich, will undertake a scientific expedition into Greece and Asia Minor this Spring.
—The discovery is announced of a new planet (142) by Director J. Palisa. at Pola, with a telescope of 7% ft. focal length. It made its appearance on Jan. 28th, aud is of the 12th magnitude.
—Panama Bay has been unusually phosphorescent during the past month. At night, it is said by local newspapers, every wave as it breaks on shore and on reefs looks
TH^SCfiOtASTlC.	gas
like a wreath of bluish fire. The star-like light thus given out announces the pre-eace of invriatls of the oceanic animalcules with which the sea aboun Is at this season.
—The Bishop of Canton. Chini. sivs the CJiitholic Review, has sent to the Jardin d'Acclimation of Piris. a very singular plant, called the- cameii >n fl »wit. This is a kind of creeper of the convolvuli trib *, and changes the color of its flower, a kind of morning-glory, three times a day. In the morning it is deep blue, at noon it is pink, and at night it becomes quite white and soon afterwards fades away.
—Mr. Hennessy writes from Massorie to Prof. Stokes that he h is observed in the solir spectrum ceriain white lines for whose existence he is unable to account. He cannot think that these are due either to the instrument or to the latitude of Ilie station. The white lines in question cannot be described as absolutely white, yet they closely resemble threads of white frosted silk held in the sunlight. They are best seen about noon.
—The increase of the cultivation of beetroot in Europe for the manufacture of sugar is said to be causing great loss to the cane-sugar planters in Cuba, who have been at an enormous outlay for machinery and labor to produce the fine class of sugar that is imported thence. Should the European manufacture and consumption of beet-sugar go on increasing as it has done during the past four years, serious changes are anticipated in the canS-sugar productions all over the West Indies.
—Prof. Kiiiger, Director of the Observatory of Helsingfors, after an extended series of calculations on the weight and distance of the double star 70 p Ophinici, has arrived at the following results: Mass of the double star, 312 that of the sun; half the major axis, 30 3 times our distance from the sun; distance iron our solir system, 1,271,700 times the sun’s distance from the earth. It requires light travelling at the rate of 183,000 miles per second, 19M years to come from the star to us.
—The nature of the auroral light is the subject of a communication by Lemstrom, who concludes that the white flaming appearances occasionally seen on the summits of mountains in Spitzbergen and in Lapland are of the same nature as the Northern Lights. Similiar appearances have also been seen in other parts of the world. Electrical currents that develop themselves in the earth when the auroras are present are not induction phenomena cau-ed by the atmospheric auroral currents, at least not in Northern regions.
—We mentioned some time ago the discovery of additional remains of bones of the great auk upon the Funk Islands, off the coast of Newfoundland; and from another source we le irn that portions of remains of ab >ut fifty individuals were obtained. None of these formed complete skeletons, although there were sets of bones enough to build up several of them. The bones have been exposed to the weather and changes of temperature, and to a considerable extent are in an unsatisfactory condition.
—The first annual report of the Zoological Society of Cincinnati, for the year 1874, has b -en published, giving an account of the present condition of that important enterprise. From this we learn that, after various efforts to secure a proper site, a suitable locality was ob tained in the south western corner of Avondale, of 6,G04 acres, for which a reasonable annual rental is to be paid. About $120,600 have been raised in the form of capital stock, and this, with the regular receipts, will be quite sufficient for carrying on the establishment and furnishing handsome interest on the investment.
—Some of our younger readers may like to try the experiment of making a hanging garden of sponge. It is a pretty novelty. Take a white sponge of large size, and sow it full of rice, hemp, canary, grass, and other seeds; then place it in a shallow dish, in which a little water is constantly kept, and as the sponge will absorb the moisture, the seeds will begin to sprout before many days. When this has fairly taken place, the sponge may be suspended by means of cords in the window where a little sunshine will enter. It will thus become a mass of green
foliage, and should be refreshed with water daily so as to be kept moist.
—The German Society of Arctic Exploration has finally concluded to take the necessary steps for a new polar expedition, to sail in June, 1875 if the preparations can be made in'time, otherwise in 1876. There will probably be two steamers of about 300 tons burden, with crews of from twenty five to thirty each, and the. proper complement of scientific men. -To one vessel will be entrusted the ei-ploration of the deep fiords on the east coast, running into the interior of Greenland; the other steamer is to push 'northward along the east coast in the direction of the pole, and send out sledge parties from time to time. The expedition will be provisioned for three years.
As there are no vessels fitted for the service in the im» perial navy, it i-; probable that ihey will have to be built or ..purchased from the merchant, marine. The total cost of building is-estimated at 150.096 thalers, with as much .more for provisioning, stores, and instruments.
If the expedition can start during the present year, it will, of course, serve as a companion to the British expedition, the two possibly becoming auxiliary to each other in North Greenland.
—The distinguished Italian astronomer Schiaparelli has communicated to the Journal of the Italian Sp<clros-copic Society some studies upon the nature of the repulsive fifree which contributes to the formation of the tails of comets. The actu il existence of this force is established by the accurate observations that have been made. He examines successively the various theories that have been put forth—the electrical theory as proposed by Zollner, the molercular theory of Zenker, and the theory of Faye, that repulsion is exerted by all incandescent surfaces, and that thereby the gaseous matters attending the comets are repelled from the surface of the solid nucleus. The.latter does not seem to Schiaparelli to afford any material explanation of the phenomena. The electric theory was first suggested by Olbera but has been in general terms objected to by Herschel, Lamont, etc. ZolLner’s views have been elebora-ed more minutely, and he has endeavored to show that the free electricitv existing upon the surface of the earth is sufficient to produce an effect similar to that found in comets, but his conclusions are in too many respects at variance with actual observations to allow the author to consider them as affording a reasonable explanation as to the nature of comets. Zenker’s views are rejected by him for the reason that the evaporation of fluids from the surface of the nucleus should give rise to several phenomena not seen in comets, while on the other hand, it does not explain the multiple tads which have frequently been observed. In conclusion, Schiaparelli thinks that we are forced to believe that the repulsive force acting upon comers is a force exterior to the comet itself, and since this force evidently operates in the direc- -tion of the radius drawn from the comet to the sun, therefore we must regard it as having for its origin the sun or some medium surrounding the sun, and he adds that this is about all we at present know upon the subject.
Sosisty Notes.
—The 51st regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held March 21st. The following subject was chosen for next debate: Resolved, “That Washington was a Greater Man than Napoleon.” The debaters appointed were, affirmative, Mooney, Crummey, and Kennedy; negative, Campbell, Ratigan, and Soule. The Club passed resolutions thanking St. Patrick’s Library Association, of South Bend, for the banner kindly loaned for the Exhibition, and also those who rendered important services in the Exhibition. The meeting then adjourned.	.
—The twenty-fifth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society took place on March the 23d. At this meeting the debate—Resolved “That Gymnastic Exercises are Beneficial to Health” took place. Masters
395	•	THE S CH
OLASTIC.
i	Quau,~Pilliod, Roelle, Budd, French, Raymond, Walsh,
•	and Lonstorf stood up bravely for the affirmative; Masters
!	Delvecchio, Vanamee, Larkin, J. Nelson, N. Dryfoos, and
!	Kleiner warmly supported the negative. There was
sharp shooting on both sides, but the affirmative came out champions. H. Quan, L. N. Piliod, W. Roelle, J. Nelson,
.	J. Delvecchio, J. French, C. Larkin, E. Sugg, E. Washburn,
Geo. Budd, F. Raymond, N. S. Dryfoos, F. Hoffman, F.
j	Kleiner, and E Davis, delivered declamations. W. Morris
i •	-	presented himself for membership, and after fulfilling the
i |	regulations of the Society was unanimously admitted.
j !	—The twenty-ninth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia
i	Philomathean Association took place March the 22d. The
j	cliief exercise at the meeting was the debate: “That
i	Works of Fiction are Injurious to Students.” Masters
।	Wood, Downey, McNamara, Dore and Faxon were on the
j	affirmative; while Masters Best, McIntyre, O’Hara, and
j	Walker upheld the negative. Decision was given in fa-
|	vor of the affi: mative. The debate was well prepared, but
j	some of those who were appointed on the negative were
i ■	not present; otherwise the affirmative might have been
t	pretty -well shaken. The debate over, the following read
;	compositions: Messrs. Minton, Best, Arnold, and F.
J	Smyth. Masters T. NcMamara and R. Walker closed the
;	exercises with spirited declamations.
J	—The first meeting of the Scientific Association ■for
- {	1875 was held in the College Library, on Wednesday,
।	March 24th, at one o’clock, p. m., Rev. J. A. Zahm presiding.
;	The object of the meeting was to elect officers for the en
suing session. Much regret was expressed on account of '	the absence of R.v. Father Carrier, founder and former
,	President of the Society; and though he is now far away
.	in the sunny South, he is still fondly remembered by all
’	the members of the Scientific Association, who have, as a
mark of their esteem, elected him Honorary Director of
।	their Society.
The other officers are as follows:—President, Rev. J. A.
: I	Zahm; Vice-Pres., Prof. T. F. O'Mahony; Recording Sec -
;	retary; Prof. T. A. Dailey; Corresponding Sec., T. H. Grier;
//	Treasurer,R. W. Staley; Librarian,H.V. Hayes. Messis.
T. J. Murphy, E. J. McLaughlin, J. J. Gillen, T. F. Gal-
;	lagher, E. G. Graves, F. Devoto and J. Caren were elected
.	members. The time of meeting then agreed upon was
: h . Sunday evening; the first meeting to be held on April S' ]	llth, at which time Rev. J. Zahm will deliver a lecture.
J	A programme for each evening’s exercises was made,
I'f	which the President insisted on being fully carried out;
;	stating it would be necessary for all to prepare their parts
■	in the exercises well, that meetings might prove both
interesting and instructive.
BOTH
j	Personal.
■ i	.. —Brother James went to Chicago last week.
J	..—J; A'. Wilstach, of Lafayette, Ind., is travelling in
•	Europe.
-	—rT. M. O’Leary has our thanks for favors shown last
b	Saturday.
Ji	—We were pleased to see Mr. Cnrreri, of Michigan, here
J'.	the other day.
c *	—J. Breckweg, of ’71, is a candidate for City Treasurer
of Lafayette, Ind.	x
„	’ —Bros. Alban and Francis de Paul have been under
ij;	the weather lately. '	'
—Rev. J. A. Fanning, of the Chicago diocese, was at"* Notre Dame on Tuesday and Wednesday last.	'
—We had a visit from Hon. W. C. McMichael, our old foreman, and his brotner, Aleck, on Wednesday last.
—Very Rev/Father Sorin will not be able to go South this Spring. He will go to Europe in a few days. May' he have a happy voyage!	.
Local Items.
—Who got shot ?
—Fine weather lately.	- ■
—Come,gentle Spring!
—Who would be a weather-prophet?	<
—S-----, why didn’t you ride that mule ?	.	j
—How about the rain last Monday, eh Professor ?	•
—There is some talk of an Exhibition next month.
—Who was that person who got bounced out of bed ?
—A few of the ball-clubs held meetings Wednesday.
—Mr. John Ney gave us a Dao Gratiat Tuesday evening.
—The Collegiales had a new study-hall faculty for a few
days.	;
—All agree that the picture of the College is a splendid	’
affair.
—Our little folders did some quick work last Saturday night.	.
—Don’t say “powder” to our friend John or you may get hurt.	’	-
—We are under ever so many obligations to Tom for the help he gave us last Saturday. .
—What with the new Church and the repairs in the College, the carpenters have plenty of work.
—Well now! In spite of the snow, some Seniors played hand-ball the other day.	’
—From ibis time out the boys do not go into the studyhall before supper.
—Henceforth and forever we will place no reliance in any weather-prophet save the reliable follower of Ryan.
—The Philopatrians will play “ the Blind Boy ” next month. It is an excellent litile drama.	„
—Bros Fidelis and Ferdinand captured two fine, large rabbits, one near our office the other near the Mortuary Chapel,-on Tuesday last.	.
—“Latest.”—Our friend John says that if you are afflicted with a headache, and cryandbiwl as loud as you can, you may be sure of almost an inslant cure.
—The resident Alumni held a meeting on the 21st.
Their next meeting will be on the llth of April. They will soon begin making arrangements for the June meet-	.
ing, at which many of the boys of old will attend.	i
—We thought that a drug-store was a place where they retailed drugs and medicines; but, judging from the howl now going up on account of the enactment of a license law, we are led to infer that m iny of them are saloons in disguise.
—Our friend John says he never did like guns, nohow!
and he says that if that fellow who shot off the gun had not been on the stage, towards which a thousand eyes	■
were glancing,—well—there’s no telling what would have taken place.
—Our friend John says he will not go to town again be- * J fore next June, when he will leave for home. He says it , is bad enough to be forced to walk to town in muddy	:
weather, but to have it thrown up to you for a month	,
afterwards is too bad,—indeed too bad !	j
—The books lately purchased for the Lemonnier Circu-	i
lating Library are: Kepper’s Atlas of the .Middle Ages;	!
Bowen’s Logic; Rosevelt’s Ten Acres Too Much, and	i
Blackwood’s Magazine, 83 vols. This last is beautifully	!
bound in half-calf, with blue and gold bick. The thanks	1
of the Association are returned to Prof. Lyons for Wendell Phillips’ Speeches and Dr. Brownson’s Spirit-Rapper.	•
—Base-ball is all the talk. Wait until next week, until	•
THE SCHOLASTIC
'397
■ we publish the names of all the nines. All persons who -wish to send The Scholastic to the players of other years will please leave word at the Students’ Offi:e. AU the old boys would like to see- who are the players for this year. If any person wishes to send away two or three -more Scholastics, let them make it known, so.that we may kuow how many extra to print.
—We would be much obliged to the secretaries of the different ball-clubs if they would send in complete lists of their nines, with positions, etc., for our next number. We ' don’t want the names of the officers, but of the players. ’Let every club send them in tor the next number, for after that we will not publish the names of those forming the “nines.” We would also like to have the names and ‘positions of the persons forming the different crews in the Boat Club. All persons desiring extra copies of our next number, containing these names, to send away to old players, will please leave word at the Student’s Office before next Saturday, so that we may know how many extra ’ copies to print.
—We have received from a student, the following letter.-“A certain sec of young men in the College have lately got , into the habit of using broken English, in imitation of the first attempts of a Teutonic ciiiz-n just from the ‘ Vater-land.’ Circumstances having t brown me of lai e very often into their company, I have several times caught myself . using such expiessions as “ I don’d like me dot’’; “ How high vas dot;” “I make vou ond bei dot vinder”; “ I kick meinselef,” etc. Now, Sir. Editor, I am a youth who tries to speak correct English, and it is rather mortifying to find myself falling back so far as to speak like a “green German”; especially as I cannot speak a word of the Vater-sprache which he speaks so lluemly. Should these young gentlemen persist in speaking thus in my presence I shall soon be without any language at all; and should I try to learn German it would be spoiled by my abominable English. It seems to me that these young men should consider their high station, and disdain to speak like an untutored German. It would not be so bad if they would talk among themselves only, but they must needs speak this nonsense before younger people, and thus set them a bad example. The influence of these young men has been so Widely felt that it is quite common in eith<-r yard to have a young fellow walk up to you. slap you with great force upon the back, and say: “ Dot ish der kind of a hairpeen I am.” ”
“ I do not know whether you will publish this or not, Mr. Editor, but I hope that you as the censor of manners and the general fitness of things around Notre D ime will give these young men a hint of the mischief that they are doing to others as well as to yours truly,
Will Honeycomb, Jr.”
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR department.
W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, F. Bears?, R. Barrett, T. Coenrane, J Cnunmey, G- Crummey, H. Cassidy, j. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W. Canavan. R. Doherty, B. Euans, P. Egan, J. Ewing, If. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, T. Grier, J. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt. C. Hess, A. Hess, H. Hunt. J. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, F. Hebard, W. Hughes J.-Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, F. Keller, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, E. Mc-Pharlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, E. McLaughlin, Patrick Mattimore, Peter Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, J. Ney, F. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, C. Otto, T. Pugh, G. Roulhac, C. Robertson, J. Rudge, M. Regan, P. Skahill, F. Sehlink, \V. Stout, J. Verment, C. Walters. R. White, F. Wilhelm, J. Whalen, J. Soule, J. O’Connell, C. Welty. _
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Bueeker, A. Bergck, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, E. Courtney, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, N. Dryfoos, F. Ewing, L.-Evers, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, F. Frazee. W. Edwards, J. T. Foley, G. J- Gross, F. X. Goldsberry, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, E. D. Gieason, F. Hoffman, C. Hake, J. Haffey, 0. Hitchcock, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, W. Kreigh, C- V. Larkin, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, J. McIntyre, R. McGrath, J. P. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, D. Nelson, G. Nester, C. Ottoway, C. R. Post, L. Pilliod, A.
Reinke, E. Stichtenoth, L. Smith, F. Smyth, W. Smith, E. Sugg, G. Sugg, T. J. Solon, P. Sehuurrer, H. Sickle, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward, F. J. Weisenburger, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, J. Douglas O’Hara, O. Meyer, J. Buckles, E. Hall, A. Betcher.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Samuel Goldsberry, Joseph Carrer, Francis McGiath, Edward Raymond, Robert Haley, L<-e J. Frazee, Walter Cunningham, Clement Moody, Jolin O’Meara, Louis Goldsmith, Charlie Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Albert Bushey, William Cash, Francis C’ampau, Harry Ordway, Harry McDonald.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MARCH 25.
Senior Class—T. Grier, T. Murphy, C. Walters, J. Hogan, E. McLaughlin.
Junior Class—E. Graves, F. Devoto, E. Monohan, T. Gallagher, G. Kelly, J. Gillen.
Sophomore Glass—H. Cassidy, B. Euans, J. Brown, T. Hansard.
Freshman Class—J. Ewing, E. McPharlin. M. Keeler, M. Foley. J. Rudge. J. Kopf, D. O Connell, J. Handley. J. McHugh, T. McNamara, J. Mathews, R. Maas, J. Ney. W. Rvan. J.Soule, C. Otto, 0. Welty, H. Hunt, J: Lyons, J. Cullen, W. Ball.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Walter Cunningham, Edward Raymond, O’car Bell, John. Duffield, Francis Carlin, Otto Lindberg, Colly Campau, Francis McGrath, Lee J. Frazee, Michael McAuliffe, Clement Moody.
List of Escellence.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director op Studies.]
■ 2nd German—H- Korty. 2nd Jr. Grammar—G. Frauen-knecht. 6th Latin—J no. J. Ney.
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMY.
—Mrs. Redman tenders her thanks to the Columbians for their kind invitation to their late E itertainment.
—Mrs. Patterson, of Indianapolis, will please accept grateful acknowledgments for her gift of some fine works of Art.
—The Editresses of the second number of “Libra” (read last Sunday) were the Misses M. Wicker, E. Haggerty, and A. Smith.
—A mistake was made by us in the report of last week. Miss Ella Lapkin was the Minim who received the Golden Rose on Latare Sunday.
—Two installments of fine specimens for the Geological Cabinet, from our courteous scientific friend Rev. Father Carrier, C. S. C., Galveston, are gratefully acknowledged.
—About two weeks since, the Juniors gave an interesting treat in tbe form of Composition reading. Minnie Cravens, Amelia Harris, Minnie O’Connor, Ida Fisk, and Bridget Wilson demonstrated the fact that very young ladies can exercise their intellectual powers to excellent advantage.
—The poem “The Sisters,” by Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, which appeared in the last No. of the Ave Maria, has been the object of universal interest in the Academy for the past week. On the 17th inst. a competition in recitation of this poem was held in the Study Hall, in presence of Very Rev. Father General; the award of prizes was decided by committees. That for the Senior Department was composed of the following young ladies: the Misses M. Walker, J. Kerney, and L. Ritchie. For the Juniors: E. Lappin, S. Cash, and L. Kirchner. The, prizes were photographs of a Crucifix brought over a hundred years ago to Mexico by the Missionary Fathers. In the Senior department, according to the committee, the Misses Anna Lloyd and Marion Faxon gave the best renderings of the poem. The prize was drawn for, and fell to Miss Lloyd. The Junior’s committee found the Misses A. Harris, L.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Hutchinson and B. Wilson equally worthy to draw for the prize. Miss Lulu Hutchinson was the firtuna'e com petitor. The Mi.liras were too timid on Wednesday, and their contest was postponed to.Sunday evening, when a committee of three d-cided that Angela E-ving, Oarne and Mary Hughes, and Anna McGrath, were equilly entitled to draw for the priza. It fell to 0 trrie Hu dies. An encore of the Junior recitation, presented on Wednesdiy, filled up the evening until an untisally late hour, as the distribution of points was succeeded by the reading of “Libra,’ by the Graduates.
TABLET OF HONOR.
FOK THE WEEK ENDING MARCH 14.
•'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehy, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, J. Stimsnn, A. St. Clair, A. O’Connor, A. Walsh, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning. B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, L. Kelley, S. Harris. C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, A. Byrnes, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann. S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, T. Gaynor, M. O'Mahony, E. O'Connor, M. and E. Thompson, H. Russell, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle, S. Raising, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, A. Smith, E. Colwell, E. Pierce, M. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Schwass, M. Quinn, S. Swalley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. O'Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, M. Siler, E Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen. B. Siler, B. Golsen, M. Reynolds, S. Cash, A. Goewey, N. McGrath, L. Kirchner. M. Hogan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, H. Kraus, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, A. Koch, M. Redfield, M. Derby, K. Hudson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, A. Peak, I. Mann, C. Hughes, E. Simpson, and R. Goldsberry.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote, L. Henrotin, E. Haggerty. 2nd’ Div.—Misses B Spencer, J. Riopelle.
2nd Class—Misses M. Wicker, J. Kearney, D. Cavenor, 2nd Div.—Misses J. Locke, A. Smith, E Jlougherty, C. West.	*
3rd Class—Misses C. Morgan/L. Kirchner, M. O’Connor, S.’Edes, I. Edes and E. Edes, A. Walsh, M. Walsh.
2nd Div.—Misses L. Walsh, M. Anthony, A. Koch, S. Cash, J. Bennett.
SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
.	DRAWING.
1st Class—Misses R. Neteler.
3rd Class—Misses E. Ritchie.
4th Class—Misses G. Walton, L. Henrotin, M Thompson, E. Thompson, J. Stimson, A. Cullen, E. Lange, A. K«»ch and E. Lappin.	.
5th Class—Misses M. O’Connnr, M. A. Schultheis, E. Arnold, P. Gaynor, J. Kreigh, L. Kirchner, K. Morris and E. Colwell.
WATER COLOR PAINTING.
4th Class—Misses I. Wade, E. Ritchie and C. Morgan 5th Class—Misses L. Henrotin and N. McAuliffe.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin M Wicker, L Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, E Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, J. Stim<ou, A. Sr. CUir.	-
2nd sr Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dailey, A. Walsh, L. Ri'cnie, L. Wyman J. McGuiie, E. York, A. and F. Dilger. J Bennett. M. Faxo >, E Dougherty, J. NuimiJg, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady.
3rd Sn» Class—Mi-ses S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler. M. Pritchard, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, L. Heurolin, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Bvrne, J. Pierce, M. Cravens, B. and K. Spencer,. K. Greenleaf, S. Hole, M. Sheil, M. O'Mahouy, A. Harris, M. O’Connor. B. Wilson.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russell, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, B. Golsen, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlan, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, M. and B. Siler. M. Schulthies, M. Ewing, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. Reynolds.	•
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, E. Edes, E.Bots-ford, L. Gustine. G. and F. Wells, S. Cash, J. Brown, L. Johnson, A. Smith, E. Pierce, M. McGrath, L. Kirchner, H. Peak.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, M.Railion, S. Swalley.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses A. Goewey, L. Hutchinson, C. Yates, M. Hoffman, A. Ewing, M. Hogan, H. Kraus, N. McGrath, E. Lappin, C. Orr, I. Yates, M. Redfield, M. Derby.
1st Jr. Class—Mis-es A. Peak, I. Mann, K. Hudson, M. Bell, C. Hughes, E. Simpson.
2nd Jr. Class—R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier. ‘ musical items. '
—Tuesday evening the voting musicians passed their ordeal successfully. Miss Emily Haggerty commenced by playing an Etude by Beyer—she is much improved in time and accent. Miss Cavenor has been but a short time under tuition here—her firm attack of five-finger triplets and scales in every form, will certainly lead to a brilliant future. Miss Bennett gave examples in wrist motion; with her amiable manner and a little more courage she will do well. Miss F. Wells al-o played scales and five-finger exercises— is making good progress. We shall be pleased to hear her again. Miss Faxon—s-cales and exercises from Czerny’s Velocity; her runs were smooth, full legato, showing she nAD understands the value of “ those horrid scales.” Miss Duncan played the same exercises, with good equality of touch. Both young ladies must try to overcome their timidity and do themselves full justice. Miss A. T. Clarke played an Etude on detached notes and Arpeggios—her selection was in great taste, and pleasing throughout. Miss Locke gave one of Duvorney’s studies on light sixths—her scales were strong and fluent, and position excellent. Not being present at the February examination, she fi.iisbed the pleasant evening witha “ Tyrolieuue Varifie,” by Schad. Alpine melodies, simple and pure in tone, have a peculiar charm, raising the heart to heaven, and instinctively we join those mountaineers in their sunset hymn of ‘‘Praise to God.”
Thursday afternoon the young ladies werej prompt and alive to the object of meeting; which shows appreciation of this means to improve their taste, criticism, and love of real musicial culture. Miss Redfield played scales from one end to the other of the keyboard, clear and strong, each tone heard at full sound. Miss L. Hutchinson, major scales—even and light. Miss McKinnon, minor scales; keep on, little one; you are in the right path; any other is only lost time. Miss West has a firm touch, and is improving. Mi^s M. A. Roberts played from Czerny, No. 1; she is also improving, but m eds a little more strength of touch in the crescendo parts; fingering good. F. Dilger Scales in Thirds, exercises on broken thirds and sixths; each interval was rendered distinctly; she is a credit to her teacher. K. Joyce played No. 5 of Czerny’s 1st Bonk; it was well worked out. Miss H. Russel, exercises .from “Mason’s Method ” her accented groups were well rendered. Miss Golsen, scales and an exercise on light arpeggios from Czerny’s 2nd Book—her manner is very pleasing, and shows improvement. Miss A. Dilger played from Czerny’s
&
THE SCHOLASTIC
39^
Ifrom her distant home for the regular examination, she ?also played a very interesting pic ce by Croissez, marking |the expression, and using properly the much abused e x-^tension pedal. She was promoted by common consent to a higher class.	• .
—Saturday morning, we visited the Juniors’ Singing Class—and were very much pleased at their readiness in reading notes, and spelling them musically, keeping the pitch throughout without falling; the two-part exercise came out clearly. Misses Craven, A. Harris, Schultheis, Mann, Brown, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, E. Simpson, and the little altos, with big voices. Misses Miers and Goldsberry, made themselves heard. Ada Peak, A. Goewcy, and many others, sang admirably. I am sure Mother Superior will *be delighted, when she returns, at the progress of this : Class.
: 110 studies, Opus 453; the object, turns and trills for both [hands, in good.time and. true accent; returning too late
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
FOUNDED IN 1842.	CHARTERED IN 1844.
11 iHIS Institution, incorporatedin 1844, enlarged in 18GG, and fitted
*. ± up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation ; to five hundred students. '	...
i Situated near the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy ol access from all parts of the United States.	.
Terms :
। Mat negation Fee,	-	-	-	.-	-	• S 5 00
| Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek inclu-!ded). Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of five-
months, -	-	- ,......................... 150	00
Fiench, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 <'0
. Instrumental Music, -	-	-	—	-	-	12 50
i Use of Piauo, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
I Use of Violin, -.	-----2 50
( General Class Principles, -	-	- 10 00
Vocal Lessons J Vocal Culture> P. -	-	-15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	- 5 U0
Uss of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, --------	15 00
Telegraphy	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Philosophical and d omical Apparatus -	-	5 01
I	(< lassicwl course,	-	-	-	-	lt> Ou
' Graduation Fee, •< Scientific Course, -	-	-	-10 00
'	(Commercial Course, -	-	-	5 00
Doctors' Fees and JH-dicines at Physician’s Charges.
■ Students who sprnd their Summer Vacation at the University __
- are charged extra, -	-	-	.-	- . - . 35 00
• Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date iof entrance.	■
| Payments to be made invariably in advance.
< . Class books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
s The first session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; the second on the 1st of February.
| For further particulars, addres
4	Rev. P. J. COLOVIN, C. S. C.
' CHEAP_MUSIC.
I	§3.00 for 10 Cents I
THREE back numbers of CHURCH’S MUSICAL VISITOR, containing over three dollars worth of new and good music “vocal and instrumental—all grades” will be sent postpaid 1to any address, on receipt of ten. cents.
Address,	JOHN CHURCH & CO.
3t	■	Cincinnati, O.
:	College Societies.
;	THE ARCHCONFRATERNITY OF THE B. V. M.
: T. Murphy, President; Henry U. Cassidy, Secretary.
i THE ST. ALOY°IUS PHILODEMIC SOCIETY.
T. A. Dailey, Pres't; J. J. Gillen, Rec. Sec'y pT.3$ y Cor. Sec'y.
THE SODALITY OF THE HOLY ANGELS.
D. J. O’Connell, Pres't; H. W. Quan, Sec'y.
THE ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A. Lyons, Pres't; R, Downey, Rec. Sec'y; J. p. McHugh, Car. Sec'y.
JOHN IT. CODY & CO.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
HEADING, HOOPS, &C.
Factory at Junction of P., Ft- W. & C., Ft. W., M. & G.
G. R. & I. Ft. W., J. & S., AND W. &. &. E. CANAL.
GOLSEN & EASTMAN1,
Successors to Jno. Clarke, & Co.,
DISTILLERS,
21 & 23 RIVER STREET, CHICAG-O.
JAMESZBONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Coe. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coonley’s Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of th*e Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
024-tf -
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Stell Contznue at ,P. L. GARRITY’S
OJLTTTDY FACTORY! 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
•Broken Candy -	-	_	_ iso.
Fine Mixed Candy -	_	-	_ 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35c.
Caramels -	-	-	-	-	- 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25e.
Proportionately X<ow Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
oS4-tf

- 400-
THE. SCHOLASTIC.
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
. A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
THE INTERES 1'S OF THE STUDENTS.
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
. Taking effect December 27th, 1;74.
Published. Weekly, Dur.ng Term-Time,
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Trains. Mail -	-
Day Express. -Accommodation Atlantic Expiess Night Express -
Going East.
Leave Chicago.
5 00 a m
- 8 3o a m
-	3	35 p m
- 5 15pm - 9 pm
Leave Niles, 9 02 a -a
11 47 am
7 35 p tn
8 55 p m
12 45 p m
Arrive at Datroi 5 45 p m 6 30 p m 8 45 a m 3 so am .
8 00 am
$1.00 X’Ell YEAR.
THE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre -Dame. The chief object of ‘his paper is to keep the parents and fr.ends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline a' this University and at St. Mary’s Academy, and of the progress of thetr sons and daughters in these two m-titwions. Forthis pur’ ose. rcsular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names of those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Holl of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professors and teachers Other reports, rehube to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the mire talented and energetic student-, etc, also find place in this paper, and ke-p parents and friends accurately infor i ed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through, timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactivefwhile many articles of an instructive and literary character, front writers of mature mind and abi’ity. render “The Scholastic” a valuable publication lor all who desire variety and utility in their reading. ‘‘The Scholastic" consists of sixteen wide two-co unin pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matterand the remainder wit J advertisements.
' Notice to	tIsei’S:	‘
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the following list of
prices:	-
One Page,	(per month,) -	-	-	-	$10 00
One Column	“	.	....	6 00
Half Column,	“	-	-	-	-	4 00
One-Third Column, “	-	-	-	.	-	2 50
One-Eighth Column,	“	-	-	-	-	1 50
Address,	Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 i-y-(No-8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. st.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.12 A. 3t. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. Ji.; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a. 31. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 P. m. ; Buffalo 4.20 a. st.	.
9.11 ?. st.(No. 61, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. 31.
8.00 p. 3L (No. 10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,'2.30 a. 3t„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo l‘10 p. st.
E bAA p. st. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOJNG WEST.
8.18 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 630 a. si.
5.21 a. m. (No 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. si.
6.31 p. 3t. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7 30; Chicago, 10. p. 3i.
5.11 p. 3i. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 a. 3i. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. sr . Chicago 11.10.
9.15 a. 31. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers npon Through Freight Trams.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
3. H Parsons, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago. .
W. W. GIDDINGS. Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Clxicago, Itoelc Island and I’aciflc It. It.
Depot, corner Fan Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Tbaixs.	leave.	arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and.
Atchison Express,	10.13 am	3.30 pm
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Night Express1	10.30 p m	6.15 a m
Going West.
Trains	Leave Detroit. Leave Niles.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 am	4 05 pm
Day Express -	-	10 20 a m	5 20 p m
Accommodation-	150pm	6 30 am
Evening Express -	5 40pm	23i>am
Pacific Express - -	10 00 p m	5 00 a m
Arrive at Chicago. ’	8 05 p m
9 00 p m 10 35 a m 63 >a tn 830 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Beud—8 am, 3 p m, 6 30 p m, *9 a m, *7 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55 p m. 7 10 p m *9 40 a m, * 7 40 p m. Leave Niles — •> 3 ) i m 1 J) t :n. > 1J p :n, * S a >n. + 5 > m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 am, 555pm, + 840 a tn,+540pm
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, via Niles.
Depart—807 am. 638 pm.+9 07 am. +7 07pm.
Arrive—7 07am, 942 am, 5 46 pm, +8 32 am, +532pm
Going "West, via Niles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus * + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit. Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH, .	. W.B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent.
Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
’AINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City and Denver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis, Springfield, Texas and New Orleans Lightning Express, via Main Line,
LEAVE.
•9:40 a.m.
*12 30 p.m.
♦12:00 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
|9:45 p.m.
arrive.
♦8:10 p.m.
♦2 50 p m
♦2:50 p.m.
♦9:20 a.m.
17:30 a.m.
* Except Sunday, t Except Saturday. {Daily. § Except Monday
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis aaily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	* J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
JPJEN1N STL VANIA CENTRAL , DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.	.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m t Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	.	“	6.41 a m.«
3rd train “	“	9.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and ^outh, and Maunsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCUbLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phtelphia.
F. R. MYEtfti, Geu'I Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
. W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day. .	■