i' •j.’?.
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morituTUS.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 6, 1876.
Number 36.
Peanuts.
“Eating peanuts by the peck.”—Casablanca—modified. i.
Oh, how detestable
Is this^comestible!
Doctors' denounce them as quite indigestible.
ii.
Still the boys munching them,
Cracking and crunching them, Hopelessly seek the effect of a lunch in them, in.
Crammed to satiety, (Farewell, propriety 1) Stilljthey go crackling on, pests of society.
IV.
Symptoms of cholera, Making them holler: “Ah! ” Soon supervene, while the peanuts they swaller—ah 1 v.
Would you our gratitude
Gain, from our latitude
Drive this abuseit would comfort us, that it would!
VI.
Banish it utterly;
Nuts in the gutter lay;
Then 1’11 subscribe myself, yours, sir, peanutterly.
S.
Properzia de’ Rossi.
In the prefatory remarks to the life of Madonna Properzia de’ Rossi, Vasari with great gallantry pays the following tribute to the genius of woman: “ It is a remarkable fact, that whenever women have at any time devoted themselves to the study of any art or the exercise of any talent, they have for the most part acquitted themselves well; nay, they have even acquired fame and distinction, a circumstance of which innumerable examples might easily be adduced. There is no one to whom their excellence in the general economy of life is unknown, but even in warlike enterprises they have sometimes been seen to distinguish themselves, as witness Camilla, Arpalice, Valasca, Tomiris, Panthesilea, Molpadia, Orithya, Antiope, Hip-polyta, Semiramis, Zenobia, and, finally, Mark Antony’s Fulvia, who so frequently armed herself, as the historian Dion informs us, in her husband’s defence as well as her .own. In poetry too, women have sometimes been known to Jwin admiration, as Pausanias relates. Corinna was highly celebrated in the art of versification; and Eusta-.thius, in the enumeration which he gives of the ships of Homer (as does also Eusebius in his Book of the Times), "makes mention of the honored and youthfnl Sappho, who of a verity, although she is a woman, was nevertheless
such a one that she surpassed by very far all the eminent writers of that age. So also doth Varro, with all unwonted and yet well-merited praise, exalt Erinna, who with three hundred verses opposed herself to the glorious fame of the brightest luminary of Greece, and with a small volume of her own making, called Elecate, counterpoised the widely-grasping Iliad of the great Homer. Aristophanes has celebrated Carisseno as most accomplished in the same art, upholding her to be a most learned and most eminent lady; and as much may be said for Theano, Mi-rone, Polla, Elpis, Cornisicia, and Telisilla, to the last of whom a very beautiful statue was erected in the temple of Venus, as a testimony of the admiration in which she was held for her extraordinary abilites. But, to say nothing of the many other poetessess who might be enumerated, do we not read that in the difficult studies of philosophy, Arete was the teacher of the learned Aristippus? and were not Lastenia and Assiotea the disciples of the divine Plato? In the art of oratory, the Roman ladies Sem-phronia and Hortensia were much renowned; in grammar, according to Athenaeus, Agallis attained io high distinction ; and in the prediction of things future, *or if you please to call it so, in astrology and magic, Themis, Ca£ sandra, and Manto acquired the greatest fame in their day, as did Isis and Ceres in matters connected with agriculture; while the daughters of Thespios received universal applause for their attainments in all the sciences.
“ But, it is certain that at no period of the world’s his tory, has the truth of the assertion which we have made above been rendered more clearly manifest than in the present, wherein the highest fame has been acquired by woman, not only in the study of letters, as in the instance of the Signora Vittoria del Vasto, the Signora Veronica Gambara, the Signora Catarina Anguisciola, Schioppa, Nugarola, Madonna Laura Battiferra, and a hundred others, who are most learned; not in the vulgar tongue only, and in Latin and Greek, but in every other walk of science. Nay, there are who have not disdained to contend, as it were, with us for the vaunt and palm of superiority in a different arena, and have set themselves, with their white and delicate hands, to mechanical, or speaking more exactly, to manual labors, forcing from the rigidity of marble, and from the sharp asperity of iron, that fame which was the desire of their hearts, and succeeding in the attainments of its highest eminence, as did our Properzia de’ Rossi of Bologna, a maiden of rich gifts, who was equally excellent with others in the disposition of all household matters, while she gained a point of distinction in many sciences well calculated to awaken the envy, not of women only, but of men also.”	'
Properzia was bom in the year 1501, at Bologna; according to Vasari; but at Modena, by Alidosi, Tiraboschi
562
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and Vedriani. Her early youth was spent in Bologna, and there she in after-life exercised her talents. She was of remarkable beauty, endowed with a quick wit, and was well skilled in music. She first set herself to carve peachstones, displaying such skill that her work was marvellous to behold. On the small surface of a peach-stone she exhibited the history of the Crucifixion, comprising a large number of figures, all “ exhibiting the most delicate treatment.”
Successful in these small works, Properzia began to look higher. She obtained a commission to complete part of the work of decorating with figures of marble the three doors of the principal facade of San Petronio, which she executed in an admirable manner and received the applause of all Bologna—no, not all, for she in some manner incurred the displeasure of Amico Aspertini, who assailed her work with malignity and induced the superintendents of the work to pay her but a very small sum for her labors.
After her work on the doors of San Petronio, she turned her attention to copper-plate engraving, in which she was most successful, her work receiving the plaudits of all. It was not long before her fame spread throughout Italy, and when Pope Clement VIII, in 1530, had crowned the Emperor at Bologna he inquired after the sculptress, but was grieved to learn that she had died that same week. She was buried in the hospital called Della Morte, mourned by her fellow-citizens, “who,” says Vasari, “while she lived had held her to be one of the greatest miracles of nature.”
The Song and the Singer.
We find the following story in the columns of the Monitor, of San Francisco:
It was during the early days of the great French Revolution of 1789, when a young officer in delicate health took up his quarters in the city of Marseilles for the six months of his leave of absence. It seemed strange retirement for a young man, for in this town he knew no one, and in the depth of winter Marseilles was no tempting residence The officer lived in a garret looking out upon the street, which had for its sole furniture a harpsichord, a bed, a table and a chair. Little but paper ever entered that apartment, where food and fuel both were scarce; and yet the young man generally remained in doors all day, assiduously writing, or rather doing something on paper, an occupation he alternated with music.
Thus passed many months. The young man grew thinner and paler, and his leave of absence appeared likely to bring no convalescence. But he was handsome and interesting, despite the sallow hue. Long hair, full, beaming eyes that spoke of intelligence, and even genius, frankness of manner, all preposessed in his favor, and many a smile and look of kindness came to him from beautiful eyes that he noticed not nor cared to notice. In fact, he rarely went out but at night, and then to walk down by the booming sea, which made a kind of music he seemed to love. Sometimes, it is true, he would hang about the theatre door when operas were being played, and look with longing eye . within; but he never entered; either his purse or his inclination failed him. But he always examined with care the name of the piece and its author, and then walked away to the sea-shore, to muse and meditate.
Shortly after his arrival in Marseilles he visited, one . .after another, all the music-sellers and publishers in the town, with a bundle of manuscripts in his hand;"but his
reception was apparently not very favorable, for he left them all with a frowning air, and still with his bundle of manuscripts. Some had detained him a long time, as if estimating the value of the goods he offered for sale; but these were no more tempted than the others to try the saleable character of the commodity. The house he lodged in had attached to it a large garden. By permission of the landlord the young man often selected it for his evening walks, and, despite the cold, would sometimes sit and muse in a rude and faded bower under the walls at one of the gables. Here he would occasionally sing, in a low tone, some of his own compositions. It happened once or twice that when he did so a female head protruded from a window above him, seeming to listen. The young man at length noticed this.
“ Pardon, lady,” said he one evening; “ perhaps I disturb you?”	•
“Not at all,” she replied. “I am fond of music, very fond, and the airs you hum are new to me. Pray, if not a rude question, whose are they ? ”
“Citoyenne,” he replied, diffidently, “they are my own.”
“ Indeed! ” cried the lady, with animation, and you have never published them?”
“I shall never try—again," he murmured, uttering the last word in a low and despairing tone, which, however, reached the ears of the young woman.	.
" Good night, citoyen,” said she, and she closed the window. The composer sighed, rose and went out to take his usual walk by the sea-beach; there, before the grandeur and sublimity of the ocean, and amid the murmur of its bellowing waves, to forget the cares of the world, his poverty and his crushed visions of glory and renown—the day-dream of all superior minds—a dream far oftener a punishment than a reward; for of those who sigh for fame, few indeed are successful.
Scarcely had he left the house than a lady habited in a cloak and hood entered it, and after a somewhat lengthened conference with his concierge ascended to his room and remained there about an hour. At the end of that time she vanished. It was midnight when the composer returned. He entered with difficulty, the Cerberus of the lodge being asleep, and ascended to his wretched room. He had left it littered and dirty, without light, fire or food. To his surprise, a cheerful blaze sent its rays beneath the door. He opened it, not without alarm, and found his apartment neatly ordered, a fire burning, a lamp, and on the table a supper. The young man frowned, and looked sternly at the scene.
“ Who dares thus insult my poverty ? ” Is it not enough that I am starving with cold and hunger, that I am rejected by the world as a useless and wretched thing, incapable of wielding either sword or pen, but I must be insulted by charity ? Fire, light and food, all sent to me by one who knows my necessity! And yet, who knows? Perhaps my mother may have discovered my retreat. Who else should have acted thus? My mother, I bless thee both for your action and for respecting my concealment! ”
And the invalid officer sat down to the most hearty meal he had eaten for weeks. He had left home because his friends wholly disapproved of his making music a profession, and wished him to employ his leave of absence in learning another occupation. His mother so pressed him, that he saw no resources but a soldier’s last chance—a re-
eat. For two months no trace of the fugitive had been
M	.	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
563
seen—two months spent in vain efforts to make his chosen ।	career support him; and now, doubtless, his mother had
।	found him out, and had taken this delicate way of respect:	ing his secrecy and punishing his pride.
I	Next morning the young man awoke with an appetite
unknown to him of late. The generous food of the previous night had restored his system, and brought him to a natural state. Luckily, sufficient wine and bread remained to satisfy his craving, and then he sat down to think. All his efforts to get his music sung, or played, or published had been vain. Singers knew him not, publishers declared him unknown, and the public seemed doomed never to hear him, because they never have heard him; a logical consequence very injurious to young beginners in literature, poesy, music, and all the liberal arts. But he was determined to have one more trial. Having eaten, he dressed and went out in the direction of the shop of the Citoyen Dupont, a worthy and excellent man who in his day had published more music, bad and good, than a musician could have played in a lifetime.
“You have something new, then, citoyen?” said Dupont, after the usual preliminaries, and after apologizing to a lady within his office for leaving her awhile. “ As my time is precious, pray play it at once, and sing it if you will.”
The young man sat himself at the harpsichord which , adorned the shop, and began at once the “ Song of the Army of the Rhine.” The music publisher listened with • the knowing air of one who is not to be deceived, and shook his head as the composer ended.
“ Rough—crude—but clever. Young man, you will, I doubt not, do something good one of these days; but at
•	present, I am sorry to say, your efforts want finish, pol-
ish.”
The singer rose, and bowing, left the shop, despair at his heart. He had not a sou in the world; his rent was in |	arrear. He knew not how to dine that evening, unless, in:	deed, his mother came again to his aid—and aid he was
f	very unwilling to receive. His soul repugned from it, for
f	he had parted from her in anger. His mother was a loyal'	ist, he was a republican, and she had said bitter things to
[	him at parting. But most of all, the composer felt one
.	. thing: the world would never be able to judge him, never
be able to decide if he ever had or had not merit; and this i	was the bitterest'grief of all.
'	That day was spent in busy thought. The evening came,
j	and no sign again of his secret friend, whether mother or
f	unknown sympathizer. Towards night the pangs of hunger
1	became intolerable, and after numerous parleys with him
$	self, the young man ascended to his room with a heavy
parcel. His eye was wild, his cheek was pale, his whole mien unearthly. As he passed the door he was handed a . ticket for the opera by his concierge.
u Go thyself,” said the composer, in a low, husky voice, and he went up stairs.
Having gained the room, the unhappy and misguided young man sat silent and motionless for some hours, until at length hunger, despair, and his dreamy visions had driven every calm and good thought from his head, and then he dared quietly proceed to carry out his dreadful and desperate intent. He closed carefully the window, stuffed his mattress up the chimney and with a paper stopped every aperture where air could enter. Then he drew forth from his parcel of charcoal and a burner, and lit it. Thus had this wretched man determined to end his suf-
ferings. He had made one last effort,’ and now in that solitary, dismal garret, he laid him down to die; and poverty and misery, genius and death, were huddled close together.	.
Meanwhile, amid a blaze of light, the evening’s amusement had begun at the theatre. A new opera from Paris was to be played; and the prima donna was the young,-lovely, and worshipped Claudine, the Jenny Lind of that time and place. The house was crowded, and the first act succeeded beyond all expectation—the audience were in ecstasy.	-
“She is a jewel,” said M. Dupont, who, from a-private box, admired the great supporter of his theatre. A roar of applause from the pit delighted at this instant the good man’s ears. Claudine, called before the curtain, was bowing to the audience. But what is this? Instead of going off, she has just signed to the orchestra to play. She is; about to show her gratitude to the audience in verse. M.-Dupont rubs his hands, and repeats twice between his teeth, “She is a jewel! ” But with ease and rapidity the band has commenced playing an unknown air, and the next instant M. Dupont is standing up with a strange and wild look. Hushed and still was every breath; the audience looked at each other; not a word of communication takes place; men shudder or rather tremble with emotion... But the first stanza is ended, and then a frantic shout, a starting of all to their feet, a wild shriek of delight, a cry-, of a thousand voices thundering the chorus, showed how the song has electrified them.
M. Dupont frowned, for the air and the song were not new to him; it was the “ Song of the Army of the Rhine” he had refused that morning! But Claudine proceeds. Again the audience is hushed in death-like silence, while the musicians, roused to an unusual degree of enthusiasm, played admirably, and Claudine still singing with all the purity, feeling and energy of her admirable voice, plunged her eyes into every corner of the house—in vain. At each couplet the enthusiasm of the people became greater, the anxiety of the singer more intense. At length she concluded, and never did applause more hearty, more tremendous, more uproarious, greet the voice of a public songstress. The excited population of Marseilles seemed mad.
Wherf silence was restored, Claudine spoke:
“ Citoyens and citoyennes! ” she exclaimed, “ this song is both written and composed by a young and unknown man, who has in vain sought to put his compositions before the public. Everybody has refused them. For myself, I thought this the greatest musical effort of modern times; and as such I practiced it to-day, and, unknown to the manager or author, I and the band prepared this surprise. But the author is not here. Poor and despairing, he is at home lamenting his unappreciated efforts! Let us awake him; let him learn that the generous people of Marseilles can understand and feel great music. Come, let all who have hearts follow me, and chant the mighty song as we go.”
And Claudine, stepping across the orchestra, landed in the pit, bareheaded, light-dressed, as she was, rushed towards the door, followed by every spectator, and by the musicians, who, however, put on their hats, and even threw a cloak and cap on the excited and generous songstress.
Meanwhile the composer’s dreadful resolve was being carried out. The horrid fumes of. the charcoal .filled the room; soon they began to consume and exhaust the pure
£64
’ the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
air, and the wretched youth began to feel all the pangs of coming death. Hunger, exhaustion and despair kindled a kind of madness in his brain; wild shapes danced around him; his many songs seemed sung all together by coarse, husky voices, that made their sound a punishment, and then the blasted atmosphere oppressing his chest, darkening his vision, his room seemed tenanted by myriads of infernal and deformed beings. Then again he closed his eyes, and soft memory stealing in upon him, showed him happy visions of his youth, of his mother, of love and hope and joy; of green fields, and the murmuring brooks which had first revealed melody into his soul; and the young man thought that death must be come, and that he was on the threshold of another world. But an awful shout, a tremendous clamor burst on his ear; a thousand voices roar beneath his window. The young man starts from his dream. What is this he hears ?
;	“ Aux armes ! citoyens,
-	Formes vos battalions,” etc.	.
“Whatis this?”he cries. “My Song of the Bhine!” He listens. A beautiful and clear voice is singing; it is still his song, and then the terrible chorus is taken up by the people; and the poor composer’s first wish is gained ; he feels that he is famous.
•• But he is dying, choked, stifled with charcoal. He lies senseless, fainting on his bed; but hope and joy give him strength. He rises, falls rather than darts across the room, his sword in hand. One blow shivers the panes of . his window to atoms, the broken glass lets in the cool seabreeze and the splendid song. Both give life to the young man, and when Claudine entered the room, the composer was able to stand. In ten minutes he had supped in the porter’s lodge, dressed and come out to be borne in triumph hack to the theatre, where that night he heard, amid renewed applause, his glorious song sung between every act, and each time gaining renewed laurels.
- Ten days later Rouget de L’lsle was married to Claudine, the prima donna of Marseilles, and the young composer, in gratitude to her and her countrymen, changed the name of his song, and called it by the name it is still Known by—“ The Marseillais.”
Some Bemarks on Natural History.
" Natural history is a science which treats of the structure of the earth, the objects contained within its crust, and the created beings or essences that exist upon its surface. It is divided into three branches, zoology, botany, and mineralogy or geology, explaining respectively the three great divisions or kingdoms, namely the animal, vegetable and mineral. Although 5876 years have elapsed since the Creation, and the classification in each of these branches or kingdoms is pretty general, it may be well to remark that we do not yet know all the beings in nature; the investigating naturalist discovers every day, by the power of the microscope, new worlds of organisms, a circumstance which should convince us of the comparatively limited capacity of the intellect of man, and the consideration of which should draw us nearer to that All-Wise and AllDowerful Being who knows everything in nature, for He made them—who is the Cause of all causes, as Cicero, that great philosopher of antiquity, styled Him, when at the joint of death he exclaimed: “ Causa causarum, miserere mei!" "	'	-	•
Before proceeding, I wish to draw attention for a moment to some passages of Holy Writ, since there are so many who deny the Creation, at least in part, as may easily, be • seen from the writings of Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall, and others, but who are refuted by men not less distinguished for their learning than they are for Christian sentiments—such as Adam Miller, Agassiz, Cuvier, Secchi, and others of equal note. But the inspired Word of God should be of more weight than any human testimony, and in the first chapter and first verse of Genesis we read that “ In . the beginning God created heaven and earth.” So in the beginning was the world created; consequently the world' has had a.beginning, since it was created in the beginning. But another question is, how did God create the world and. bring it to such beauty and perfection as we now see it? This question Holy Writ answers in the second verse of the same chapter and book: “ But the earth was void and' empty, (according to the Greek, it was a chaos—i. e., a mass of confused matter, before its arrangement by the Creator,' as explained by Milton. In this mass of matter were contained all the elements from which everything has been formed. God first created the material, just as the brickmaker first prepares the clay before commencing to form the bricks. Everything on earth is taken from this common mass—minerals, plants, animals, and also the human body (“Dust thou art,”) the soul alone being created directly by God, when He breathed into the face of Adam the “ spiraculum mtce^ the breath of life. Eveiything was made, also, as we see, according to system and perfect order: man was not created first, for how could he have lived without air, light or food; and how could God have given him dominion over the whole creation? Man, as the most perfect creature, was made on the last day, to show, besides his importance in creation, also his dignity and perfection, which he was to keep intact by abstaining from any violation of the laws of nature.
It is well known that the work of the six days of Creation has been at all times admired by sages and philosophers, both Jewish and Christian. David and Solomon speak of them with enthusiasm. The greatest geniuses and the most eloquent of the fathers of the Church, such as St. Augustine, St. Basil, St. Ambrose and St. John Chrysostom, loved to comment on the passages of Holy Scripture describing it. Even non-Catholics, among Christians, have looked on it as Divine, as we find in the writings of Descartes, Newton, Leibnitz and Bacon. Cuvier, that great reformer of natural history, says “ of all the cosmogonies, that of Moses was alone conformable to nature.” But those who wish to find in Moses a philosopher or naturalist as modern naturalists understand the word, are greatly disappointed. All we find in Moses is a grave and well-instructed historian, who tells us all he had learned, from the documents and traditions of his ancestors, of the origin of the world.
Zoology, the first of these branches of the natural sciences; treats of the animal kingdom, as the term implies, coming from the Greek words soon, an animal and logos a discourse.' It treats of the various characteristics of animals—of their forms, habits, geographical distribution, etc. Considering man as an individual of the animal creation, it discusses’ his chief characteristics, and even from a material point of view demonstrates that he far exceeds in perfection of structure and symmetry of form all other beings in creation. Zoology teaches us that creation was made for man and man for God, and shows also how and in what this and'
1

THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hat animal is useful to man. One animal furnishes man with its flesh, another with clothing; still another serves him as a slave; and so it is that zoology only confirms the verse in Genesis, where the inspired writer says: “And rule over the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.” Zoology, leaving all practical utilities asid develops and improves the mind, enlarges the ideas, cultivates the imagination, and invigorates in the mind those faculties of logical calculation, accurate comparison, investigation and comprehensive generalization without which no one can claim the title of an original thinker or scientific man. The subject of zoological research is matter in its highest degree of perfection, and naturally leads us to the contemplation of Him who is perfection itself and from Whom all things have their degree of perfection. The true zoologist, having contemplated the material matter of perfection, may hope to contemplate, one day, that spiritual matter of perfection before Whom the angels tremble and bow in adoration.
It is needless here to go into details on the distinctions between the animal and the other kingdoms, for I believe, and I dare say you will agree with me, that no man will take an oak for an elephant, a leaf for a butterfly, or a stone for a fish. But one thing I would like to draw attention to, and that is: that when going down the scale of each ■kingdom and comparing one of the lowest species of a superior kingdom, with one of the higher species of inferior - ones, we cannot distinguish them so readily. Take, for instance, the oyster. Here we have no evidence of sensibility or voluntary power of motion, the chief characteristics of •animals; they are fixed to one spot, like plants; but their ■internal structure, their complex digestible apparatus, their heart and circulatory systems immediately show their claim to a place in the animal kingdom. But let us go farther yet and consider the sponge, where the characteristics of animals disappear altogether, and likewise the manifestation of sensibility and spontaneous moving power: here it is where naturalists are most puzzled, and where the greatest minds differ. Agassiz, one of the greatest of naturalists, in his book entitled “ Principles of Zoology,” page 51, section III, paragraph 50, says: “Thus sponges have so great a resemblance to some of the polypi, that they ’have generally been classed among animals, although in reality they belong to the vegetable kingdom." But Cham-<bers in his text-book of Zoology says, page 12, Introduction to Zoology, paragraph 1: “By this criterion [that the naturalist can only solve the question by ascertaining whether the general resemblance is the greatest to beings of distinctly animal or of distinctly vegetable character] the sponge will hereafter be found to deserve a place in the 'animal kingdom.” Focillon, in his Histoire natureUe, Says (page 248, chap., VI): “ Ge sont des animaux de formes bizarres et ttes variables, d’une espece a 1’autre,”—“ They are animals of singular form, which are very different one species from the other.” Nicholson, (page 41) says: “ As the sponge, however, is a fixed animal, etc.” From the judgment of these, authorities in such matters, we may therefore practically conclude that sponges belong to the animal kingdom.
With these few remarks on the difference of the animal and vegetable creation, and the difficulty of distinguishing species of the one from species of the other, we will proceed to another very important, in fact, a strictly required subject in zoology, and this is—classification.
£65 * • A
The grand aim of the scientific zoologist being to investigate the relation of one being to another, he necessarily . must use the means of discovering these relations, and’ to facilitate his acquaintance with the vast number of animals that claim his attention and demand his investigation, fe a scientific zoologist, he employs the general classification. Looking around, the mind naturally collects all those things together which have the greatest resemblance,' to each other, although differing in some degree. In this way naturalists were often mistaken by judging an animal to belong to this or that particular class, in judging only by some external resemblances, and thus it came that bats and whales were misclassified, in putting the former among the class of birds {aves) and the latter among the class of fishes {pieces). True, in external resemblance, as to some particular way of living, they may not differ much, but when compared in their internal and structural differences, the difference is immense. Although bats are like birds in having wings, still they are not on this account ranged among them, for birds produce their young by means of incubation and are called, zoologically, oviparous animals; bats are truly mammals, since they produce their young alive, and come under the classification viviparous. Although they bear some resemblance in their particular way of living, they differ in characteristics of the greatest importance. Whales, al-thosgh popularly associated with the class of pieces are nevertheless true mammiferous animals, and differ more widely from the class of fishes from the fact that they are air-breathing, that is, breathe.by means of lungs; and also warm-blooded—which warmth is protected from the cold of the water by a thick layer of fat surrounding their body, under the skin. They are also viviparous animals, whilst fishes inhale the air by the medium of water, which keeps in solution air sufficient for the sustenance of fishes; these latter are also cold-blooded and oviparous. The con; elusion to be drawn from these instances is that we cannot always rely on external appearances to classify animals, but must investigate further, as the true zoologist.does, their internal characteristics, according to zoological principles.
From the foregoing remarks it,will be seen that some of our greatest minds, and that too after giving these matters a lifetime of study, have been unable to agree in some of the very least and most insignificant particulars of natural history, and yet some of these men pretend to bring everything—even the highest mysteries—within the scope of the human understanding. Although they cannot classify to a certainty some of the most trifling and insignificant things which have come from the creative word of God, they would in their empty self-conceit reject everything that they cannot understand,—thus blasphemously putting themselves on an equality with Him who gave them existence, and who gave them that very Reason which they would deify. What blasphemy! What prostitution of a free will, and of the noblest of created faculties!	‘
Man, as we first remarked, was created by God Himself, endowed with reason, and having inbreathed the Ifie- . giving breath constituting the Soul,—holds the first place in the first order of the first class of the first branch of the first kingdom of nature,—and is therefore the most perfect of all creatures; he was constituted master of all creation, but unfortunately disobeying the command of God, his Creator, the secondary creatures in their turn revolted against Him; his understanding became darkened after his fall, but he still knows enough to enable him to be happy, to be wise, to be content, and the study of nature may still become
566
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the best school for the heart, showing him, as it does, the great difference between the various objects of creation: the beauties of this, the utility of that; showing him the greatness, still, of his own position above irrational creatures, and on the other hand the immense distance that separates him, the creature, from God, the Creator, who endowed him with the various attributes that he possesses, and while philosophy is busy in studying secondary causes, the admirer of nature should therefore never lose sight of the one great primary Cause by whom all things were made, by whom all things are governed. A. M. K.
Pantomime.
Pantomime is the (art of expressing action and emotion by means of gesture. Lively conversation is always accompanied by gesture, though the amount of this differs hot only in nature but in measure among the different peoples of the earth. The life which is displayed by the Italian would not suit the delivery of a speech in the American Congress. The acting of Rossi in a character from Shakespeare does not accord with the rendition of the same character as understood by Englishmen. Yet though gesture thus differs according to the nation among which it is practiced, it has always been held in high repute, and»has deserved to be ranked as one of the fine arts. Among the Greeks it was highly cultivated; though among them, as well as among their great imitators, the Romans, it took a plastic character, and the expression of individuality was suppressed as much as possible. Hence came in among them the use of masks.
With the ancients the mimic art was connected on the one hand with music and declamations; on the other, with the dance. ’ Xenophon, in his “Anabasis ” and in his “ Banquet,” gives us a spirited picture of the mimic dances, which were chiefly either representations of mythological subjects or were of a warlike character. Among the Romans there were many persons distinguished for their impressive ges, ticulation, but of them Roscius was the most famous, and orators flocked to him for instruction. In modern times, however, the art has not received the same attention given t by the ancients. It is not to be supposed that a modern orator could with advantage imitate the delivery of the ancient actors, yet it can scarcely be doubted that by a careful study of gesticulation the majority of our public men would greatly enhance the value of their productions and awaken more interest when speaking.
The performer, in pantomime, relies solely on gestures using no words whatsoever. If an action is represented by a mimic dance, we have the ballet; hence the ballet is always pantomimic, but the pantomime does not of necessity require the dance. The Greeks had arrived at the separation of gesture from declamation, on which the pan* tomime is founded; hence we find a character among them represented by gesture and artificial motion, guided by music, by one person, whilst the declamation was given by another. Single situations, and more especially comic ones, were frequently performed in pantomime by them, but they did not possess the true pantomime. This is of more modern date. The word itself was invented in Italy, where they applied it to mean an artist who represents entirely by gesture. In aftertimes, entire representations consisting of gestures only were, called saltatio pantomi-morum. This species of performance was particularly de
veloped under the first Roman Emperors; and Bathyllus’ Pylades, Hylas, and others in the reign of Augustus, were greatly celebrated, and were not unfrequently the cause of riots, the people taking the keenest interest in their performances.
In the course of time the pantomime became wanton, and there are many historians who consider that this exhibition, in which the Romans took such interest, was among the causes of the decline of Roman power. With the decline of that power began the decay of the pantomime, which survived only in the Italian mask.
The pantomime in its strictest sense, that is unaccompanied with dancing, is the invention of modern times. There are many who have excelled in it, and it is in England the favorite public amusement during the Christmas holidays.
Hints to Young Journalists.
There is no more important study in the curriculum of the journalistic student than that which inculcates a regard for the “ eternal fitness of things.’* Time and place have a controlling influence in determining the propriety of filling the columns of a newspaper with comments upon any particular subject. One of the first duties of a young editor about to connect h imself with a journal in a strange locality, should be to acquaint himself thoroughly with the character of the reading public he aspires to instruct and entertain. He should inform himself as to the subjects that are most likely to interest his readers, and also in regard to matters that interest a stranger but are too common and familiar in their eyes to furnish themes for profitable comment. Not that we would be understood as advancing the idea that the editor should simply study to please, and in order to do so should abjure’ his political faith, or lower his standard of morality. We would not have him become a caterer to bad taste, or vicious appetites, a propagator of false doctrine, or an exemplar of wickedness, deception or meanness in any form, simply because he may imagine that his nest is to be feathered by such base sycophancy. What we do mean is, that merely because a topic is of interest to a writer fresh from some college, it does not follow that it is equally interesting to> the general reader of newspapers.
To fit one for the responsible duties of journalistic life, one can scarcely be educated too much. Book learning is all-important, but should be well seasoned with practical knowledge of the affairs of life, its business interests, its social wants, and its evil tendencies as well. Homer, Achilles, Xenophon, Romulus, Brutus, Caligula, the Caesars, and other college pets, had as well be laid aside for a time long enough to enable the aspirant for editorial honors to gain some knowledge of the men and things of his own day. He should leave off the habit of judging the world by the standard of his college experience, and must not be shocked or discouraged when he ascertains how much of his learning becomes practically useless when ac quired, and how much that is practically useful he has never learned. He must find out sooner or later that the world takes very little note of the sham battles carried on within the college walls, and will not be thrilled by a recital of the events that served to break the tedium of his student life. We once knew a young man of more than average attainments who came west and took editoral charge of a daily paper, and almost his first leader was a sober, didac
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
56Z
tic treatment of the question of College Boat Baaing. The next day he announced with the most unctuous gravity that it had become the settled belief of experienced agriculturists and scientific men that corn and wheat could be profitably raised on prairie lands. Having made, as he thought, a successful dash at agriculture, he followed it up by an article on the relative merits of different fertilizers, and methods of restoring worn-out lands. It is unnecessary to say that under his management the paper could not have lived long enough for him to learn the hang of the thing. That young man has gone East.—The Chicago Specimen.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Henri Vieuxtemps has written his first concerto for violin, and it is pronounced a great work.
—Prof. John K. Paine, of Harvard, has been selected to compose the music for the Centennial Hymn, written by John G. Whittier.
—The quartette for the forthcoming Cincinnati May Festival will consist of Mrs. H. M. Smith, Miss Drasdil, Mr. Bischoff, and Mr. Whitney.
—“Joconde”is the title of an opera successfully produced at the Theatre Ander Wien, Vienna. It is the work of a clerk in the office of the minister of finance.
—A new opera called “ Ivan,” founded on an incident in the life of the Empress Elizabeth of Russia, met with great success a few weeks ago at the private theatre of the Pa-lazza Marignoli, Rome.
—D. Appleton & Co. will have a Centennial guide-book in a “Handbook of American Cities,” which will be a handy guide to all the great cities of the United States from Boston to San Francisco.
—Col. Waring’s work on “The Sanitary Drainage of Houses and Towns” will be ready immediately at Hurd & Houghton’s. It is much extended from his Atlantic papers, and its value is increased by numerous illustrative diagrams.
—The initial volume of the “San Souci Series” will be made up from “ Haydon’s Correspondence and Table Talk.” There will be four illustrations and a fac-simile of one of Haydon’s letters. The binding for the new series will be novel in design.
—The Chapel of the School of fine arts, Paris, has just been enriched by three copies of the frescoes of Fra Angelico di Fiesole. These copies have been painted by Mr. Perrodin, the distinguished artist who executed the Chapel of the Virgin in the Cathedral of Paris.
—The Athenceum says of the reissue of Lord Houghton’s -poems: “ This republication is well timed. To the present generation Lord Houghton hands in his credentials. They are not a pasport to immortality, but they are proofs of intention and effort, and vouchers for a certain amount of success.”
—A new work by Charles G. Leland is in press with Trubner&Co, a little volume entitled “ Pidgin-English Sing, Sing,” consisting of original ballads and stories in the dialect of English spoken by Chinese. The work includes a vocabulary and rules sufficient to enable anybody to learn “ Pidgin-English.”
—The news comes from China that Dr. Eitel’s new edition of Dr. S. Wells Williams’ “ Tonic Dictionary of the Chinese language, in the Canton Dialect ” is in type. This work was first published in 1856, and went far to supply a great want which had long been felt by students of Chinese. Dr. Eitel is aided in bringing out his revised edition by a grant from the colonial government of Hong Kong.
—The want of a small, compact edition of Shakspeare, with notes, etc., is to be supplied by Porter & Coates, who will soon print, from plates used only for a small edition years ago, an eight-volume, 16ino. edition, the text revised from the folio of 1632, with readings from former editions, and the other matter including a life, a sketch of the his
tory of the stage, an introduction to each play, and notes from the several leading commentators.
—Richard Wagner has been formally invited by the King of Bavaria, his friend and patron, to compose the music for a grand opera of “Faust” to be represented at Bayreuth in 1878, and 1879, when a complete “ trilogy ” of Goethe’s great drama is to be performed under the superintendence of Herr Dingelstedt. The “ Composer of the Far Future ” has not yet given any positive answer to this call upon his fire-flashing genius.—Idem.
—George S. Morris, in an article upon the “ Philosophy of Art,” which appeared in a late number of the Journal of Speculative Philosophy, declares true art to be essently religious in its idea and motive, and says that “its ideal is deprived from a world of ideal forms, eternally existent in the mind of the Eternal One, though only caught by the few favored among mortals,” and that the artistic genius which is able to embody these ideas in concrete form, works un-ber the guidance of the higher life of the soul through spiritual forces, what “ are always to be considered as having their origin in God.”
—The concert season in Moscow has fairly begun. Nicholas Rubinstein’s annual took place on the 11th. It must always remain a memorable one for this great artist. Fifteen years have elapsed since he first founded the Moscow Conservatory, of which he is still the director. The public wishing to show in some substantial way their admiration of the zeal and energy he has displayed in carrying this institution triumphantly through all vicissitudes, set a subscription on foot. The sum realized was 26,000 rubles, or nearly £3,500, which was presented to him, with a flattering address, after the concert.
—The Thomas Orchestra has been somewhat increased for the Philadelphia season, numbering 64 instruments (56 players), namely: 10’’first violins, 9 second, 6 violas, a ’celli, 5 basses, 3 flutes, 2 hautboys, English horn, 3 clarinets, bass clarinet, 2 bassoons, 4 horns, 3 trumpets, 3 trombones, bass tuba, harp, tympani, great and small drums, cymbals, and triangle. All the artists whose faces the public has learned to know so well at the most important desks—Jacobsohn, Arnold, Grape, Baetens,- Hemann, Wehner, Eller, Kayser, Schmitz, Dietz, Cappa, and Lockwood—remain in their accustomed places.
—The Grand Exposition Hotel in Philadelphia has 1,325 rooms for the accommodation of 4,000 guests. There are two dining rooms, one seating at one time 600 persons and another 800. The furniture throughout the building cannot but please the finest taste. The room containing the immense oven and ranges would pass for the interior of a rolling mill. The gentlemen of the press will be provided for handsomely in a room which they may call their own, furnished with writing desks, stationary, literature, etc. This, like all the other rooms, has telegraphic communication with the manager’s office, and also with the business office, and the press boys will be welcome to flash off whatever inquiries they please and will be promptly answered.—American Art Journal.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from F. W. Helmick, 278 W. Sixth St., Cincinnati, Ohio, a copy of their List of Counterfeit Bank Aotes which is a very useful publication. The price is 25 cts.
—The May number of the Manhattan Monthly has come to hand. Its contents are, as usual, chatty and interesting. They are: I, The Life and Works of Beethoven; H, Woods in Spring; III, Reminiscences of Elliston, the Comedian; IV, No Copyright on the Pope’s Speeches; V, Roman Antiquities in Scotland; VI, Charity; VII, A-Maying; VHI, Wanted, a Good History of Ireland; IX, Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence; X, Celery, A Nervous Antidote; XI, Pining for Home: or, The Pearl of Florence: XH, Colored Drawings in the Fourteenth Century; XIII, Rich and Poor Education; XIV, Spring Flowers; XV, Famous Memories of the Month; XVI, Exhibition of the National Academy of Design; XVII, Miscellany; Effect of Colored Light on Lunatics; XVII, New Music.
568
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s. 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Danie, May G, IST'G.
'	Biographies.
Biography has always been interesting; since the time Phuarch gave his charming “Lives,” to the present period, when obituaries of noted men are faithfully written up year by year, long before they die, that when death comes to put a stop to any additional particulars, the obituary • may be ready for next morning’s issue of the paper, everybody has taken delight in reading an account of men’s lives. The great liking men have for it is, we presume, a branch of the curiosity all have of knowing what their neighbors are doing and have done—minding other people’s business.
It seems, therefore; very strange that Catholics, who have such a fund from which biographies can be made, pay so little attention to it—take so little care in working up the material they have on hand. It may in part be attributed to the very great quantity on hand that little bits of .it are but rarely embellished with all the ornaments of style, that add so much to the interest of a book. But, certainly, while such works as Butler’s Lives of the Saints give the foundation for more extended notices of the lives of the great men and women whose names are recorded in the Martyrology of the Church, or in the Calendar, it would be for the interest of education and religion to have many of these lives put in a more extended and popular form.
Those who oppose the Church make a great deal more out of very scanty material than Catholics do with their abundant supply. Much fuss is made over the ex-monk Luther and the wife-killing King Henry, the great champions of those who oppose the Church; and their great poet, casting about to find a hero for his epic outside the Church, not finding any among the mortals of his persuasion, hit upon the devil, and put forth the whole strength of his great genius to present his satanic hero in the best possible light. The good-will shown by Milton in dressing up his hero in presentable shape, should be a lesson to those engaged in a better work, and teach them to be as diligent in laying before the public the good qualities of the great men of Christendom, as he was in rehabilitating the character of the enemy of mankind.
Another thing strikes us as strange: it is that so many Catholic young men are entirely ignorant of the deeds of the heroes of Christendom. We have heard young men talk of Howard the Philanthropist who seemed never to have heard of Vincent de Paul, the Saint. How little is known of the lives of Ignatius, Polycarp, Sebastian, Vin-- cent, Augustine, Chrysostom, Jerome, Erancis of Assisium, Francis of Sales, and others equally renowned in the annals
of Christianity, the mere category of whose names would fill pages!
It may be said that reading of the lives of such men is “ rather too pious ” for young men and women who by no means aspire tobe saints, but on the contrary think it “ quite the thing” to boast of being sinners. Yet anyone who knows anything about the matter knows full well that there is a great deal of good in these sinners, that much of the affectation of being sinners, and of “ not being pious,” is a very great piece of hypocrisy, and that down deep in their hearts there is a deep veneration for all that is really good and beautiful; now if the same care were taken to place the lives and deeds of real men and women in an interesting form before them, they would have a greater relish for them than they now. have for namby-pamby tales and sensational novels.
We have merely drawn attention to this subject to-day, and intend to speak of it again, unless these few words induce others to treat the subject fully. We were led to write these few lines by the knowledge that some who are well fitted to supply the want of popular biographies of the great heroes of Christendom fritter away their time on other subjects of far less importance.
Out-door Sports.
There are many who seem to labor under the mistaken idea that those students who cultivate their physical pow. ers by out-door sports must necessarily injure their moral and mental powers,—who seem to think that a young man cannot be a good student and yet play baseball or row on the lake. This idea is a mistaken one. Were the physical powers cultivated to the exclusion of the mental, the student would improve the former and hurt the latter. Were he to give all his time to his studies, the reverse would be the case; but when study and physical exercise are blended together in a manner calculated to preserve a perfect har mony of action between body and mind, then the health and vigor of both are made good.
It is admitted on all sides that in order to attain emi nence in any pursuit, whether literary, mercantile or any other, sound health is indispensable. Without health, success in life is impossible. Now, to preserve our bodies in good health, to keep disease from making inroads upon our constitution, it is absolutely necessary that we give our body the exercise it needs. We must indulge in those outdoor sports which give all the members of the body the development they require. How can we better succeed in giving them the full play needed than by hunting, fishing, riding, rowing, and the other sports that require exertion on our part ? He who cultivates his mind at the expense of his body, as effectually buries his talents as he does who cherishes his body and neglects his mind. Plato calls that man a cripple who nurtures his mind and neglects the body; for the mind thus used, or rather abused, becomes weakened by those very means which were intended to strengthen it. Unless both body and mind are brought together in full action, neither of them will attain that high point of perfection which we all strive to reach; and this action must be regulated in proportion to the state of both, so that neither of them shall be more or less affected by the other’s state. Every student should take a certain amount of healthy out-door exercise, or real earnest sport, in order that the body, remaining in sound condition, the’ mind may be improved, in the study-hall and class-room
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.-,
• We would not be understood as counselling any one to give all his time to baseball or any violent exercise; nor would we be understood as urging that all of a young man’s time be used in the development of his physical powers. No: take that exercise, which does not fatigue too much, and give to it merely the time allotted by the rules of the house for bodily exercise, but give to the cultivation of the mind all the hours demanded by regulation. If this is done, everyone may rest assured that all his time is well spent, and in after-years he will regret neither the time given to study nor that given to out-door exercises.
Personal.
—	E. Hughes, of’69, is in the Post Office, Chicago.
—	Thos. Cochrane, of ’75, is in the Bulletin Office, Chicago.
—	Thos. O’Neill, of ’71, is cashier at Burke’s Hotel, Chicago.
—	Thomas Brady, of ’57, is practicing law in Hudson, Mich.
—	P. Stock, of ’73, may be found at the Boston Store, Chicago.
—	Henry Watkins, of ’64, is secretary to Mayor Colvin of Chicago.
—	John P. Lauth, of ’68, is principal of a private Academy in Chicago.
—	John McAlister, of’73, is practicing medicine in Nashville, Tenn.
—	Stacey Hibben, of ’68, owns a drug-store in Albion, New York.
—	John W. Buehler, of ’70, is in the Recorder’s Office, Chicago, Ill.
—	Wm. T. Johnson, of’69, is Judge of the Probate Court at Sedalia, Mo.	,
—Rev. Thomas Carroll, of ’57, is stationed at Oil City, Pennsylvania.
—Mr. C. F. Campau, of Detroit, Mich., spent a few days here last week.
—	Col. Johnson, of ’71, has a large medical practice in Havard, Illinois.
—	Louis Hibben, of ’72, is in the County Clerk’s Office in Marshalltown, Ill.
—	C. C. Connolly, of Durands & Co., Chicago, Ill., spent several days with us lately.
. —John Armstrong, of’60, is one of the architects of the new Court House, Chicago.
—Mrs. W. H. Kipp was last week visiting her brother W. H. Wells, at the College.	.
—His Grace the Most Rev. Archbishop of Toronto visited Notre Dame on the 2nd of May.
—	James R. Claffey, of ’68, is now superintendent of a public school in Berrien County, Michigan.
—	Thos. Nelson, of Chicago, is overrun with work in his line. He does his work well, hence his success.
—	A. Rosenblatt, of ’71, is travelling for the firm of Lind-aner Bros. & Co., 75 and 77 Wabash Ave., Chicago.
—	Franklin Pierce, of ’62, on the L. S. & M. S. railroad, . is one of the most gentlemanly conductors in the West.
—Mr. J. R. Foster, of South Bend, with a large party • from California, spent the afternoon with us on Tuesday last.
—Chas. Patrick, of ’64, was here this week. We understand he has a number of large contracts on hand in California.
' ' —There is good ground for believing that Mr. William . J. Onahan, of Chicago, will be the “ orator of the day” at the Commencement.
—Lewis Ross and Robert Hinde, both of ’65, are in the drygoods business at Lewiston, Ill. The firm is Ross & ‘ Hinde, and is doing a good business.
—Mr. Charles Murray, of the South Bend Herald, and
Mr. Jerry Knight of the Dwight House, South Bend, were • among the visitors to Notre Dame on Sunday last. .
—Martin J. Aitken, formerly a compositor in the -print- -ing-office here, now has charge of the printing-office started in connection with the Ames, Iowa, Agricultural College.
—Chas. Hutchings, of ’68, Dennis Hogan and John Ho- -gan, M. D., of ’74, stopped at the college this week. Dr. Hogan is on his way to New York, where he will take steamer for Europe.	’
—Rev. Mr. Forgus, of Bristol, Rev. Mr. French, of Michigan City, Rev. Mr. Orpen, ofLima, oftheEpicopalian Church, and M. D. Coonley, Esq., of South Bend, gave us a flying visit on Wednesday last.	.
—We have just learned that Prof. C. J. Beleke, formely Professor of German at Notre Dame, died at Berlin on the 26th of December, 1875. Prof. Beleke was the author of a German Grammar at one time much used. .
—Rev. William Harris, of Toronto, Ontario, accompanied Archbishop Lynch on his late visit to the College. • Father Harris is an accomplished gentleman and a worthy priest, and made many friends here during his short stay.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael was here a few days ago. He has lately been trying his hand at farming and stock-raising, as he thinks he can’t afford to be idle during these hard times. “ Mac” is the kind of man to go to the Legislature; -hard-working and honest, he is satisfied to live within his means, and such men are proof against corruption by “ rings” and credit-mobilier men.	.	.
—A special despatch from Jerseyville, Hl., to the Chicago Times, dated April 28th, says that Francis B. Shephard, of ’75, son of the late Hon. William Shephard, died of paralysis that morning, at St. Louis, in the 24th year of his age. Mrs. A. M. Shephard and Maj. John A. Shephard, mother and brother; Capt. William H. Stoeckel, Maj. Walter E. Carlin, and Chas. E. Casey left that morning on a special train for St. Louis, and returned on the 29th with the corpse. The funeral took place on Sunday.	.
Local Items.
—The Seniors’ validore is well used.
—We are having splendid moonlight nights.
—Bulletins were made out on Wednesday last
—The St. Cecilians are in search of a first-class drama
—The first of the triple competitions will be held next week.
—The banks around the upper lake are put in splendid order.
—Recreation after supper is splendid. All indulge in long walks.
—The Eurekas lately waxed the Waxers at baseball by a score of 39 to 28.
—The invitations to the banquet of the Alumni will be sent off next week.	"
—The length of the St. Joseph’s Lake is 1751 ft. as measured by the surveyors.	-	•
—A new “ flying dutchman” has taken the place of the old one. It is splendid.	.
—The members-of the Boat Club dine at Mr. Chear-hart’s next Wednesday.
—We learn that the Thespians will play “ Julius Casar” on Commencement Day.
—Some boys have begun to count the days between this -and Commencement Day.
—The Waxers were beaten by the second nine of the Centennials, on Wednesday last, at baseball.
—The Philopatrian Exhibition has been postponed one week. It will take place on the 16th of May.
—The May devotions opened with an exellent sermon on Sunday evening by Rev. President Golovin.	•
—Prof. T. E. Howard will lecture in Phelan Hall tomorrow evening on “The Nebular Hypothesis.’’
—Good games are anticipated for the championship, as the contending nines are almost equally matched. .
570
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^At the last meeting of the Associated Alumni, preparations for the grand reunion in June were begun.
—The Centennials Sr. are making furious endeavors to wipe out their former defeats. Beware, little ones.
We are happy to learn that there will be a great many of the old students here on the Commencement Day.
—Archbishop Lynch, When here, visited the Minim Department and was well pleased with the little fellows.
—The old backstops of the baseball grounds having been blown down, new and substantial ones have been raised.
—An ingenious Junior has invented a rat-trap which beats anything about the place. He caught three rats within the space of two hours.
—Hereafter the Juniors will have public declamations, after supper, in their refectory. There will be one declamation every evening.
—We saw a young man a few days since with a black eye and tied-up fingers; he said the man that started baseball should be lynched.
—The Juniors caught one hundred and sixteen fish, on the 26th ult., in the space of two hours. They ate the fish at the half-past-three lunch.
—A game of baseball was played on the 30th between the Eurekas and a picked nine, which resulted in favor of the latter by a score of 19 to 13.
—The Surveying-Class, or rather the members, are going to survey .the Botanical Garden once more. This time we may expect a correct survey.
—The frosts consequent on the taking down of the double windows were not so severe as might naturally be 'expected. The peaches are still safe.
—We have received the full score of a number of games of baseball played here, but under our rule we cannot publish them as the tallies on both sides are over twelve.
—The students who listened to the lecture so ably delivered in Phelan Hall on the evening of the 30 th, by Father Walsh, say with one voice: “ Let us have more like it.”
—Some students were seen the other day destroying a bird’s nest in the neighborhood. Ko young man of any gentlemanly feelings would be guilty of such wanton cruelty.
—We are told that Rt. Rev. Dr. Rosecrans, Bishop of Columbus, 0., will honor us with his presence on the Commencement Day. A more welcome visitor it would be difficult to find.
—The Matteson House, Chicago, Robert Hill & Co., proprietors, is the neatest and best hotel in Chicago. All going from Notre Dame to the great city of the West are well provided for at this hotel.
—The readers in the Juuior refectory deserve great praise for their distinct pronunciation and excellent modulation of the voice. They are perhaps equal to the public readers of their department of any former year.
—Skootz asked us the other day if the Botanic Garden wasn’t hortus siccus. He had got far enough along in Latin to know that liortus means garden, but he thought siccus meant sick. Hence his very natural mistake.
—He only gave the mule one kick, but it was a tremendous one. Where the sole of the boot and the heel struck, the hide was completly taken off. The ear was peeled, and the hind quarter.of the animal was made very raw.	.
—The equestrian performances on the Campus last Tuesday were not quite as successful as was hoped. The respect to old age was truly edifying, and the old horse bears his years with all dignity; still this dignity is not just the thing in a horse when he is desired to “ play circus.”
—A gentleman living at Colorado Springs, Colorado, desires to procure a file of Scholastics containing the Geyser Letters, published in the Spring of ’74. We have in the office the bound volume only of that year, and cannot therefore supply him. Have any of our readers the copies desired ?
—Prof. Lyons has a large album in which there are over one thousand photographs of old students, taken by some ■of the best photographers in the United States. He would be happy to receive photographs of all who have ever been
at the College—please send him yours if you have not given it to him already.
—Vigorous action on the part of the students is being taken to have the Commencement Exercises fixed for the 14th, the regular day being the 23th of June. This time we are sure that too much has been asked, so that-nothing may be obtained. We would be in favor of the establishment of a moderate party. The best way to settle a difficulty of this kind is often to split the “differ.”	.
—-We hope that at the coming Annual Commencement all the old students of Notre Dame will be present. All who have ever attended class here have a great love for the place, and a grand reunion this year will afford more pleasure to the old students than a trip to the Centennial Exposition. Come one, come all, and if you don’t enjoy yourselves it will be no fault of the College authorities.
—The following is a record of the games played by the Actives during the past week. On April 30th they defeated the Eurekas, by a score of 19 to 9; on May 1st they gave the Quicksteps 5 outs, and defeated them by a score of 19 to 9; on May 2d they defeated a Senior Picked Nine by a score of 29 to 13; and on May 3d, they defeated the second nine of the Centennials by a score of 37 to 17.
—The 32d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-. thean Association was held May 4th. Those who deserve honorable mention for declamation are as follows: J. French, M. Kauffman, W. J. Roelle, F. Rosa, J Kenny and A. Ryan. Afterwards an interesting meeting was held by the members of the “ Standard.” Mr. Roelle was elected Treasurer, Mr. Faxon Librarian, and J. Kenny 2nd Censor.
—Next year, we learn, the number of extra studies will be reduced to two—music and artistic drawing. Linear, solid-form, mechanical and architectual drawing have been introduced into the regular course of studies, and will be taught gratis, likewise all the modern languages. This is something that we have long desired to see. We are sure that a number of our students will be gratified with this liberal move on the part of the University.
—The "22d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held April 29 th. The subject debated on that evening was: “Resolved that strikes are both justifiable and beneficial.” The speakers were: Affirmative, Messrs. McNulty, Smith, Keller and Dryfoos, Negative, Messrs. Sullivan, O’Brien, F. Maas, and Hert-zog. The President gave no decision. Mr. J. H. Cooney read a criticism on the proceedings of the previous meeting.
—The 20th and 21st regular meetings of the St. Stanis Ians Philopatrian Association were held April 12th and 24th respectively. Declamations were delivered by Messers. Halley, Hoffman, Mosal, Vanamee, D. Nelson, F. Goldsberry, C. Faxon, Walsh, Irvine, C. Hagan, Connolly, Gustine, Henkel, Turnbull, Reynolds, Campau, Burns, Pleins, English, S. Goldsberry, J. Perea, Roos, Nicholas, Taulby, and J. Nelson. Masters Hatt and Donnelly were then elected members.	.
—We have learned from Rev. Father O’Connell, the Director of Studies, that it is the intention of the University to introduce the Christian Classics next year. This will not be done to the exclusion of the profane authors, but both will be placed on the same footing. The writers whose names have been mentioned to us are, amongst others, Sts. Chrysosotm, Gregory and Basil, for the Greek; and for the Latin, Prudentius, Lactantius, and Sts. Augustine Justin, and Jerome. For the present, colleges in this country have to struggle against the inconvenience of having few or no American publications from Christian authors in a shape to be used in class, but there is little doubt that once these authors are introduced the American publishers will come to the aid of our educational institutions. Meantime the supply can only be procured from Europe. But, then everything has its beginning.	-
—Mercy Hospital, situated corner of Calumet Avenue and Twenty-sixth street, Chicago, Ill., and conducted by the Sisters of Mercy, is an institution of which the Catholics have every reason to be proud. The building, which is new and elegant, is constructed on the best sanitary principles, and arranged to accommodate three hundred patients.'The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•571



Hospital is attended by N. 9. Davis, IT. S. consulting physician; H. A. Johnson, M. D. J., H. Hollister, M. D., D. T. Nelson, M. D., and H. P. Merriam, M. D., attending physicians; Edmond Andrews, M. D., attending surgeon; W. H. Byford, M. D., and E. F. O. Roler, M. D., attending physicians for women; and 9. F. Jones, M. D., and F. j. Huse, oculists and aurists. In the Medical Department, all ordinary diseases are treated, except those which are contagious. The latter are not admitted. In the 9urgical Department, all patients requiring surgical operations are treated, as well as other surgical cases, including deformities, spinal diseases, joint-diseases,.etc. In cases requiring spinal supporters or other special apparatus, some of the best surgical instrument makers in the country are employed, and furnish their articles at reasonable rates. The patients who enter the common wards pay from five to seven dollars a week, but the hospital contains a large number of pleasant private rooms in which patients are received at from ten to fifteen dollars a week. These prices cover the entire expense of board, medicines, nursing, and medical and surgical attendance. The spiritual wants of the Catholic patients are attended to by Rev. D. Tighe, of ’70, which is a guarantee that they will want nothing. The Hospital is in a flourishing condition and justly merits that this prosperity should never wane.
’ —On Monday, the first of May, His Grace the Most Rev. Dr. Lynch, Archbishop of Toronto, Ontario, visited Notre Dame. He had on 9unday, the 30th of April, assisted at the dedication of the new church lately erected in Chicago by the Priests of the Mission, commonly known as the Lazarist Fathers, and on his way home made us a flying visit. We are sorry that His Grace had not more time at his disposal, in order that we might have extended to him more courtesies; but as it was imperative that he should be in Toronto on the morning of the fourth, he was able to spend one half a day only with us. He arrived at South Bend, at nine o’clock Monday evening, in company with the Rev. William Harris, his secretary, and was met at the depot by Rev. President Golovin and Rev. John A. O’Connell, by whom he was escorted to the College. After celebrating Mass on Tuesday morning he was shown about the college premises. He admired the many paintings in the new church and was particularly well pleased with the handsome stained-glass windows. He visited the printing-house and was gratified at the order displayed in the various departments. At ten o’clock in the morning the students assembled in front of the college to meet His Grace. After he had been treated to some choice music, Mr. Henry D. Faxon, on behalf of the students, advanced to the foot of the steps to the main entrance of the college, and in a clear voice read an address to the Archbishop in which he expressed the great pleasure His Grace’s visit had afforded them, and after paying a tribute to the excellence of 9t. Michael’s College, which, conducted by the Rev. Basilian Fathers, under the auspices of the Most Rev. visitor, was doing good work in the cause of education, he closed with the asurance that the day would always be remembered with feelings ofjoybythe students of Notre Dame. His Grace responded in a happy manner, assuring his auditors that the pleasure of the day was equally shared by him; and then, after giving them excellent advice as to their future conduct through life, he closed by granting the usual request which is made to all Prelates visiting Notre Dame. At the request of tbe Most Rev. visitor the national airs of the United 9tates were played, after which he gave to all his episcopal benediction. He left on the twelve o’clock train for Detroit, via the Lake 9hore road.
—The lecture delivered in Phelan Hall on the 30th of April by the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh was one of the most interesting and instructive it has ever been our fortune to listen to at Notre Dame. He undertook to prove from history that the power so long wielded by the Popes was legitimately acquired. Its roots had been cast into the earth long before Christianity had emerged from the Catacombs. Constantine and his successors seemed to recognize that a Pontiff and an Emperor could not coexist at Rome —hence the seat of the empire was transferred to the shores of the Bosphorus. During the sixteen centuries which had elapsed between Constantine and Victor Emmanuel it was a remarkable coincidence that no dynasty other than that
of the Popes had enjoyed ten years, of stability on the throne of the Ctesars. From the downfall of the Western . Empire to the donation of Pepin, the Roman 9tates and Italy were constantly overrun by hordes of barbarians. The Italians in their distress invariably sought and obtained protection and relief not from exarch or emperor, but from the Popes. It was only natural that they should recognize as sovereigns men like Leo and the great Gregory, who snatched them from ruin, rather than princes whose influence, if exerted at all, seemed exerted only for selfish and tyrannical purposes. He discussed at length the history of the early part of the eighth century, showing the difficult position of the Papacy and the miseries which afflicted the Roman people, exposed as they were on the one hand to Lombard aggression and having to fear on the other the senseless fury of emperors devoted to iconoclasm, and proved that foreign intervention had become an absolute necessity though completely exonerating the Popes from the charge of having acted with selfish or interested views. From the time of Pepin the temporal power was consecrated by the right of nations, the right of treaties, and the right of war, and by the triple consent of the people who chose, the enemies who attacked, and the neighbors who came to the relief. He then passed to consider the manner in which the Papal sovereignty had been exercised. He demonstrated that for centuries there had not been a step forward taken in the cause of liberty which had not been taken under the guidance of the Pontiffs—there had not been a victory in the cause of progress which had not been achieved under the inspiration of Rome—not an advance in the cause of science which was not mainly attributable to the influence of the Holy See. When ignorance and ferocity seemed to have settled down on the human race as a pall during the tenth century, the only effort made to dispel the gloom was by the Popes. The cause of knowledge had always counted as many devoted adherents as there had been Popes; in a word, progress in the true sense of the word had always been the rule of the administration, and the liberty of conscience of individuals and of nations the fruit of their temporal authority. Among the arguments advanced in favor of their remaining sovereigns were the justice of their claim and the faithlessness, perfidy and utter contempt of right and justice displayed by those who had despoiled them. If any throne in Europe had been lawfully acquired, it was that of the Popes. If any throne in Europe had been filled by men who had deserved well of mankind, it was that of the Popes. They had a claim to sovereignty founded not only on the justifiableness of the means by which they had attained it, but likewise on a prescription of fifteen centuries. What other dynasty in Europe could say as’much? He pointed out the hollowness of some of the arguments advanced in favor of the spoliation of their territory, such as the “ 9entiment of the age—the advantages and necessity of Italian unity which he stigmatized as an idea developed and propagated by the logic contained in the rifle of a brigand, the torch of an incendiary or the dagger of a carbonaro. He showed that the plebiscite of 1870 was an argument which must be rejected, since it was impossible to admit that there could have been freedom of election when Rome fairly bristled with foreign bayonets, and her streets were filled with the scum of every capital in Europe. If the principle of universal suffrage was to be invoked, who more likely to profit by its application than the Popes? 9uffrages in their case were never extorted by force or won by fraud, but were the spontaneous act of successive generations. Finally he advanced as the strongest argument in favor of their temporal sovereignty the necessity of assuring their independence in spiritual matters, which—he asserted, and proved from their whole past history—was utterly incompatible with dependence in matters political. He concluded with a most effective peroration, demanding in the name of logic, of justice, of history and sound statesmanship, that the Popes remain sovereigns—not that their influence be dominant in the world, but that their neutrality be respected—that one voice may yet be left in the world; to point out to rulers the excesses into which power is often led, and to peoples the excesses into which liberty often degenerates—and in fine that the world may show that it is not yet ready to abandon all principles of right and acknowledge no other law but that of might. On leaving
572
THE . NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the platform the Rev. lecturer was greeted with loud and prolonged applause.	_
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, F. Bearss, F. Belford, F. Brady, J. Campbell, P. Cooney, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, J. Cooney, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, J. Coleman, J. D. Coleman, F. Devoto, H. Dehner, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, B. Euans, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Gross, E. Gramling, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Herrmann, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Keily, J. Krost, G. Laurans, E. Monohan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, H. Maguire, Clark Myers, R. Maas, S. Miller, P. McCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonnell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, A. O’Brien, J. O’Rourke, Carl Otto, J. Obert, J. Proudhomme, L. Proudhomme, T. Pcifer, W. Pollard, T. Quinn, IV. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, F. Vandervannet, R. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. J. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. Bergck, J. Byrne, A. Burger, P. Boos, J. Carrer, J. Cavanaugh, W. Dodge, G. Donnelly, E. Davenport, J. English, J. Foley, J. French, J. Fox, F. Flanagan, P. Frane, C. Gustine, W. Hansenach, W. Irvine, P. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, B. Heeb, A. Hamilton, M. Halley, E. Hall, J. P. Kinney, J. Knight, M. Kauffman, C. Larkin, R. Mayer, M. McAuliffe, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, C. Orsinger, F. Pleins, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, . A- Ryan, D. Ryan, W. Ryan, W. Roelle, C. Roos, P. F. Schnurrer, G. Sugg, E. Smith,C. Schubert W. Taulby, W. Turnbull, N. Van-amee.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. W. Lindberg, M. Gustine, H. Hake, T. F. McGrath, G. Lowrey, F. Carlin, J. A. Bushey, J. Davis, F. A. Campau, R. Pleins. A. Buerger, W. Cash, W. McDevitt, J. Seeger, G. Lambin, W, Coolbaugh, H. McDonald, S. Bushey C. Bushey, E. Oatman, J. O. Stanton, L. Napp.
.	Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1876.
Law—T. C. Logan, L. D. Murphy, G. Gross.
Anatomy—R. J. Maas, B. L. Euans, F. Smiley, W. Chapoton, C. C. Atchison, V. McKinnon, J. Caren.
Civil Engineering—J. Brown, E. Graves.
Drawing—E. Raymond, A. Schmidt, J. McClory, J. Knight, J. Brown, E. Graves, H. Kinson, R. Golsen, E. C. Gramling, R. McGrath, J. Duffield, W. Roelle, P. Heron, O. S. Stanton, G. Rho-dius, A. Hatt, J. Carrer, C. Clarke.
Telegraphy—E. Atfield, T. C. Logan, J. McIntyre, J. McEniry, P. Corbett, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, I. Dryfoos, J. Hermann, . J. Proudhomme.
MUSIC.
Piano—W. Breen, F. Maas, H. Cassidy, V. Baca, J. Herrmann, J. Campbell. J. Kreutzer, W. Ball, C. Clarke, P. McCawley, D. Byrnes, B. Heeb, T. Quinn, E. Raymond, W. Davis.
Violin—L Dryfoos, W. Chapoton, J. Lambin, R. Maas, F. , Keller, J. McHugh, W. Byrnes, H. Millen, A. Betcher, W. Pollard, W. Taulby, C. Peltier, G. Streit, M. Kauffman, F. Hoffman, A. Burger, J. Carrer, P. Neill.
Guitar—A. Hamilton, W. Wells, A. Hatt.
Flute—J. English, S. McDonnell.	■
MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—C. Walsh, P. Schnurrer, B. Heeb, R. Mayer, M. Kauffman, F. Vanderuannet, A. O’Biien, R. McGrath, E. Gramling, J. Krost, P. Tamble, M. Kautzauer, C. Orsinger, R. Golsen, D. Byrnes, C. Myers, M. Cross, J. Mosul, D Ryan, J. English, J. Coleman, S. McDonnell, C. Ham, F. Belford, J. Cavanaugh, F. Hoffman, W. Pollard, J. Hagerty, W. Byrnes, J. Henman, C. Schubert, E. Pefferman.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, W. Coolbaugh, W. Van Pelt, H. ■ McDonald, J. Seeger, C. Bushey, P. Haney, W. Cash, J. Gilbert, E. Oatman.
,	German—J. Seeger, R. Pleins, F. McGrath, G. Lambin.
French—F. A. Campau, A. Bushey, C. Bushey.
Music—J. Duffield, G. Rhodius, H. Hake.
—A. provincial paper says a witness was asked by a county court judge, recently: “ Did you go to the party yourself?” Witness: “Yes, sir.” Judge: “And what did he say to you? ” Witness:. “ He told me to go to the devil, sir.” “And so,” says the Judge, quietly taking a pinch of snuff, with a roguish smile, “you came to the county court! ” Many a true word spoken in jest.—Ex.
Many visitors assisted at the Vespers on Sunday, among whom were Mr. and Mrs. Murray, of South Bend, and Miss Murray, of Goshen. The venerable Mrs. Krill, a most interesting octogenarian, visited the Academy yesterday and entertaiued other visitors by performing on the piano. The Juniors and Minims had their grand ball on the 20th of April; it was a splendid affair... .The gardening mania has taken possession of everybody, from the highest dignitaries to the least Minim. The Centennial graduates are setting out a Centennial grove of Centennial evergreens under the shade of which the next Centennial graduates may- celebrate the second Centennial of American Independence.....On Monday, the 1st, the young ladies of the Graduating Class had the privilege of visiting Science Hall. Rev. Father Zahm, C. S. C., very kindly showed them many interesting curiosities and scientific objects and gave the young ladies the benefit of some very beautiful experiments with the galvanic battery and illustrations in acoustics.. . .The devotions of the Month of Mary were opened on Sunday afternoon. The Children of Mary will have the special favor of a Mass in Loretto every morning at 7% o’clock. The May evening devotions take place at the close of the evening recreation. Recreation now opens at p. m., and lasts one hour... .The Seniors’ study-hall is most tastefully decorated with hanging-baskets, graceful vines and beautiful flowers. The Seniors seem just a little bit proud of their flowery style, for they are very eager to have visitors notice their floral decorations....“ Rosa Mys-tica ” was edited last week by the Third Seniors. The readers on Sunday evening were Missess E. and M. Thompson and Miss C. Morgan. The paper was a very spirited one, and contained such a variety of matter, grave and humorous, that every one present at the reading was well entertained.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and Strict Observance of Rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, J. Bennet-, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady, M. Walsh, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, A Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Niel, R. Casey, A. Henneberry, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, H. Russell, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, B. Siler, I. Maas, S. Edes, I. Edes, N. Tuttle, K. Casey, S. Swalley, N. King, E. Cannon, M. Siler, G. Wells, L. Tighe, S. Cash, H. Hand, M. Usselman, M. Markey, L. Schwass, A. Miller, L. Lep-pig, F. Gurney, C. Merrill, C. Fawcett, J- Darcy, R. Filbeek, L. Weber, M. Halligan, 100 par excellence. Misses F. Dilger, B. Wade, E. Mann, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, R. Neteler, M. Dailey, B. Spencer, G. Welch, C. Morgan, L. Moran, M. Hooper, L. Brownbridge, A. McCormack, N. O’Meara, 100.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Ewing*, A. Cavenor*, L. Hutchinson*, A. Harris*, M. Hoffman* L. Vinson* A. Morgan*, A. Kirchner*, N. McGrath*, M. Hogan*, J. Holladay*,"M. Schultheis*, M. Brooks*, E. Lange*, M. McGrath*, H. Dryfoos*, J. Kingsbury*, I. Fisk*, D. Gordon, M. O’Connor, L. Walsh, M. Redfield. N. Mann,-L. White, M. Derby, I. Mann, A. Cullen, A. Koch, N. Johnson, L. ' Faulkner, M. McGrath, A Peak, L. Kinsella, L. Merritt, J. Mitchell, L. Chilton, M. Mulligan.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Mulligan*, A. Ewing*, E. Wight, M. Hughes*, F. Fitz*, E. Simpson*, J. Smith* C. Trull*, R. Goldsberry*, M. Lambin*, J. Duffield*, M. McCormack*, A. Duffield*, E. Hughes*, C. Hughes*.
FRENCH.
1st Class, 1st Div.—Misses F. Dilger, K. Joyce, M. and E. Thompson, G. Kreigh, B. Wilson, N. McGrath, E. Harris.
2d Class—Misses A. Clarke, M.Reiley, H. Russell, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair.
3rd Class.—Misses J. Bennett. A. Walsh, M. O’Connor, A McGrath, M. Walsh, J. Holladay.
Fancy Work—Misses I. Edes, J. Darcy, R.Neteler, M. Faxon, I. Gaynor, L. Schwass, S. Swalley, J. Wells, L. Leppig, F. Dil-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ger, M. Markey, L Maas, S. Cash, L. Fawcett, S. Hole, F. Gurney, D. Cavenor, D. Osborne, M. Halligan, G. Welch, M. Schultheis, H. Dryfoos, D. Gordon, M. Derby, A. Morgan, 1. Fisk, A. Koch, M. Ewing, M. Hoffman, L. White.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses E. Dennehey, J. Nunning, N. Tuttle, M. Faxon, A. O’Connor, M. Schultheis, R. Neteler, A. Harris, H. Dryfoos.	'
2d Class—Misses M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Kelley, A. Kirchner, E. Koch. 2d Div.—Misses L. Leppig, M. Usselman, H. Julius, L. Walsh, D. Gordon.	.
3d Class—Misses M. Spier, L. Johnson, S. Henneberry, L. O’Neil, E. Lange, I. Maas, M. Markey, M. Lambin.	.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN MUSIC.
Misses Foote, O’Connor, H. Julius, B. Spencer, Kreigh, Nunning, K. Hutchinson, Wilson, A. Dennehey, Craven, M. Julius, Wells, Byrnes, Harris, E. Dennehey, Maas, Koch, O’Niel, C. Morgan, Welch, Duncan, Spier, St. Clair, Dilger, Henneberry, Clarke, Redfield, Roberts, Joyce, Usselmann, M. Gaynor, M. and E. Thompson, A. Gordon, A. O’Connor, D. Cavenor, Bennett, Arnold, Gurney, Russel, A. McGrath, Kirchner, L. Hutchinson, Holladay, Reily, L. Johnson, Cullen, Lange, Schultheis, Tuttle, L- Walsh, B. Siler, Kinsella, Merritt, Leppig, N. McGrath, Gustine, Hole, M. O’Connor, M. Walsh, Hand, Faulkner, A. Walsh, King, O’Meara, S. Edes, D. Osborne, Mitchell, Dryfoos. M. Siler, G. Youell, P. Gaynor, L Moran, A. Miller, Weber, M. McGrath, Hooper, A. Morgan, A. McCormick, A. Ewing, N. Johnson, Vinson, Simpson, Cannon, M. Mulligan, Brownbridge, Brady, Daily, Kelly, Cash, Morrill, Filbeck, York, Fisk, D’Arcy, E. Edes, C. Hughes, Hoffman, M. Hughes, Derby, Markey, R. Casey, K. Casey, Goldsberry, M. Ewing, A. Cavenor, L. and C. Fawcett, Brooks, Murry, Halligan, Davis, Peak, E. Mulligan, Smith, Duffield, Lambin, Trull,"Swalley.
Harp—Misses E. O’Connor, E. Dennehey, D. Cavenor. Guitar—Misses Devoto, Wade, Spier, Locke and Wells. Organ—Miss J. D’Arcy.	-
Harmony—Private Lessons—Misses Devoto and Foote.
Class—Misses A. Dennehey, Nunning, Wells, Craven, E. Dennehey, Byrnes, Maas, Kreigh, Wilson, Spencer, E. O’Connor, Hutchinson, Roberts, Harris, M. and H. Julius.
Theoretical Class—Visited April 22d—Distinguished-Misses Dilger, C. Morgan, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, Weber, Hand, M. Thompson, Henneberry. For Attention—Misses Kirchner, L. Walsh, L. O’Niel, Cavenor, E. Thompson, G. Welch.
Class Visited April 29th.—Distinguished—Misses A. O’Connor, L. Johnson, H. Russel, J. Bennett, P. Gaynor, B. Siler, M. Siler, M. Spier, A. Gordon, L. Merritt, M. Usselmann, J. Holladay, M. O’Connor, A. Koch, Ey Lange, H. Dryfoos.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD-
■ (Of the Class of ’62)
- ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES.
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special A-ttention Given to Depositions.
traiwl ©untral Betel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
OTTO VON TESMAR,
TAXIDERMIST, ;
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, Ill.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason ' able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural His-' tory, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For further particulars address* as above.	‘	mhll-tJy
The Enemy of Disease!
THE FOE OF PAIN
TO MAN AND BEAST	.
Is the Grand Old.	:
Mustang Liniment,
Which has stood the test of 40 years.
There is no sore it will not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 2-5c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse.	mh 11-ly.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, ZDEJSTTIST, 109 MICHI&AK STHEET, SOUTH BEND, IHDIOA.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
»
MEYER LTVOEJSTG-STOIT, -
60 Washington St.,
Three Doors West ol Blom’s Cigar store,	SOUTH BEND, un>
ES^Keens on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
ESTABLISHED 1853.
». Mt. Batar &
Dealers in
. BOOTS JLTNTO SHOES,
’ The Largest Retailing House in the State
, . Coraerof WWtoii si and Mich Igai Sts., SOUTH BEND.
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS For Meals, Oysters, ICE CREAM, BIES, TETO-
MEAL.9 A.T ALL HOURS.

574
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City; nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	10 pm 12 00 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................'.7	30 am 9 40 pm
Peoria Day Express.............••••...	.7 5o pm 9 30 am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....? 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20 am 4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Chaelton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, IRoclc Island and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttonte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
_ Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	4 00 p.m.
Pern accommodation................ 5 00pm.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express.....................10 00 p.m.	6 55 a.m.
' A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE, '
Gen1! Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
3
Trains with Through Cars to . NEW YORK.
No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y
No. 6.
Pac. Exp Daily.
No. 4.
.Night Ex Ex Sa& Su
9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
1 IS a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
2 20 u	12 15 p.m.	7 05 “
3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
12 05 p.m.	il 05 “	4 13 “
6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m
12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 * “
1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
Lv. CHICAGO................ Ar. FT. WAYNE..............
“ Rochester...............
“ Pittsburgh..............
Lv. Pittsburgh.'............ Ar. Cresson.................
“ Harrisburg............... “ Baltimore................
“ Washington...............
•“ Philadelphia............ “ New York................. “ New Haven................
” Springfield...............
“ Providence................
“ Boston...................
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
E R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of-home daring their stay. r
JERRY KNIGHT,
. CAPTAIN MILLS, fProPrIdors.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A_ttaclxed to tlie National Hotel, and A d-jacent to tlxe Ivalee Shore and Michigan. Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mnij’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05.
IO 36 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35p m; Cleveland 10 10.
12 27 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 am.	"
9X1 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 00; Buffalo, 1 05p a. ’
XX 35pm, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50 a m;
Cleveland 7 10 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.	.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 41 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m. Chicago 6 am.
5 <>6am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
4 54 n m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50;
Chicaco, 8 20	*	,
8 OX a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.	"
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a. m.; Chicago, 6 55 a m.
8 55 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 81, X875.
		♦Day	•Kal.	i+Atlantic	It Night
	♦Mail.	Express.	Accom.	Express.	Express,
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
« Niles 		9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson		2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express.	12 40 am	4 52 •»
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 25 “	10 15 “	3’30 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 CO p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 p m
“ Jackson.’....	10 40 “	12 32 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago		7 30	8 00 “	10 20	6 30	8 00 “
Wiles and S oxi tlx Bend. Division,
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.ip. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “
7 15 p m. §9 06 a.m.
7 23 “	9 07 “
8 00 “	9 40 “
GOING SOUTH. .
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m. 4 20 p.m. §8 00 a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56 “	8 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7.15 “	5 05 “	8 40
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
§5 00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.' §Sunday only. ■
G. L Elliott, .	Wm. B. Strong, .	~
Agent, South Bend,	' Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
k
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
575
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Pine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-&.3srx>
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. -	. Rates, S2.OO l*er Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
“STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE OF ITS DESIGNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR.. EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE. CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE ROOT & SONS
MUSIC CO.
CHICAGO.
i The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this wiU be the best opportunity ever offered for dispoang of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Pbof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fellow of the A. A. A. S-^Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
C. ZEE. SBUELEZEWEZR,,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’■Furnishing Goods, Etc., IIO JJkTicliigaiL Street, -
SOUTH ZBZEZESTZD TZN"ZD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing Goods, Hats Caps, etc., 109 Mieliigan St., south zbhhsttd, insrjDTjYTTjv-
Th® Bnnil
A. McKay, Drop., JSTTILES, ZhZEIOHIG-AJCT. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. G. SHIRE,
WHOLESALE
gate in 1O1 Main Street,	-
Two Boors Sona of EI. Gillen’s,	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
576
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
M. Livingston & Go.,
-A.ZE&ZE THE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Send
Tliey Have tlie Best Cutter in tlie City and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clotiling, Clotlis, Cassimeres, "Vestings, and Gents’ Fumisliing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
RE3IEMBEB THE PEACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the-Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year.
Contents:
McDonald,
THE FHOTOG-RAPHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable propertyconsisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK”
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY, SURPASS ALL OTHERS.
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT & SONS
MUSIC CO.
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION’ Barber and Hair-Dresser, 0	87 MIOHIGAN' ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner.
Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue.
Yankee Doodle.	,
To thee, O Country.
Columbia the Gem.
Watch on the Rhine.
Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen. Rule Brittania. -Roast Beef of Old England. Men of Harlech. [Welch]. Partant pour Syrie. Marseilles Hymn. Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’. Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn. Austrian “	“
Price in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents.
Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (S1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
JL NEW MTTSTO BOOK.
Dictionary of
MUSICAL INFORMATION.
Price $1.35. By Jolin "W. Moore.
Information-about [2,000] prominent Musicians, musical Instruments, musical Events, musical Terms, musical Theory, music Books, and everything else that one wishes to know about music, all concisely and clearly stated. Valuable book of reference. The possessor of this [and perhaps of Ritter’s History of Music, 2 Vols., ea. §1.50] is perfectly posted and inquiry-proof in musical subjects.
Sabini’s Art of Sino1 9 has for years teen a stan-■DaSSlDl S ATT QI smg g, dard b00k in Vocal cul-
ture. Used everywhere. Price, Complete, §4.; Abridged S3.
Moore’s Encyclopedia of Music, $6.
Perkins’ Anthem Boek.'^150)5s a famous good book aumsu UUVA, of easy Anthems for Choirs and Tourjee’s Chorus Choir, [2,00] is an equally good book of difficult Anthems for the same purpose.
OLIVER ZDTTSO3ST & CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. LIPSON & CO., CHAS. H. LIPSON* & CO. ).
Successors to Lee & Walker, 711 Broadway, Riff YORK.
Phila.
LYON HEALY, Cliicago.