lotre Dame kScholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morltmrus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 22, 1877.
Number 4.
Rhyming.
-------	■!- x ’) PRELUDE. 7“	'
____	' ' » « (V
“ Such a sonnet,” insisted Krites, “ could not be written; even if you should find the ‘ rhyme ’ you could not find the ‘ reason ’; you would have a jumble of words but no sense.”
“ Lay no wager with the bard,” replied Mousa, with an ominous quietness of tone. “It is never safe to tempt
• genius. Remember the fate of Sheridan’s opponents when the magical‘Quiz’sprang into being; and did not Drake raise the ‘ Culprit Fay ’ in the very face of mocking criticism ? Nay, I have known a genius to leap down the steep bank of a roaring river, at risk of life and limb, just because he was dared to do it.’
“But the divine afflatus is not to be trifled with. Lo! the sonnet and the rhymes:
PAST ALL HOPE.
Thou art full fair, my dear, thy cheek the milk-
White rosy-flushing bloom of gladsome June;
Thy liquid eyes where Peri’s glance a boon
More proudly won; and wealth of shining silk And gold thy wondrous hair!—Ilk beauty, ilk’ New charm of form and grace and’motion, soon With mist of rich romance had chothdd on
My wildered youth ; and ‘ Thilk bright spirit, thilk
Sweet maid I love,’ in the old-time phrase came forth.—
Ay, sweet, good sooth, but chary to thy lover 1
So have I seen sweet-laden, ruddy clover,
Deep-celled with tempting store of honeyed worth,
Yet little loved of bees, that wiser birth,
O’er which some buzzer, dazed and simple, still would hover.

The Olympic Games.
Among the institutions which so admirably contributed to strengthen the bond of nationality and unity among the Greek States, so different in their origin, character, and, to a certain extent, political institutions, and so strange to the theocratic unity of Egypt and Judea, we must enumerate in the first place the solemn festivals, for the celebrations of which all the inhabitants of Grecian territory united themselves at some determined epoch. From the remotest times, every Greek city celebrated games and festivals the institution of which generally referred to their gods. At a time which it is very difficult to fix with precision, and for reasons which can only be determined by conjecture, some of these games became real national festivities, common to all the cities of Greece, as were the Pythian games at Delphi, the Nemean games at Argos, the Isthmian games at Corinth, and lastly the Olympic games, the most celebrated of all. tThese latter derived their
name, according to the lyric Pindar and the satiric Lucian, from the surname Olympus which was given to Jupiter; according to the geographer Strabo and the historian Zenophon, they were named after a city of the Pisaeans, or after Pisa itself, where they were celebrated, and which sometimes is called Olympia. They were, according to some, instituted by Jupiter after his victory over the Titans, and first observed by the Idai Dactyli, B. C. 1453. Some attribute the institution to Pelops, after he had obtained the victory over Oenomaus and married Hippodamia; others again say that they were first established by Hercules in honor of Jupiter Olympus, after a victory obtained over Augias, in the year B. C. 1222. They are not, however, mentioned by Homer, and all that is certain is that their origin is lost in the obscurity of time, and that towards the year 880 before Christ, about four hundred years after the Trojan war, they had fallen into disuse and were almost forgotten. Then Iphitus, in the age of the lawgiver of Sparta, inspired perhaps by the salutary influence which they might exercise over the political relations of the different races, revived them. This reinstitution, which happened in the year 884 before Christ, forms a celebrated epoch in Grecian history, although it was not till 108 years afterwards, in the year 776 B. C., when Corce-bus obtained the prize, that the names of the conquerors were for the first time inscribed in public registers, and that the Greeks began their computation of time by Olympiads.
The Olympic games were celebrated after the expiration of four complete years, whence it is frequently said that they were observed every fifth year. They were begun at the time of the full moon next after the summer solstice; consequently they took place at unequal intervals, because the time of the full moon differs eleven days every year, and thus it happened that they sometimes began the next day ’ after the solstice, and at other times four weeks after. The period of time intervening was called an Olympiad, a computation of time not only adopted by the Greeks but also by many of the neighboring countries, though the Pythian games still served as an epoch to the people of Delphi and to the Boeotians, the Nemsean games to the Argives and Arcadians and the Isthmian to the Corinthians and the inhabitants of the Isthmus.
The care and superintendence of the games was intrusted to the people of Elis. These obtained great privileges from this appointment. They proclaimed the sacred truce to the whole of Greece, and they were in danger neither of violence nor of war, since their territory was inviolable, any armed invasion of it being considered as an act of sacrilege. As the presiding nation, they made laws for the regulation of the festival, imposed penalties on individuals and states, had the power of excluding from the games those that resisted their decrees (as they actually
50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
did exclade on one occasion the Lacedaemonians and at another the Athenians) and appointed the judges of the contest. These were instructed in the duties of their office for ten months previous to the festival hy Elaean officers, and these were sworn to act impartially. Only one person superintended till the 50th Olympiad, when two were appointed. In the 103d Olympiad the number was increased to 12, according to the number of the tribes of Elis. But in the following Olympiad they were reduced to eight, and afterwards increased to ten, which number continued till the reign of Adrian. Assisted by some officers who were elected like themselves, they superintended the preparatory exercises for ten months prior to the festival and gave regulations for its celebration. Seated with a sceptre in their hands, they decided the games and conferred the prizes. If their decisions were contested, an appeal could be made to the Olympian Senate.
All freemen of genuine Grecian blood, those from the colonies as well as those from the metropolis, the most obscure as well as the most illustrious, the poorest as well as the wealthiest, were admitted to the contests. According to Xenophon, those of infamous and immoral repute and the parents were the only people excluded. Women also were for a long time refused admittance, as we learn from divers passages of ancient writers, and especially from an ancient law related by Pausanias, according to which any woman that should pass the river Alpheus during the time of the festival was immediately condemned to be thrown headlong from a high rock. Later on, according to the testimony of the same traveller, women obtained permission first to assist and then to compete. From all parts of the world strangers met here to witness the spectacle of these festivities; but as long as Greece was free they were not allowed to enter the arena, and so great was the importance attached to this last particular that Alexander I, king of Macedon, was forced to prove his descent from Hercules, the common ancestor of the Dorians, to be allowed to figure among the combatants. In the course of time, when the land of Themistocles and Leonidas had become a Roman province, the Emperors, among others Nero, who came to add importance and splendor to these fallen pomps of Grecian grandeur, always forged a Hellenic descent to justify themselves in the eyes of the Elmans.
Having gone through a long and rigorous training in the games in which they intended to engage, and having •proved that they were not disqualified from taking part, the contestants were on the festival days publicly proclaimed in the stadium and led to the altar of Jupiter, the guardian of oaths, where they swore that they had complied with all the formalities of the laws, and that they would not be guilty of any fraud nor of any attempt to interfere with the fair course of the games. A similar oath was to be sworn by all the relatives of the candidates. Sacrifices were then offered to the gods according to the sacred rites, and the order in the games decided by lot. Their relatives and countrymen accompanied the candidates into the stadium, exhorted them to acquit themselves nobly, and the games began.
These were of two kinds. The first, which belonged to the perfections of the body, were called gymnastic exercises, and the others, which they called contests of the muses, displayed the perfections of genius. The former were for a long time the essential object of the Olympic, games as also of the Nemaean and Isthmian; the latter especially of
the Pythian games. Later on, however they were permitted and rewarded at the Olympic games.
Bodily skill was displayed by running, leaping, wrestling, boxing, and the throwing of the quoit, but the footrace was the earliest of these games and the only one revived by Iphitus. The space run was at first once the length of the stadium in which the games were held, namely about 600 English feet. In the 14th Olympiad, 724 years B. C., the stadium was traversed twice, and in the 15th Olympiad.the race consisted of seven, twelve and twenty-four lengths of the stadium, according to the different authorities. In leaping they carried weights in their hands or on their shoulders, and the object was to leap the greater distance without regard to height. Wrestling was not introduced until the 18th Olympiad (B. C. 708). The wrestlers were matched in pairs by lot. When there was an odd number the one who was left without an antagonist wrestled last of all with the one who had conquered the others. The athlete who succeeded in throwing his antagonist three times to the ground gained the victory. There was yet another kind of wrestling, in which, if the combatant who fell could drag down his antagonist with him, the struggle was continued on the ground, and the one who succeeded in getting uppermost and holding the other down gained the victory. Boxing was introduced in the 23d Olympiad (B. C. 688). The boxers had their hands and arms covered with thongs of leather, called the cestus, with which they gave each other terrible blows, always directed at the face and especially the nose. According to Virgil, the cestus was armed with iron and lead. Not unfre-quently the boxers retired from the arena disfigured, crippled, and sometimes mortally wounded. The discus or quoit was a heavy weight of a circular or oval shape, made of lead or of copper, and the victor was he ^who threw it furthest, without aiming at any mark. At the same time with wrestling they introduced and firmly established the so-called pentathlon, or, as the Romans called it, quinquer-tium, which consisted of the five enumerated exercises, and to gain the victory in the pentathlon it was necessary to conquer in each of its five parts. Boxing and wrestling combined formed the so-called Pancratium. In this exercise the combatants fought naked, and the vanquished one acknowledged his defeat simply by the compressed and erect attitude of his body, and this is supposed to be the reason why the Spartans, who would have disgraced themselves and their country by confessing themselves defeated, were not allowed by the laws of Lycurgus to take part in these exercises.
In the 25th Olympiad they introduced horse and chariot races. There were two sorts of races on horseback, namely the one in which each competitor rode one horse throughout the course, and the other in which, as the horse approached the goal, the rider leaped from his back and keeping hold of the bridle finished the course on foot In the chariot-races, four-horse chariots were generally used. Afterwards, however, they had also races between chariots with two horses, and from the 70th to the 84th Olympiad we even read of races between chariots drawn by mules. The stadium here bad two goals in the middle, at the distance of about two stadia from each other. The chariots started from one of these goals, passed around the other, and returned along the other side of the hippodrome, and this circuit was made twelve times. The great skill in this contest consisted in turning as close as possible to the goals without running against them. The starting points were
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
51
appointed by lots. In these last exercises the combatants sought to rival each other not only in rapidity but also in luxury, pompand splendor, and consequentlybnly the richer citizens could engage in them. This very circumstance explains to us why the hymns which remain to us of Pindar hardly treat of anything else than charioteers. This grand poet, whose greediness and covetousness had become proverbial in Greece, sang only for those that rewarded him liberallv, and this explains also that uniformity of his subjects which has so much exaggerated the importance which the Greeks attached to the art of conducting horses and chariots.
After these physical exercises, which, for the greater part at least, need not be justified at an epoch when gymnastics ranked among the first features of education, the musicians, poets, artists, orators, historians, etc., had their turn and disputed with each other for the prizes. It was at the Olympic games that Herodotus, if we may believe Lucian, read the admirable chronicle which he has left to us, and awakened in the mind of young Thucydides; who with the whole of Greece listened to his wonderful recitals, the slumbering genius and aroused in him the project of perpetuating the memorable facts of his glorious country.
Sometimes even treaties of peace between two nations that had been at war and had, according to custom, suspended the hostilities to assist at the sacred ceremonies, were’concluded at the Olympic games. The official acts of these reconciliations then were engraved in lofty columns erected for the purpose.
With regard to the prizes, they were decided by eight judges, called hellanodics. Thev were at first of some intrinsic value; but after the 7th Olympiad they consisted in a garland of wild olive, cut from a tree in the sacred grove at Olympia, which was said to have been brought by Hercules from the land of the Hyperboreans. The meaning of this garland was, as some suppose, to remind the conqueror of the labors of Hercules, which where accomplished for the universal good of mankind, and for which the hero claimed no other reward than the consciousness of having been the friend of humanity. Palm-leaves were at the same time placed in their hands, and their names, together with the games in' which they had conquered, where proclaimed by a herald. This proclamation was by far the greatest honor which they could desire, not only for the conquerors themselves but also for their families and the whole state. Fresh honors awaited the victor on his return home. In a triumphal car he entered his native city, not through the gates, but through a breach made in the walls for his reception. Banquets were given to him by his friends, at which odes were sung in honor of his victory, and very often his statue was erected in the Altis, as the sacred grove at Olympia was called. At Athens, according to a law of Solon, the Olympic victor was rewarded with a prize of 500 drachma, and at Sparta they had a right to the foremost place in battle and in all public assemblies, and were entertained at the expense of the state. There are even instances on record in which altars were built and sacrifices offered to them.
One day in the midst of these games a Roman consul came to Corinth and caused a crier to proclaim “ that the senate and people of Rome, and their commander, Titus Quintins, having subdued Philip and the Macedonians, restored the Corinthians, Phocians, Locrians, Eubceans, Thessalians, Achaeans, etc., to their freedom and independence and to the enjoyment of their own laws.” Bursts of
acclamation followed this announcement. Alas! the occasion was ill-chosen. It was slavery, and slavery for ever, which T. Q. Flamininus brought when proclaiming liberty. This show of independence was only to last for half a century longer; but still, in losing their independence, the Greeks preserved and maintained for a long time their Olympic festivals as remembrances of past prosperity and as consolations in their present trials. Gradually, however, they became more and more neglected, until they finally disappeared forever.
As already remarked, the chief object of these festivals was to form a bond of union for the Greek states, and in how far these bodily exercises realized the purpose of their institution is manifestly shown forth on every page of their memorable history. It is true, the Olympic festival seems to have had but little success in promoting kindly feelings among the Grecian states, and perhaps the rivalry of the contest may have tended to exasperate existing quarrels, but it undoubtedly furnished a striking example of the nationality of the Greeks, of a distinction between them and other races, and even the contingent effects of the ceremony were of the greatest importance. During its celebration Olympia was a centre for the commerce of all Greece, for the free interchange of opinions, and for the publication of knowledge. The concourse of people from all Greece afforded a fit audience for literary productions, and gave a motive for the composition of works worthy to be laid before them. Poetry and statuary received an impulse from the demand made upon them for the purpose of perpetuating the victors’ fame. That all this had a most beneficent influence over the whole of Greece has never been denied, but whether the bodily exercises in themselves had a good or bad influence on the national character is by far the most important and most difficult question connected with the subject. They have been condemned by Aristoteles, Athenmus, as tending to unfit men for the active duties of a citizen. By others, however, they are regarded as the most necessary part of a manly edu- ’ cation, and as the chief cause of the bodily vigor and mental energy which so distinctly marked the character of the Hellenic race.	N.
Cardinal Manning at Home.
From the London World.
“Henry Edward, Cardinal Priest of the Holy Roman Church, by the title of St. Andrew and St. Gregory on the Ccelian Hill, by the grace of God and the favor of the Apostolic See, Archbishop of Westminster”—such is Dr. Manning’s official style—is perhaps the most finished type of the nineteeth century Papal ecclesiastic the world just now possesses, and not the least distinguishing of his characteristics is his universality. In every state, hue, and circumstance of life Cardinal Manning is at home. In his titular church at Rome, addressing his clergy in Italian, and the crowd of his own countrymen, assembled to witness his installation, in English; in his pro-cathedral at Kensington, preaching to a congregation half composed of heretics, who have come as much to see him as to hear him; at a garden party at Chiswick; at Exeter Hall, pleading the cause of total abstinence with all the fervor of an Apostle; at the Vatican Basilica, swaying the debates and, shaping the decisions of an (Ecumenical Council; at a bright Oxford banquet, in honor of some academic festival, reappearing for a brief hour, as if from another world, on the
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
stage of his early triumphs and first friendships—wherever the work which he has chosen to take in hand may be in any way advanced, Cardinal Manning is to be found, always saying the right word and doing the right thing, as by a sort of natural gift and instinctive wisdom.
The position which Dr. Manning actually holds is, it must be allowed, a great one. The income which it gives him is less than a decent benefice in the English Church. The head of the Roman Catholics in England, like the Pope himself, is in no small degree indebted to the “voluntary principle.” But the greatness of his office stands out in more conspicuous relief from his bareness of this world’s goods. In the old European system, which the French Revolution so completely shattered, a Cardinal of the* Holy Roman Church ranked with royalty itself. “Reges non sunt, sect regibus aquiparantur'' was the rule which fixed their place. The habitation in which Cardinal Manning dwells is curiously significant of the changed position of the princes of the Roman Church at the present day. Archbishop’s house, Westminister, looks very like what it was before it passed into the hands of its present possessor. It is a large modern building, in a nondescript style of architecture, standing alone in a desolate piece of ground between, the Vauxhall Bridge road and the Mill bank penitentiary, and was originally built to serve the purposes of a Soldier’s institute. Near it is one day to rise, we are told, the long-talked-of Catholic cathedral. Lothair, however, has yet to fulfil his mission, and Cardinal Manning feels that he has more pressing work to do than the rearing of “stately fanes of prayer.” A brief visit to his house will to some extent show what that work is.
The servant who admits you tells you, probably, that his Eminence is engaged at that moment; he has some one with him, and several other persons are waiting to see him. You send up your card, and patiently wait your turn in a spacious chamber, plainly furnished, upon the white walls of which hang a few religious paintings and engravings. You pass the time in looking at them, and in turning over a few costly illustrated books—presentation copies apparently—which lie upon the table. Perhaps you venture to glance, through an open door to the right, at a larger apartment beyond, which is, in fact, the chief reception room. Here, under a glass case, is the scarlet beretta, conferred upon the Cardinal by Pontifical hands, upon the occasion of his appointment to the Sacred College. On the other side of the room, under a canopy, is a large silver crozier. The minutes slip away, the -visitors who have preceded you, some of whom bear a very suspicious resemblance to ritualistic clergymen or exclergymen, one by one disappear; and at last the butler tells you that your turn has come, and that his Eminence will now see you. Passing through the library, you find yourself in his study,a tranquil, cheerful-looking room—the most noticeable decorations of which are two photograhs over the mantelpiece, representing St. Edward the Confessor’s shrine in Westminster Abbey as it was in the thirteenth century, ■and as it is in the nineteenth. Here, among a mass of books and papers, Cardinal Manning sits and works in spite of perpetual interruptions and distractions, getting through more business in seven or eight hours than most men could accomplish in sixteen. The Cardinal’s ascetic face, with its keen penetrating eyes and sharply-cut features, wear the stamp of intellectual supremacy. “Plain living and high thinking ” are written upon every line of it. The
table at which he is sitting speaks significantly of the variety of his occupations, bearing, as it does, proof-sheets of an article for the Nineteenth Century; the MS. of a paper to be read at the Catholic Academia; notes of two of three sermons to be preached on the next Sunday; a pile of letters read, and duly endorsed for the guidance or secretaries; another pile, scarcely less formidable, still to be disposed of; a number of Latin documents, impressed with the archiepiscopal seal, and apparently awaiting the archiepiscopal signature. He wears the ordinary undress robe of a Catholic Bishop, his scarlet skull-cap and stockings denoting his cardinalitial rank; and as he rises to greet you, his attenuated figure gives an impression of greater tallness than he really possesses. He receives you with an unstudied dignity and a frank kindness, and at once leads you to talk of the business which has brought you to see him. His minutes are too precious to admit of his devoting more of them than is absolutely necessary to the conventional phrases which “ eat out the heart of good time.”
The burden which lies upon him is undeniably heavy. Apart from the wider and more general ecclesiastical interests which have a strong claim upon his time and thoughts, the immediate cares and responsibilities of his office are grave, and touch him very closely. He presides over the poorest religious community in the world, and the relations between him and his spiritual children arfe surprisingly close and intimate. Five-sixths of the Roman Catholics in England are Irish, too many of whom, sunk in the depths of poverty and material wretchedness, look, as with the wistful helplessness of dumb creatures, to their chief pastor for active sympathy and practical guidance. The Cardinal’s indefatigable personal labors’ among the poor, his crusade against their besetting sin of drunkenness, his earnest advocacy of the claims of the agricultural laborer to something more than a pittance barely sufficient to sustain life, his efforts to improve the social and intellectual position of the artisan, have secured the generous and ungrudging admiration of the most cordial enemies of his Church. But what is less generally known is the work which he has done for the poor children of his flock. The movement associated with the name of the “Westminster Diocesan Education Fund ” is perhaps the achievement to which he looks back with the greatest satisfaction. Originated by him ten years ago, it has gone on in spite of every obstacle, until, as he will tell you, of the 33,000 Roman Catholic children of London, some 30,000 are now receiving such education as their Church allows. Of the other 3,000,1,200 are detained—the word is pronounced with an intonation which leaves no doubt that it has been advisedly chosen—in the district or workhouse schools of the metropolis, whence it is his unceasing effort to deliver them upon any pecuniary terms the guardians choose to fix. And here, possibly, the Cardinal will show you some of the details of this work which-he has so much at heart.. He will take you into a room where files of correspondence with the Poor Law Board and with Boards of Guardians tell their own tale; where certificates of births, marriages, and deaths, and-other documents necessary for establishing the cases he has to maintain, are arranged with a precision and order which would not do discredit to~a lawyer’s office. A reverend secretary is in special charge of this department of the diocesan business. In a neighboring room other secretaries and clerks are busily engaged. The Cardinal and the clergy attached to him live together in a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
53
j	plain and simple way, and on the right of the entrance
hall is their common-room where they assemble daily for their 1 o’clock dinner. It is hung around with portraits of e thsuccessive “ Vicars-Apostolic ” of the London District before the “restoration” of the hierarchy” under Car-f	dinal Wiseman; venerable personages who little thought,
,	one may suppose, of the future which was in store for their
descendants in this age of universal religious toleration and theological liberty. Archbishop’s House is rich in memorials of a more troublous time. In the private chapel is a chest half filled with cloths dipped in the blood of the “martyrs” who sutfered under the Elizabethan legislation. Other highly prized relics of this little oratory are the mitre and maniple of St. Thomas a Becket, which stand under glass on the altar, and autograph letters of St. Theresa and St. Francis de Sales. It is here that the Cardinal says his daily Mass; after which he not unfrequentlyadministers the Sacrament of “ Confirmation ” to adult “ converts.”
Such are the surroundings in which Cardinal Manning finds his present home—different, toto calo, from the scenes in which the earlier years of his career were spent. It requires an eflfort of something more than memory to figure to oneself this prince of the Catholic Church—who seems the embodiment of all that is ascetic, hierarchical, and distinctively Roman—as a Protestant clergyman. And yet it is only thirty years ago that he was very prominently before the world in that capacity. The lines fell to him in pleasant places while he was a beneficed officer of the Established Church. Lavington, with its cosy rec-tory and its pretty church just rebuilt by him—its dark hanging woods, its heathery common and brown copses, and the long vale through which the Rother glides— could not have been left without many a pang. But even in those days Archdeacon Manning was of a spirit ecclesiastical very far removed from the traditions of the Church of England sedulously maintained by his clerical neighbors. Old Oxford men tell you of the flutter which used to take place in the University when it was known that he was about to come up. Everyone was on his good behavior. The influence of the born ruler of men was as strongly felt in the Oxford Movement as in the Vatican Council.
But in truth, in the case of Cardinal Manning, one is more inclined to dwell upon his present or to speculate upon his future, than to go back to a page in his life, memorable, indeed, but finished and turned down. He is essentially a man of action, little inclined to linger “ among the mouldered lodges of the past,” or to lead others to linger there. His untiring energy, his indomitable courage, his profound ecclesiastical statesmanship, are amply displayed to men in his present position, and are naturally appreciated more on the Continent of Europe than by his own countrymen. There is, perhaps, no other member of the Sacred College whose great qualities are so generally recognized throughout the Catholic world. Is it in store for him to display those qualities in a still more exalted station ? Are we one day to see him at home at the Vatican? Perhaps the objection which most readily occurs, that Cardinal Manning is not an Italian, is in truth a strong recommendation. There is a growing feeling among the wisest and clearest heads of the Roman Church that the local influences which for the last three centuries, have so much narrowed the choice of the electors to the Chair of Peter, are intimately connected . with the present misfortunes of the Papacy, and that no more emphatic proclamations of its oecumenical character
could be made than by the election of a successor to Pius IX who could in no sense be claimed as a subject of Victor Emmanuel.
Six Little Cooks.
Six Little Cooks; or Aunt Jane’s Cooking Class. Jansen, McClurg & Co., Publishers, 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
“ There,” said Madame Benson, wtih a gesture of profound satisfaction as she closed this pretty volume, bound in blue, “ there is a book which is worth its weight in gold; for it really tells one how to cook! All the other cookbooks I have seen were got up for people who knew everything about cooking, only they want a recipe all ready and printed for them, instead of being at the trouble to write it out. Then again, nothing in the wide world is really more uninteresting to young people than a cook-book, and ten to one if they ever succeed in making one palatable dish by followingits rules. The trouble is,” and here Madame Benson waxed very earnest in her homily, “ cooking is looked down upon as a servile occupation instead of a high art.”
“A. fine art, do you mean, Madame?” asked Miss Arabella, with a little smirk of a smile.
“ No, no, my dear,” replied Madame Benson, not in the least disturbed by Miss Arabella’s smirk. “ Not a fine art, but a high art, and a benevolent art, and an art which every woman has a right to know not only something about, but a good deal about, whether she is married or unmarried, whether she has a house of her own or ‘ board,’ if you please. Everybody says exactly what I have just said; but the remedy for all the miserable cooking done in the world is not so easily found. ' This notion that cooking is servile work lies at the bottom of the mischief. In old times when ladies worked in their own kitchens there was no Jack of good cooks. Wives and mothers taught their daughters, and even their own cooks; and if the Southern planter had a good cook in his kitchen it was because the planter’s wife knew how to teach the cook. I know this to be true -, and if Northern households eat poor dishes it is because Northern housekeepers do not know how or will not take the trouble to teach their cooks. But our ‘ Six Little Cooks’ will undo all this mischief. In the first place, Aunt Jane is a lady who goes into the kitchen and teaches her six little girl friends exactly as my mother taught me. She tells them to wash their hands, clean their nails, put on large aprons; tells them, how to break eggs and beat eggs; how to stone raisins and core apples; how to make pastry and biscuit; tells them how to do all these things, mind you, by doing them first herself. She tells them how to measure, divide, weigh; tells them how to dissolve soda and salt; how to make butter soft without melting it; how to save, too, the odds and ends of yolks and whites, of butter and sugar, and even how to sift flour. Now, ail this may look very easy to you, Arabella; but it is one thing for an old housekeeper to beat her eggs and boil or bake her custard, or cake, or jelly, and quite another to tell a young girl of twelve or fourteen—and this is the age at which every girl should be learning to cook—how to do the same; and still harder, if you please, to tell her, not by word of mouth, but on paper and from a book. And this very hard, really difficult thing, has been done by some clever woman in this little book. There are directions for almost everything; but the value of the book is not so much in the number of recipes given, as in the
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
domestic spirit of the book; the really womanly spirit of every page. Why, if all the rich girls in the United States could be trained like these ‘Six Little Cooks,’ we should have no more complaints about servants or nurses. Dyspepsia would soon be out of fashion, and doctors would find helps instead of hindrances in every wife, mother, sister, and daughter of a family. Restaurant masters and confectioners are the only ones who would complain of‘Aunt Jane’and her ‘Six Little Cooks.’ Lunch par ties and dinner parties would be no longer the terror of the weakly mamma of six grown-up daughters, or the bill-ridden Papa of the same; but pleasant breaks in the household monotony. But here is something which reads like a story or a poem, and is just as tender and lovely as either could be. It comes under the head of ‘love cooking’: for it is that which affection and affection only, natural or super natural, can prompt, for it is cooking for the sick. Just think, Arabella, of all the mothers in Chicago who never taste a mouthful from a daughter’s hand, even during long, wasting sicknesses, and then read these rules for every delicacy needed by a sick friend, and read, too, how these delicacies are to be served.
“Now, as the doctor said mamma might eat a little something besides her gruel to-day, suppose we try how she likes a poached egg on toast, with a cup of tea. It will be a pleasant little surprise to her.” The girls were delighted with the thought. There was a bright clear fire, the largest egg was picked out, and the loaf brought out of the bread-box ready to cut
There is a talk over fresh bread and stale bread, and then we come to the way of laying the waiter.
“Now get the waiter ready; a clean napkin for it—not a great dinner napkin that will hang down ever so far over the sides—a fringed one will be prettier; now the little tete-a-tete set that mamma had for a Christmas present. Ah! they are rather dusty; they haven’t been used for so long; you must wash and wipe them. Where is a clean napkin ? Don’t put it in the ring; lay it by the side of the plate, and get the smallest salt-cellar. Now fill the little sugar-bowl about half full of sugar and the cream-jug the same; a small knife and fork,—yes, I think that’s all.”
Then we are told just how to make a cup of tea with water actually boiling when the tea-leaves are dropped in; and just how to toast that slice of stale bread, how to dip it in hot water, how to butter it; how to break that large egg into water not quite boiling, how to lift it with a skimmer when cooked, and lay it on the toast; then how to take toast and egg, closely covered, and tea “smoking hot,” to the dear invalid. “You may smile, Arabella,” continued Madame Benson, “but the next time you are sick, see if you would not like to have all this practiced for your benefit”
In addition to Madame Benson’s enthusiastic praise, we will refer the young lady readers of the Scholastic to pages 218-223, inclusive, on which they will find a grand summing up of Aunt Jane’s instructions; and if anyone can say this charming little book is not worth a dollar to any lady, we must believe this “anyone” does not know how to value the nowadays’ rare accomplishment in the possession of our Six Little Cooks of Aunt Jane’s Cooking Class.	 E. A. S.
—The horns of the Abyssinian ox are nearly four feet long, and seven inches in diameter at their base. The Abyssinian buffalo is double the size of our oxen, and two will draw as much as four horses.
Advice to a Son on Going to College.
The foilwing letter was written by Charles Waterton, the distinguished naturalist, to his son, when sending him to the great Jesuit College of Stonyhurst. It contains such excellent advice and is so timely now that the students of our colleges have just returned to them, after their summer vacations, that we commend it to their careful perusal. Every sentence of it is pregnant with sound practical wisdom:
“To Mv Dear Edmund: You are now, my dear boy, about to enter into a college conducted by professors famed far and near for their learning, for their sanctity, and for their paternal care of those who are intrusted to their charge. This college will be a paradise or a purgatory to you. If you love God above all things, if you revere your superiors, if you give good example to your equals, and attend to your studies, happy indeed will be your hours, and days. But if, on the contrary, you neglect to perform your duty to God and man, there will then be no comfort for you, and you will be annoyed by brambles and by thorns at every step as you advance along. Now is the acceptable time. Never, never will you have such an opportunity of acquiring that knowledge and those habits of virtue, which will infallibly insure your superiority on this side of the grave and your salvation on the other. Treat, then, with attention and with gratitude those good Fathers who sacrifice their own comforts to lead you safely through the paths of innocence and knowledge. Should any of your companions try to alienate your affection from these superiors by turning them into ridicule, oh! my dear boy, listen not for one moment to the observations of such heartless young-fools-The youth who is in the habit of scoffing at his superiors will never rank among the generous and the brave when he shall enter into the world at large. Should any boy offer you a forbidden book to read, oh 1 request him not to approach you with a viper whose sting is mortal. Never give an impertinent answer to any of your superiors. Love them, and obey them to the best of your power, and they will most amply repay you by their kindness to you, and by their solicitude for your present and your future welfare. The scholar who reveres his superiors is sure to become well-informed, and to acquire a large stock of virtue: but he who takes pleasure in thwarting them will probably be a dunce whilst he remains in the college, and become a vicious man after he shall have taken his departure from it. Sometimes there are certain youths who find fault with everything which their superiors recommend to their notice. Turn a deaf ear to the remarks of those empty-headed simpletons; but treat them at the same time with gentleness and charity, and try to persuade them, by the progress you yourself are making in virtue and in learning, how much they lose by running down the institutions of the college, and how much you gain by upholding them. Believe me, my dear boy, I would never seud you to Stonyhurst were I not convinced, beyond all manner of doubt, that you cannot go to a better place for your education. I have the very highest opinion of it, and I hope that you will have the same. I am sorry that you should be separated from me, but your welfare requires that we should part for awhile. In the mean time you will find a parent at every step in the good Fathers at Stonyhurst. Oh, love them, then, my dear boy, and never do anything that may cause to their hearts one single pang of sorrow for your sake, or of regret that they should have taken you under their charge. You cannot
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
55
show your affection for them better than by observing, to the best of your ability, all the college rules. Take St. Aloysius for your model. Pray to this angelic servant of Jesus Christ with confidence, and he will not fail to intercede for you at the Throne of Divine Grace. In conclusion-let me advise you to be very punctual in rising in the morn, ing. Acquire the habit of early rising while you are young, and you will never lose it in after-life. Take a part, with spirit and good nature, in all the public games which are instituted by the college. Carefully avoid particular friendships. They will injure you while you are at college, and they will be of no manner of use to you when you shall have left it for good and all. Prepare yourself with great assiduity to enter into the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin; and when you shall have had the happiness to become a member of it, make a resolution to recite her Office every day until it shall please God to take you out of this world. Farewell, my dearest boy; I give you my blessing, and I promise you shall want for nothing, provided you perform your duty, and you cannot fail to do so if you love and revere your superiors, and follow implicitly the holy and excellent instructions which you will receive at their bauds. I have one parting request to make of you: Say a short prayer for me once a day to St. Francis Xavier, the glorious Apostle of the Indies. Farewell again, my dearest son, and believe me to remain your ever affectionate father,
“Charles Waterton.”
Scientific Notes.
—The great Corliss engine of the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition is on its way back to Providence, and sixty cars are required for its transportation.
—Very little is known of the first introduction of toothed wheels and toothed gearing. Two centuries before the Christian era, Hero, of Alexandria, spoke of toothed wheels in a manner that would indicate that he was conversant with this mode of transmitting action.
—Persons who think they see the moons of Mars in a looking-glass will learn their error if they use polished metal as a mirror. In the latter they will-perceive only one reflection. The several reflections in the looking glass (which are merely reflections of the plane itself) are owing to the glass and mercury.
—An artesian well, sunk by D. B. Lowell in Nevada, on Eel River Island, at the depth of 120 feet struck a current of gas which, when ignited, sent up a flame jet thirty-six feet high. A. strong wind failed to blow it out, and an eight hours’ rain did not extinguish it. In the night a newspaper could be read by its light 100 feet away.
—Indications of a prehistoric people, which are plentiful in Southwestern Colorado, have lately been discovered in Western Nevada. Antique pottery and undecipherable writings on the rocks are the most common tokens. At one place, engraved upon a rock, is the nude figure of a man, holding in his right hand a shrub, the outlines of which show considerable artistic skill.
—The excavation of the earth-covered and ruined seaport of Ostia on the Mediterranean is proceeding rapidly. Some beautiful columns and mosaic floors in fragments have already been found; and the archaeologist Fiorelli expresses his belief that a proper handling of the old docks and quays will bring to light some curious maritime implements once used against the fleets of Carthage.
—There have just been published by London houses two remarkable books. One by Rev. Alfred Weld, S. J., treats of “The Suppression of the Society of Jesus in the Portuguese Dominions,’’ and the other is a translation of Mr. Charles de Mazade’s “ Life of Count Cavour.”
Art, Music and Literature.
—Messrs. Arthur S. Sullivan and William S. Gilbert are said to have an opera ready for the stage.
—Nothing more clearly illustrates the conditions of the future of music in this country than the fact that most of our impresarios and musical agents are more or less en-- gaged in theatrical affairs.
—It was while directing the “ Barbiere di Siviglia,” in Florence, that, at the desire of his lazy friend, Rossini, Romani composed Don Bartolo’s air, “ Manca un foglio,’’ which has become so integral and important a part of the opera that few persons guess that it was not composed by Rossini himself.
—Mlle. Albani has been added to the list of artists engaged for the Gloucester musical festivals. Great success has been achieved by this careful and conscientious vocalist at Norwich, Birmingham and Bristol, at the triennial gatherings. In oratorio and in the concert-room she-is said to be heard to much greater advantage than in the lyric drama. '
—Mr. P. S. Gilmore has made arrangements with Mr. Sheridan Shook and the management of Gilmore’s concert garden for the use of that establishment for a series of thirty monster concerts to lay the foundation for the fund that is to carry the band to Europe. Negotiations are now in progress with leading musical artists for a quantity and variety of talent such as will make these concerts memorable.
—It is with deep regret we announce the almost sudden death of the enterprising young Catholic publisher, Wm. H. Sadlier, of New York, which took place on the 7th inst., after an illness of only a day or two. Mr. Sadlier was at the time of his death in the 31st year of his age. His business relations made him well known throughout, the United States and Canada, and he was held in universal esteem by all who knew him. .
—The learned, able and indefatigable author of the Lives of the Irish Saints has just completed the second volume of his valuble, erudite, and truly patriotic undertaking. He is still toiling at his magnificent work, and more than amply repaying the gratifying encouragement with which he has met. If words of ours can gain new friends and new readers for Father O’Hanlon’s Lives we shall be only too glad to have helped to such a result.
—Manzoni’s celebrated novel, “I Promessi Sposi,” has had issued 116 Italian editions, 37 printed at Milan, 18 at Florence 11 at Naples, 7 at Lugano, 6 at Turin, 3 at Parma, 3 at Mendrisio, 2 at Leipzig, 2 at Malta, 1 each at Leghorn, Placentia, Pesaro, Vienna, Rome, Brussels and London; 20 in Paris. Of translations there have been 17 in German, 19 French, 10 English, 3 Spanish, 1 Greek, Swedish, Dutch, Russian, Hungarian and Armenian.
—The authorship of the phase Fiat justitia, ruat coilum has been the subject of much controversy. It is supposed, says the Athenaeum,, to have been first used by Lord Chief Justice Mansfield when he gave judgment reversing the outlawry of Wilkes. We have recently come across what we believe to be the earliest, if not the first, use of these memorable words in a pamphlet published in 1647, entitled “The Simple Cobbler of Aggawam in America,” where it is said, at page 13, “ It is less to say Statuatur veritas ruat regnum than Fiatjustitia ruat coeLum."
—Says The Figaro of London: “ The American critics have traced, to their own satisfaction at least, the source of ‘ Pink Dominos.’ It is of course, taken from the French ‘Les Dominos Roses,’ which was in turn derived from ‘Le coup de cantf,’ which was derived from ‘Un marriage ridicule’ of Piron, which was derived from Goldoni’s ‘Il ma-trimouio comico, ’which was derived from the “George Dandin,’ of Moli&re, which was derived from “The Eunuch,’ of Terrence, ‘ which owned its primeval idea to the immortal Aristophanes.’ There is an obvious weakness even in the first link of the chain, but the idea is still a pretty one, and does credit to the American imagination. For no one, expcetp a man of imagination, would, I fancy, calmly assert that in ‘Nubes,’ the ‘Birds,’ or any other of the eleven plays which are still extant by the famous satirist of Socrates, is one of the scenes laid in the restaurant of Cremovne gardens.”
56
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, September 22, ItiW.
selections taken with excellent judgment from the best of the Christian authors. We doubt not that this work will be sought with great eagerness by such institutions in our own country as may desire to introduce a slight study of the old Christian writers into the regular curriculum. The Messrs. Benziger Brothers, of New York, are, we believe, the agents for the work in this country.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Mtjsical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Christian Classics.
In the month of July, 1876, a very important convention of representatives of the Catholic hierarchy of Belgium and of representatives of the University of Louvian was held in that city, to deliberate on certain points connected with Classical Education. The meeting was presided over by the Rev. Father Rector of the University, and tha deliberations were such as we might expect from so learned a body of men. The principal topic before the assembly was the question of encouraging the study of the Christian Classics, and it was unanimously resolved to devote for the future in seminaries and ecclesiastical colleges a larger portion of time and attention to the study of the Christian classical authors.
But the same difficulty was met with in Belgium in regard to this point that is found to occur in mostly every part of the world. There were no suitable text-books to put into the hands of students. To overcome this difficulty, His Eminence Cardinal Deschamps appointed the Rev. Superior of the Little Seminary of Malines to prepare a new edition of the “ Flores e Patribus et Scriptoribus Ec-clesise Latinse Selecti,” compiled originally in 1848 by Professors Claessens and Von Campenhont, under the direction of the late Rev. F. Van Hemel, then Superior of the Little Seminary. Following the wishes of His Eminence the - Cardinal, this new edition is to consist of two volumes, the first of which is intended for the lower classes, the second for the more advanced. The first volume, which is already published, contains the more easy specimens of literary composition, such as descriptions, letters, etc.; while the second, to be issued this coming October, will contain specimens of oratory, philosophical and religious dissertations by the holy Fathers, as well as hymns from the Breviary, and passages from the Holy Bible.
Both volumes have been edited with great care, and the
Zeal in Study.
The difference between two students is sometimes very marked. The one recites his lesson with ease, is punctual with his written exercises, and prompt on all occasions, giving reasons for all he does, and understanding clearly the most abstruse questions when once explained to him; the other recites with difficulty, is behind with his written exercises, and seems to be lacking when pushed for reasons for what he does, while the explanations of all abstruse points are understood with difficulty if understood.at all. In some cases this difference exists because of greater native talents in one than 4n the other; but in many instances it is not from this cause, but arises from the fact that the first student has acquired a zeal in the pursuit of knowledge which enables him to surmount all difficuties, and makes his studies a pastime rather than a labor.
Zeal is a quality which every student who would succeed should possess. One week spent in zealous study will be greater in its results than ten or a dozen spent in a lukewarm manner. Is it not true that he who runs with all his might for one hour will make a greater distance than one who walks quietly, even sluggishly, for two hours? So it is with study: we must attend to it with all our might; and if we would gain the prize at the end of the year, we should make it a point from the very first day of the session, and leave nothing undone which may further our advance in the path of science.
Zeal is useful to us in many ways. He who takes pleasure in his work applies himself to it with all his might; he thinks of nothing else, and finds no pleasure in wasting time through idleness, or in trashy or corrupt reading. We are often tempted by novels and other useless reading to give up a quarter of an hour now and then through the day; but if we are zealous in the pursuit of knowledge we will not be led away by such temptation: we will sedulously avoid the occasions of it, either through companions or books, and thus lose no time by jeading that which not only is of no use, but which may indeed be a cause of positive harm to us.
Then, again, if we are filled with the spirit of zeal we labor with cheerfulness and joy, and thus forestall the approach of slothfulness and ennui. A slothful person is astonished when he sees how others can acquire so much more information and do so much more work than himself in one short session. But he should recollect that these students did not gain their information all at once, in a mass; it came to them little by little, and by degrees, in reward of their persistent efforts to obtain it. They attended to their work with punctuality and fervor, with delight, and took pleasure in every little addition to their stock of useful information. He should recollect that they were inspired by a zeal which they kept steadily burning; for zeal is like fire which will die out if not fanned and provided with fuel
Let every one, then, become zealous in his studies, and al
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	57
low nothing to divert his mind from them. Let him remember that his object in coming to college is to obtain knowledge, and make everything subservient to this. Outdoor-sports are all good enough in their way, but these are not what he comes here for. Baseball and boating may be indulged in at home, and here they will do him no harm when practiced with moderation and for the purpose of giving him needed recreation; but they should never be allowed to diminish his zeal in acquiring useful knowledge.
Our Literary Societies.
It is the intention, we believe, of our literary societies to give a number of public debates and literary entertainments throughout the coming year. We are pleased to know that the young gentlemen propose doing this, for the seances given, by them last year were in every way enjoyable, and we cannot believe that they will be in anywise inferior the present scholastic year. There is considerable talent in these societies, and we trust they will give us abundant proof of its application in their entertainments.
Again, we would urge upon all who have not yet done so to attach themselves to some one of these societies, for we know of few things which more than they serve to aid the student in his endeavors at self-improvement. They are, as it were, a miniature world, in which he takes part—a world where all great or interesting events are ushered in, and he one of the actors. Made up as the society is with his companions in' class and on the campus, he finds his fellow-actors in this miniature world all friends, working for the common improvement of all the members, and though he may wage hot war with them in debate, receive and give hard knocks, yet he has a kindly fellow-feeling for them, knowing them to be friends training themselves for the hard blows which will be dealt to them from unfriendly hands in the great world outside the college walls. Were there no other benefits from societies than this, they would be of great importance. But there are other advantages. They not only assist the student in acquiring knowledge, but also present him with opportunities of bringing into action what he has already gained. In order to prepare himself well for his part in the debate, or that he may read an essay with credit to himself, the member of a society is obliged to look up every fact and circumstance which may enter into the subject brought up for discussion. To acquit himself well, he must read much, reflect much, and digest properly what he has read. By thus reading up some particular subject, he lays in a stere of knowledge which will be useful to him when similar subjects come up for discussion in the world. Many of the circumstances of some historical event may after an explanation in class be remembered in a confused way; many events in some man’s life, times or writings are forgotten, notwithstanding the pains of the teacher to impress them on the pupils’ minds; but when they are forced to study up these same facts anew, when they hear their companions repeating them again and again in the course of debate, when they have a personal interset in the exact statement of facts and their circumstances, then these facts become so deeply engraven on the tablets of their memories that the lapse of years and the toils of life will never be able to obliterate them.
Then, again, when defending some particular side of a question in debate, if the young member of the society
would be successful in his wordy war it is necessary for him to be ready on all occasions to reply to the arguments brought to bear against his particular view. This necessity causes him to examine into the validity of the arguments used against him, to be on the alert lest his opponent, by a misstatement of facts, by false reasoning on particular data, or by any other trickery, may entrap him and undeservedly carry off the honors of the evening. This exercise of the mind will most certainly make it more acute and will be of the greatest service in after-life.
Besides, the practice of speaking is in itself very useful. It gives the student confidence in himself, and enables him on other occasions to speak out what he has to say, calmly, deliberately, and.freely; it does away with that timidity which is natural to most men, and enables him to command that respect to which all men are entitled. It gives one a command and flow of language which he will find it otherwise difficult to obtain. It is not from books that men become proficient in the noble art of public speaking. It comes only from frequent practice, and there is no better field in which to begin to exercise than in the society room.
These literary societies also create among the members a kindly, brotherly feeling which lasts for life. The society is a bond of union among the members which is never broken. Around it the memory will ever cling, and when the snows of sixty winters shall have whitened the heads of the members they will recall with feelings of delight the evenings spent in hot debate with friends, some of whom are now in high positions, others, alas! laid away beneath the grass of the churchyard.
Once, again, therefore, we would urge upon all to attach themselves to some one of the literary societies now established in the College; they will find their exercises a great assistance in training for the great battle of life, where the lessons and friendly combats of the debating society will give them advantages not otherwise to be obtained. ______________________________
Public Reading.
In order to give the students an opportunity to practice reading in public, it has ever been the custom at Notre Dame to have daily during two of the meals some one to read aloud from a book selected for the purpose. No better occasion could be given for practising themselves in public reading to those appointed; for as the halls are large, and there must necessarily be considerable noise, it requires great attention and some effort on the part of the reader to be heard, thus giving him every opportunity of exercising himself in the rules laid down in books of instruction.
Every one knows very well that the number of good readers is not very great. That such is the case comes not from want of instruction in the art of reading, but from want of practice. A young boy is taught to read while at school; but though he may read a great deal for his own amusement or instruction he seldom has any call to read in public, hence when there is any such call for him he finds that though he knows the proper pronunciation of words, and has a pretty good knowledge of stress and inflection, yet his reading is a failure, giving no entertainment whatever to his audience. He has not had that practice which is necessary for him, or he has not made the proper use of the opportunities when they were presented. Take, for instance, our readers in the dining-halls. It is true we have some readers there whom it is a pleasure to
58
THE^NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hear. They pay every attention to that proper modulation of the voice which gives us a knowledge of the true feeling of the author; they pay great-attention to the fact that the listeners have not a book before them, and hence require them to read slowly; and they judge of the tone of voice necessary for them to take, in order to be heard by all. But unhappily some do not pay attention to these things, and the consequence is that but few can understand them when they read.
So long as we have public reading in the dining-rooms, the readers should understand that their object should be to make themselves heard. Unless they do this, their reading, no matter how well it may be in other respects, is useless. They should, then, take that pitch of voice which will enable them to be heard in all parts of the room. They should endeavor to pronounce the words so clearly and distinctly that no one may be in any doubt as to what was said, remembering to avoid the two extremes into which readers are apt to fall, of speaking either too fast or too slow. The reader’s voice should be perfectly natural. Again, he ought to pay proper attention to the pauses, and endeavor to give such variety to the tone of voice as will render his reading pleasing to all. He ought to pay particular attention to emphasis, accent, and cadence, laying the stress of voice on just such words as need it, and varying the tone as may be necessary.
It should be the desire of all to excel in public reading, and in order to do this it is required that they pay great attention to what they are doing. It is too bad to have a poor reader in the dining-rooms. It makes it a real penance to be forced to sit for half an hour, knowing that an interesting book is being read, and yet not be able to hear or understand anything of it. It makes all the difference in the world when a good reader takes the stand. Then everybody listens to what is read, and no one feels as if he were in penance. It is to be hoped that all our readers will endeavor to improve themselves in this accomplishment, and give to their companions that enjoyment at table which can come to them only by good reading.
Personal.
—M. A J. Baasen, of ’64, flourishes in Milwaukee, Wis.
—W. T. Johnson, of ’68, is practicing law at Sedalia, Mo.
—J. M. Howard, of ’62, is practicing law at Logansport, Ind.
—Rev. P. Glennen, of ’52, is stationed at St. Anthony’s, Minn.
^-John Fleming, ’68, is practicing law at Burlington, Iowa.
—Jules Labarthe (Commercial), of ’60, is in business at Peoria, Ill.	'
—P. Sullivan (Commercial), of ’74, is teaching school at Valparaiso, Ind.
—Dr. Von Donhoff, of ’68, is practicing medicine at Louisville, Ky.
—John J. Fitzgibbon, of ’62, is in the commission business, Chicago, Ill.
—James K. Finley (Commercial), of ’72, is in the realestate business at Pana, Ill.
—Thomas Ewing, of’69, has been visiting Notre Dame for several days this past week.
—Frederick Ellsworth (Commercial), of ’66, is in the drygoods business, South Bend, Ind.
—P. L. Garrity (Commercial), of ’59, is a member of the firm of Towle & Roper, Chicago, Ill.
—E. AI. Brown, of’65, whose card appears in another column, is practicing law in Cleveland, Ohio.
—William Taylor (Commercial) of ’67, is superintendent of the Northern”lllinois Coal Company, La Salle, Ill.
; —J. E. McBride, of ’68, is practicing law at Grand I Rapids, Mich. We call attention to his card in another column. •
—J. A. O’Reilly, of ’69, has a large law'practice at Reading, Pa. His advertisement may be seen in another column.	’
—Vincent H. Hackmann (Commercial), of ’71, is in his father’s establishment, No. 805 North Second Street, St. Louis, Mo.
—Gregori will have a special exhibition of his paintings at Norgren’s Gallery the latter part of the present week.— Chicago Times.
—James M. Brown (Commercial, of ’70) visited Notre Dame on Monday last, having accompanied his sister to St. Alary’s Academy.
—We are pleased to see the cheerful face of Rev. R. Shortis, of ’49, every once in a while. Father Shortis is Chaplain at St. Alary’s Academy.
—Among late visitors to Notre Dame we noticed Mr. C. Swygart, and C. C. Jackson, of South Bend; John E. Aloyer, of Dixon, Ill.; Mrs. and Aliss Lesser, of New York; Airs. Doyle and Airs. Wolf, of Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mrs. S. Ward and Airs. Cook, of Mishawaka; and Mrs. Hazlett, of Hudson, Alich.
—Among the callers at Notre Dame on Wednesday we were pleased to see Mr. and Mrs. F. G. Brown, of South Bend, Mrs. L. Brown, of Adrian, Mich., and Miss M. Massey, ot South Bend. Air. Brown is the popular superintenednt of the Western Union Telegraph line in South Bend and has many friends here at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—The Baud was out serenading on the 19th.
—The sparrows are now quite at home here.
—The walking round the Campus is very fine.
—The bath-rooms are patronized regularly every week.
—The regular monthly competitions began this last week.
—The Minims are re-arranging their stu.ly-hall and improving the looks of it.
—Accounts from Watertown, Wis., report everything progressing and everybody well.	.
—It is said that that Cannon in the Junior Department is to be opened on the Lyon’s den.
—A large number of anatomical jars have been procured for the Cabinet of Natural History.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are all from the common of the Blessed Virgin.
—The plumbers have their hands full, repairing the steam-pipes throughout the College.
—The Band has its regular practice every week. By the way, when will the Orchestra begin?	•
—A picked nine of the Junior Department beat a picked nine of the Minims by a score of 20 to 13.	-
—The readers in the refectories should aim at being heard and understood in all parts of the hall.	.
—In the Junior refectory the readers are enployed in reading Father Knight’s “Life of Columbus.”.
—Of course the students in the Junior Department get their lunch regularly every day at half-past three.
—A fine large acoustic organ, made by the Burdett Organ Co., has just arrived for the Cabinet of Physics.
—The attendance at class, and the good order and hard work therein, have, so far, been all that could be desired.
—Were we to print some communications as they are sent to us, they would look something like this ITEM!! !
—We hope to hear some good vocal music on the 13 th

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	59
of October. It is about time, however, that practice should begin.
. ’	—The annual retreat will take place on the three last
. days of October. It will be preached by the Rev. Wm. O’Mahony.
—Bulletins for the month of September will be made out I	on the first Wednesday of October. Let everybody look
j	out for them.
—The new pump has been erected near the Minims’ grounds and is quite a convenience to them as well as to c, the typos in our office.
r	—Signor Gregori has taken a number of his paintings
■. from Notre Dame to Chicago, where he intends exhibiting them, with many others.
—Will the fall regatta take place on the 13th of October this year? If it will take place then, we would like to have the names of the crews.
—Again we would call the attention of everyone to the .	fact that we do not want contributions written on both
. sides of the page. Please remember this.
.	—All shooting on the premises for a mile around is for-
_' bidden by the authorities. So our hunters had better be-i ; take themselves to the banks of the St. Joe.
I •	—If anyone has a copy of No. 51, Vol VIII, of the Ave
;	Maria to spare, he will confer a favor by sending it to Rev.
J '	- Father Hudson to complete a set for binding:
—The Enterprise B. B. Club beat a picked nine of the •Junior Department by a score of 14 to 17 on the 19th. Six innings only were played, the rain interfering.
—New sewers have been put in back of the College, and ' as a consequence there was nothing but digging in all parts of the yard between the steamhouse and the main building.
—This week we publish the first’ list of excellence and if	list of class honors for this year. It should be the ambi-
i	tion of every student to figure on these lists, as they tell of
‘	his progress in his studies.
1	.	—On Wednesday last work was begun on the erection
of the representation of the Grotto of Lourdes. Its loca-, tion is near the presbytery, and it was begun by direction
।	of Very Rev. Father General.	*
—A picked nine from the Senior department and one
’ • from the Junior department played a game of baseball on the Mutual grounds on the loth inst., resulting iu favor of the Juniors by a score of 14 to 7.	’
.	—The lecture course will begin with a lecture by Very
Rev. President Corby about the end of this or the beginning of next month. The exact date has not been given to us, nor have we been informed of the subject to be treated by him.
—Classes at the Manual Labor School go on finely notwithstanding that the boys are all learning their trades. The Manual Labor School is perfectly independent of the College, aud the pupils are taught by a separate corps of ' teachers.
*	—The annual pilgrimage of the Catholic congregation of
Mishawaka, to Notre Dame, will take place on Rosary Sun-ij । z day, in October. We believe that the churches in South ' Bend, Lowell, and Laporte will join in the pilgrimage this year.
—We understand that the Thespians intend playing “The Cross of St. John’s” on the evening of the 12th of October. Besides this play there will be a short farce. But one address will be read; the remainder of the addresses will simply be presented.
—There will be a meeting .of the old members of the Academia to-morrow evening at 7 o’clock, in class-room
i. No. 5, for the purpose of reorganizing. Everyone desirI •	ous of joining the Society should make application through
’ ‘	the Secretary, Mr. John G. Ewing.
—The third regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-
1	mathean Association was held last Tuesday. At this meet-
ing the following were elected members of the Association :
- Messrs. M. Burns, C. Cavanaugh, J. Arenlz, W. Walker, and
I	R. Reynolds. C. Clark was elected monitor.
* c	—The regular bi-weekly catechetical instructions of Rev.
President Corby began on Wednesday last. They will
hereafter be given every Sunday and Wednesday. Besides these instructions the regular classes of Christian doctrine are taught daily, and the class of English dogma twice a week.
—We can supply a few bound volumes of last year’s Scholastic, price $2.50. The volume is neatly and durably bound in half morocco. A sample of the binding may be seen in the College pari >r. As the number we have on hand is very small, all who wish bound volumes should apply at once. Orders may be left at the students’ office or at the printing office.
—At a meeting of the Sodality of the Holy Angels, held Sunday evening, September the 16th. the following officers were elected for the ensuing session : Director, Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.; President, Mr. M. Liuth, C. S. C.; VicePresident. P. Nelson; Secretory, A. McDevitt; Treasurer, G. Rhodius; 1st Censor, W. Coolbaugb; 2d Censor, A. Bushey; Librarian, J. Scanlan.
—The Stations, or Way of the Cross, lately painted on panel by Signor Gregori, were solemnly erected on Sunday last, the Feast, of the Seven Dolors, in the new church, by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General, immediately after Mass. The High Mass was sung by Very Rev. E. Sorin, with Rev. Fathers Louage and Franciscus as deacon and subdeacon, and Mr. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., master of ceremonies.
—Rev. Father Letourneau has informed us that he has introduced on the premises the English sparrow. It is known that thousands of these useful birds, the declared enemies of insects, have been imported from England and Germany within the last few years to New York, Cincinnati, etc., and these have spread to various other localities. We wish them success, and hope especially that they may "go for the mosquitoes.”
—Would it not be better if the baseball clubs were to play a series of 6 or 9 games for the championship; that is, play 2 or 3 games with each club? According to the present system it seems to us that one club has the advantage. We have generally 3 clubs that enter for championship; two contend by playing the best 2 in 3, and the defeated club retires, while the victors are obliged to contend with the third club, etc.
—Very Rev. President Corby purchased for the Museum some sixty or seventy rare and valuable skeletons last week. They will, with the specimens on hand, prove invaluable to the Classes of Physiology, Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. These skeletons are now on exhibition in Chicago at the Inter-State Exposition. Further particulars will be given when the skeletons arrive and are placed in the Museum.
—We return our thanks to Mr. Edward J. McPhelim, of St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, New Brunswick, for procuring us eight new subscriptions to the Scholastic. The students of St. Joseph’s College are famous for their good, sound, practical, common sense, aud the fact that we have a good subscription list there is a confirmation of the solidity of their fame. But then Ed himself is a live young man, and for his efforts in our behalf we are sincerely grateful.
—The Atlantic B. B. C. held a meeting the 15th inst., and elected the following officers: President, H. Murphy; Vice-President, E. Maley; Captain, W. Boulger; Treasurer, J. Ryan; Secretary, A. Spangler; Censors, J. Deehan and J. Ward ; Field Directors, M. Buchmyer and H. Deehan. The following are the positions in the field: J. Deehan, c.; E. Maley, p.; J. Ward, s. s.; H. Murphy 1st base; W. Boulger, 2d base; J. Ryan, 3d base; H. Deehan, 1. £; M. Buchmyer, c. f.; A. Spangler, r. f.
—The 1st and 2d meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society were held Sept. 14th and 17th. The officers elected are: Director, Very Rev. Wm. Corby; President, J. A,_ Lyons; Promoters, Bro. Leander and Prof. J. F. Edwards; 1st Vice-President, L. Sievers; 2d Vice-President, E. Pennington; Treasurer, W. H. Vanderhayden-; Rec. Secretary, K. Scanlon; Cor. Secretary, F. W. Lang; Librarian, F. Clarke; Sergeant-at-Arms, F. Pleins; and Censor, A. Burger. After declamations, etc., the meeting adjourned.
—The first regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception was held Sept. 15th, at which
I
60
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the following officers were elected: Director, Rev. Father Walsh; President, A. J. Burger; Vice-President, J. Healy; Rec. Secretary, F. Cavanaugh; Cor. Secretary, C. Hagan; Treasurer, G. Sugg; Sergeant-at-Arms, C. Walsh; 1st Censor, F. Carroll; 2d Censor, G. Cassidy, and Standardbearer, W. A. Widdicombe. The following new members were elected: Messrs. Cox, Clarke, Bann >n, Burns, Arentz, Cavanaugh, and Gibbons.	.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin returned this morning, after a five weeks’ absence, having been to Paris and other cities of France in the meanwhile. Had the possibility of such a quick trip been suggested a hundred years ago the one suggesting it would have been placed on the list of insane. Still Very Rev. Father Sorin has just accomplished the feat, and does not seem to be much the worse for wear, either. A grand reception by the students and faculty was tendered him at 8 o’clock this morning. John G. Ewing and Master Lambin represented the Senior and Minim Departments, the Juniors, for a wonder, having been caught napping. The College band added to the pleasure of the occasion by playing some very nice pieces. It is something unprecedented in the history of Notre Dame to have such a fine band so early in theseason, and we may expect to hear some excellent playing from them this year. The Rev. Father seemed to be much pleased with his reception, and spoke a few words of thanks and encouragement in reply to the compliments extended him.—South Bend Tribune, of Sept. 13.
—The following books have been added to the Lemon-nier Library: Encyclopaedia Americana, 14 vols.; Life of Edward, the Black Prince, 2 vols.; Letters in the Reign of Williun III, by Jas. Vernon, 3 vols.; Life of Richard Coeur de Lion, 4 vols.; Life and Times of Louis XIV, 4 vols.; Life of Henry IV, 3 vols., G. P. R. James; History of the West Indies, 3 vols., Capt. Thos. Southey; Hungary and Transylvania, 2 vols., John Paget; Life and Letters of John Winthrop, Robert C. Winthrop; Butlers’ Lives of the Saints, 12 vols., Dublin; Memoirs of the Duke of Sully, 4 vols.; History of Painting in Italy, Abate Luigi Lanzi, translated by Thos. Roscoe. 3 vols.; Putnam’s Magazine of .Literature, Science and Art; History of the Israelitish Nation, Alexander; Life of Pope Pius IX Brennan; Preparation for Death, Liguori; Life of the Rev. Pere Besson, a Dominican Artist; The Prose and Poetry of Ireland, John O’Kane Murray; Lynde Weiss, Geo. H. Throop; School Supervision, W. H. Payne; The Village Steeple, C. Guenot, British and Irish History, Rev. T. Flannagan ; The Vicar of Christ, Preston; The King’s Highway, or the Catholic Church the Way of Salvation, Hewitt; Attributes of Christ, Father Gasparini; Historical Sketch of the Order of St. Dominic, Lacordaire; Sacred Heart of Jesus, Preston ; History of the Catholic Church in the United States, J. O’Kane Murray. The Library Association return thanks to the following persons: To an old friend, for My Clerical Friends; History of the War in LaVandee, C. J. Hill, A. M.; Life of Mrs. Seton, Rev. C. I. White, D. D.; Vaughan and Ullathorne on Gladstone; Reply to Gladstone, and Decrees and Canonsof the Vatican Council, Dr. Newman; Students; Handbook of English and American Literature, Jenkins ’ Lectures and Essays, Giles; The Irish in America, Maguire; Popular Life of O’Connell; The Three Pearls; The Martyrs, Chateaubriand; The City of God, St. Augustine, 2 vols.; Genlilism; Religion Previous to Christianity, Tnebaud. To---Johnston, Detroit, Mich.,for The Martyrs, Chateaubriand; Civil War in the United States, Stevens. To Mrs. C. Connolly, of Toledo, for rhe Memoirs of the Reign of George the Second, Horace Walpole, 2 vols., London, 1822; Dublin Quarterly Review, 1854. To Master Frank Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, for the Life of St. Mary of Egypt; Devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Dalgairns, two Copies; To -----Robinson, for G- T. T., or The Wonderful Adventures of A. Pullman, Edw. Hale; Oakum Pickings, A Collection of Stories, etc.
Holl of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, J. Boehm, P. J. Cooney, B. J. Claggett, J. Car
roll, J. Devine, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. Fitzgerald, F. Fulkerson, R. Francis, E. Gooley, 3. Gooley, A Hertzog, F. Hellman, J. Houck, R. Hazlett, W. Hoyte, M. Hogan, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, J. Johnson, F. Keller, J. P. Kinney, B. Kratzer, J. F. Krost, F. C. Luther, L. D. Murphy, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, V. J. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, Owen McKone, J. L. Perea, W. L. Prudhomme, J. Pembroke, E. Poor, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, O. P. Rettig, J. Rothert, J. Rice, T. Summers, G. Saxinger, C. H. Taylor, F. Walter, E. Ward, J. McEniry, E. W. Robinson, J. J. Shugrue.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
J. Arntz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. Bums, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, G. H. Crawford, Harry Canoil, J. Carrer, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, G.P. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, G. H. Donnelly, R.' French, L. Garceau, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, H. A Gramling, R. E. Keenan, J. K. Kelly, J. Lumley, W. J. McCarthy, J. Mungoven, R. P. Mayer, F. T. McGrath, A A Miller, T. Nelson, G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, R. P. Pleins, J. Perea, E. J. Pennington, K. W. Reynolds, G. E. Sugg, W. H. Vander Heyden, W. B. Walker, F. Weisert, P. Frane, J. E. Halloran, J. P. Haffner, H. E. Hadlich, C.L. Hagan, G. Ittenbach, G. H. Cochrane.	<
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, J. Scanlan, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, A Coghlin, W. McDevitt, C. Crennen, G. Lambin, N. Nelson, Joseph Courtney, A J. Bushey, C. Garrick, F. Berry, C. Herzog, J. Inderrieden, C. Welty, H. Kitz, C. Crowe, J. McGrath, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, J. Crowe, E. Herzog, C. Long, H. Snee, J. McGrath.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
R. Keenan, L. Garceau, W. Cannon, G. Donnelly, J. McNellis, Jas. Halloran, K. Reynolds, J. Gibbons, John Haffner, John Arntz, J. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, R. French, J. Larkin, A. J. Burger, S. Welty, A. Hadlich, A. Rietz, J. Herrich, L. Sievers, J. Mungoven, R. Mayer, F. Carroll, W. Walker, H. Gramling, G. Orr, C. Hagan, R. B. Hazlett, A Miller, C. Van Mourick, F. Singler, W. Prudhomme, M. Williams, E. Anderson, J. M. Carroll, Wm. Hoyte, T. Summers, F. Fulkerson, G. Walters, F. Luther, J. Fitzgerald, E. Ward, L. Horne, E. A. Walters, J. Rogers, J. McPhillips, J. Rice, R. Francis, F. McMullen, 0. Rettig, B. Kratzer, L. Wright, R. Price, J. Murphy, F. Walter, E. Gooley, S. Gooley.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, J. M. Scanlan, W. Coolbaugh, G. J. Rhodius, P. P. Nelson, J. A. Seeger, J. A. Inderrieden, M. Herrick, W. Coghlin, G. M. Lambin, N. Nelson, J. A. Bushey, W. McDevitt
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
Grammar—L. Garceau, Jas. Halloran, J. Ittenbach, L. Sievers, J. Stewart; Arithmetic—L. Sievers, F. Arntz, W. Vander Heyden, L. Prudhomme; Algebra—W. Ohlman, H. Whitner; Geography—G. S. Walters, Jos. Larkin. Competitions in other classes were not reported by the teachers.

—Three boxes of rare geological specimens from Dr. Toner, Washington, D. C., are gratefully .acknowledged.
—St. Luke’s Studio takes pleasure in recording a gift of fifty dollars to be spent in decorations. Very Rev. Father General is the donor. .
—Very Rev. Father General was welcomed home by the young ladies in the Seniors’ Study Hall on Friday afternoon. Miss Hope Russel read the poetical greeting.
—Mrs. Theodore Tong and daughter, of Columbus, Ohio, who have been spending some time with relatives in South
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
61
Bend, made a visit of two or three days at St. Mary’s last week.
—On Monday the usual instruction to the Catholic pupils, by Very Rev. Father General, was given after Mass in the Chapel of Loreto. His subject was taken from the feast of the day, the Stigmata of St. Francis.
—On Tuesday evening, at the distribution of points, the following selections were read: “Cornelia’s Jewels,” from Miss Skidmore’s late poems, by Miss Nellie McGrath; “Rose Immortelle,” a French poem, was read by Miss Amelia Harris; “ Der Monch vom Petersberge bei Ad. Bbttger,” a poem in German, was read by Miss Lizzie Kirchner; and another poem from Miss Skidmore, “Here She is Again,” read by Miss Mary Ewing.
—A painting of the Annunciation has just been completed in the Studio. The composition is borrowed from Luca della Robbia. It constitutes a very beautiful chapel picture, and was evidently painted in that spirit. The face of the Blessed Virgin is original, as is also the group of angels surrounding the Eternal Father. The expression of modesty and sweetness on the countenance of the Blessed Virgin is remarkably perfect. The drapery indicates the wish and will on the part of the artist to render it all that it should be. The flexibility of the hands is a marked feature. Delicacy of execution and a true religious feeling characterizes the entire painting.
Organization of Societies.
—The Christian Art Society, under the direction of Mother Superior, assisted by Sisters M. Elizabeth and Florentine. President, Miss Eliza Allen Starr; Vice-President, Miss P. Gaynor; Secretary, Miss E. Lange. Regular reunions, second and fourth Wednesdays of the month.
—The Rosary, Adoration and Sanctuary Society, under the direction of Mother M. Annunciata, assisted by Sister M. Blanche. President, Miss E. O’Neil; Vice-President, Miss G. Cooney; Secretary, Miss A. Henneberry; Treasurer, Miss M. Usselman. Regular reunions, first and last Wednesday of the month, at 5 o’clock p. m.
—The Children of Mary, under the direction of Sister M. Purificazione, assisted by----. President, Miss M. Moran; Vice-President, Miss H. S. Foote; Secretary, Miss M. Ewing; Teasurer, Miss M. Spier; Sacristan, Miss E. Kirchner. Regular reunions, second and fourth Wednesdays, at 6 o’clock p. m.
—The Holy Childhood, under the direction of Sister M. Rose, assisted by Sister M. Eutropia. President, Miss A. Kirchner; Vice President, Miss D. Gordon; Secretary, Miss A. McGrath; Treasurer, Miss L. Chilton. Regular reunions, Tuesday, 5 o’clock p. m.
—The St. Teresa’s Literary Society, under the direction of Mother M. Annunciata, assisted by Sister M. Blanche. President, Miss B. Reynolds; Vice-President, Miss H. Russel ; Secretary, Miss P. Gaynor; Treasurer, Miss A. Brown. Regular reunions, first and fifth Wednesdays, 5 o’clock p. m.
—The St. Catherine’s Literary Society, under the direction of Sister M. Angeline, assisted by Sister M. TherSse: President, Miss M. Burch; Vice-President, Miss H. Millis; Secretary, Miss E. Tighe; Treasurer, Miss A- Ewing. Regular reunions, first and third Wednesdays, at 5 o’clock p. m.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society, under the direction of Sister M. Purificazione and Sister M. Eugenie. President, Miss M. White; Vice-President, Miss M. Whiteside; Secretary, Miss E. Miller; Treasurer, Miss A. Farrell. Regular reunions, first and second Wednesdays, at 5 o’clock p. m.
- —The Gregorian Society, for improvement in Church Music, under the direction of Mother M. Annunciata, assisted by Sister M. Elizabeth, Sister M. Lucretia and Sister M. Loretina. President, Miss H. Foote; Vice-President, Miss E. Walsh; Secretary, Miss B. Wilson; Treasurer, Miss M. M. Ewing. Regular reunions, Wednesdays and Thursdays, at 7% o’clock p. m.
—The St. Cecilia Society, under the direction of Sister Elizabeth, assisted by Sister Lucretia, Sister Cecilia and
Sister Mary Pius. President, Miss Clara Sil verthorn; Vice-President, Miss Amelia Harris; Secretary, Miss Annie Reising; Treasurer, MissTheclaPleins. Regular reunions, last Saturday of every month, at 5 o’clock p. m.
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, L. O’Neil, M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, A. Piatt, M. Ewing, C. Boyce, C. Silverthorne, E. Tighe, M. Halligan, J. Bnrgert, T. Pleins, S. Rh einbold t, A. Woodin, par excellence. Misses M. Spier, A. Harris, A. Reising, H. Russel, S. Moran, E. Lange, I. Fisk, M. Way, M. Casey, N. Davis, M. Burch, K. Riordan, H. Miller, L. Otto, M. Wagner, M. Plattenberg, L. Walsh, C. Ortmeyer, M. Hayes, A. Farrell, H. Whiteside.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses D. Gordon, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. McGrath. A. Geiser, M. Redfield, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, E. Par. sons, N. Hackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McKinins, E. Mulligan, J. Butts, N. Lloyd, L. McFarland, L. Walsh, B. Haney, T. Haney, M. Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Mulligan, F. and J. Sunderland, L. Ellis, F. Fitz, E. Wootten.
C.	& N.-W. LINES. .
. THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska/Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minne, apolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
fs the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is'the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE!_
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY
TELE
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BEJSTD,
62
. •<
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.	.
SPEER M1TCHELE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJJTVIIVG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
JOTITN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIEEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.	'
WFT.T.T A M J. CLt A RHE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY—of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CTML PROCTOR fof’75] Civil Engineer of City and • Coun’y of Elkhirt. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for ZA St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COTHUNIBT AIN. published weeklv at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D.	A. Clarke, of ’70.
TTm A V Hl NT ATJTA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, punished every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. EdFed by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5f>.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
r I ’Ai tiJ QO U’JL'TT it AslPJ'AA tLAiJ LA.A.Iu AA, published 1 weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rnodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THl BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEM ATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at. the Matteson. -
Time Table-June 24, 1877.
	‘Mail	♦Day ' Express.	‘Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a.m	6 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles	...	10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	12 25 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	6 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	5 00 a.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 00 a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
Wiles and Soutli Bend Division. •
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30a.m. 630pm. “ N. Dame— 837 “	6 35 “ Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 740 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
‘Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentwobth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received th>* highest award given to any one. at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera’ogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 1(1 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excel lent check list containing the names of al] the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spec’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenie-t location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of loo illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number,the name, locality,and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50 1 $ 1		$ 2	$~3
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6	5	10	25
Amateur’s size, 2U in. x 1U...				10	25	50
High School or Acad. size,2Kx3K in. shelf specimens				25	50	100
College size,	m., shelf specimens .. .			• •	500	100	300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellmo of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
63
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m; Cleveland 10 30 pm; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 p m. Special New York Express, over AirjLine; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 1 44 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
O 12pm, ‘Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240am: Cleveland, 7 C5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 pm.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 a m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 20 a m.
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 02a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 0 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Liv , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Sept.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 “ 3 10 A.M. 446 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9 00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 P.M. 2.30 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	1.50 P.M. 2.58 “ 535 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 945 “	6.00 A.M. .7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,	 Lima,	 Ft.Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 "	5 40 p.m. 7 35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.15 “ 12 25 A.M. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	.........
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	-.Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 A.M. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.M. 9.00 “ 11.35 " 1.30 A.M. 248 “ 4.25 “		
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	....... Alliance,	' Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	1.40 A.M. 205 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70 P.M.	6 05 A.M. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 pat. 3.30 «
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at-1 all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F.?R.[H7EBS, G- P. & T. A
shickey,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments, inci dent to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman Honse,
Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS I TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, .	.	. HjTjTJSTOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, A-isru JEWELRY.
All" Kinds of Engraving Done.
■ c____________
" squth'bend, Indiana’
M. Livingston & Co.,
TZEHE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 ’MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
64
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, CHICAGO, ILLTTSTOIS.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PHIS H, AM MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vebe,	Gbace Ramsay,
Henbi Lassebbe,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEEMS : One Year................. Five Years...............
$ 2 50 .10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)...........20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St. New York.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BF THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All i he branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem< nts of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached io the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.	'
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
_ For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GEANGEB, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
■	Leave' Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KAhSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
- FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a coyy.