@jje J$d)0uwftc
gmH to the	of th# JittfleHs
. ‘‘LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II.
UNIVERSITY- OF NOTRE DAME, IND., SEPTEMBER, 1868.
No. 1.
A Word to tlic Wise.



c
*
Certainly, gentle reader,—of course we mean you. You have shown your wisdom in taking up The Scholastic Year, and you will continue doing so until you get through with the eight pages.
“Only eight pages, and such small ones? I thought you were going to enlarge it this year. Why don’t you make it larger and print it only once a month ? If you would do so, your Scholastic would be a bridge of size to span over the ten months of college time.”
Well, the fact of the business is that we did think of something like that. Some suggested a mammoth Annual to appear about June. Some hinted that once every leap-year wouldn’t be a bad idea—to have it come out on the 29th of February—or else on the 14th ejusdem, as a voluminous Votive Valentine. Others, astronomically inclined; suggested we should be guided by the eclipses of the sun or moon, and change the name to the Ecliptical Illuminator; while some few, rather flighty individuals, proposed to regulate the publication of our paper by the apparitions of comets. We, however, unanimously rejected the lunatic and spasmodic propositions, and even though the advocates of valentinic and annual publications modified their propositions so as gradually to come down to quarterly or ‘monthly appearances, we found we had become so accustomed to greeting our friends every week that -we could not forego the pleasure; especially as we were convinced that our subscribers, being chiefly the parents or guardians of our students, would prefer to hear from the college every week, and have news in a familiar chatty way, than to have messages once a quarter or once a month.
We furthermore considered that if we came
down to quarterly or monthly publications, there would be danger of our interfering with some of those dear dull didactic publications which can be had at any news stand for a twenty-five or fifty cent stamp. We were fully aware that if we got upon stilts and gave a whole month to the preparation of our paper, we would be so high and dry, so solid and grave, that our old friends would not recognize us; and that we would be in great danger of writing such long articles that they would crowd out many items of news, very interesting to the vast majority of our readers. '
Wherefore we intend publishing The Scholastic regularly every week, and have consequently retained the old form and size. To the only objection of any consequence that can be brought forward, we answer that although each Number by itself is not a large sized paper, yet all put together in a nicely bound volume make a very pretty book of over 320 pages. If, after reading each week the news of “ dear old Notre Dame,” our subscribers preserve the Numbers^—and we particularly recommend the students to do so—they will have in convenient book-form a Volume of 320 pages, containing a record of all the events of college life during the year at Notre Dame, besides having a collection of essays and miscellaneous compositions—more or less ably written—by the students, with now and then some articles from more experienced pens.
Our readers' however, should not imagine that we do not intend to improve on last year. Experience is a good master. _ Criticisms both friendly and unfriendly, have shown us our mistakes and defects, and we are. not so wedded to our own way of thinking, nor have we such a high opinion of our own work, as to neglect the good lessons we have learned.
We will continue to give the general news in-.
J

-
2	. THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
teresting to students and parents, and which years from now will be read by the gray-headed professor, who, looking over this volume of The Scholastic, will recall the face of such or such a student who distinguished himself in class, examination, or in games. The grown-up student too, years Jjence, will point out his name to . ‘Frankie’ or ‘young Bob,’ as an encourage-
ment for said youngsters to study hard, as ‘ Pa’ did when he was at college. And more likely still, some of those lively lads now in the Junior Department, when teaching, years from this, in the same class-rooms where they are now learning, may relent a little towards the young student with dull memory or too lively a disposition, as they glance over The Scholastic Year of 1868-69 that they take from the shelves of their library, where it had been kept as a-memento of the days when they got into scrapes for badly learned lessons, or for giving too free a rein to their joyous disposition. '
We are firm then in our determination to - •
preserve the book form, and to make the news of the College, of the Students—tables of Honor, the list of those receiving the Monthly Certificates, &c, the peculiar feature of The Scholastic Year. _
. The Bulletin from Saint Mary’s Academy will, of course, be continued this year.
More attention-will be given to the compositions this year; the students of last term having more experience and practice, and being fresh from their holidays, will add much to the charming qualities of The Scholastic ; we hope, too, to have instructive articles from the Professors of the College. Rev. Fathers Lemonnier, Carrier, Brown, Vagnier and Spillard, and Professors Howard, Ivers, Stace, Baasen, Corby and Marrin have kindly acceded to our urgent request and will from time to time make The Scholastic not only a College newspaper but also a journal containing many judicious and mature productions instructive and interesting alike to parents and to students.
Ku Klux.—An editor in Michigan threatens to Ku Klux his delinquent subscribers. Hear him : “ Some of our subscribers forgot to pay up this spring. The secret serpent has hissed! Pay up.' Bloody bill! The yaller coffin grins! Pay your subscription promptly! The frizzled cat mews! Death to traitors! Ten dollars a year! Your doom is sealed! K! K! K!
The First Tuesday of September at JVotre Dame.
The last week of August had brought quite a lively lot of students, among whom we were pleased to see many familiar faces of those who ‘ fought their battles ’ in Notre Dame last year. Monday morning brought the throng thicker and faster, and the number of students who were wide awake to all the influences of college life was large, and cheering to hearts of the officers and professors of the college, who delight in nothing so much as to see a big crowd of ‘ gallant youths ’ full of fun and play in recreation hours, and as quiet as mice in study time. Besides the students, new and old, we had the pleasure of seeing and conversing with many of the parents and guardians who accompanied their sons or wards. We may be allowed to say here that it always gives us great pleasure to see the parents of the students. We prefer immensely that parents should see the college themselves, rather than they should rely on our representations of it. Certainly, ice think there is . no place like Notre Dame, but that is because we have been educated here,—all the fibres of. our heart have twined around the memories of the days we spent within the walls of the old college, and, though we think we have the right to utter our sentiments concerning our Alma Mater, we are not so wedded to our opinion as to suppose that those who do not know Notre Dame should have the same favorable opinion of the institution that we have, and therefore we are always pleased to have them come and see for themselves.	.
At eight o’clock the chime bells that hang up in the old tower of the church, ‘high up in the steeple,’ sent forth their melodious sounds, and for full line minutes had the whole field around about to themselves; then came in the deep toned, ponderous, yet rfiost musical sound of the 1 Big Bell,’ whose mellow voice blended the tones of the other bells in one grand symphony of jubilation- that sent a feeling of hope and encouragement into the hearts of both students and professors. We do not wish to dwell on the msthetical influence of sound, of the charm the harmonious blendings of sweet toned bells exercises over the soul; we mean only to intimate that the melodious clangor of the bells had a cheering and enlivening influence over every body, whether resident or visitor.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3

But why this loud ‘alarum’ of bells? Ah! my gentle reader, for ‘gentle’ call we all who read The Scholastic, those bells ring only to elevate the soul; the soul of the professor to encourage him in the task he has to perform during the year; to bring him up to the standpoint of the Christian teacher, and to convince him that his duty is not only to give to his students a certain amount of knowledge in the branches of education he has charge of, but that his tone, his life during the whole year, be a wnxZeZto all those whom he has under his care in class; that not only he must indoctrinate them in the sciences he teaches in class but that he must give them the example of how a Christian should aet in the various vocations of life.
The bells sounded forth—all repaired to the church of the Sacred Heart. The august sacrifice of the Mass was offered up for the successful issue' of the year.
First and foremost was the Rev. President of the College, who celebrated the solemn high Mass. Father Lemonnier, Vice-President of the College, was deacon, and Father Ruthman subdeacon, Father Spillard, now Prefect of Discipline, Master of ceremonies.
The Rev. President addressed the students in a short and eloquent instruction, and naturally took for his theme the subject uppermost in the minds of all present, viz: Education.
We could, had we the space, reproduce the words of the eloquent speaker, but we would - utterly fail were we to attempt to give our readers an idea of the blended force and kindness of tone which marked the earnestness of the speaker and showed that his whole heart and soul was intent on one object, and that object, the welfare of the young men who were to pass the coming year at Notre Dame. He concluded by insisting on “order”—the groundwork of all’happiness, whether in the State, in the family or the school, and clearly convinced and, we hope, persuaded the students that strictness in the observance of rule far from diminishing the pleasures of individuals gives them greater privileges and more happiness than if misrule and disorder were allowed to replace' the judicious government and the excellent order for which Notre-Dame has always been noted.
After Mass the Director of studies proceeded to the examination and classification of students.
The man who lives for himself alone lives for a mean fellow.
University of Notre Dame.
College Officers.
.	—• ♦ . ■
Rev. W. Corby, S. S. C., President.
Rev: A. Lemonnier, S. S. C., Vice-President. .
Very Rev. A. Granger, S. S. C., Prefect of Religion.
Rev. D. Spillard, S. S. C., Prefect of Discipline.
•	Professors. .
Rev. W. Corby, S.S.C., Evidences of Christianity.
Bev. A. Lemonnier, S. S. C., French.
Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. 0., Geology, Mineralogy, Natural History.
Rev. M. B. Brown, S. S. C., Moral Philosophy, Logic.
Rev. J. Ferdinando, D. D., S. S. C., Dogmatic Theology.
Rev. T. L. Vagnier, S. S. C., Chemistry, Natural Philosophy.
Rev. J. W. Ruthman, S. S. C., German.
Rev. J. Fr^re, S. S. C., French.
Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. S. C., Greek.
Rev. P.-Lauth. S. S. C.,' German.
Rev. L. Neyron, Anatomy and Surgery.
T. E. Howard, A.M., Rhetoric, History.
‘ J. A. Lyons, A. M., Latin, English.	-
W. M. Ivers, A. M., Mathematics.
A. J. Stace, A. M., Mathematics.
L. G. Tong, Master of Accounts, Book-keeping and Commercial Law.	.
M. T. Corby, A. M., Vocal Music.
M. A. Baasen, A. M., Greek and Latin.
' C. J. Lundy, Penmanship.	.
C. A. R. Von Weller, Drawing and Painting.
J. Marrin, Latin and English.
Professors of Music.
Bro. Basil, J. S. C., M. E. Girac, LL. D., J. O’Neill, Bro. Leopold, J. S. C., Bro. Joseph Cal., J. S. C. ’	’
Assistant Teachers.
J. O’Connell, S. S. C., Greek and Latin.
Jacob Lauth, S. S. C., Greek and Latin.
J. Lauth, S. S. C., Christian Doctrine, German.
J. McNulty, S. S. C., Grammar and Arithmetic. Bro. Benjamin, J. S. C., Grammar, Arithmetic. Bro. Joseph, J. S. C., Grammar and Arithmetic. Bro. Celestine, J. S. C., Grammar, Arithmetic
■4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.		
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.		John C. Wagner,	South Bend, Ind.
: _		Edward D. Hagan,	Bardstown, Ky.
Up to 1st September.		John H. Roby,	Knottsville, Ky.- -
		George A. Hug,	Indianapolis, Ind.
Ransom L. Akin,	Evansville, Ind.	Hugo Hug,	Il	It	.
William Walker,	Malden, West Ya.	James H. Johnson,	cc	ll
William K. Roy,	Plymouth, Ind.	Louis Billing,	Louisville, Ky.
Ivo Buddeke,	Nashville, Tenn.	Jacob Pfeiffer,	*	.	ll	ll
: Cornelius C. McCarthy,	Louisville, Ry.	Edward O’Bryan,	a	It
Laurence Wilson,	.	Trenton, N. J.	Henry L. Eisenman,	It	If	<
James Wilson,	cc	It	Jacob Eisenman,	«	Ct *
Thomas Arrington,	Augusta, Ark.	Francis Nicholas,	<:	ll
James J. Dooley,	Chicago, Hl.	James Curran,	Chicago, Hl.
Jerome Crevoisier,	South Bend, Ind.	John B. Goodhue,	Jeffersonville, Ind.
John Broderick,	Cairo, Ill.	Joseph Mader,	Lansing, Mich.
Patrick J. O’Connell,	New York, N. Y	Patrick Fitzpatrick, •	Toledo, Ohio.
Robert H. Delahay,	Leavenworth, Kansas.	Henry Morgan,	Marco, Ind.
Michael M. Mahony,	• New York, N. Y.	Charles F. Morgan,	CC	ll
John C. Doherty,	St. Louis, Mo.	William Hopper,	Wickliffe, Iowa.
Frank Butters,	Chicago, Ill.	G. A. T. McCartney,	Vinton, Iowa.
George Lyons,	New York, N. Y.	James McGlinn,	Toledo, Ohio,
Ernest Lyons,	CC	K	Biel Perrin,	Larwille, Ind.
; Martin Smyth,	Cairo, HL	A. B. Terrell,	Richardson, Ind.
George J. Gross,	Philadelphia, Pa.	■	John R. Staley,	Sedalia, Mo.
William Hendricks,	Helena, Montana Ter.	Robert W. Staley,	CC	Ct
James Ford,	Peoria, Hl.	Jacob Krauth,	Louisville, Ky.
Albert G. Trump#, .	Milwaukee, Wis.	Vincent H. Hackmann,	St. Louis, Mo.
John Murphy,	Washington, D. C.	George Kahmann,	Washington, Mo.
James A. Murphy,	South Bend, Ind.	John W. Coppinger,	Alton, Ill.
Edward DeGroot,	Notre Dame, Ind.	Joseph Mulhall,	St. Louis, Mo.	»
George L. Pearce,	Greenville, Miss.	Zacharia Vanderveer,	cc	cc
William Hoynes,	La Crosse, Wis.	J. Howard Murphy,	U	ll
:	Leonard Reswick, -	Cleveland, Ohio.	Henry O’Neil,	ll	Cl
John N. Slosson,	Fort Smith, Ark.	John S. Kelly,	ll	ll
John E. Dwyer,	Chicago, Ill.	Richard F. Spencer,	Warsaw, Mo.
George F. Dwyer,	ll	It	Edward J. S. Haydel,	St. Souis, Mo. '
• James Deehan,	Philadelphia.*Pa.	Willie C. Byrne,	Cl	ll
Reuben Hutchings,	Williamsburg, N. Y.	James P. Sewell,	Dubuque, Iowa.
Charles A. Parker,	Chicago, Hl.	John W. Parker,	Kalamazoo, Mich.
Richard C. Hibben,	Cincinnati, Ohio.	Eddie T. Davis,	<C	ll
Edward Fields,	Detroit, Mich.	Aloysius Hemsteger,	Piqua, Ohio.	•—
Thomas McKey,	Janesville, Wis.	Joseph Frank,	'	Kalamazoo, Mich.
James Monroe,	New Haven, Ky.	Hiram B. Keeler,	Union, Mich.
Frank Fields,	Detroit, Mich.	William McKernan,	Indianapolis, Ind. .
Louis W. Towne, Jr.	Hanhibal, Mo.	David Lauferty,	Goshen, Ind.
Andrew J. Reilly,	Fort Dodge, Iowa.	Christian M. Wanger,	South Bend, Ind.
John E. Garrity,	Chicopee Falls, Mass.	Ferdinand Mier,	Ligonier, Ind.
Rufus H. McCarty,	Mottville, Mich.	Frank P. Wood, .	cc.	cc
George Dunkel,	Lognasport, Ind.	Jacob F. Rehm,	Chicago, HI.
John Alber,	11	cc	Charles Berdel,	CC	cc
0. F. C. A. Worsham,	Memphis, Tenn.	Armstead Clowes,	South Bend, Ind.
Samuel Dum,	Amanda, Ohio.	John Chandonai,	CC >	cc
William Dum,	cc	u	Joseph Parnell,	New Carlisle, Ind.
Henry Wrap,	North Vernon, Ind.	Timothy O’Neil,	Dowagiac, Mich.
	* -		
I
£
f	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.			5
	Peter McKeon,	New York, N. Y.	John Wilson,	Columbus, Ohio.
	Grover M. Webb,	Peru, Ind,	Chas. S. Sage,	,	Adamsville, Mich.
	Orlando Moseley,	cc	a	Carlton E. Sage,	cc	V
	Samuel 0. Beaubien,	Spring Wells, Mich.	Henry 0. Jones	Columbus, Ohio. ’
*	John M. Moriarty,	Notre Dame, Ind.	Tompkins H. Fosdick,	Laporte, Ind. .
J	John Zahm,	Huntington, Ind.	Isaac B. Fox,	Chicago, Hl.
J '	Charles A. Campau, Joseph Garharstine, Frank P. Thompson,	Spring Wells, Mich. Havana, Ohio.	. Princeton, Hl.	Thomas M. Johnson, David W. Coonce, Henry C. Allen,	Sedalia, Mo. CC	H Clinton, Mo.
	Alfred A. Rea,	Oshkosh, Wis.	A. G. Richeson,	Shawneetown, Hl.
. /	Frank W. Bulger,	Chicago, Ill,	William Nelson,	New Orleans, La.
V	Natbanial Mitchell, John A. Nash, George F. Berry, Mark A. Templeton,	Davenport, Iowa. Rockford, Ill. Chicago, Ill. Princeton, Hl.	Henry W. Nunamaker, Daniel J. Diemer, Eber B. Gambee, Mark S. Foote,	Ottumwa, Iowa. Tiffin, Ohio. Adrian, Mich. • Burlington, Iowa.
I	Hiram Dodge,	U	<4	Frank W. Wickwire,	Elkhart, Ind.
	John L. Dodge,	U	CC	Chas. J. Hertich,	St. Genevieve, Mo. y-
A	Richard Campau,	Spring Wells, Mich.	John H. Lecompte,	CC	IC
	John M. Duffy, Chas. J. Duffy, John P. Rogers,	Watertown, Wis. ’ cc	cc West View, Pa.	Chas. Marantette, Chas. W. Bennett, • R. B. Coddington,	Mendon, Mich. Lincoln, Hl. cc	u
a. •	James Cunnea, .Harold V. Hayes, Lewis S. Hayes, Miles R. Wellington,	Morris, Hl. Chicago, Hl. . cc	cc Memphis, Tenn.	Henry A. Limberger, Louis Hilsendegen, Chas. Cressner, Albert Cressner,	San Jose, Hl. Detroit, Mich. Plymouth, Ind. cc	cc
	George McAtkinson,	Henderson, Ky.	Charlie N. English,	Albian, N. Y.
?’ 7	Thomas Watson,	White Zion, Ky.	Willie H. English,	CC	cc	.
	Joseph S. McCallister,	Henderson, Ky.	Louis G. Dupler,	Shawneetown, HL
t j ► ' •	Alex. S. Beverly, Ransom W. Hunt, James J. Hage, Isaac Rowell,	CC	CC Schoolcraft, Mich. Milwaukee, Wis. Goshen, Ind.	September 3d. Daniel P. Egan,	Chicago, Hl. Wm. A. Rowan,	Napoleon, Ohio.	
	John F. Cullen,	Ottumwa, Iowa.	John Vocke,	CC *	cc
1 , 1 X ••	Matthew J. Hackett,	Milwaukee, Wis.	Bernard Vocke,	cc	cc
	Roscoe W. Broughton,	Paw Paw, Mich.	Austin Cabel,	Washington, Ind.
B i ' h 1	Michael J. Brannock,	Chicago, Ill.	Wm. H. Sangster,	Covington, Ind.
। ‘	James F. Edwards,	Toledo, Ohio.	H. H. Schnelker, ’	New Haven, hid.
	Thomas O’Mahony,	Lake Forest, Ill.	Henry Schnelker,	CC	cc
k r<	James Campbell,	McLeansboro, Hl.	David J. Wile,	Laporte, Ind.
	James M. Grier,	Geneva, Wis.	Joseph John Rumely,	CC	cc
	Wm. North Orr,	Lacon, Ill.	Thomas A. Kinsella,	Lockport, Hl.
	John C. Lacy,	Lincoln, 111.	James H. Ward, .	Chicago, Hl. . '
t /	Dennis A. Clarke,	Columbus, Ohio.	John A. Thompson,	CC	cc
1	,	Dennis Tighe,	Toledo, Ohio.	Benj. F. Roberts,	Independence, Mo.
Sk ■	' September 2d. Daniel J. Schneider, Oregon, Hl.		Anthony B. Trentman, Harman Trentman, Bradley N. Granger,"	Fort W^yne, Ind. CC	cc Chicago, Hl.
r	Frank Crapser,	Lyons, Iowa.	Albert Maierhoffer,	Ottawa, Hl.	-
-	‘ Louis Schmeider,	Minster, Ohio. James F. Ryan,	Cincinnati, Ohio. James W. Montgomery, Montgomery Station, Ind.		James Finnerty, John Coffey, Edward Lafferty,	cc	cc Chicago, Hl.	» Detroit, Mich,	.
t	Nicholas A. Duff,	New Diggins, Wis.	Spencer H. McCurdy,	Corunna, Mich. ,
/	Thomas W. Ewing,	Lancaster, Ohio.	H. P. Morancy,	Versailles, Ky.
	Max J. Ody,	Milwaukee, Wis.	H. H. Owen,	Dixon, Ky.	.


■PiT “ - “ _ T
6	’	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Charles W. Kimball, Tighman H. Egbert, Ben. F. Flood, John Ryan, P. Tinan, W. P. McClain, Edward V. Donhoff, James McClain,
Elgin, III.
Martinsville, Ind. Westville, Ind. Morris, Ill. cc u
Henderson, Ky. Louisville, Ky. Henderson, Ky.
Obituary.
With feelings of deep sorrow and regret, we record thepremature death of James A.Dickinson, of Fremont, Ohio, a late student of Notre Dame, and a zealous and edifying member of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary. The telegram announcing the sad events, conveyed no other particulars then that he lost his life by drowning on the 31st ult.
This will be mournful intelligence for the many friends this excellent young man had made by his cheerful disposition and amiable manners, during his stay at College.	.
Mr. Dickinson was, we believe, in his twentieth year, and—had his life been spared—would have, no doubt, graduated, -with high honors, in a year, or two, hence. He was on the eve of returning to his dear Alma Mater, when the above mentioned accident suddenly ended his earthly existence.
On Thursday the 3d inst, the members of the Archconfratemity held a formal meeting and passed the following resolutions:
Whereas, It has pleased divine Providence to take from us our late dear friend and esteemed associate James A. Dickinson:
Resolved; We most sincerely and feelingly deplore the loss which this Religious Association, of which the deceased was a devoted member,-has sustained by his melancholy and sudden death;	’	.	.
Resolved, We hasten to extend our heartfelt sentiments of sympathy and condolence to the sorrow-stricken members of the family of the deceased in their great affliction. However, we have the firm belief that their loss, irreparable as it is, is his gain, and that his death, although sudden, was not an unprovided one: his tender r piety and lively’faith confirm this our hope.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to .the family of the deceased, and that they be published in The Scholastic Year and in the •----, Fremont, Ohio.
Notices,
The Sunday School Messenger, a monthly selection published by the Holy Family Sunday School Association. This is an indication of the zeal of the good Fathers of the Society of Jesus, for the education of the young.
Annals ok the Holy Childhood for the redemption of the children of Infidels, under the special patronage of Pius IX and the Right Rev, Archbishops and Bishops. No. 84. .Published monthly. The Annals for the month of September contain the following interesting matter :
Distribution of the Alms received by the Association ; Second General Assembly of the Directors, etc.; Report of the pro-Vicar Apostolic of Eastern Su-Tchhuen; Letter of Reverend Father Lavigne, S. J., from Africa; Letter of Father Limarguez, O. P., from China; Letter of Mgr. Guillemin, from China; Extract from a letter of Sister Maria Benedetta, of the Congregation of Foreign Missions; Letter of the Right Reverend Dr. Louis Maigret, Vicar-Apostolic of the Sandwich Islands ; St. Angela (concluded from the July number); A Missionary eight years old; Edifying Trait.
No reading could be more interesting and , more instructive than the contents of this little monthly.
The Young Catholic’s Guide,—A Monthly Magazine devoted to the interests of Catholic Youth. The August number is the 4th of the 2d volume of this publication. The September No. is due but we have not yet received. Mr. Graham the publisher has fully realized the expectations the friends of the paper had when he took charge of its publication.
These three publications deserve to be encouraged by all Catholic families, especially in the diocese'in which they are published. There are other papers especially intended for. children, such as The Guardian Angel, which are worthy of encouragement and would receive a notice to-day, had we any of the late Nos. to refer to; not having ahy at hand we must postpone our remarks on them until next week.
Every Saturday.—This publication contains a good selection of . light reading with now and then a heavy article. The articles are taken chiefly from the English magazines, and the selection made is generally unobjectionable to the Catholic reader. We cannot say the same of the editorial notes and foreign items. The dislike which the .editors seem to have against
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR..	7
the Catholic Church will crop out whenever they think they have a chance to give a slap to the Pope, or to the ‘ superstition’ of Catholics. We are rather ashamed of the editor of such an enterprising publication for being so far behind the times as to have recourse to editorial billingsgate against the Church, many members of which take Every Saturday,—and many more would take it, we doubt not, were it not for the slanderous and bigoted language of some of the notes.
Curiosities from the Press.—Published monthly. This is another receuille of light reading, selections from both English and American Magazines. In the few numbers-we have seen there is nothing to which as a Catholic we can object.	'
Our Boys’ Monthly School Report,—conducted by the members of Broad Street Academy, Philadelphia. An excellent school paper, giving evidence of a well conducted school.
THE SUBSCRIPTION ~ to The Scholastic Year, which this term will be published entirely separate from the Ave Maria, is §2 00.
The Ave Maria, can be had for §3 a year, or $5 for two years, or §20 for life subscription. The Messenger of the Sacred Heart jnd the Ave Marla., together, may be had for §4.per annum, exclusive of postage.
------■=«-«>-*■--
From our Exchanges.
- Sand.—The owner of a sand bank advertises in one of our exchanges that he has from 200 to 500 loads of sand ready for delivery, and adds “ Any person leaving their orders at John Smith’s store will be promptly filled.” We would not like to leave an order.
An Eloquent Judge.—Strange as it may appear, the following is the exordium of a decision in a mining case lately given by one of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the State of Nevada;
“As every means which legal learning and subtle ingenuity could suggest have been long since exhausted in this cause, counsel have now, it seems, been driven to the necessity of calling the muses from the sylvan shades of Pindus and Helicon to assist them, and if we may judge from the tragic fervor of the respective arguments, Melpomene at least responded to their invoca
tion, for we find the evidences of her assistance on both sides of this irrepressible case. But unfortunately for the counsel, the law does not affiliate with the tuneful nine, nor accept them as authority in her prosy dominion, but, like ’the companions of Ulysses, stops her ears against their seductive appeals and listens only to logic and unvarnished facts. As faithful servants of this wrinkle-browed and-heartless prude, the law, we will leave the poetry of the case and direct our attention to what little prose there may be left in it.”	-	’
A little hero.—An English paper says: ■ “Mr. Philip Newman’s three children were playing beside the river Stour, at Sturminster Newton, on the 22d, when the youngest, a boy sixteen months old, fell into the water. The eldest, a girl named Bethia, without the slightest hesitation, jumped ip after him, although the water was very deep. She succeeded in catching her . brother, and turned towards the bank, but being unable to swim, both were sinking rapidly, when the other child Richard, aged seven years, instead of running for assistance, lay down on the brink and managed to reach the boy, whom his sister pushed towards the shore. As soon as he had placed the little one on the grass he caught his sister’s dress, which was scarcely visible, just as she was sinking, and dragged her ashore. Restoratives were used, and she is now recovering rapidly. The safety of the two children is attributed to the coolness of the little fellow.”
A doting mother of a waggish boy, having bottled a lot of nice preserves, labeled them, “Put up by Mrs. D--------.” Johnny, having discovered them, soon ate the contents of one bottle, and wrote on the bottom of the label, “Put down by Johnny.D .”
Charles V having been on one occasion addressed by an ambassador in a Latin oration, he was so much affected at finding himself unable to perfectly understand the speaker, that he publicly reproached himself for his inattention, when a boy, to the instructions of his tutor, who, he remarked, had often warned him, that a day would come when he would regret his negligence, See that you do not hereafter have to reproach yourself for not paying attention when at school, and -for not improving your mind by religion and knowledge.
Men are generally deserted in adversity. When the sun Sj our cry shadows refuse to follow US.
8
THE SCHOLASTIC -YEAR.
The Will and the _IVay.—Cobbett writes:— “I learned grammar when I was a private soldier on the pay of sixpence a day. The edge of my berth, or that of my guard-bed, was my seat to study in; my knapsack was my bookcase, and a bit of board lying in my lap was my writing-, table. I had no money to purchase candle or oil ; in winter it was rarely that I could get any light but that of the fire, and only my turn of that. To buy a pen or piece of paper, I was compelled to forego some portion of food, though in a state of half starvation. I had not a moment of time that I could call my own; and I had to read and write amid the talking, laughing, singing whistling, and bawling of at least half a score of the most thoughtless of men, and that too in their hours of freedom from control. And I say, if I under these circumstances could encounter and overcome the task, is there, can there be, in the whole world, a youth who can find an excuse for the non-performamce ?
A juryman was once asked whether he had been charged by the presiding judge. “Well, squire,” said he, “ the little fellow that sits up in the pulpit, and kinder bosses it over the crowd, gin us a talk, but I don’t know whether he charges anything or not.”
Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
Reorganized, on the 2d September, 1868.
The following are its officers:
Teacher and Director—Prof. Jno. O’Neill.
Ass’t. Leader—Charles Hertich.
President—R. L. Akin.
Vice-President—J. A. Lecompte.
Treasurer—J. Garhartstine.
Rec. Sec’y.—Wnt Walker. '
Cor. Sec’y.—Ivo Buddeke.
Librarian—D. W. Coonce.
Ass’t Libr.—D. J. Dicmer.
1st Censor—James Curran.
2d Censor—D. Vocke. , '
- Saint Joseph’s Academy, South Bend, Ind.— This flourishing institution opened on Tuesday, September 1st, with a full number of pupils. We hope to hear from time to time from the Academy, where tve know there are congregated many young ladies who have a number of good ideas.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. .
St. Joseph Co., Ind.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the M. S. & N. I. R. R., it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
. terms:
Matriculation Fee......................§	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek ’included); Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months....... 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and
Hebrew, each.......................... 10	00
Instrumental Music...................... 12	50
Use of Piano............................ 10	00
Use of Violin............................ 2	00
Drawing................................. 10	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.................................. 5	00
Graduation Fee.......................... 10	00
Students who spend their Summer vaca-
tion at the College are charged, extra, 35	00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., furnished at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address	»
’ Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., President.

SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, Notre Dame, Ind,
St. Mary’s Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.	_
The Scholastic Year is divided into two sessions of five months each. The first session commencing the first Monday of September, and ending the last day of January. At Christmas the regular classes are not interrupted, except the day before and the day after. The second session commencing the first day’of February, and ending the last Thursday of June.
We are happy to inform bur patrons that we have, at length, been able to realize a long cherished desire of opening a School of Design, where choice- models in busts, chromes and oil paintings in the different schools have been collected, and where full courses will be given by efficient teachers in all the various departments of Drawing and Painting.'
For Catalogue address
-	Mother M. Angela, Superior, .
SL Mary’s'Academy, an 1-68	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.