Thb Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 29, 1873.
Number 14.
> . - .. 7
Dedication of the New Church? When?
y .	____ .
[We take the following from advance sheets of the Ave .	Maria.—Ed.]
'	We were perfectly delighted to hear our Most Rev.
Archbishop, on his late visit to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, earnestly.reiterate his kind promise of last year, ।	viz. to invite all the Right Rw. Bishops chosen from his
j . Province, and now filling up over twenty episcopal sees, to meet him at Notre Dame for the consecration of the new church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart when it is finished. What a consolation will it not be for the venerable Metropolitan to see himself surrounded by such a glo-i	rious crown of worthy associates, some of whom he bap-
" . tized, for the dedication of a temple in honor of our Blessed Mother on a spot where we well remember having seen with our own eyes the wigwams and the fires of the Pottawatomies.
Truly a change has taken place; we confess it the more readily, as we claim no praise but return all glory to God to 0	whose hand this transfol mation is due. Neither should
we be surprised if we only reflected on the saintly memories whose extraordinary virtues embalmed the very air of Notre Dame when the Congregation of the Holy Cross , took possession of her lovely domain. Here is a little galaxy of names not often met with in any place not celebrated: the venerable proto-priest of America, Father Badin, the saintly De Seille, the heroic Benjamin Petit, i	succeeded each other here. Here they were visited from
!	Bardstown and Vincennes by the immortal Bishops Flaget
p	and Brute; here they prayed together, as they now con>	tinue to do in heaven, for blessings on a spot they so
dearly loved. Scarcely then, we say, is It a wonder to i	find it blessed. Saintly souls, men of God, have passed
I	and lived here, and the precious remains of two of them
।	speak yet in our midst the eloquent language of the purest
I	zeal and most unbounded charity that ever prompted
and adorned the heart of the apostles of Christ.
£	Archbishop Purcell himself was one of the first Prelates
whose encouraging voice we heard here soon after our arrival: and in his happy memory he may yet depict to his mind the old log church in which he preached a most
!	. touching sermon on the Sacrament of Confirmation, pre-
i	vious to its administration to a little handful of youths
among whom was the present Editor of the Ave Maria. That primeval church was none too lofty; for each time the officiating Prelate raised himself, as he moved at the
J	railing, he touched the ceiling of the chapel with the
|	top of his mitre: hae meminisse jural it. He it was
I	also who first honored our Commencements with his epis-
■	copal presence, and well do we yet remember the leading
points of his admirable address in which he feelingly nvited the first pioneers of the Order of the Holy
Cross here to be satisfied with the merit and. honor of burying themselves in the foundations of the work. May he live a score of years yet, and visit again and often, in. the gladness of his heart, the various spots he found in a state of wilderness, and in which the fresh seed of example and doctrine he so zealously spread in . all directions. has so rapidly grown that many a desert has now become a rich and fruitful land. May he be spared long enough to enjoy that grand solemnity in which we] positively intend to entertain our venerated Archbishop, not exactly as he never was in his life, but to the very best of our ability.. But when will this be‘i Much as we would like to fix the epoch and the day of the solemnity, we rather reiterate our well-known declaration never to see the new church, a dollar in debt. As means come in, the work shall progress. Three things must be accomplished ere our task is over, viz. the Blessed Virgin must be pleased with our efforts; our friends, the benefactors of the monument, must be forever proud of it; and we ourselves, when pray- . ing in it, must feel under a serious obligation to them all. Here is work before us; but with our Blessed Lady’s aid and the good will of her devoted children around us, we hope to bring it to a glorious end.	E. S.
Italian Audacity. •
Signor Visconti Venosta is one of the Ministers of King Victor Emmanuel, and possesses in an eminent degree the impudence of his august master. He has just informed the world that although Italy has destroyed the Temporal Power, she has “ scrupulously respected the liberty and in dependence of the Religious Power of the Holy Father.” Surely we have here the most extraordinary flight of audac- . ity in which even a Minister of the Florentine Government ever indulged. Signor Venosta, repeating former declarations of his master and his associates, wishes the world to believe that although for motives of national protection the Italian Government was compelled to occupy Rome, that it has never acted as the enemy—as the oppressor—indeed, as anything but a friend—of the Catholic religion and its august head. Now, at the very moment this declaration is put forward, what is the work in which the Italian Government is engaged ? In putting the final touch to the long, relentless, bitter and unprovoked persecution with which it has hunted down the religious orders. The religious orders whose houses are situated in Rome have no connexion with politics. Their kingdom is not of this world. Their sole duties are the religious duties of prayer, education and charity. Their sole raison d'etre is the love of God. And yet the Florentine Government has pursued these establishments with an implacable hate. Convents with the glorious history of ten centuries, convents associated from all time with great works of learning, or charity ’
I
106	THE SCHOLASTIC.
or public utility—convents whose pavements have been trodden by the feet of saints have been torn from the hands of the Church and converted into barracks, or stables, or store-houses. The pious inmates of these institutions—old men who have grown grey in the service of the altar, noble ladies who have left all to follow their Master —have been driven forth, plundered exiles, into a world they had abandoned, a world which knew them not. This is the work which has been done through all Italy, which is now doing in Rome. And it is just as the final blow is given to the Religious Houses of the Peninsula that Signor Visconti Venosta comes forward to assure the world that his master is the friend of the Catholic religion! Admirable hypocrisy; useful, however, in that it shows that the conscience of Europe is awaking, and that the Florentine Government finds it necessiry to make some kind of apology and explanation for its recent proceedings.—Exchange.
Yes, dear Saint Andrew, hear our prayer, That the designs of highest Heaven
Be rich fulfilled, and fruit most rare - -	•	-
Unto dear Holy Cross be given.
Pray for our Holy Pope, dear Saint, ‘
• Pray that his foes be soon confounded ;
Beg God to list his patient plaint, .	_
Rewarding thus his love unbounded.
Pray for our Father General too,
Pray that for many years to come,
With zeal and fervor ever true,	. .	.
He still be spared to our dear home.	*
St. Andrew, Poet of the Cross, -
’Tis true thy canticle divine
Brings proudest themes of earth to loss, -Restored alone by themes like thine.
.	’ A Child of Holy Cross.
Feast of St. Andrew.
ANNIVERSARY OF FATHER SORIX’S FIRST MASS AT NOTRE DAME.
St. Andrew, poet of the Cross, Ah, how thy canticle divine
Brings proudest themes of earth to loss ' Restored alone by themes like thine.
I see thee on a far-off shore—
Field of thy vigils, toils, and prayer—
Thy loving labors almost o’er, For lo 1 the Cross awaits thee there.
Blissful the view unto thy soul,—
Thy Master hath thereon expired,— ■ Thy hopes have reached their longed-for goal—
Thy heart hath found all it desired.
“ Oh, Precious Cross!” I hear thee cry,—
Long have have I sought thee ! waited long
‘Within thy sacred arms to die; ”
This was the burden of thy song.
Triumphant martyr, crowned with light, Thy soul transfused with bliss supreme, • . The Seraphim could not indite
• A song of more inspiring theme.
St. Andrew, hear our warm request,	’
Borne from a loving grateful heart,
That our own “Holy Cross” be blest, ' "With every grace heaven can impart.
- Oh, by the mystic intercourse
Of saints in heaven and souls on earth, Secured by prayer’s majestic force, . And giving unto prayer its worth;	-
And by the Mass in days of yore . .
Offered on Feast of Exaltation	.
.	Of Holy Cross, by him who bore *
Our fresh young Order to our nation,—
’ And by the Sacrifice Divine -	‘ First celebrated for thy Feast
On Notre Dame’s most humble shrine By our Order’s proto-priest
In this fair land, pray that the power
Of unbelief may be defeated,	’
And that fresh zeal forth from this hour ■ • Shall see thy work, dear Saint, completed.
. Nswspapsrs.	‘
' Although this branch of literature is not so inviting to writeis of.ability as others are, yet it is one wherein a person of culture miy gain a 1 isti.ig reputation, one wherein he may be of great benefit to .the age in which he lives, and may also help the age to come by correcting the evils of the present. Books, as a general thing, are to be perused and studied; newspapers, on the other hand, miy be glanced at and then cast aside. Newspapers are generally read, day after day, as theycontinue to leave the press; they pass into everyone’s hand, poor and rich, little * and great, and are eagerly read by all. A little article, an editorial, or a letter, will be sure to catch the eye of all • and will generally produce the effect desired by the com-.posek Books are things held higher in our estimation than papers; but we often keep putting off reading a book from time to time; and, again, all will not, many cannot, procure them; so that where one person reads a book, fifty will read a newspaper. Thus it is that newspapers are the principal channels whereby knowledge may enter the family circle of the poor. The newspaper editor should therefore be a man of virtue, knowledge, and refinement, as he certainly stands in the relation of a teacher to the people. ,	.
News in general is always more eagerly looked for by people than anything else in the paper. After this is read, the eye wanders over the remaining articles, and thus the mind drinks in all that is conveyed to it. It is for this reason that business men advertise so much in newspapers, because all classes read the papers, from the highest in the State down to the common laborer in the street. As a' good example showing how much a paper is looked for by the people in cities, take the Notre Dame Scholastic. This small sheet stands to the students in the same relation as a newspaper-out in the world stands to the people of the world. See how eagerly it is looked for, not solely on account of the good advice given by “ T. A. D.” or some one else, but because it contains the news of the place. After1 this is read, then as a matter of course the advice given by its contributors is read, and perhaps with good effect to the readers.
. Newspapers, for the past half century, have done more towards developing the powers of thinking and reasoning in the people of America than any other agent. Ask any-
THE SCHOLASTIC.	107
!	American, even the humblest, of the topics of the day, and
you will find him ever ready to answer and give the reason i	of the belief that is in him. Does this come from books
<	or the newspaper ? Certainly from the .latter, as 'many
*	have no recourse to books, the majority being without
|	even a common-school education, and therefore having ac-
I	quired no taste for books; and as people continue to pro-
1	gress, the main pause will come immediately, not from deep
logic and sound philosophy contaiued’in books, but from this source of advancement and everyday knowledge, the newspaper. America may well be proud of the advancement she has made in this branch of literature. She equals i.i many and surpasses in a few of her journals all the pa-
•	pers of Europe’. The names of her great editors will be
ever fresh in the minds of all who are in any way interested in the field of journalism.	J. H. W.
Bishop von Kettele-r, of Mainz, asks King William to to prove the assertion madden his answer to the Pope’s letter in respect to the loyalty of German Catholics. The Bishop says:	‘ \	.
“Your Majesty has charged us, in the face of the Pope, with disloyal intrigues. Now our agitation has either been conducted within the limits of the laws, and in that case you were not justified in bringing this against us; or our conduct has transgressed the laws, and accordingly we have committed the crime of treason. Will your Majesty then order your Government, on the ground of the facts which must be at your disposal in the presence of such a charge, to indict our leaders as traitors ? After your Majesty has uttered so frightful an accusation against our honor, in-tegiity and loyalty; at least allow us to prove to you how ill-informed you have been.”	’ '
It appears that there is a second letter from the Pope to the Emperor, which the latter has not published, and which the Catholics say he is afraid to publish.	’
' Unpleasant Disclosures.—The GourrierdePamleams from Milan that Madame Ratazzi, widow of. the late Italian Minister, is about to bring out a work containing a number of historical and political documents, the publication of which will create great sensation. It is said that these documents, which relate principally to the affairs of Men-tana and Aspromonte, were found among the papers of Ratazzi, and that several persons of high rank are apparently seriously compromised by them.- Several attempts have been made to dbsuade Madame Ratazzi from publishing the work, and even the Crown Prince, Humbert, is said to have interceded, but without avail. It is said that Madame Ratazzi will go to Paris and have the work published there.	.	.
Priests who have Died at Shreveport.—Since the yellow fever appeared at Shreveport, La.,-seven priests have succumbed, victims of their devotedness to the unfortunates' attacked by the dreadful epidemic; namely: Rev. F. Le Vezouet, Secretary to the Bishop of Natchitoches; Rev. I. Quemarays, assistant priest of Shreveport; Rev. Jean Pierre, parish priest of the same place; Rev. N. Billet (or Biler), chaplain of the “Daughters of the Cross;” Rev. L. Gergaud, parish priest of Monroe, La.; Rev. J. J. Dufau (Duffo in the Almanac), a Jesuit of New Orleans; and Rev. C. Feree, of the same city, all Frenchmen—Nouveau Monde.
The K'ew Tabernacle.
ADDITIONAL SUBSCRIBERS.	.
Elward Summers, Notre Dame, Indiana........... $10 00
Jacob Chearhart, Notre Dame, Indiana............ 50	00
Thomas M. O’Leary, Notre Dame, Indiana........ 10 00
James McNulty, South Bend, Ind.................. 10	00
Martin Hilliard, South Bend, Ind................ 10	00
E. Francis Tissier, St. Louis, Mo............... 10	00
William G. Collins......................•....... 10	00
St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Notre Dame, Ind., per Rev. •
A Louage.........................„......... 102	00
Thomas Hoban, South Bend, Ind.................... 5	00
John Webber, Mishawaka, Ind........... 1.....'.	10 00
Holy Cross, Iowa, per Rev. P. Gillin............ 10	00
Prof. W. Ivers, Notre Dame, Ind................  10	00
Mrs. W. Ivers, Notre Dame, Ind........1......... 10	00
Miss Maggie Ivers, Notre Dame, Ind.............. 10 00
Prof O. Schnurrer, Notre Dame, Ind.............. 10	00
J. Freney, Lowell, Ind.......................... 10	00
James O’Keefe, Notre Dame, Ind................   10	00
.John M. Cummings, South Bend, Ind......1....... 10	OP
Thomas Hurley, Notre Dame, Ind.................  10	00
Mrs. Julia A. Howard, Notre Dame, Ind......... 10 00
Bro. Vincent, Professed House, Notre Dame, Ind.. 10 00
. Correspondencs.
The following has been handed us, which wc publish, with pleasure:	.
Vert Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General C. S. C.;
Honored Sir : The Patronal Feast of our beloved Sister Superior will fall on the 9th of December, and we are to celebrate it with all the &lat which gratitude and devotion can command The flowers, the mirth, the music, will pass ; but, Very Rev. and dear Father, your kindness has placed it in our power to give her a lasting and most sacred proof of our affection, for which we beg leave to thank you most sincerely. Enclosed please find §10 (ten dollars) which we offer in her name, that it may be engraved in the Tabernacle of the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, and the teacher so beloved by us may say “ The Lord hath hidden me in His Tabernacle.” Were our purses equal to our good will, the amount wold be multiiplied by hundreds, but we trust others will supply for our inability and will avail themselves of the great honor which can be so easily secured.
Will you beg our Blessed Lady to accept our simple gift; and believe us, Very Rev. Father, with profound esteem,
Your humble
Children of St. Mart’s Academy, Alexandria, Va.
Per Angela Nevbtt, '
A correspondent of one of our exchanges having asked: “ Is the letter A in Latin always pronounced long or short ?” received answer as follows: Neither. It is simply pronounced A, and that is all. We cannot imagine what induced you to suppose that it was pronounced like the word “long” or “short.” The letter A bears no resemblance to either of the monosyllables in question, and it would be as reasonable to give it the same as to pronounce the letter C like the word “ metempsychosis,” or the figure 4 as if it were spelled “ wheelbarrow” instead of f-o-u-r. Do not attempt these innovations upon the Latin language. It’a a dead language and cannot defend itself, and to attack a corpse is a cowardly:
An old edition of Morse’s Geography says: “Albany has 400 dwelling houses, and 2,400 inhabitants, all standing with their gable-ends to the street.”	"
108
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Schnlastia
Published every Weeh during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
■	• •	TERMS:
One year......................$100
Single copies (5cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Several communications arrived too late for insertion this week.
The big fall of snow on Wednesday of last week was not chronicled in the Scholastic last Saturday. That was an oversight.
All Around has not been around this week, but has been thanksgiving in a wider sphere, Consequence, our local columns will be doubly filled next week.
We hear with pleasure that our old friend M. T Corby has gone into partnership with another old friend of ours P. L. Gerrity. May they have a pleasant, prosperous time and dispense their sweets throughout the laud. By th e way if any one wants to purchase the best kind of candy for the holidays, or any other day, let him or her call or send to No. 100 Van Buren St., about one door east of Clark.
The Junior Department knows how to enjoy itself, and it has all the elements of enjoyment within itself. We happened to discover one of its sources of amusement, and were veiy much pleased. The students of that Department gather together in an informal way in their large study-hall, with their prefects and a few chosen professors and senior students. Then the Junior Orchestra gives an entertainment,—pieces are played in full orchestra, duets are executed on piccolo or violin and piano, and pieces on the piano alone, and sor gs are sung, and applause is given: and so, without any fuss and feathers, a splendid evening is spent, and all go to bed happy.
Rectification.
In looking over an article which we admitted into the columns of the Scholastic week before last, entitled “ What the world owes to the Catholic Church,” we are compelled by the tone of the article to regret its publication in our columns. We had merely glanced at it, and knowing that the source from which it came had therefore been good and reliable, we sent it to the printer, and it went to press without any further inspection on our part. We did not perceive the inaccuracies in it, one of which was pointed out in the note of “ Copernican” in last Scholastic, and another concerning Linnaeus, a Swede and, we presume, a Protestant, or at least a non-Catholic, who in the article referred to is represented as being a Catholic and an Italian. But there are other things that would have prevented us from publishing it in our columns had we read it attentively—and principally the tone of the whole article, as well as the argument it upholds. We do not think the Catholic Church stands in need of any such arguments to show its influence on the world. The persons mentioned happened to be Catholics, and they made this or that discoveiy. But they might have made the same discoveries had they been Protestants or infidels instead of
Catholics. Many of those mentioned, it is true, were really good Catholics—Catholics in fact, as well as in name, and with some of them there can be no doubt that their Catholic faith helped them in their struggles to make the discoveries or do the deeds they did: as Columbus, for instance. Yet there were others named in the article who may have been nominal Catholics during their lifetime, and who may even have called for the priest, when they saw death approaching. But it is enough for such men to thank God they had the grace of dying within the pale of the Church,—the Church herself does not need the petty glory—glory, forsooth!—which the writer would have us believe these men reflected on her by their discoveries.
We hold that the modern world owes all that is good in the civilization of the day to the Catholic Church. We hold that the movement against the Church by Luther, or by some nations in Luther’s time, was- a retrograde one—and that since that time civilization has become gradually more and more paganized. We hold that if the. wickedness of men had not rudely broken in upon the steady advance which nations, under the guidance of the Church, were making in civilization, we at the present day would have all the modern discoveries and “improvements,” phis the true faith and minus the infidelity and paganism of the age. The discoveries have been made inspite of the retrograde movement of the sixteenth century, and the pagan rationalism of the day is the natural and inevitable result of that movement.
But having reserved to the Church her undoubted claim of having by her sole lab ns during sixteen centuries established Christian civilization, and of having during the last three centuries been the only power that has preserved that civilization from being completely paganized, we assert that discoveries in science, or other acts not involving a question of morals, by a nominal Catholic, can ho more redound to the glory of the Catholic Church than if the discoveries were made or the acts done by non-Catholics. Whatever discoveries have been made in science were made, whether by Protestants or Catholics,because through the influence of the Church of God nations have been raised to and maintained in a state of civilization that rendered such discoveries possible.	-
We regret, then, the insertion of that article; 1st on account of the inaccuracies, 2nd on account of its general tone—which is by no means gentlemanly, and still less charitable; and thirdly, on account of the argument it advanced or insinuated: that is, that the Church shows her influence on the world only by the discoveries and acts of Catholics; whereas we maintain that the discoveries and acts not involving morals, of Catholics, since the sixteenth century, no more redound to the credit of the Church than the discoveries and acts of Protestants and infidels who enjoy the fruits of the civilization which she established in the world. Por we maintain that all discoveries, whether of Protestants or Catholics, equally redound to her credit, because she has brought the nations of the earth into the condition that has rendered these discoveries possible to man.	.
i
i
The commotion caused by the Cuban affair seems to be simmering down, although some editors and writers have got on the high horse of bully Mars and wish to fight first and then inquire whether there was any cause for a fight Doesn’t it seem strange that in this age of Peace-Conven-
■*
THE SCHOLASTIC.
109
tions, Peace Jubilees and grand international arbitrations, when a little fellow seems to be in fault the big one is urged to go for him ?
man or that cannot change the objective truth of a doctrine or the existence of a fact.
j	Persecution in Germany.
’	Berlin, Nov. 26.—Archbishop Ledochowski has been ordered
by the German Government to resign within a week from no-k	tice. He has received a letter from the Pope exhorting him to
i	firmness.
?	A few days ago it was announced that the Archbishop
I	was condemned to two years’ imprisonment.
Prince von Bismark is fast filling up the measure of his ■	iniquity, while the Catholic Bishops of Germany are prov-
ing by actions, as they have shown by their noble protests
।	against tyranny and oppression, that they are true Bishops
of the Church, worthy brothers of St. Athanasius, St. Chrysostom, and the many other illustrious prelates who have defended the liberty of the Church and her children in al? ages of the past since the Pagan Roman emperors put to death St. Peter and so mauy of his successors.
।	The saddest part of the affairs of Europe is, that in this
i	country many who would become indignant and cry for
vengeance if a tithe of the injustice now perpetrated against Catholic Bishops were committed against a Protestant or Jew or infidel, not only look with perfect indifference on, but even applaud the manifest injustice of Bismark. This is the saddest part, because it shows how much prejudice has blinded them, and how low they have placed their standard of morals. As far as the Catholic Church is concerned, every one knows, who knows anything at all about the matter, that she thrives best amid persecutions that purify her members and cast out the unworthy who are endeavoring to dishonor and disobey her while still calling themselves Catholics. Persecution comes hard on individual members of the Church—but they all do the most good for her in time of persecution: the good and steadfast by the merits they gain, the bad and unfaithful by withdrawing their unworthy selves from her pale. Thus the Church is now preparing for a time of peace; for peace comes after victory, and the Church, like her Divine Master and Founder, triumphs on the Cross.
In the correspondence, lately published, that took place between Pius IX and Wilhelm, the first emperor of the new German Empire, the latter objected to the words of the former, intimating that because Wilhelm is baptized he belongs to the Pope.
Now whether the emperor objects or not, it makes no difference with the fact stated by the Pope. There is only f	one true fold or Church, and one baptism, as there is but
one Shepherd—one Lord and God of all. Whoever is baptized belongs Jto this fold (of which the Pope is the visible chief on earth) until he puts himself out of it; and when he puts himself outside, he does not lose the mark of baptism, and when the time comes in which all men shall be known as they truly are, he will be distinguished from those who never received baptism by the indelible character imprinted on his soul when he was received into the fold. He may be a lost sheep, a wandering sheep, a scabby sheep, yet he still belongs to the shepherd in whose fold he once was, and from which he had no right to stray.
Whether the emperor or any other man believe this or not, it makes no difference; for the subjective belief of this
Publications.
The Ark of the People. By Plato Punchinello. Translated from the French by a Friend of Christian Civilization. Philadelphia : Peter F. Cunningham, 29 South Tenth Street.
The Ark of the People is verily constructed in a winning manner. The publisher has done his part well in getting it up in handsome style. The translator has performed his task as conscientiously as translators generally do,—• and they have a conscience though not always a clear recollection of some of the minor rules set down by Bullions & Co. concerning the use of pronouns:—as where the definite he is substituted for the indefinite one: but such mistakes we have found in more pretentious translations than the book before us. The writer, Plato Punchinello, composed his book in French and addressed Frenchmen. He wrote well in French, and put forward the great truths of religion in a manner attractive not only to Frenchmen but to all who have even a little spark of faith under the cold ashes of worldliness and indifference that prevent them from reading the old-fashioned books on Catholic doctrine. We think the book will be read not only with much profit, but with as much interest as a well-written novel,—though there is no fiction in the whole book,—but strong facts, which to those accustomed to read Protestant histories will prove stranger than fiction. We would call attention to the twenty-fifth Entertainment, or chapter, which treats of the great bugaboo, the Inquisition; but, in fact, every chapter should be read, and read after the perusal of the excellent Preface by Dr. Moriarty.
Catechism of the History of the United States. By M.
J. Kearney, Esq. Enlarged and revised Edition. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet * Co.
This Catechism is designed for children about to begin the study of history. All, we believe, admit that the catechetical form is the best for the instruction of children and it is but too true that in most of our schools the study of History is put off to too late a period. We can, and consequently do, highly recommend this useful work.
Pronouncing Handbook of Words often Mispronounced and of Words to which a Choice of Pronunciation is Allowed. By Richard Soule and Loomis J. Campell. Boston.: Lee & Shepard.
We have already noticed this little book, which contains nearly all the ugly words at which even good readers sometimes stumble and stammer, or at least are affected by a slight cough before attempting to pronounce them.
Brownson’s Review.
As our readers are already aware, Dr. Brownson intends to continue this last series of his Review, and now is the time to subscribe for the year 1874. We were highly pleased at receiving a letter from one who always assists good undertakings, instructing us to order the Review to be sent as a Christmas present to two persons of our acquaintance. No better Christmas Gift could he made than a year’s subscription to Brownson's Review.
The Month : A Magazine and Review. London: Simpkin* Marshall & Co., and Burns & Oates.
We have three monthly publications in this country
•Iio	T H E S C II O L A S T I C .
•which should be found in every Catholic library: the Catholic World, The Record, and the De la S die Monthly. But besides these there are several English publications •which should be read by all who wish to be well posted in Catholic literature arid on Catholic subjects. Among them we know of none'that would please—both please and'instruct—so much as the excellent peiiodical The Month. It seems strange that no Catholic publisher in the United States has entered into an agreement with the-English proprietors tb have it republished in this country. There is a house that republishes the four principal Quarterlies of England and Blackwood's Magazine, and furnishes them cheaper to American readers than the English publishers do to Englishmen. Why could not .the same be done for The Month, by Sir. Murphy, or Messrs. Kelly; Piet & Co. ? Until this be done we must get The Month the old way; that is, either through some publishing house, as Messrs. Kelly, Piet & Co., Baltimore, or by sending a. post-office order direct to the publishers in London. The contents of The Month for November and December give an idea of the. liind of reading subscribers may expect to find in all the numbers: The Massacre of Tientsin; A Poet’s’ Dream; The Cradles of Two Heroes; The Old Family Records of Provence; The Revelations.of General La Marmora; The Insane Catholic Poor; The Canonization of St. John Ne-pomucene; Among the Prophets; On the Decisions of the Holy Office on Abyssinian’Orders; Reviewsand Notices.
The Catholic Wobld. .	.
This deservedly popular • monthly, for December, contains its usual supply of excellent reading matter.
Peters’ Musical Monthly.
We acknowledge receipt of this excellent collection of music, for December, and . record our thanks to Mr. T. A. Boyle, of the Western Branch of Peters’ Music Store, St. Louis.	. • • ■
Vick’s Floral Guide.	■	•
. We cannot understand how Mr. Vick, can afford to publish his Guide for 25 cents a year. It .is a pamphlet of 136 pages, published quarterly, and besides an important list of the names and prices of the seeds of innumerable flowers, gives a deal of useful information on subjects interesting to almost everybody, whether flower-growers or not’. . There are directions, for instance, about floral decorations both for the house arid for the church; bouquet-making; about rockeries, greenhouses, annuals, climbers, everlastings, ornamental grasses, articles for home decoration. It would be superfluous to say that all should have this Guide, no matter whether they take pride in a big flowergarden or in two or three flower-pots on the window-sill. Address James Vick, Rochester, N. Y. ’	. - •
The .Printer’s Circular : A Record of Typography, Literature, Arts and Sciences. R. S. Menamin, Editor and Pub’ Usher, Philadelphia. .	' •	’
• The Chicago Specimen. A Quarterly for Printers.and Publishers. Published by Marder, Luse & Co., Chicago.
; . . ’	. Music. : ’
From J. Fisher and Bro., Dayton, Ohio, we-have received an Asperges me, and a'collection of pieces for Ben-, ediction or Offertory, by- J. Singenberger, President of the American Cecilia Society. This music will be welcomed
by all who wish to hear music in church which will inspire devotion instead of being a distraction. tOur musicians are enthusiastic for the music'of the Cecilia Society of Germany, and are now rehearsing the Mass, 8. Luciae by F. Witt, the founder and leading spirit of the Society. Mr. Singenberger is a pupil of Father Witt, and we hope he may soon see the principles .of his master universally adopted in this country.	.
Lecturer.	-	-
We have been requested to announce that Mr. Thomas F. Grady, Ex-Financial Secretary of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America, will be happy’to engage his services, during the month of December, as a lecturer on. the subject of Total Abstinence to such Catholic Total Abstinence Societies of Indiana as may desire them, and that he can be addressed at 35 Madison st., New York City.
Ball or Honor.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .	'
G. Amann, W. Ames, B. Baca, J. Beegan, J. Buchanan, W.' Breen, J. Cullen, A. Crunkilton, P. Corbett, M. Burger, J. Dore, R. Downey, F. Egan, F. Frazee, C. Freese, C. Furer, W. Gross, C. Gross, J. Golsen, F. Hoffman, B. Hersey, C. Hake, M. Kinsella, C. Kreiter, J. Keilty, L. Loser,‘J. Lynch, M. McCormack, J. McGrath, 8. McNulty J. McHugh, N. Mooney, W. Meyer. C.. Meyer, F. Miller, L. Munson, J. O’Connell, "J. O’Connor, V. Phelan, H. Quan, E. L. Ratigan, C. Ruger, A. Schmidt, F. Stain, J. Soule, W. Schul thies, L. Smith, J. Smith, J. Schermerhorn, H. Shepard, F. Thalmann, 0. Tong, R. Walker, F. Wittelsbef-ger, E. Wood, J. Borie. .
• MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’	.
J. Blaine, M. McAuliffe, E. Buchanan, L. Goldsmith, H. Middleton, F. Carlin, T. O’Meara, F. Campeau, R. Golsen. ’
Class Honors.
.	FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1873.
. COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT. -	"
Senior Class—W. Meyer, L. Loser, C. Ruger, J. Beegan, J. McGrath, F. Buter, J. Brown, L. Sanders, J. McDermot, J. Fal-vey, A. Barth, J. Devine A. Hess, F. Hubert, C. Fuhrer, W. Ball, P. O’Sullivan, B. Baca, R. O’Connor, F. J. St. Aubin, C. . Bardsher, J. Brennan, W. Gavitt, E. Dunn, J. H. Gillespie, J. L. Gregory, J. O’Connell, F. Egan, J. Wolfe, E. Halpine, F. Flanagan.	•	.
Junior Class—J. E. O’Brien, G. Gross, J. Brophy, C. Otto, C. Welty, J. Soule’, M. Keeler, J. F.’ Ruger, A. Home, J. Mulleri. J. Wilson, G. Cunnea, G. Amann, J.‘ E. Wood, J. Cullery, A. Kreiehgauer, C. ’Spears, C. Kreiter, J. Barry, P. Lilly, M. McCullough, T. Solon, A. Martineau.
Civil Law—E. McSweeney, P. O’Meara, M. Keeley, B. McGinnis.	-	-	.
. St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
The 12th, 13th, and 14th, meetings took place respectively, Nov. 16th, 22nd, and 26. At these meetings, Messrs. Norris, Wilson, O’Connor, McDevitt and Minton were admitted members of the Association. This over, F- Egan, W. Gross, B. Baca, W. N. Lawless, John Cullen, A. Schmidt, J. ” Beegan, B. LeFevre,.Jos. McHugh, John O’Connell, J. Ewing, W. Meyers, John McGrath, C. Furer, J. Marks, 0. Tong - ’
THE S CHOL A.STI.C	ill
and F. Sweger delivered declamations or read compositions. The President then said that he was sorry to lose such a valuable member as Mr. Wm. Kelly, who had to go home on account of ill health; he said he was one of the best »
members in the Association. An election then took place for Corresponding Stcretary and resulted in the unanimous ballot for Master M. J. Beegan. Messrs. C. Berdel and W Dodge closed the exercises by giving two fine declamations
B. LeFevre, Cot. Sec. pro tem.
Archconfraternity of the B. V. Maxy.
Mr. Editir;—I presume that your numerous readers may have wondered what had become of the Archconfraternity, so I feel it my duty to keep them no longer in suspense, but inform them that we have been reorganized for sc me time and are many in number.
At our first meeting the following officers were elected: Director—Very Rev. A Gt anger C. S. C., President—J. E. Hogan.
Vice-Pi evident—W. J. Clarke.
Secretary—T. J. Murphy.
Librarian—E. S. Monohan.
In conclusion I would say that the Association is composed of the best students of the Collegiate and Senior Departments.	T. J. M., Cor. Secretary.
Festival of St. Cecilia.
1
First... Second Third.. Fourth Fifth.. Sixth.. First... Second.
Citizens (
f
I
....J. Cullen ....F. Soule ....C. Freese ....J. P. Dore ....F. Frazee .....L. Loser .J. O’Connor. .E. De Groot*
Act I.—The Student’s brilliant-hut brief career. '	S mg—(Excelsior)..........J. Campbell.-
Act IL—Punishment of Prodigality. Distress of the aged. Parent.
Music..........................N.	D. U. C. Band.
Act HL—An embarkation and a duel. Fate of the treacherous Miser.
Music.........’.....i...............Orchestra.
Act IV.—The Prodigal reformed. His triumph and return. Song and Chorus—(Banner of Glory)...................
St. Cecilia Philomathean Society.
Epilogue..................................  F.	A. Egan.
Closing Remarks...............  ■....-.................
March for Retiring.................... N.	D. U. C. Band.
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, November 25, 1873.
ARRIVALS.
Misses J. ‘Andrews and Claudine Sottrup, Chicago, Hl.
Sixteenth Annual Celebration by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of the University of Notre Dame, on Tuesday Evening, Dec. 2,1873.
PROGRAMME.
PART FIRST.
Grand St. Cecilia March...................N.	D. U. C. Band.
Music..........................................Orchestra.
Address........................................W.	P. Breen.
- gong..............................C.	Burger, Jos. Campbell.
Declamation.......................................W. Gross.
Ode to St. Cecilia......................-.Jos.	P. McHugh.
1 French (.............B.	L. LeFevre.
Declamations........ > German 4.................A.	Schmidt.
) Spanish (..................B. Baca.
Prologue.......................................Jno.	Ewing.
Music.....................................N.	D. U. C. Band.
PART SECOND.
THE PRODIGAL LAW-STUDENT.
A Drama in four Acts.
Written for the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
Dramatis Personce: ■
Frederick, a Law Student..-... Mr. Martin, his Father........ Tightfist, a Wall-street Broker. Alfred, his Friend...........••.
Angelo, his Brother................
Mr. Richards, a Friend of Mr. Martin Prof. Allgood, Teacher of Angelo.... General Watson, Com. of Zouaves....
Admiral Ross.......
Captain Henderson...
Harry,............
John,............
Foster,..........
Eugene............
Bob................
Phineas...........
Spencer...........
Samuel.............
Jake..............
Jesse..............
Doctor Fuzby.......
■ Friends of Frederick, ■
Aids to General Watson
First.... Second.. Third.... Fourth..
-Sailors-
•...W. Meyers .. .N. J. Mooney ....W. Gross ....F; Egan ..J. P. McHugh .... J. F. Beegan ....C. Furer • ...W. P..Breen ....B. Le Fevre ....J. O’Connell ...;J. Campbell ....J. Ewing ....J. McGrath ....J. Marks . .'....F. Sweger ....B. Baca ....W. Green ....A. Schmidt ....C. Campeau ....C. Nichols ....O. J. Tong
I F. Miller
.. -< J. McDevitt
(J.D. Wilson .....C. Ruger .’.W. N. Lawless .....C. Burger . .R._W. Minton
On the 11th inst the young ladies had the pleasure of listening to a highly interesting lecture on “Education.” delivered at St. Mary’s by the Rev. President of Notre-Dame University. This was the first of the present course of lectures.	-
On the 18th a very fine Entertainment was given in St Cecilia’s Hall by the pupils, in honor of the visit of the Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell and the Right Rev. Bishops of Fort Wayne and Cleveland. The Right Rev. Bishops, visited the classes and examined the pupils in the various branches being taught.' The young ladies feel highly honored and pleased by such visits, and hope to have the same honor and pleasure often repeated.
Lessons in dancing and calisthenics, under the tuition of a competent professor, will be commenced this afternoon and continue during the winter.
The Juniors have taken possession of their beautiful new study-hall, in which they have the very fine life-size statue of Our Lady of Lourdes lately purchased for them in Paris.
The former'study-hall of the Juniors is now used as an additional recreation-room for the Seniors.
Tablet of Honor.
Senior Department.
Miss L. Kiel, M. Kearney, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, B. Reynolds, V. Ball, E. Boyce, K. Finley, M. Walker, S. Sweeney, S. Taylor, J. Fanning, A. T. Clarke, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R. Burke, J. Stimpson, C. Nason, E. Bohen, N. Foote, E. Denehey, E. Doherty, M. Quill, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, B. Gaffney, J. Bennett, M. Emmons, A. Minton, J. McCool, L. Keena, R. Rosesco, K. Atwood, M. Kengel, M. Bell, E. Ross, A. Maranttete, M. Hoover, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, L. Johnson, L. Kelly, E.Mann, N. McAuliffe, E. Taylor, J. Haney, M. Poquette, N. O’Connell, M. Klotz, F. Gun-zert, A. Mertz, A.- Manns, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, A. Gareis, J. Adams, N. Henroten.
112
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Junior Department, Nov. 26.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, K. and M. Hutchinson, 31. Resch, AL. Carlin, A. Shores, A Lynch, 31. O’Connor, B. Wilson, 31. Walsh, 31.3Iartin, E. Parker, 31. Brown, E. Lang, 31. Pritchard, E. Orton, D. Bullen, 31. and J. Thompson, H. Peak, K. 3Iorehead, 31. Summers, 31. Reynolds, 31. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, 31. Kaeseburg, A. Koch, 31. Booth, A. Cullen, G. Hooley, D. Allen, A. Paulsen, E. Schnoback, A. Ewing, L. Walsh, B Golsen, B. Pfeiffer, A. Goewey, 31. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, S. Lynch, T. Cronin, J. Sink, AL Ware, E. Simpson, M. Schneider, G. Barry, K. Lassen, I. and N. Alann, J. Thallman, AL Hayes, B. Thomas, C. Hughes, J. Andrews, F. and J. Dee.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
First Class—Lillie West, 3L Ward.
Second Division—Nellie Foote, Clara Aliller, E. O’Connor, Lula Henroten, L. Black, and E. Haggerty.
Second Class—Sarah Taylor, L. Heckman, AI. Quan, and H. Wicker.
Second Division—Julia Kearney, AL Kearney, J. Lock, D. Simonds, A. ALirrison, AL Dougherty.
Third Class—E..Taylor, C. Strother, A. Paulsen, A. Roberts, A. Keeline, E. Parker, L. Pfeiffer.
Second Division—C. Alorgan, I. Hatch, 31. Jackson, J. McCool.
DRAWING.
. First Class—Misses R. Devoto, and B. Reynolds.
Second Division—Alisses N. AIcEwen, N. AIcAuliffe, B. Quan, 31. Kaesberg.
Second Class—Alisses E. Sweeney, L. Henroten, AI. Cummings.
Third Class—Misses N. Huber, C. Alorgan, R. Klar, N. Hinkston, AL Schultheis, AI. O'Connor, M. Resch, A. Koch, AL Ewing.
OIL PAINTING.
First Class—Alisses L. Black, A. Keeline, B. Wade, E. Wade.
Second Class—L. Pfeiffer, R. Woolman, AL Cummings.
Second French Class—Alisses 31. Brown, N. Langdon, M. Ward, N. Kiel.
Third Class—Alisses J. Locke, A. T. Clark. F. Aloore, AI. Riely, A. Smith, E. Parker, B. Golsen, K. Attwood.
First German Class—H. Aliller, 31. Faxon, L. Black, JL Irmiter, A. Kengel, A. Alanns.
Second Class—Alisses AL Donnehy, AI. Sweeney, B.Klarr, A. O’Connor, K. E.igel, T. Scbnider.
Third Class—M. Hoover, B. Pfeiffer, E.Koch, A. Shores. First Latin Class—Alisses Emmons and Curtin.
Second Latin Class—Alisses Taylor and Colby.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.	»
First Class—E. Black, J. Walker.
Second Division—R. Spier, E. Quinlan.
Second Class—N. AIcEwen, Al. Emmons, J. Kreigh. Second Division—H. AIcAIahon, N. Foote, AI. Ward, Third Class—E. Colby, R Devoto, N. Gross, A. Roberts. AL Quan, D. Simonds, AL Letourneau, 31. Kearney, K. Hutchinson, A. Alorrison.
Second Division—AL Resches, F. Aloore, A. St. Clair, E. Gosse, E. Dennehey, J. Kearney, A. Nichols, AI. Ken-gel.
Fourth Class—L. Wyman, J. Towers, E. Ives, AL 31c-Guire, E. O’Connor, J. Bennet, 31. Hutchinson, A. Shores, A. Keeline.
Second Division—S. Taylor, J. Lock, L. Pfeiffer, A. Alarentelle, A. Maloney, E. Haggerty, E. Parker, L. Henroten.
Fifth Class—B. Wilson, K. Engel, A. Allen, M. Pritchard, E. Boyce, A. Cullen.
Second Division—AL Hoover, E. Richardson, AI. Conley, AL E. Roberts, AI. Kaesberg, 31. Brown, F. Lloyd, K. Jackson, C. Strother, L. Lilly.
Sixth Class—I. Hatch, A. Goevey, 8. Bohen, TIL Ivins, AL Cummings, K. Patterson, J. Phillips, N. AIcAIahon, L. Germain, H. Peak, AI. Hayes, A. Paulsen.
Second Division—K. Alorehead, N. AIcAuliffe, K. Lasson, V. Ball, A. Walsh, AL Walsh, L. Johnson, AI. Johnson, E.
Seventh Class—L. Walsh, F. Hoyt, AI. Cochlin.
Eighth Class—AL Reynolds, E. Lappin.	|
Tenth Class—E. Simpson, J. Brown.
First Class Harp—J. Walker.
Second Class—E. O’Connor, 31. Walker.
Harmony—R. Spiers, E. Black, J. Walker.
Theoretical Classes—M. Quan, AL Emmons, N. Foote, D. Simonds, E. Richardson, G. Phillips; N. Gross,' E. Quinlau, AL Kearney, T. Heckman, C.Nason, N AIcEwen, J. L >ck, L. Niel, L. Lilly. E. O'Connor, A. Roberts, J. Kearney, E. Dennehey, L. Wyman, G. Towers, E. Ives, A. Smith, AL Brown, B. Quan, A. Walsh, AL Cummings, AL. Hoover, L. Tinsley, AL Faxon, A. Curtin, A. Alertz. R. Aliller, I. Hatch, F. Hoyt, I. Fisk, E. Bohen,’ AL Kreigh, A. Minton, F. Alo >re, M. Ayd, M. Walker, E. Colby, A. Marantette, AI. Pritchard, T. AIcCool, L. Johnson, AL Johnson, AL Alartin, AL O'Connor.
Exercises—D. Simonds, AI. Emmons, C. Nason, A. Minton, A.. Nichols, A. ALdoney, N. Foote, AI. Letourneau, • E. Ives, AL Ward, L. McKinnon.

L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and aft er Sunday, Nove nber2. 1873, trains will leave South. Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 32 a. 31 (No. 8), Nignt Expre-s, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 10 3); < 'leveland, 2.45 r. m. ; Buffalo, 8.55 p m.
10.10 a. m (No. 2), Mol, over Main and A.r Lines; Arrives at Elknart. 1».5J; Toledo, 5 10 p m.
11.58 r 3t. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4 05 A 31.
9.11 p. m. (No G'. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
5.10 p. M. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
7.05 a. 3i. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 A. 31.
5 20 a. 3t (No 5). Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, G.15; Chicago, 8 50 a. si.
6.42 a. m. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7.35; Salem Crossing, 8.05; Grand Crossing, 9.37; Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. 3i. (No.l), Special * *Jh>c.g> Express Main Line’. Arrives at Laporte, 6 40: Chicago, 9.201*. M.
9 10 a. 3i. (No. 51), Local Freight. J
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Snp't Western Division,’ Chicago. ‘ W. W. GSDDINGS. Freight Agent.’
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent,.South Bend. ■
■ ■ CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
^Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15;_East, Nos. 2, 10 and 1G. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. WarsawExpress (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 r. m.. running through .to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. m., and 4.05 p. 3i., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2. 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good ma Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at the head of Lafayette and Frank in Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent.
Chicago Alton and.St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depo.t, Chicago, near 3.ad ison Street Bridge, as follows:}
St. Louis and SpringfieldExpress, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and WashingtonJ Express (Western Division)!
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line, St. Louis and Springfield Lightning!
Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-
vill, Hl., and Louisiana. Mo.	t9:45j>.m. §7:15 a.m.'
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only.± Ex cept Saturday. | Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman, Palace Dining and Smoking Gars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, . Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.	CHICAG0
(LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
♦9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
1*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m,
$9:00 p.m. 117:15 a.m.