The Scholastic.
pEYOTBD TO THE JlSITEI^ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS. .
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 20, 1873.	Number 4.

A Chapter on Smoking.
Mr. Editor : Perhaps at this time, when smoking is the “hobby” of every young man who can procure the wherewithal to indulge, it might be interesting to these young men to know what a “lady” thinks about the habit. It is an abomination, as they who have suffered from it know. Much has been said on the subject, much more might be said,—but the result ? Why “ smoke,” of course. Perhaps a ladjr because she is a lady ought to uncomplainingly suffer; but did our young men know how the habit degrades them in a real lady’s eyes they might be constrained to give it up ere it becomes a settled habit.
How silly it looks to see, when the sombre shades of night have darkened the earth, gathered around the range a circle of young men each with a long pipe or cigar in his mouth, puffing away his tobacco, and his brains if he have any, and wasting away the evening in meaningless conversation—you cannot call it argument, for it lacks the first principles of argument, sincerity and animation; and if you should by any unlucky chance enter the room, you are asked if smoking is offensive to you,—and should you answer in theaffirmative, are told “you need not stay, then.” So far will young men forget courtesy. Such at least has been my experience, and, I know, the observation of many. I once happened to have the privilege of teaching a “ district” school during the winter season, and I think in that one winter my observation took a wider range and my olfactories suffered more from the prevalence of the vice, than any mortal so constituted ever yet experienced. The old men smoked, the young men smoked, and I had to issue an edict and punish the boys for smokiug, although my conscience smote me when I retired to their houses in the evening and found that their “anxious mammas” with a very few exceptions smoked also; and even they, I feared, must eventually succumb to the universal habit. By degrees it became known that I was not a lover of “smoke,” and some there were who took it as an affront to themselves, and I suffered in their good graces accordingly. There were some who had enough of politeness always with them to refrain from smoking in my presence, but they would retire into the kitchen with their pipes aud that was the last I would see of them that evening. They would seem constrained in my presence, as though I were above common mortals, while I—really I felt lonesome for their company. I longed to reach the avenue leading to their hearts, but it was too thronged with smoke, and I was forced to retire. Right gl id was I when the budding sping came and with it the cessation of my labors. I recite this experience simply as an incident, and it is one somebody will feel to be true.
A French philosopher has figured up the cost of smoking for an average smoker during twenty-five or thirty
years, and computed the compound interest on the same. I would that every young man could see the figures before him when he is tempted to smoke. “ Is not a fortune saved better than one earned?” But of how much more consequence is the impairment of intellect, the clouding of the brain, the general debility it engenders! I once heard Mrs. Hazzlett remark of smoking: “I cannot admire the young man whose face is hid behind a cloud (or veil) of smoke. It brings before my mind a long train of vices, each a concomitant of the one I see. He may be judged harshly and wrongly, but when I see a violet in the springtime I know there are others about, so when I see a young man puffing a cloud of smoke from his mouth I cannot but feel that he has degraded his manhood by indulging one evil, and why not in another? The thought is insensible, and cannot be avoided.”
And worse than all that, the boys of our country come to consider the “accomplishment” (?) as the crowning glory of manhood. O false, mistaken idea, what multitudes of sins are recorded against thee! And our current literature is more than all else answerable for the prevalence of this evil. Where yet was the hero of a sensation novel (and many volumes more orthodox) but did enjoy the perfume of a “ fragrant Havana” ? In our hotel parlors, on the railway train, and in the book worm’s cloister, it is all the same,- wherever you find a work of fiction yon are reasonably certain of finding a ‘knight’ of the ‘fragrant weed.’ And among our public functionaries, do we not see it exemplified ? Where is the child who would not wish to imitate our illustrious President, whom the papers represent as never separated from his “inevitable” cigar? and as we are prone to evil, almost the first thought is: “The ability to smoke a cigar as he does would be a long step towards the ‘highest office’ in the gift of the people.” ’Tis but the crude notion of the child, and yet when are the perceptive faculties strongest ? When are our characters moulded ? When are our impressions formed ? impressions that last through life, whether for good or evil. Is it not in infancy ? And if the press is to educate our children— and who will say it does not?—then ought not the greatest care be exercised that the germ of a pernicious habit be rot planted where the true aim was to ennoble, enlighten and bless ?	D.
“I did. not think he Drank I”
“No: I cannot drink this liquor.”
My student friends looked at me in surprise. “Yoncan’t! why not? Temperance, are you ? ”
“ My friends,” said I,—and I did my best to appear calm, —“you may not believe in dreams, or visions in sleep, and I have ever been a skeptic there, yet if you will bear with me a few minutes I will relate to you an incident that will explain my refusal.” They signified their assent. “Only
26
THE SCHOLASTIC.
last night I walked the streets of a strange city; multitudes of people were there surging back and forth, yet not one whom I had ever seen before. I was a stranger, and indeed in a strange land. I had made a great many purchases, for on the morrow I was to depart into a far distant country, wild, and lacking the conveniences which now surrounded me. My task was at last apparently finished; and feeling weary and oppressed with the restlessness which wandering among strangers inspires, I stepped into one of those gilded anterooms of hell, a bar-room, and calling for a glass of liquor drank it down. My senses departed on the instant, and I only remember that I had forgotten something necessary to my journey and I went into a store to procure it. I had not the control of my senses, and in trying to conceal the fact only made it the more conspicuous. I could not find my purse, and when at last I did discover it I had mislaid another package. My face was crimson with shame—my step unsteady,—my presence of mind gone—when I was awakened, as it were, by a strangely familiar- voice, saying, “ Ah! my boy, I did not think to see you thus!” and a familiar form approached me. I strove to recall him to my wandering memory but could not, and I told him so. “You don’t know me!’ said he. ‘You don’t remember the Director of the school you taught four years ago. I am sorry, my boy: I did not think you drank.' Y es: I did remember! and oh God! what torture in the recollection! I was disgraced. That awful sentence, ‘I did not think you drank,’ rang manifold changes through my brain. I thought myself a stranger, butl was discovered, and in the agony of my despair I saw the angel face of my mother, long ago dead, gazing upon me with a look of awful sorrow that seemed to my tortured fancy to say, ‘ Disgraced.' What I suffered in that brief time, my friends, will never be forgotten. I awoke to find myself in bed, with the morning sun streaming through the half-drawn curtains. It was a dream,—I was saved!—and in a delirium of joy I promised my Heavenly Father that I would never so disgrace the soul which He had made,—and, Heaven helping me, I never will. Gentlemen, you will excuse me.”
’Tis thus wherever you may be. It is a brand that fixes itself upon the brow and cannot be removed. No matter where you are, the drunkard is proscribed, and he cannot escape detection. No matter what the grade of society, the fact that you drink will lessen the esteem with which you are regarded by your associates. Some one would think better of you if you refused the social glass, and, bet-ter^still, you would have more respect for yourself. I can conceive of nothing more satisfactory to a human mind than to know that it has escaped and stands above the thraldom of a slavish habit. A student is peculiarly susceptible to the temptation of alcoholic stimulants. Some argue its necessity in their own particular case, but it is only an ingenious attempt to allay public opinion and stifle the objections of an active conscience. It is not necessary, and it is no triumph to know you can continue its use undetected. You are lending yourself to a dangerous enemy, and sooner or later you will hear that awful sentence: “I did not think he drank! ”	T. A. D.
Grace Greenwood relates as an instance of the extravagance of New England humor that when a young farmer’s wife made her first boy’s pants precisely as ample before as behind, the father exclaimed, “ Goodness! he won’t know whether he's going to school or coming home.”
The Island. Cemetery at Notre Dame.
BY M. S. CaSedO.
Upon a flower-enamelled slope whose shore
Is bathed by azure waves, and on whose brow .
A stately image of our Lady stands— “ Our Lady of the Lake,” whose arms extend Proteetingly above the favored lands
And laughing lakelets, and whose presence charms Air, sky and shore around to perfect peace.
Here lie our loved ones ; here in peace they sleep, Beneath the shadow of the Cross they rest;
Christ’s favored flowers, who rather chose To share His life of poverty and pain, His humble, hidden life of want and woe, Despising all a worthless world calls dear, And clinging to that Cross whose shadow falls With shielding love upon their lowly graves.
When last I knelt upon that mossy turf The summer’s hue bloomed in the forest flower. The summer’s sun lit up the laughing waves, And joyous was the song of bird and bee ;
The willow wept above them, and the air Was perfumed with the breath of roses pale And humble violets, hidden like their lives, But like their virtues odorous and rare.
Cold snow-wreaths now drift o’er that fairy scene. But memory knows no winter ; in my heart
Still roses bloom, and myrtles ever green .
Climb heavenward ’round each rude and simple Cross.
Here lies the artless youth whose tender feet
Had just commenced to tread the royal road
Marked by the Master’s bleeding foot prints,—here
The aged pilgrim reste whose many years
Had all been given to God ; and in the midst, The faithful priest, the father and the friend, The humble missionary of the Cross,
. Released at last from toil, he rests in peace.
O happy death! O glorious, golden gate From mortal sorrows to immortal bliss!
These are earth’s truest heroes. Not of them Whose deeds are lauded by a babbling world;
These names forgotten or despised by men Shall never swell the trump of earthly fame ;
And yet their holy lives and fervent prayers God’s wrathful judgments have averted long, And drawn His constant benedictions down Like rain upon the guilty, thankless earth.
Adieu, sweet spot! Perhaps these tears shall fall No more upon thy daisy-sprinkled sod ;
My glance perhaps may never rest again Upon thy lovely lakes and sapphire sky, Thy happy cloister or thy peaceful shades;
Yet art thou still the Mecca of my heart,
• Toward which at morn and eve my longing eyes
From North or South shall ever fondly turn.
Adieu, ye blessed dead! your rest is won, Your conflict ended and ye sleep in peace.
But we are left to struggle yet awhile, To toil, to pray, to weep and suffer here ;
Haply not all in vain: but when at last
Death’s welcome angel shall with finger cold Touch lip and brow, and still the beating heart, Oh ! may our deaths be holy like to yours, Our rest as tranquil—our reward as sure !
Written January 1856.
[“ The Island Cemetery at Notre Dame,” was -written when the burial place of the Community was on the mound between the two lakes.]
THE SCHOLASTIC.
27
Th® §ch.alastw*
Published every Week during Tenn Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Danie, Indiana.
TERMS: One year..................... $1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
laying of the Co?ncs Stone of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wisconsin.
We return home satisfied, but too late to give any full account of the laying of the corner-stone of St. B-mard’s Church, and of our pleasant visit to Watertown. We must limit ourselves to the merest and driest outline.
On Sunday morning Rt. Rev. Bishop Benni celebrated pontifical Mass, Rev. Father Brennan of Baltimore and Rev. Father Cooney of Notre Dame being Deacon and Subdeacon of office. The Rt. Rev. Bishop officiated with the dignity becoming his position in the Church, and displayed that amiability and evenness of temper throughout the long and wearying ceremonies wh'ch is habitually displayed by our Rt. Rev. prelates on such occasions.
At 11 o’clock, the Sheridan Guards of Milwaukee, the Benevolent Society of St. Gall of the same city, and the Emerald Society of Bay View, which had arrived from Milwaukee by special train, and bad been accompanied from the Watertown depot by the Benevolent S< cieties of St. Henry’s and St. Bernard’s Churches, marched into the old wooden structure which is soon to be superseded by the splendid brick edifice the corner-stone of which was then to be laid. The Societies alone filled the church; the congregation, having been present at the earlier Masses, courteously gave room to the brethren from Milwaukee.
After Mass the ceremony of blessing the corner stone and foundation of the new church was performed by the Right Rev. Bishop, assisted by a number of clergymen, among whom we noticed, besides the two reverend gentlemen already mentioned, Rev, W. Corby, C. S. C., the pastor of St. Bernard’s and superior of the Religious Community of Holy Cross established a year ago in Watertown, Rev. Etschman, pastor of St. Henry’s, Watertown; Rev. Edward McGuirk, of Franklin Wisconsin; Rev. Cassidy and Keenan, of St. Francis’ Seminary; Rev. Scott, of Oconomowoc, Wisconsin ; Rev. P. Colovin, C. S. C.; Rev. Cooney, of Mapleton, Wisconsin; Rev. Ward, of Clyman, Wisconsin ; Rev. John Lauth, C. S.C ., and Rev. John O’Connell, C. S. C. The vast concourse of people kept perfect order, and they, with the long ranks of the military company and the Benevolent Societies we have already mentioned, besides another from Madison, which came by special train, presented a pleasing sight, which must also have been encouraging and inspiriting to the Rev. gentleman, Father Colovin, C. S. C., who, standing on the foundation"stone, hewn from the historic Rock of Cashel, addressed the congregated people in brief and eloquent words.
We had the. pleasure of meeting Thomas Shea, Esq. of Milwaukee, but could not enjoy his agreeable companionship for any length, of time, as on him rested the main suc
cess of the day. Immediately after the laying of the cor-nerstoue the people repaired to the College grounds where the ladies of Watertown bad prepared a bounteous repast for the thousands who had come together; and it was due to Mr. Shea, who had so admirably organized the-excursion train from Milwaukee, that the spirit of good order was maintained throughout the day. -
At 4. 30. P. M. the Sheridan Guards and the Benevolent Societies formed ranks in the college grounds, and marched in procession through the streets of Watertown to the depot. Verily it was a sight to cheer the heart to see those stalwart men, who through a motive of religion and active charity had come to be guests of their brethren in Watertown, marching through the city, with banners flying and music sounding, happy in the consciousness that they had done a good deed in thus encouraging and assisting the congregation of Sr. Bernard’s in the laudable design of erecting an edifice to the service of God. The Rt. Rev. Bishop remained until Monday morning, when he returned to Milwaukee.
The shortness of our stay, and the busy times of our brief sojourn, prevented us from forming the acquaintance of many of the members of the congregation of St. Bernard’s. We cannot close, however, without mentioning in terms of satisfaction the hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Rogan, whose guests we were. Nor must we fail to mention the pleasure we had in listening to the excellent choir that sang at the Pontifical Mass, the principal soprano singers of which were Mrs. Col. Ciane, Mrs. Wiggenhorn, Miss Hattie McMahon and Miss Rose Rogan. Professor Corby, Mr. Ter-bruggea and Mr. Hario Pease were the gentlemen of the choir with whom we became acquainted. Miss Corbet presided with ability as organist.
We would like to tell all we know about Mr. Bomey, the efficient foreman of the works, and of others—but printers have no patience, and cannot wait, whereupon, we must give that and many other interesting matters the go-by this week.
Industrial School of ITotro Dams.
There are many Catholics, especially in the larger cities of the United States, who are unable to give their boys a college education costing from $300 to $400 a year; others, who are unwilling to do so; whilst a great number of boys are unfit to receive it, though their parents may be able to give it to them. For all such, the one thing needful is an Industrial School, where they might at a moderate expense continue to get instruction in the practical branches of education, learn a trade, or work at manual labor, and have their religious training watched over and improved. And. to such a school thousands of Catholic parents are looking as the only means to save their children from the evil influences of dangerous associations in apprenticeship in the workshop or the factory, whilst an expense of $150 a year to that end would be willingly made by many.
The present Industrial School of Notre Dame is to be so modified and enlarged as to meet the above-mentioned demand. Five hours work every d ay at the different trades, and four hours schooling, appears to be a better plan for the success of the School than the plan of former years by which the boys of the School were granted only three months of study out of the twelve months of the year.
* 1
i
28-
THE SCHOLASTIC.
This late division of time and labor is approved by the managers of the School as the more beneficial and liberal one. The programme of studies will embrace such branches as are taught to the commercial students in the University, the knowledge of which branches can be acquired in a term of four years. Tiie charges will be as follows: $150 for each of the two first years; and $105 for each of the two last years; clothing, etc., to be supplied from home. As a premium totalent and good conduct,-the privilege of attending the courses of the University during a fifth and even a sixth year will be granted to those apprentices who will be judged worthy of it, for the sum of $150 a year. No pupil will be received for a shorter term than two years.
Candidates to the Industrial School must be no less than twelve years old nor more than sixteen when they enter -the School. Applications for entering the Industrial School must be made to the Director of the School, and full statements given of the age and aptitude of t he pupil for whom the application is made. As the number of admissions will be limited for sometime yet, it is to be desired that none but worthy subjects be presented. A full descriptive circular will be sent to persons on application.
Detention. _	'
Grapes all gone.
St. Laurent is silent '
No news from Galveston.
Buildings nearly completed.
Wednesday, fine weather for recreation.
Weather, variegated, like Autumn leaves.
Cobwebs are neither ornamental nor useful.
Bring on your wood and coal, and steam up.
No need now of raising the wind. It does it itself.
The new road to the upper lake is solid under foot.
Rev. Father Paul arrived from the East last Thursday.
The wing of the new College in Watertown is 100x50.
Bro. Gabriel and Bro. Climacus are thriving in Watertown.	-
A full report of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society next week.
Brother Camillus is indoctrinating the youth of Watertown in Calligraphy and other useful branches.
Father John O’Connell, who was seriously ill for a week in Watertown is now in comparatively good health.
Pbof. Way made sweet harmony last Wednesday evening. We never heard the guitar played in so masterly a manner.
Prof. A. J. Way is reputed the best guitarist in America ; he is certainly one of the most unassuming men we know.
The Circulating LiBRARY-is now open, the fee is $2.00 per year. Members of Religious .and Literary Societies are charged only $1.00.
Prof. Sinks and lady, and Prof, von Weller, accompa-ied Prof. Way to Notre Dame. Rev. F. Sullivan of Laporte was here to attend the musical soiree.
K letter from Memraincook apprizes us of Frank’s ill health during vacation and of his happy recoveiyand pres
ent good health, also of prosperous condition of the College of St. Joseph. •
The Editor of the Scholastic presents his compliments to all to whom he has lent books, and earnestly requests those who have not yet returned the books borrowed from him to do so immediately.
Mr. Sinks, an artist of ability and a litterateur of merit; Prof. Way, and Prof, von Weller of L iporte, and Rev. Father P. O’Sullivan, Ph. D., were welcome guests in the College Wednesday and Thursday.
We have received a very free translation of the First and Fourth books of the uEneid. At first we were amused by the illustrations, and the opening lines, but we soon were surfeited with the burlesque.
We have a long account of the elegant Jewelry Establishment of our old friend George Mayer, taken from a Fort Wayne paper. We are glad to see such an evidence of George’s prosperity, and wish him continued success.
The net receipts from the students for the last musical soiree were $24.15, the expenses $25. From another source, $8.05 were added to the students’ receipts, making in all $32.20—giving thereby a retig uat of $7.20. In future none but half-season tickets, at 50 cents, or full-season tickets, at $1.00, will be sold. We trust that all the students will provide themselves with either of these tickets, and that none will think it sharp to deadhead himself..
The Roads leading from South Bend to Notre Dame are in a sjate calculated to give a very good idea of this enterprising portion of St. Joseph County. We are being graded wiih a vengeance. N<arly each bit of street is in this hopeful state, and calls for more grading. So the end is not yet, though much desired. Meanwhile, access to Notre Dame may be had by any of the eight or ten streets, alleys and cow-paths going up-hitl from town. We hope the street commissioners will look with a kindly eye on this state of affairs, and make everyone grade and gravel —ourselves included.	.
I
Opening' of the Musical Season at ITotre Dame. . — /
The precincts of Notre Dame were somewhat aroused on Wednesday by the announcement that Prof. A. J. Way the celebrated guitarist, had arrived and would give a concert in Washington Hall in the evening. Evening came, and at seven o’clock the Faculty and students assembled in the hall. Presently the Professor made his appearance, accompanied by Rev. Father Lemonnier and others. Upon their entrance the N. D. U. C. Band struck up the Eaton Quickstep. Wewere somewhat surprised to hearfrom the Band so early in the year. Never before could Notre Dame boast of a good Band two weeks after the opening of the scholastic year. Indeed “ John” deserves the many praises which have been heaped upon him since Wednesday evening, for the Band acquitted itself admirably.
Prof. Way was then introduced to the audience, who received him with rounds of applause. We would like very much to follow the programme through, and criticise— which in this case could be nothing more than to praise each piece separately, but as we do not profess to be musical critics we will let it suffice to say that we have not heard for many a day anything as fine as the guitar playing of Prof Way.	-.
As will be seen from the programme, which we append,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
29
Master Carl Otto contributed much to the pleasure of the evening. He is an excellent performer on the piano, and was well appreciated by the audience. Success to the young musician.
Eaton Quickstep..........................N. D. U. C. Band
“Lucy Long’’(with variations)............Prof. A. J. Way
Martha—(Piano)...........................Master Carl Otto
Marseillaise (with variations)...........Prof. A. J. Way
“ Get up and Get’’-Quickstep.............N. D. U. 0 Band
“Down upon the Swanee River”(with variations) Prof A. J. Way La Traviata—(Piano)......................Master Cari Otto
“Home, Sweet Home’’(with variations)......Prof. A. J. Way Valse Brillante— Piano...................Master Carl Otto
Selections from Norma (with variations)...Prof. A. J. Way Recollection of Home—Piano...............Master Carl Otto
Sebastopol—(Introduction)................Prof. A. J, Way
Red-Stocking Quickstep...................N. D. U. C. Band
Impromptu—(In A Minor)...................Prof. A. J. Way
Spinning Wheel—Piano  ...................Master Carl Otio
Fandango.................................Prof. A. J. Way
Adelia...................................N. D. U. C.’ Band
.	Kappa.
List of Students, Continued.
<•'? V
Lewis S. Hayes, Augustus Cbapoton, William Chapoton, S. B. Smith, Cicero McKinnon, William McDevitt, John O’Meara,
• Matthew J. McCullough. Martin A. McGovern, Joseph Rofinot, Louis C. Munson, -
' Elliott B. Munson, 'James F. Gleeson,
, . Frank M. Scrafford, ’ ^Patrick J. Moran, ; > Harry Shephard, ’ William S. Gross,
. John McDonough, ". Daniel E. Maloney, / John A. McMahon, Reuben Hutchings, ’ Michael McAuliffe.
. Thomas McKey, James D. Christy, James J. Brophy, John McKey, Harry Fearon, <	’	’
Thomas Philip White, Thomas Solon, Richard Downey, James G. McLean, _ Thomas D. Summers, Harrold V. Hayes, Frank Smyth, #
*	Entered
Chicago, Illi :ois.
Detroit, Michigan. Detroit, Michigan. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati, Ohio.
, Pin Oak, Iowa. Pin Oak, Iowa. Chicago, Illinois. Freedom, Illinois. Freedom, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Senecii, Kansas. St. Louis, Missouri. Jerseyville, Illinois. Jerseyville’, Illinois. Ottawa, Illinois. Harvard, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois.	'
Brooklyn, New York. Washington, D. C.	’
Janesville, Wisconsin. St. Louis, Missouri St. Louis, Missouri. Janesville, Wisconsin. Newport, Kentucky. Versailles, Kentucky.
• Lafayette, Indiana.
New Orleans, Louisiana. Olney, Illinois.
Notre Dame, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois.
Springfield, Massachusetts, to date, 360.
We judge water-melons must have grown luxuriantly in Northern Indiana this year from the loads which are brought to the College every few days and the very low prices at which they are sold.	.. -
All Asound.
Mr. Jno. S hannahan was with us for a short time. .
We were pleased to meet our old friend Father Condon, who we learn is to remain with us but a short time.
Mark S. Foote, of the Class of’73, is in the steam print-’ ing business, forming one of the firm of Snow, Foote & Co-. Mark is the Co.	’
Father Toohey, our new Prefect of Discipline, we predict will be a verysucces-ful one; he is already gaining by his kind and unassuming manner the esteem of all.
Most of the Classes are already organized. Father Brown, the respected and obliging Director of Studies, is busily engaged every moment of his office hours in assigning the various students their respective Classes.
The Knights of the Round Table took their honorable seats last week. They all seem determined to do heavy work between now and next Commencement Day. They are working in a good cause; success to them.
We notice in our ranks many familiar faces, many of last year, and some of former years who have not been. with us for the past few years but who still cling to the old standard and finally concluded that Notre Dame was the place to complete their studies.
So far our term is all sunshine: beautiful weather, bright, sunny mornings, clear sunny diys, tempered with gentle breezes, which, taken all in all, make a delightful time for ‘ study as well as for playing the many athletic games of the season. So als i all is sunshine within, general good order prevailing throughout, and to this fact is to be attributed the cheerfulmss of our prefects, professors and superiors.	*
ITotre Dams Seating Club. ■
This Club held a meeting on Friday, September 14th, for the purpose of reorganization. The following gentlemen were elected officers:	.	.
Rev. A. Lemonnier, C.S.C., Director.	,
Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, President.	.
D. J. Hogan, Secretary.
H. N. Walker, Treasurer.
D. E. Maloney, Commodore.	■
H. W. Walker, Captain of Pinta.	.	■
D. E. Maloney, Captain of Santa Maria.
The Club is in a very prosperous condition and hopes to be able to add another boat to its fleet this year.
D. J. Hogan, Secretary.
Star of the East.	'
As Base-ball season is on hand and in a flourishing condition, the old members of the “Star of the East” held a meeting on the 17th inst. for the purpose of reorganizing. The following officers were elected:
President—A. J. Mooney.	'
Vice-President—D. McGinniss.
Field Captain 1st Nine—D. McGinniss.
Treasurer—E. 8. Monahan.	-
Field Director—L. Sanders.
Censors—M. Allen, W. Van’t Woud.
-	T. D. Flanigen, Cor. See. . ' t
30
THE SCHOLASTIC.
SAIHT MANY’S AC^DMSY. -
St. Mary’s Academy, September 1st, 1873.
The prompt return of the old pupils and arrival of many new ones has made it necessary to enlarge the boundaries of the Academy by appropriating several apartments of the Sisters’ House for the use of the pupils. The necessity for the speedy erection of the buildings already planned is daily becoming more and more evident.
In our communication of last week are several errors-Instead of “ marble statues, etc.,” please read “ statues in tern cuite, and plaster casts of the masterpieces of statuary in the gallery of the Louvre, photographs and engravings from the paintings of Fra Angelico, Perugino and Raphael.”
On the 9th inst. the Children of the Holy Angels Sodality held their first meeting of this session for the purpose -of electing their officers. The result was as follows.- President, Adelaide Walsh; Vice President, Mary Ewing: Treasurer, Elizabeth Walsh; Librarian, Mary Brown; Secretary, Mary Reynolds. The other Religious and Literary Societies will send in their reports next week.
. For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, Sr. Dep’t., Sept. 14, 1873.
Miss L. Niel,	Esther Boyce.	R. Wool man,
“ Mary Kearney, Sadie Taylor,	Nellie Ball,
“ A. M. Clarke, Genevieve Walton,	L. Ritchie,
“ Nellie Gross, Julia Fanning,	R Ro^cesco,
! “ R. L. S. Devoto, Amelia Keeline,	L. Tinsley,
“ Mary Brown, Annie T. Clarke,	Katie Atwood,
“ Rose Spiers, Hanna McMahon,	Jennie Bennet,
“ Lily West,	Agatha St. Clair,	-Clara Miller,
“ Libbie Black, Rebecca Burke,	Nellie Huber,
“ Mittie Ward, Gertrude Phillips,	Anna Nichols,
“ Annie Lloyd, M. Johnson,	Myra Emmons,
“ Julia Kearney, Clara Nason,.	Anna Minton,
“ Mary Wicker, L. Pfeiffer,	Lydia Wyman,
“ Vadie Ball, A. Conahan,	; Nellie McEwen,
“ M. Letourneau, B. Wade,	L Henroten,
“ J. Locke,	E. Wade,	Fannie Moore,
“ K. Casey,	A. Marantette,	M. Hoover,
“ J. Creigh,	E. O’Connor,	F. Lloyd,
“ N. McMahon, E. Mann,	C. Strauther,
“ Ida Hatch, J. Haney,	Minnie Ivins,
“ Mary Ayd, A. Garies,	Anna Manns,
“ Fannie Gurzert, Katie Trimiter, Tablet of Honor, Jb. Dep’t.,	Carrie Morgan. Sept. 10, 1873.
Miss A. Smith,	E. Richardson,	K. Joyce,
“ M. Faxon,	A. Walsh,	M. Resch,
“ K. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson,	M. Carlin,
“ M. Crowley, A. Shores,	J. Brown,
M. Walsh,' M. Brown,	M. Ewing,
“ E. Lang,	M. Pritchard,	M. O’Connor,
“ E. Orton,	D. Bullen,	R. Hooley,
“ G. Hooley, M. Thomson,	J. Thomson,
“ H. Peak,	M. Reynolds,	G. White,
“ M. A. Schultheis, D. Allen,	A. Paulsen,
E. Schnoback, A. Ewing,	L. Walsh,
“ B. Golsen,	A. Cullen,	B. Pfeiffer,
“ M. Ware,	E. Simpson,	A. Goevey,
“ M. Kaeseburg, E. Lappin,	D. Hays.
Names and Residence of Pupils, September 15,1873
Miss H.,Niel,	St. Louis, Missouri.
“ E. Niel,	St. Louis, Missouri.
Miss E. Gross,	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
“ F. Batters,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Roberts,	Columbus, Ohio..
“ M. Ware,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ R. Devoto,	Cairo, Illinois.
“ A. Green,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ E. Green,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Green,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ K. Green,	Chicago, Illinois.
“. J. Fanning,	Syracuse, New York.
- “ K. Young,'	. San Franoisco, California.
“ L. Dent,	Washington, D. C.
“ M. Lyons,	Cairo, Illinois.
“ E. Haggerty,	St. Paul, Minnesota.
- K. Joyce,	Vinton, Iowa.
“ M. Carlin, ■	Chicago, Illinois.
R. Roscesco,	Cairo, Illinois.
“ T. Gaffney,	Cairo, Illinois.
“ M. Kane,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ L. Penniman,	Worcester, Massachusetts.
“ J. Locke,	St. Louis, Missouri.
“ F. Dee,	Chicago, Illinois.
- “ J. Dee,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ E. Isherwood,	Toledo, Ohio.
“ H. Man,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ T. Man,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Man,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Ewing,	Lancaster, Ohio.
“ A. Black,"	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
“ P. Black,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
“ T. Black,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
“ E. Caldwell,	Etuclair, Michigan.
“ M. O’Meara,	• Cincinnati, Ohio.
“ M. Lassen,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Faxon,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Wicker,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Pritchard,	Galveston, Texas.
“ M. Ayd,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ A. Cullen,	Lafayette, Indiana.
“ E Simpson,	Winona, Minnesota.
“ E.' Orton,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ L. Wyman,	Canton, Illinois.
“ A. Garies,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ C. Tremeter,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ S. Taylor,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Kearney,	Kansas City, Kansas.
“ J. Kearney,	Kansas City, Kansas.
“ C. Morgan,	Centralia, Illinois.
“ G.Phillips,’	Saugatuck, Michigan.
“ E. Lappin,	Seneca, Kansas.
“ R. Canoil,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ A. Goervey,	Sioux City, Iowa.
“ N. Hubert,	Council Bluffs, Iowa.
“ M. Kaseberg,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ L. Pfeiffer,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ B. Pfeiffer,	. Chicago, Illinois.
“ J. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.
" A. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ E. Walsh,	Chicago, Hlinois.
“ E. Ross,	Avon, Illinois.
“ J. Haney,	Notre Dame, Indiana.
“ A. Bosier,	■ Chicago, Illinois.
“ B. Crowley,	Cairo, Illinois.
iL		THE SCHOLASTIC.		31	
►					
	Miss F. Gunzert,	Chicago, Illinois. .	Miss F. Taylor,	Cleveland, Ohio.	
	“ A. Mertz,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ E. Black,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin. ‘	
	“ A. Mannz,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ A. Allen,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ B. Golsen,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ L. Henrotin,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ A. Shores,	Grand Rapids, Michigan.	“ E. McEwen,	Chicago, Dlinais.	
	“ M. O’Connor,	Chicago, Illinois.	" A. Smith,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ E. O’Connor,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ C. Nason,	Peoria, Illinois.	
	“ C. Miller,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ M. Conley,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ E. Lang,	Muskegon, Michigan.	“ R. Hooley,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ E. Boyce,	Muskegon, Michigan.	“ G. Hooley,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ E. Schuorback,	Muskegon, Michigan.	“ A. Marentette,	Mendon, Michigan.	
	“ A. Lloyd,	Muskegon, Michigan.	“ C. Thomas,	Goshen, Indiana.	
	“ F. Lloyd,	Muskegon, Michigan.	“ H. Shelly,	Tipperary, Ireland.	
	“ L. Ritchie,	Pinkneyville, Illinois.	“ H. Miller,	Richton, Illinois.	
	“ E. Ritchie,	Pinkneyville, Illinois.	“ M. Letourneau,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ D. Bullen,	Kenosha, Wisconsin.	“ E. Keena,	Canonsburg, Michigan.	•
1	“ M. E. Brown,	St. Albans, Vermont.	“ A. Roberts,	Independence, Missouri;	
	“ M. A. Brown,	Cleveland, Ohio.	“ A. Morrison,	St. Joseph, Michigan.	
	“ A. Nichols,	Benton Harbor, Michigan.	“ F Hoyt,	St. Joseph, Michigan.	
	“ J. Brown,	New Buffalo, Michigan.	“ M. Francis,	Peoria, Illinois.	
	“ M. Johnson,	Elkhart, Indiana.	“ B. Reynolds,	Cassopolis, Michigan.	
	“ L Johnson,'	Eikhart, Indiana.	“ R. McKeever,	Chicago, Illinois.	
1	“ M. Thompson,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ R. Woolman,	New Carlisle, Indiana.	
	“ E. Thompson,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ R. Klar,	* Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ C. Hutchinson,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ E. Ives,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ M. Hutchinson,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ A. St. Clair,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ K. Atwood,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ G. White,	Kalamazoo, Michigan.	
	“ G. Tower,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ D. Simonds,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ H. Peak,	Fort Howard, Wisconsin.	“ C. Finlev,	Dixon, Illinois.	
	“ N. Peak,	Fort Howard, Wisconsin.	“ A. Lynch,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ M. Ward,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ S. Lynch,	Chicago, Illinois. -	
	“ A. Conahan,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ N. McAuliffe,	. Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ F. Ball,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ M. Quill,	Chicago, Illinois.	
1	“ N. Ball,'	Chicago, Illinois.	“ Maggie Quill,	Chicago,Illinois.	
	“ L. Tinsley,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ N. Langdon,	Joliet, Illinois.	
	'	“ J. Kreigh,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ E. Dunbar,	Waukesha, Wisconsin.	
	“ C. Strother,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ A. Maloney,	Havard, Illinois.	
	“ E. Taylor,	Chicago,Illinois.	“ C. Engel,	Harvard, Illinois.	-
	“ M. Hayes,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ T. Hatch,	Elkhart, Indiana.	
	“ M. Ivins,	• New Carlisle, Indiana.	“ L. Lilly,-	Cedar Rapids, Iowa.	
	“ E. Wade,	New Carlisle, Indiana.	“ C. Germain,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ B. Wade,	New Carlisle, Indiana.	“ L. Germain,.	C hicago; Illinois.	-
	“ R. Burke,	Niles, Michigan.’.	“ J. Tallman,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ G. Walton,	Ypsilanti, Michigan.	“ J. Sink,-	Chicago, Illinois.	
	M. Emmons,	Stevens’ Point, Wisconsin.	“ T. Fisk,	Lawrence, Michigan.	
	“ M. Hoover,	Indianapolis, Indiana.	“ C. Wheaton,	Kalamazoo, Michigan.	
J	“ A. Minton,	Alpina, Michigan.	“ K. Morehead,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ A. Clarke,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ T. McCool,	Kokomo, Indiana.	•
	“ J. Renette,	Pau Pau, Michigan.	“ E. Boheu,	Kokomo, Indiana.	
	“ F. Larkins,	Pau Pau, Michigan.	“ J. Stimson,	Big Rapids, Michigan.	
10	“ A. Keeline,	Council Bluffs, Iowa.	“ S. Sweeney,	Wheeling, W. Virginia.	
	“ L. West,	Council Bluffs, Iowa.	“ E. Sweeney,	Wheeling, W. Virginia.	a
	“ A. T. Clarke,	Columbus, Ohio.	“ A. Sweeney,	Wheeling, W. Virginia.	
	“ M. Reynolds,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ E. Quinlan,	Cleveland, Ohio.	
	“ E. Richardson,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ M. Quan,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ A. Paulsen,	Chicago, Illinois.	J. Quan,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ R. Spiers,	Peoria, Illinois.	“ A. O’Connor,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ M. Coughlin,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ M. Cummings, -	Chicago, Illinois.	
	“ K. Casey,	Chicago, Illnois.	“ T. Cronin,	Marshall, Michigan.	
	“ M. Schultheis,	Chicago, Illinois.	“ M. Martin,	Marshall, Michigan.	
	“ F. Moore,	Detroit, Michigan.	“ M. Jackson, •	Detroit, Michigan.	
	“ H. McMahon,	Cleveland, Ohio.	“ M. Reardon,	Cork, Ireland.	
	“ N; McMahon,	Cleveland, Ohio.	“ L. McKinnon,	Chicago, Illinois.	
I	“ _M. Nash,	Rockford, Ohio.	“ T. Heckman,	Indianapolis, Indiana.	,	
I		♦ \	*	- •	
3'2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
“ K. Patterson,	Indianapolis, Indiana.
“ . L. Kelly, .	* Evanston, Illinois.
“ M. Summers,	Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
AUTUM1V ARRAVGEMEXT.
She
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5, in advance.
For 1 year, $3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave M i ria for $25, in advance.
To clntss of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Maria for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave Mini A is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in. advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber's post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
UKIVEBSITY OF NOTES DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1S44, enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition <Latin and Greek); Washing .
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing, -	---------- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $S; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	-	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
.Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LERIONNIBB, C-S.C-
President.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTr-TW PAGES EVSRY MONTH.
$1.00	-AjNTvtjjMC.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
OiHinij S 1'11$abfr,
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass..
rjpRAINS now leave South Bend asfollows ’ GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m. “	“	12 25p m. “	“	9.15 p. m.	Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.m “	“	4 05 a. m “	“	135 p. m
“	. “	12 35 a. m.	“	“	5 30 p. m
“	“	8.30 p. m. “	■ “	4.35 p. m.	Runs to Elkhart.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m. “	“	2 55 a. m.
“	“	5 00 a. m.
“	“	605 p	m.
“	“	6.37 a.	m.
“	“	8.20 a.	m.
IF E S T.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m “	“	6.50 a.	m
“	“	8.20 a.	m
“'	“	9.40 p.	m
•*	“	10.30 a.	m
“	“	12.30 p.	m
Making connection with all trains West andNorth.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
4Sr-Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes asterthau South Bend time.
J. H DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Carv, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Ageut, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING. To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. in.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9.25 p. m Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. in.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line
iJStRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad llj) ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona. Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation, ’
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi'Line,
St.LouisandSpringfield Lightning - Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ABRIVB.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m, ♦4:19 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m. 57:15 a.m.
+9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. J Ex cept Saturday. | Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day .Trams.
JAMES CHARLTON.	J. C. McMULLIN.
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CH1CAG0
PEO8TLV AN 1 A CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRAOE EAILR0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
NILES 1 SO UTH BEND R.R.
Leave Niles,
Leave South Bend,
<4	44
Arrive South Bend, 44	44
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m. 9 35 a m
4.5 > p.m.
Arrive South Bend,
GOING NORTH.
8-4t> a.m. Arrive Niles, 11.45 a.m. “■
6 30 p.m.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
- 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend,
5.30 p.m. j “	“
7 30 a.m 10.15 a.m
5.30 p.m
- 9.20 a.m 12 25 p m
7.10 p m
- 10.00 a.m
6.30 p.m ■
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh Philadelphia and New
York without Change;	*
1st train leaves Chicago 9.09 p. m | Arrives at New York 11 30‘a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	"	9.00 p. m |	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains -North and South, and a Mann-field with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON. Assistant$aperintend-’nt, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. ?
F R. MYE->S. Gen’l Puss and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
“The only solid joy is that which virtue brings.”