Scholastic.
NTEI\ESTS OF THE JStUDENTS.
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 20, 1873.
Number 17.
The aTsw Tabernacle.
We have been asked how much the new Tabernacle would cost. We answer the question the more readily, from the fact that the price alone of this real monument of art and religion will be, to all our friends, a clear evidence that their contributions were not solicited for an ordinary object; common things we try to do ourselves; but when we. call on our acquaintances for any aid or help, we mean to give them a just cause to feel proud of their co operation and liberality.
How far and with what correctness this will apply to the beautiful Tabernacle of the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, we confidently and cordially invite all our contributors to come and examine for themselves, and say, when it shall have been brought from Paris. Meanwhile, we hasten to state that the amount required for the purchase of the new Tabernacle is five thousand dollars in gold, of which we have already nearly one half. It is a large figure; but none too high, when the question is to honor our Blessed Lord and His Holy Mother; especially, if we can find enough among the devotee! children of Mary, to raise this amount, which all individual effort, would have failed to procure.
When the numerous donors whose names shall have been engraved on the gold plates, will see what has been accomplished by their' personal, and comparatively moderate, subscriptions, in a joint effort, they will rejoice at a result so far above the reach of any solitary exertions.
Such is the working of association; and a trifle which every one spares with ease and pleasure, when multiplied by hundreds and thousands, soon amounts to a surprising sum, sufficient to obtain wonderful effects. Let these feeble efforts be directed properly, and they will accomplish noble deeds and all share in their merits.
It is not generally the rich who do most for the Church, but rather those in ordinary circumstances, and even the poor, associated together in a holy purpose. As a general rule, most cf the glorious things ever done for God’s honor and glory, are to be credited to the latter class, united in a spirit of faith; and thus rar, our list of subscriptions is no exception to the rule. There is no doubt, the poor are endowed with a beautiful understanding of God’s things, which wealth obscures, if it does not altogether blind.
Meanwhile we go on with our work of faith, without the least fear to hear on our way the old Judaic reproach: “Ut quid perditio htec?”—“Why this waste of money?” For we are told that whilst our Blessed Saviour was lying in a manger, the son of Herod reposed in a silver bed. We simply believe that it is time we should treat our Divine Redeemer differently, and that, to strengthen our hopes to be “received by Him in His eternal Tabernacle” we should ry to leave Him no longer on the straw of Bethlehem, but
as far as in our power, to anticipate upon earth, something of the eternal residence Himself has revealed by His angel.-
E. S. .
-------- I	--'-------
Becreatioa Chats with the Boys*
The Door-Mat.	'
Some are quite carried away by the theory of cranios-copy and phrenology, spending many hours investigating its mysteries and many more in try >'ng to persuade you that it is an exact science; but while their efforts are not altogether in vain, yet I would prefer to observe the action of the man and draw my deductions therefrom. A door-mat is a simple thing, yet I have been observing one, andlfind it calls up a series of reflections. It has been raining, and the walks are a little muddy. Let us stop here a moment at the door and watch the boys as they go in. There can be no harm in that, surely; and we will see if by comparing our observations we cannot build a little theory concerning the connection between neatness and the other virtues. Here comes a boy in great haste. He is always first. He sees the mat, but steps upon it with a crash that makes it curl up as if in anger at such harsh treatment; but he rushes on, and if any mud adhen s to his feet still it is all off before he reaches his desk. Here is a second—walking slowly, with his head down. Why, what can the fellow be thinking of ? He never saw the mat at all, but stepped away across it: and he is followed by a third, who runs his foot against the poor mat, and came near falling. He is mad at once, and kicks it far away from the door altogether. But here at last comes a methodical-looking fellow. Let us see what he will do. Ah! he replaces the much-abused mat, wipes his feet carefully, and passes on into the hall. These are very few data from which to generalize a theory, you say. Possibly; but suppose we let the theory go, for the time being, and indulge in a few reflections. The first-boy is apt to go through life just as he went through that door, always in great haste, always driving his bargains with a force and rush that quite surprise his more circumspect neighbors, always treading on some one’s toes, and continually in trouble. He becomes wealthy by a single precipitate blow, which no one expected; but the chances are that he will lose just as rapidly—and the reason is obvious: he has not time to stop and consider what he proposes to do, and never estimates the possibility of failure. He never does anything by halves. If he is pious, you may depend on him, for he is. seldom a hypocrite; but if he is inclined to evil, then he is to be dreaded, for he will push his course of iniquity in hot. haste to the very extreme. Not so his absent-minded neighbor, who never saw the mat at all. He is not apt to be- a bad man: and if he is, he is only theoretically so, for
130
THE SCHOLASTIC.
he is so busy with speculative plans that he seldom has .time to put them in practice. He lives in a world peopled with beings of his own creation. He never becomes wealthy, for he is not active nor earnest. All attempts to rouse him from his speculations are vain. You might as well try to animate a corpse; and he is practically dead, so far as the busy schemes and aspirations of the rest are concerned. Sometimes he is a man of genius, and produces a book, or a marvellous piece of mechanism: but it avails him nothing. He is obliged to sell it for the necessaries of life, and some one else reaps the harvest he has sown.
Our petulant friend who kicked the mat out of his way vehemently, what of him ? Why, his character is probably already moulded, and twenty years from to-day you will find him rather more sour than at present, for life has its cares and vexations, and he. will be certain of a cause for trouble ; and in all human probability he will find himself cordially detested by his better-tempered neighbors. He may become rich, and very likely he will, for he doubts the integrity of almost every one, consequently trusts but few and seldom;loses money. If wealth brought happiness he might be thought on the right track; but it does not, and he is miserable. He lacks charity, geniality. If he has a family he is certain to have his children afraid of him and his home in continual turmoil; and so he goes through the world, always quarrelling with somebody and always kicking some one out of his way. Of course he receives as many kicks as he gives, and rather more, for the world falls into the goodnatured habit of abusing him; and should reverses overtake him, he will go to the very bottom of the hill and no one will reach out a baud to help him. He selfishly enjoyed prosperity alone, and he must suffer adversity alone. ’Tis the old Mosaic law, and he can blame no one but himself. And, lastly: that young man who replaced the mat so carefully is almost certain to find happiness in the world as he goes along. True, he has much against him, but his chances are rather better than any of the others. It seems to be his mission to rebuild what others have torn down, and his highest aim is to help a brother when most he needs assistance. His home is a happy one, for he loves order. The mad, eager strife for riches seldom takes possession of him; and yet he is successful in his financial schemes, and people wonder how he contrives to get rich so fast, when to them he seems tojbe doing nothing. Why, ’tis the simplest thing in the world. He risks nothing that he cannot see clear through, and runs his machinery with so much care that it costs him but little for repairs. He is a thorough economist, and you can scrarcely place him in a situation where he will fail.
Now, this is not the old theory—the foundation of Sunday-school stories, wherein the good little boy prospers and the bad one is always punished with terrible severity for his misdemeanors; but don’t you know that habits correlate and group togther, and he who is careful of others’ rights or feelings in matters of trifling import will also be faithful in the discharge of great responsibilities,— and that he is almost certain to have them thrust upon him, for the world is ever seeking men of integrity, men of thought, and, pre-eminently, men of firm, decided principle.	 T. A. D.
He who can suppress a moment’s anger may prevent days of sorrow.
The Wreck of the “Atlantic.”
The pale moon shines o’er the surging waves,
And the spray-drops rain around, No warning is heard as the water laves The keel which'onward to nameless graves
Leads voyagers sleeping sound.
On through the billows the dark ship glides, While her beacons are burning dim ;
The orb of night ’neath a mantle hides, Naught warns the rovers of waves and tides
That anear stands the tyrant grim.
Beneath the deck what a holy sight
Breaks forth on the watcher’s eye! There beauty lies in the robes of nigh*’, While around are the spirits of love and light,
The angels of God on high.
There the aged recline, their thoughts afar, ’Mong groves where their loved ones roam, With their noble sons ’mid the ranks of war, Where honor is ever their guiding star,
As they battle for native hom e.
But they’ll sleep no more, for sounds aike
Which fill every heart with woe,
Loud screams ascend to the sombre skies,
And hope in the breast of each sufPrer dies, As he pierces the depths below.
That vessel, whose flags from the masthead gleam,
Will never reach land again,
The fierce tide rushes through port and seam, And maidens but wake from a pleasant dream
To sink in the briny main.
But why should we weep ? They’ve passd away, To dwell in those mansions bright
Where no night appears, but an endless day
Is fed by a faithful and cheering ray—
In Heaven, the port of light.
Celt.
Correspondence.
St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, N. B. December 6,1873.
Mr. Editor :—The seance in honor of St. Cecilia was given by the students of St. Joseph’s College on Tuesday evening, November 25th, before a large and appreciative audience. The programme was long, occasioned by the necessity of giving both the French and English students an opportunity of exhibiting their abilities. If in mentioning the names of those who took part in the seance I omit the names of some persons, I hope they will overlook it as I have not a programme to which to refer. The French play and dialogue were excellently played by Messrs. Cormier, Rin-guette, Bourque, Landry, Laforest, Leblanc and Bourgeois. Declamations in French were given by Messrs. Bourgeois, Laforest, and Landiy. The music, vocal and instrumental, by Messrs. Ringuette, Walsh, Bourque, Saunders, Leblanc, Levasseur, L. Ringuette, Mclnerny, McFadden, Maher, and others, was well rendered. English declamations were delivered by Messrs. Meehan and O’Regan. A. Cormier, delivered an oration in French, and Messrs. Mclnerny and Costigan delivered orations in English, excellent both in sentiment and delivery. The trial scene from the “ Merchant of Venice” was given with great skill; Mr. Costigan
THE SCHOLASTIC.
131
acted the pirt of Shjlock, and McPhelim Portin. The other characters were as follows: Dake, Daniel McCready; Antonio, Williard Bowser; Bassanio, Albert Walters; Gra-tiano, Henry Meehan; Salarino, Charles Donahoe; Clerk, Arthur O’Neill; Nerissa, Thomas McFadden. The farce “Make your Wills” was excellently played by Messrs-Chas. Collins, Chas. Donahoe, Colohan, Carson, Mclnerny, O’Regan, C. Meehan. The seance was a great success in every way.	*
Mr. Gray, the architect, is now busily employed in drawing up the plans of the new College, which will cost some twenty or thirty thousand dollars. If you take into consideration the cheapness of stone and lumber, and of labor also, that is a large sura—equal to about fifty or sixty thousand dollars in Indiana. The Bishop of St. John, Rt. Rev. Dr. Sweeny, has subscribed five hundred (§500) dollars towards the new building—recognizing in the college a great means for promoting religion and education. Subscriptions for the new building will be opened both in New Brunswick and in the Provinces of Quebec and Ontario, where persons will have au opportunity of thus showing their dislike to the infamous school-law now in operation in New Brunswick. I inclose a copy of a letter written by Dr. Sweeny, which will, I have no doubt, be of interest to members of the Holy Cross in Indiana.
Yours,	Sixty.
Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, St. John, New Brunswick,
Feast of St. Francis Xavier, Dec. 3,1873.
Very Rev. Dear Sir It is with very great pleasure t hat I hear of your determination to commence at an early day the work of building a new College in stone at Memram-sook. The present wooden buildings are much too small to accommodate the fast-increasing number of pupils placed under your care.
The great success that has attended your labors and selfsacrificing zeal in founding the College of St. Joseph far surpasses my most sanguine expectations, and I feel that such success is a proof that the hand of God is with you in your noble work. The College, amidst difficulties, and with small means at your disposal, has already, in the few years of its existence, rendered good service to religion and education, not only among the French Acadians, but the whole Catholic population of the diocese. All must therefore feel a deep interest in the success of your undertaking. A number of young men educated in the College do honor to their Alma 3fater, not only in the ranks of the clergy, but in the liberal professions and different callings of life, and this number will increase from year to year. I therefore trust that you will receive substantial aid from both the clergy and laity in your heavy undertaking, and I recommend it to them strongly, as a work that interests the whole diocese.
I am, Very Rev. dear sir, faithfully yours in Jesus Christ, J. Sweeny, Bp. of St. John.
The Very Rev. Father Lefebvre, Provincial, etc., St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook.
It is carrying things a little too far when a man is so reticent that he won’t even tell the professors what he knows about a lesson.
Mrs Partington says she gets up every morning at the shrill carrion of the chandelier.
Smokers’ Rights and. Privileges.
The question whether smokers have any rights which the rest of the world are bound to respect has never been entirely settled since tobacco first became known to the civilized world. One would think they had not, by the coolly contemptuous way they are treated by the public. If a gentleman is travelling on the cars and wishes to smoke a chiboque or “ Havana,” be must go into one of the dingiest old cars in the company’s possession, away forward, where all the cinders from the engine rattle in through the window, soiling his clothes, and, “Paul Pry like, searching the inmost recesses of his eyes. Or mayhap the car is on the rear end of the train; and, if so, it is filled to suffocation with emigrants—who are the only other people on earth with tempers equable enough to stand such treatment. At any rate the car is as dirty and uncomfort able as it well can be. Some trains dispense with the “luxury” of a smoking-car altogether, and our persevering “ knight of the weed ” is told by the bland conductor he can stand on the platform or go into the “ baggage-car,” and he enjoys the privilege of sitting on a “Saratoga” trunk, smoking his cigar, and the risk of being jolted out through the side doors. The steamboat is no better, and the hotels very little. Rather discouraging to the smokers, one would say; and jet men will smoke; we cannot overlook the fact, when tobacco has become such an enormous source of revenue both to the Government and to the producer. While the consumer pays all the bills, suffers untold abuse from all sides, puffs away and says nothing, his friends tell him: “ You are injuring j'our health, and at the same time rendering yourself very disagreeable to us.” He simply auswet s: “ Very well, I can’t help it.” Now this is a kind of perverseness for which there is no cure. Men will smoke; but granting that it is a bad habit and one that ought to be dropped, yet it is not a crime for which men should be punished and driven from society to the seclusion of the office or club-room—or down to the boat-house —which answers the same purpos.e here. Thus argnpd-our kind superio.i^ail£LsQjaj:Qom_wasJ>uilLfor the accom-modation of those who found solace in the weed. A room far'excelling the dens which the outside world have decreed should be the domicil of him who smokes. One great sanitary precaution in the architecture of this room was to finish it without any door. The atmosphere, even with that wise precaution, has been found by careful computation to be nearly thirty thousand pounds to the square inch; had the doorway been closed asphyxia must have resulted to the inmates in a very brief period of time. A stove occupies the geographical centre of the room, and whether by gravity, or the law of radiation inverted, it attracts all moving bodi es directly towards, it. The floor is carpeted— with shavings, and the ceiling and walls frescoed—with the autographs of aspiring youths who seem determined to make their mark in the world. The room is seated in amphitheatre style and ample in extent, while a disintegrated section of the Amusement Club furnish all the noise necessary to keep the smokers awake without any extra charge. Now it has been argued that smoking tends to reflection, and reflection is the source of science, as science is the source of art, and from the grave question, propounded there, pondered upon, and wisely answered, one is naturally led to the conviction that the syllogism must be true. At any rate the innovation is a wise one; and, regarding it as one of the advances of the age, we cannot but feel grateful to the council for according the privilege to us.	Etudiant.
CP
132
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th®
Picblished every Week daritig Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY. .
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
Oneycsr............................$100
Single copies (Sets.) of the publication can be obtained at the.Siu-dents’Office.
A Letter from “Celt” just received; too late for publication this week.
It gives ns great pleasure to see in a letter from Shreveport, La., from “Aloysius” to the Morning Star of New Orleans, that our friend Thos. Flanigan is still among the living, and we hasten to give the good tidings to the many friends whom he Ins at Notre Lame and in other places where The Scholastic is re td.
The reading of the “ Chimes ” was listened to with profound attention last Sunday evening. Father General complimented the young lady who read that evening (Miss Libbie Black, of Milwaukee) in his felicitous manner. Father Cooney eloquently eulogized for about fifteen minutes the articles in the paper. It is always a pleasant treat for us to listen to the Chimes.”
We learn with pleasure, and congratulate Mr. Shickey and ourselves on the fac', that the Stsdebaker Brothers have nearly finished building a new ’bus foi the Old Reliable line between the M. S. an I LSD pot and the College ■and Academy. Mr. O’Btien is going to make it a thing of -beauty; and the consequence, we hope, will bo that it will be a joy forever to all who patronizi the express College accommodation line.
The Atlantic Hotel, in Chicago, has been so highly recommended to us that we do not hesitate to advise our friends at large to give it their preference. It is convenient to the Lake Shore Depot. The hotel is firstrate in everything, recently finished and fully deserving of public patronage. No carriage is required to reach it from the depot. The landlady was educated at St. Mary’s, where she is yet well remembered for her amiable disposition.
All Areuad.
Christmas presents are on the wing.
Our Steward has been furnishing us with fine weather of late.
-A Feast on pickles is enjoyed by some members of the Senior .Class at ten o’clock at night.
Prof. Beleke,. well known to all the old students of Notre Dame, has been spending a short time with us.
A Bootjack is a good institution to have by one’s bedside for self-defense in case of an invasion.
Our promising youth who stands six feet-two inches, out of his .shoes is still aspiring towards the supernal deities.
The, workmen on the New Church have been taking advantage of the fine weather and are making good use of their time. * ’	' ' ~
The Rev. Missionary to the West makes frequent trips to the College. lie is looking well notwithstanding the trials and hardships he undergoes in tiie discharge of his duties He is viorking in a good caute.
Aw appetite is a good thing in its proper pla ce; but when it wanders out of its lawful sphere, and seeks to prey upon that which was not destined for it, it becomes a monstrum ; liorrendum.
Expectation, is on tiptoe. The whole nation of Notre Dame is in agitation, surmising, conjecturing and straining their eyes peering into the distance for the appearance of plum pudding.
The new lock on the Collegiate Study Hall is a terror to all. It is a lock that knows but one, and he, like St. Peter, carrieth the key thereof, but, unlike the Saint, isn’t always on hand. ...
Prof. Howard continues his course of lectures on Modern History. His last one, delivered on Wednesday evening, 17th inst., was on “The French Monarchy.” The Collegiates are always glad of an opportunity to hear him, and accordingly greet him with a hearty welcome.
Rev. Father Brown treated the Collegiates to a rare “feast of reason and flow of soul” on the 13th inst., by way of a very interesting lecture on “The Philosophy of Mental Culture.” It was listened to with marked attention and well appreciated, as was manifest from the rounds of applause it received.
The first Musical srirk of the season came off on Sunday evening, the 14th inst., in the College parlor. The music, both vocal and instrumental, all furnished by home talent, was good. Great praise is bestowed, and justly too, on the University Orchestra and Quartette. Carl Otto maintained his reputation as a pianist. Wm. Ohlen’s singing, and also his piccolo playing, was well appreciated. Bui that which elicited the most applause from the audience was the singing of Tommy Hooley. His childlike sim- -plicity, exhibited in the first song, called forth an encore.
It is true that there have been a great many entertainments already this year, especially of an elocutionary character, but a good thing never tires, and hence it is that the Public Readings which have been given lately have been so well appreciated. Prof. McAfferty, familiar to all the students of last year, gave an entertainment of this nature on the evening of the 16th inst. Space ■will not permit us this week to give the programme of his selections; suffice it to say that his easy carriage and graceful appearance on the stage won for him many admirers. We hope to have the pleasure of hearing the Prof, soon again. .	-	-
Victimized by t.oo Vivid an Imagination.—The richest joke of the season transpired the other evening. One of our law-students, returning to his room to seek repose after participating in a very brilliant debate, mistook his quarters and flew off on a tangent against the door of the Collegiate dormitory. Unyielding to the pressure of his first onset, he threw himself against the stubborn door with redoubled force, thinking that his fellow law-students had formed a coalition to keep him out. An “ artful dodger” inside, being like JEneas of old, shaken out of slumber by the thundering without, mounted on high, and peering over the transom with a malicious grin, warned the offender- _ away, intimating that, like the good servant, he should go
THE SCHOLASTIC.
133
up higher if he would find rest for the sole of his foot-This exasperated our hero still more. Never did soldier charge a booming battery with more pertinacity than did he that door. Finally some friends came upon the scene and through their gentle interposition he was led off and put into his “ little bed.” He has since been heard to utter many incoherent mutterings of “ assault,” “ trespass ” and “ indictment.” Many of the students have had the nightmare in that dormitory every night since the above occurrence: to escape on horseback, we presume, in case of recurrence.
" ■■ ■■ ■ ■
.	Soil of Hsnor.
'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
AL Allen, W. Appleyard, H. AekhqtT, F. Butcr, W. Ball, J. Browne, J. Berry, C. Bardsher, C. Berdel, M. Bastarache, G. Cunnea, 0. Corcoran, J. Callery, H. Clarke, W. Converse, M. Caldwell; H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, P. Cooney,- J. Christy, T. Cashin, E. Dunn, J. Devine, H. Dehner, F. Devoto, T. Daily, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, B. Euans, J. Egan, H. Esch, T. D. Flanagan, J. Flanagan, M. Foley, J. Falvey, J. Fielding, C. Falvey, J. George, J. Grace, J. Girard, J. Gregory, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, E. Giibling, A. Hess, C. Hess, V. Hansen, F. Hubert, W. Hughes, E. Halpin, A. Horne, P. Hennessy, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, S.Hitt, L. Hayes, H. Hayes, P. Johnson, A. Kreichgauer, J. Kennedy, J. F. Kelly, J. E. Kelly, J. Lyons, P. Lilly, J. Lonergan, J. K. Mullen, M. Mc-Cunniff, E. McCunniff, J. McManus, S. Marks, F. Morass, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, D. McGinnis, J. Murphy, J. Mathews, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, E. McSweeney, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, J. McDonough, D. Maloney. E. McLaughlin, P. McDonnald, R. O'Connor, J. E. O’Brien, P. O’Brien, J. M. O’Brien, M. O’Day, P, O’Sullivan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, E. O’Connell, M. Proctor, H. Pendell, F. Pendell, J. Rudge, C. Reynolds, H. P. Small, H. T. Small, L. Sanders, F. J. St. Aubin, F. Serafford, R. Staley, J. Trabbic, W. Van’t Woud, 0. Villeneuve, P. Van Dusen, J. Wolfe, J. Ward, H. Walker, C. Walters.
JUNIORS.
- Wm. Allen, George Amann, William Ames, Bonifacio Baca, Joseph Beegan, Christopher Burger, J. M. Bennett, W. P. Breen, Philip Corbet; James Caren, John Cullen, John Dale, John Delvecchio, John Dally, James Dore, John Ewing, Frank Egan, Clarence Faxon, George Gross, G. Grainbling, Thomas Gallagher, Dennis Gorman, Bradley Hersey, Charles Hake, Matthias Jeffers, Michael Kinsella, M. McCormick, John McGrath, Nathan Mooney, Charles Meyer, James Minton, Joseph Marks, Fred Miller, L. E. Marantctte, Charles O’Connor, James O’Connor, E. L. Ratigan, Frank Smyth, Agustus Schmidt, Theodore Sauvageot, Frank Stamm, John Soule, James Smith, LouistSmith, T. Solon, Harry Shephard, Frank Wittlesberger, F. Weiscnberger, Henry Zuber, G. Lehman, J. French, James Wood, G. McNulty.
MINIJI DEPARTMENT.
E. Buchanan, L. Goldsmith, L. Frazee, H. Middleton, F. Carlin, A. Foster, M. McAuliffe, F. Campeau, C. Faxon, W. Van Pell.	  '
Class Honors.
- FRIDAY DECEMBER 12th, 1873.
' Collegiate Department.
seniors.-
C. Dodge, W. Dodge, W. Clarke,.R. Staley, C. Berdel, T. Dailey, L. Hayes, D. Maloney, T. White.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
T; Grier, T. Murphy, E. McLaughlin.
SOPHOMORE CLASS. .
■ E. Graves, M. Bastarache, C. Walter, C. Proctor, F. Devoto, T. Gallagher, J. E. Hogan, E; Monahan, J. Caren. ’
•	-	. ERESHMAN-CLASS.	-
A. J. Mooney, H. Dehner, B. Euans, T. Hansard, W. Appleyard, H. Cassidy, P. O’Mahony, J. Gillen, P. Cooney. W. Breen.
Subscriptions to ths 2Tew Tabesaacle.
[continued.]	.
D.enis Egan, Notre Dame, Indiana................ §10	00
Arbogast Zahnle, Notre Dame, Indiana............. 10	00
Sirs. Rose Zahnle, Notre Dame, Indiana........... 10	00
Samual Zahnle, Notre Dame, Indiana............... 10	00 .
John Zahnle, Notre Dame, Indiana................. 10	00
John Wolfe, Notre Dame, Indiana..................10 00
Scholasticate, per Rev. F. Carrier, Superior,.... 11 00 Miss M. Maclair, Illinois........................   10	00
Mrs. Margaret Dougherty, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,............................................. 10	00
Bridget Mulcahy, Salem, Massachusetts............ 10	00
Anna Donnelly, Salem, Massachusetts.............. 10 00 James Neely, Quebec, Canada East................. 10	00
Bro. Philip, Director, Alton, Illinois.........   10	00
John Wickham, Baltimore, Maryland................ 10	00
Mrs. Wickham, Baltimore, Maryland................ 10	00
William Joseph Wickham, Baltimore, Maryland... 10 00 Michael Curley, Minneapolis, Minnesota........... 10	00
Catherine Curley, Minneapolis, Minnesota......... 10 00 Catherine Walsh, New York........................ 10	00
Joseph Donahoe, South Bend, Indiana.............. 10	00
Alfred Arrington, Washington, D. C............... 10	00
Miss W. Ke.im dy, Illinois....................... 10	00
Ellen Mulvihill, Ireland......................... 10	00
A Canadian Priest................................ 20	00
Mrs. Ilenriitta Redmen, St. Mary’s, Indiana...... 10 00 Peter Harrigan, St. Mary’s Indiana................-. 5	00
Mrs. Hanorah Mee, Poughkeepsie, N. Y............. 15	00
C. C. Connolly, Chicago, Illinois................ 10	00
Mrs. C. C. Connolly, Chicago, Illinois..10 00 . Miss Mary CouloIIj', Chicago, Illinois......	10 00
[to be continued.]	,
■ Sos2.aE.ee of 'Arithmetic. .	-
The most romantic of all numbers is the figure nine’ because it can’t be multiplied away or got rid of anyhow. Whatever you do it is sure to turn up again as was the body of Eugene Aram’s victim. One remarkable property of this figure (said to have been first discovered by Mr. Green, who died in 1794) is, that all through the multi- ' plication table the product nine comes to nine. Multiply by what you like, and it gives the same result. Begin with twice nine, 18; add the digits together, and 1 and 8 make 9. Three times nine are 27;'and 2 and 7 are nine. So it goes on, up to eleven times nine, which gives 99. Very good; and the digits, 9 and 9. Going on to any extent it is impossible to get rid of the figure nine Take a couple of instances at random. Three hundred and thirty-nine times nine are 3,051; add up the figures and they are nine. Five thousand and seventy-one times nine are 45,639; the sum of these digits is 27; 2 and 7 are nine.—Exchange.
Chicago wants to have the next world’s fair there. “In the first place,” says the Boston Post, “ it isn’t certain that the next world will have a fair, and in the second place, • those who’d be likely to attend it will prefer a more pious town in which to celebrate.”
134	THE SCHOLASTIC.
The	Again.
Minim Department.
Editor Scholastic :—Sir,—The Minims have for some days felt- that full justice has not been done to the South Bend stand-pipe. So we concluded to call a mass meeting of our body and discuss the subject.
It was a serious matter, as the reporter of the press was present,' (your humble servant fills that important office.) who would send the news over the great West. Master Willy was chosen chairman. He is our minimest Minim, you know, and he is the owner of those splendid red stockings that create such a sensation over the whole College.
One writer in South Bend has converted the pipe into white pine and ascertained its value. He must be in the lumber trade; another here has proposed to fill it with lager beer and distribute it gratis in'honor of the eve at. Now we don’t like lager; ’tis nasty, bitter stuff, made from hops, and if we drink more than a glass of it it is sure to set us hopping and kicking all over the yard. But we like milk; nice sweet new milk like that we see in the great big tin cans that come in every morning from St. Joseph’s Farm. So it was resolved to fill the pipe with new milk, —not milkman’s milk, for that is half water, half chalk and ' half whiting—then to have it properly churned with a steam churnfixed on the top of the pipe,—the butter to be properly gathered and its correct value ascertained, and the amount applied to some meritorious purpose.
Our worthy chairman was selected as the most proper person to make these intricate calculations. A bench was placed before a blackboard, and chairman Willy, red stockings and all, was lifted up on it. The greatest interest was taken as he proceeded to cover the black surface with figures. He proceeded according to the rule of fractions, as follows.' ’ To the length of the stand-pipe he added the square of the weight of the cast-iron base, and cubed the product. To the height of the great ginpole he added the square of the hypothenuse and subtracted the cube root of the base. Then again, to the square of the circumference he added the square of the diameter of the pipe, and added in the length of the principal guy-rope. .These points being ascertained, the following is the statement:
As the stand-pipe is to the ginpole, so Js the guy-rope to the proceeds of the sale of the butter. The work proceeded slowly but surely, in profound silence and admiring wonder; but when he announced the result as 11,050 pounds of butter, according to the most approved tests and experiments made on the Ogden Farm in New Jersey— which, when sold will produce §2,762,50 at 25 cents per pound, the worthy chairman asserted he was right and invited criticism. This announcement called forth a ringing cheer from the delighted assembly.
It was then resolved to leave to the Juniors the settlement of the buttermilk question, as to its quantity, quality, and value; and they are respectfully invited to respond at their earliest convenience.
Most respectfully,	A Minim.
A professor of one of the Philadelphia medical colleges habitually puts this simple conundrum to his class, whenever he can find a class to put it to: “If from monoboman-thrayninone is obtained oxidation of trybomanthracent, what would result from the union of bihthaline with dilute dichior or dibromanthracent disulphuric acid? ”
St. Angela’s, Morris, Illinois.
A party of gentlemen from this city, visiting Morris on Thursday last, called on some young lady relatives, pupils at St. Angela’s Seminary. They were highly pleased with (he excellence of that institution, which for efficiency in all its departments would compare favorably with the finest in the West. The building is a large three-story brick, situated in the suburbs of Morris, and contains apartments to which the most artistical eye could suggest no improvement. Attached thereto are ten acres of land tastefully arranged in groves, lawns and gardens, interspersed' with large arbors and traversed by winding paths .which invite to healthful recreation. Mother Francis met the visitors at the door, and after a cordial welcome conducted them to. the presence of their friends. Greetings exchanged, the visitors listened two hours to rare music by the young ladies of the institution equalling in execution aught that had ever greeted their ears. .Among many brilliant performances they highly commend a selection from Italian Opera sung by Miss Rose McQueeney. Miss Annie Crane, in a voice of peculiar sweetness, rendered “My Heart is Sad and Weary,” Miss Alice Brevoort played “ Irish Diamonds” in a highly artistic manner, Miss Annie Hall gave one of Mendelssohn’s pieces with a master hand; Misses Mollie Downe and Annie Hathaway displayed musical talent wonderful for their years. The visitors then took leave, highly impressed with the merits and management of an institution which trained the head and hand to the degree indicated by the music and conversation to which they had just listened.—Ottawa Free Trader.
Ths Navies of Europe.
The Cologne Gazette prints a list of the ironclads of the maritime powers of Europe in 1873, which it professes to have derived from recent and trustworthy sources. England, according to this, has a war navy of 38 vessels of 28,-000 horse-power, and 595 guns. Its home fleet consists of 14 large plated vessels, 4 plated batteries, and 5 plated gunboats, of more than 30,000 horse-power, and carrying 102 guns. The war navy of Russia counts 15 plated frigates and 4 cupola-vessels, of 12,000 horse-power and 154 guns. The home squadron includes 10 turreted ships and .3 plated batteries with 2,710 horse-power, and 94 guns. Germany has a war navy composed of 3 plated frigates bf 2,900 horsepower, and 55 guns (not including 5 plated frigates and 1 plated corvette, of 5,100 horse-power and 48 guns, now in course- of construction). The German coastguard fleet consists of 2 turreted ships of 600 horse-power and 7 guns. The war navy of France is composed of 16 plated frigates and 12 plated corvettes of 17,200 horse-power in all, and carrying 316 guns. The French home squadron contains 14 turretted vessels, 16 plated bateries and 6 rams of 9,320 horse-power, and cariying 268 guns, Austria has a war navy of 7 plated frigates and 4 casemated ships, of 8,150 horse-power, bearing 182 guns. There is no Austrian home squardon.. The Italian war navy consists of 12 plated frigates, 2 plated corvettes, and and 1 ram, of 9,100 horse-power, and having 168 guns. Turkey possesses a war navy of considerable strength, composed of 15 large plated war vessels, two of which have 6 in plates, of 8,530 horse-power in all, and carrying 116 guns of the heaviest calibre. Spain has 7 plated frigates. 5,900 horse

THE SCHOLASTIC;
135
power, and 145 guns, while in her. coast.fleet there are 3 turreted ships, of 1,800 horse-power, and carrying 9 guns. Finally,-the Netherlands dispose of a coastguard fleet of 22 vessels of various kinds, of 8,800 horse-power, and bearing 114 guns.	.
SAX2!TT CAST’S ACASEMT.
'	St. Mary's Academy, Dec. 11, 1873.
The past week has been, enlivened by several pleasant interruptions in the regular programme: Wednesday evening, a very fine and instructive lecture, by Professor Howard; Thursday evening, a very comical entertainment by the Graduating Class, whose drolleries were decidedly rich and gave certain evidence that hard study h rs not crushed out the humorous element in their composition.
On Saturday last the Hon. Judge Stanfield and lady, the Hon. Mayor of South Bend and lady, with Hon. S. Colfax, visited St. Mary’s. The young ladies of the Academy entertained the guests with vocal and instrumental music. The visitors seemed highly delighted with the success of an Institution which the citizens of South Bend hold in high esteem.
The entertainment given on the 5th by Mr. Bonham was very pleasing, and afforded the pupils an excellent example of the power of a good elocutionist to sway the feelings of an audience.
TABLET OF HONOR.
Senior Department.
Miss L. Kiel, M. Kearney, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, M. Letourneau, E. Haggarty, J. Lock, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtain, M. Walker, S. Sweeney, G. Walton, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, J. Walsh, A. St. Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R; Burke, A. Maloney, C. Nason, E. Sweeney, . E. Bohen, C. Wheaton, M. Reilly, M. Johnson, N. Foote, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, L. Pfeiffer, E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, N. Ball, M. Quill, N. McEwen, F. Moore, E. Quinlan, M.‘ McGuire, L. Ritchie, B. Gaffney, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, A. Nichols, M. Emmons, A. Minton, L. Wyman, J. McCool, L. Keena, M. Roberts, R. Rosesco, K. Attwood, E. Colby, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, M. Bell, L. Henroten, C. Germain, E. Ives, D. Simons, K. Casey, A. Marantette, F. Hoyt, F. Taylor, E. O’Connor, R. Klarr, L. Lilly, C. Miller, L. Johnson, S. Heckman, M. S. Murrin, E. Gosse, C. Sattrup, H. Miller, E. Mann, M. Coughlin, C. Strother, I. Hatch,%E. Taylor, M. Quill, M. Ayd, J. Haney, M. Poquette, N. O’Connell, M. Klotz, A. Garies, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, K. Patteson, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
Junior Department.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, K. and M. Hutchinson, M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, A. Lynch, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, M. Walsh, E. Parker, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, D. Bullen, M. and J. Thompson, H. Peak, K. Morehead, M. Summers, N. O’Meara-, G. White, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, A. Cullen, G. Hooley, D. Allen, A. Paulsen, E. Schnoback, A. Ewing, L. Walsh, B. Golsen, B. Pfeiffer, A. ’Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, S. Lynch, T.
Cronin, J. Sink,. M._Schneider,. G. Barry, M. Ware, E. Simpson, M. Hayes, I. and N. Mann, J. Thallman,. BT Thomas, M. and C. Hughes.
△M-Hl-Kader.
. We learn from Paris that there has just passed away a man who was not without fair pretensions to be called great. Curiously enough, the death of the famous Emir synchronises with the miserabe failure of the design to restore in France the sceptre of that Sovereign at the close of whose reign Algeria was, by French arms, under Bourmont, made a province of France. For several years after the power of France was constantly and seriously menaced by the Arabs under Abd-El-Kader—against whom Bugeaud, Lamoriciere, and other eminent French generals found themselves pitted often in conflicts that ended in African success. In the end, French valor, French discipline, and French numbers and. wealth became victorious, and the brave Emir—driven out of Morocco, where he sought and found welcome and aid until Bugeaud won his title of Duc D’lsly by victory over the Moors—surrendered to the Ducd’Aumale, then Governor-General of Algeria, upon conditions which were dishonorably violated by Louis Philippe, who lodged the Emir in prison, where he remained until set free by Napoleon HI, immediately after his accession to the imperial throne. This generosity made him a warm friend of his generous deliverer and of France.	•
UNIVEESITY OF NO TEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1344, enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	-
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
t is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, --------	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, ' -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00
Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12	50
Use of Piano,	-	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- -	2	00
Drawing, - - - -- -- -- -- - 15 CO Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,	-	-	_ - -	5	00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, S5; Scientific, $S; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are _
charged,extra, -	-	.'-	-	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LEDIONNIER, C-3.C.
President.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY MONTH.
§1,00 PER AJNTNTJM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and throu"h by every member of • the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor,
REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
128
THE SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
•WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SEN is too widely known to require any extended recommendation: but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers, and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it. condensed when unimportant, ar. full length when of moment, and always presented in a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
It is a first-rate family paper, full ofentertaiingandinstructive reading of every kind,but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best, tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected and legibly printed in its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The most iresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics regularly appear in this department.
It is an independent political paper, belonging to no party and wearing no collar. Ir fights for principle, and for the election ol the best men to office. It especially devotes its energies to the exposutc of the great corruptions that now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It has no fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially the cattle-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a year will secure it for any subscriber. It i< not necessary to get up a club in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar wul get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.
THE EIEKET S Eight, pages, fifty-six columns. Only $1.00 a year. No disc nmis from this late.
THE SE3ET-WE EKLY SUV-S .n e s’zo as theDaiiySun. $2.OOaye.r. A discount ut';2O per cent, to clubs of IO or over.	*
THE IDAlIILY SUIV.—A large four-page newspaper of twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 130,000. All the news for Scents Subscription price, 50 cents a month or §5(3.00 ayear. To clubs of 10 or over a discount of 30 per cent. Addicss, “THIS SUN. ’’New York City.
On and after Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3i. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 10 3J; Cleveland, 2.45 r. 3i.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. at.
10.10	a. at (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Ait Lines; Arrives at Elkbart. 10.50; Toledo, 5.10 p. at.
11.58	r at. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line;
• Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 0.40 p. ar.; Buffalo 4.05 a. ar.
9.11 p. ar. (No. 6). Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. "ar.
5.10 P- ar. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.	'	-
7.05 a. at. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 a. ar.
5.20 a. at. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago. 8 50 a. ar. .
5 42 a. at. (No. 9>. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7.35; • Salem Crossing, 8.05: Grand Crossing, 9.37: Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. m. (No. 1),"Speciil Chicago Express Main Line. Ar-’ rives at Laporte, 6.40; Chicago, 9.20 P. ar.
9 10 A. at. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors arc positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS, Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKS, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen'l Sup't.
THE OLD «RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BENO, INDIANA.
2®“ Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 10. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhartwithouc delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. ar., running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. m., and 4.05 p. 3i., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2, 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, K. R. Guiues, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at the head of Lafayette and Franklin Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
"A YESSRS. KVIGHT and MILLS? having become manag»rs of rhe _LV± above popular and reliable Hott-e. renovated, repaiied and furnished it with new, first class furniture, the travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and -.entlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary's will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, I Pronri„tor.
'	CAPTAIN MILLS, j 1 rol)rictors-
tatt 1X_-	-	-
NILES 1 SOUTH BEND R.R
GOING SOUTH.
PESSSILVAKSA CENTRAL DOUBLE TBAOE BAILEOAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Leave Niles, -
44
Leave South Bend, 44	44
Arrive South Bend,
7.00 a m. Arrive South Bend.
9 2) a.m	“	“
5.20 p.m.	“	'i
GOING NORTH. -
8.20 a.m.
11.00 a.m.
6.53 p.m.
Arrive Niles:
SUNDAY TRAINS.
- 10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, -
6.00 p.m. |	‘
7 35 a.ra
9.55 a.m
5.55 p.m
8.50 a.m
1130 p.m
7.20 p.m
10.30 a.m
7.00 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago. Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m t Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	‘‘	6 41 a’, m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m |	'	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh. -
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag't, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYERS. Geu’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.
S RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
LOUISVILE.E N. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.R.
. On and after Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line -	’
Kansas City Fast Express, via ’ Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington j Express (Western Division) Joliet Accommodation,	’
St. Louis and Springfield. Night
• Express, via Main Line, St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs io'Springfield only ± Except Saturday. E Daily. § Except Monday. .	.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and -a Saturday Night Tram. ’	' ',	.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	- . J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
' CHICAGO. ' J ' CHICAGO.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
♦9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m]
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m]
*9:30 a.m.. *4:30 p.m, ,*4:10 p.m. .*9:40 a.m.
t6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 57:15 a.m.
:45n.m. S7:15 a.m.
GOING NON TH.
Pass.............7.29	n.	m.
Freight..........2.48	a.	3t.
Freight..........8 57	p.	m.
Pass.............9.24	a.	m.
GOING SOUTH
Pass...............s 23 p.m.
Freight............10 47 a.m.
Freight............4.45 A.sr.
Pass...............11.23 A.M.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.