The Scholastic.
pE-VOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, IHDIANA, MARCH 6, 1875,	Humber 24.
	JNO. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG, City Judge.	Notary Public. JJAGERTY & TONG, ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW, REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines. COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.	NICAR & Co.,'	-	-	’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS, 118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA HEADQUARTERS FOR ’	’ Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc., Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., oSLtf		-
	9 Odd Fellows’ Block. -	- South. Bend, Indiana. .	o24-ly	yr nicar, * DEALER IN HARDWARE, 91 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. ALL SORTS OF Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc. —ALSO—	.	■ Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. -•	•	o24-tf		
-	Before going elsewhere, go to TH S. PECKS,	. lb,	Dealer m HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.			-
	Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.	J. STAGE,		
	J) J- HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, —ALSO— WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. 1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.	COUNTY SURVEYOR, Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc. ^°Orders expeditiously attended to.J^ Office with M. Stover, Room 22, over Wills & Sterna Washington St., South.Bend, Indiana.	" _ nov 28-% tf.		
		. NATIONAL HOTEL,		
				
	J2) E. CUMMINS, DENTIST, No. 98 Michigan Street,	- South Bend, Indiana. ■	(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m	SSontli Bend, Indiana	- At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern. Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.	. rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their 1 stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to . and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel. AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor. nov 7-8m		-
	Do you want a drive ? Go to JgEN COQUILLARD’S LIVERY STJVBLES . Corner of Michigan and Jperson Streets, South- Bend, Indiana. -	o24-2m	QEORGE HEHR, ' ■ FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GENERAL DEALER IN	' ' Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Stalls.)	.	H o24-tf		•
!	THE BOND HOUSE Niles, ----- Michigan. A. McKAY, Proprietor. Free Hick to and from all trains, for guests of the hous '	nov 28-Jgtf.	M. A. Smith.	E. P- Holloway.- - QMITH & HOLLOWAY,	• O'	Dealers in BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys and Musical Instruments. No. 77, Washington St., -	- -SOUTH BEND, IND dec 5-% 3m	-	
338
THE SCHOLASTIC.*
■pALMER & Vanwinkle, Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, magazines, Etc.
JSF” Special attention paid, to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* 'BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Send, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will he in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON,	•
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	» South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
REWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc., 76 Michigan Street, •
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
A HANAUER,
* Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
EERNE’S
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
JRELAND & SON,
'	PROPRIETORS OP
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54 MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH SEND, IND.,
(.Opposite the Dwight House).
--o---
HACK LINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” ----------------0-- DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. Jjo24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
TV yTRSSRS. KNIGHT and SULLS having become managers of the LYL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accomn odation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will, find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRY'KNtGHT, 1 CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE! ------------o-	. M. LIVINGSTON & OOI, 94. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind., We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FFRNISLIINGr GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but C1O tiling is Clieaji. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths, Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out. the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
140 and 142 Madison Street.
{Between Clark and LaSalle,)
CHICAGO, -	-	- ILL.
.	f 6 3m.
E. MAYR, Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller, -
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, bn Watches, Rings and Badges, decl-^tf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
■ For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STBEET, -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.,
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
The Scholastic
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
pTUDENTS.
Bisee quasi semper victuTiis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 6, 1875.
Number 24.
The Modern Pupil!
J. M. J. G.
I.
“I’m entered at Coboconk College, Sir!— I’m a Common School gradooate !
And the vast extent of my knowledge, Sir!
Would shock you to contemplate.
In reading I’m very good indeed ;
In writing I’m just the same ;	-
For figures I’ve quite a Chaldean greed—” ‘ ‘ Boy, know you whence you came?”	■
n.
“ It’s pleasant to be a great scholar, Sir,— To read up the earth and sky ;•
To know that this globe’s a revolver, Sir,— The wherefore of things, and the why;
It’s something, I guess, to interpretate Nature’s writing on every sod, To study her footprints’ ancient date—” “ Young man, have you studied God? ”
in.
“ I’ve read of the ages that moulder. Sir, ’Neath the ground we stand upon,— Of drift and the granite boulder, Sir, When the sun was cold and wan.
The mineral kingdom came first, you know,
' Then came vegetation’s birth, The mammals followed in cosmos slow—”
“Boy, why are you on this earth? ” . IV- ’
“ I give to this glorious study, hours, And since the great them? I began, I’m struck with the wisdom—the wondrous powers— Of whom?—of intelligent man !
I study the transit of mighty stars, And read the signs as they roll: Here Venus the bright; there ruddy Mars—” “ Young man, do you study your soul? ’’	4
v.
“ I have the ‘ologies, learnt by rote—
„ I know that a fish is a fish,—
All of its kind I could demonstrate, And shall do it, Sir, if you wish.
I mean to know all that can be known,— For Reason’s a mighty gulf, And Truth should from Reason take her tone—” uBoy, study those words:—.Know thyself!
VI.
“ To the knowledge of all things, I aspire, To know, is the only bliss;	.'
If there be any object higher,
I’ll search the next world, not this.”
“0 barren soul! whose blindness cries
To Heaven against tbe Common School!
Bearn, that with God, the idiot's wise— Without Him, Genius' self’s a fool! ”
William Slake.'
The mention of the lyric poet, Collins in the last No. of The Scholastic, naturallyrecalls the strangely similar fate of the poet upon whose shoulders was laid the mantle of neglect and doubt, poverty and toil and bitter disappointment, so long and so defiantly borne by poor Collins. William Blake was born in London the same year that Collins died (1757), and from his earliest years gave promise of poetic genius. His humble circumstance rendered hard labor necessary to his very existence, and consequently he was apprenticed to an engraver of precious metals at the age of.ten years. His education was entirely his own, and one is led to wonder that the hard, rigorous discipline of those early years did not school his heart in endurance to meet with fortitude the failure of all his bright hopes and plans. View it in whatever light we may, his career presents not one bright color to tempt the artist who would paint tbe shadowed picture of his life. Perhaps very little of profit may be acquired from the lifehistory of such men; and yet to the student and the literary man they are always objects of sincere concern, and cluster in the most incongruous of their waking thoughts. Why such unhappy men have lived is not for us to say; and that they were to blame for their own misfortunes, we are not called upon to prove. But they are men whom -students of literature remember, and whom they often pity and admire far.beyond their just due—this we know, and hence an estimate of the merits of their work is not without its moral advantage.
Although the name of this strange genius is quite familiar to students of the present generation, yet few have' read his writings with other than a feeling of compassion for the wretchedness of the man, and perhaps none with a view to analyze the doubtful title by which he holds his niche in the temple of poetic fame.	-
If indefatigable industry alone could render him a great poet, his title to the name is beyond dispute; for throughout the course of his long and checkered career he was never idle. He left at his death upwards of one hundred, large manuscript volumes of poetical composition, most of which was repeatedly, and, in many instances, wisely, rejected by the publishers. But notwithstanding his failure to convince the critics that he was a poet, he seems never to have doubted the fact himself; nothing could convince him of his own mediocrity. Nor was the idea at that time a novel one. Collins, for whom he entertained a kindly feeling, was imbued with it; Wordsworth, the most deeply inspired poet of his generation, and whom Blake, despised, was its most obtrusive exponent. It was the weakness of the geniuses among whom he lived, and it is not a
340
THE SCHOLASTIC
matter of surprise that a man of his intellect and unbound. ed sensibility should grasp with avidity such stray crumbs
of comfort to sustain his sadly tried fortitude. He saw his generation beginning to admire Collins, and henever ceased 5 ;to hope that it would shortly confer a similar favor upon
himself. Weakness and egotism were the salient traits of his character. Because he was neglected he fancied himself great, and from his obscure lodgings in the centre of London he fancied there would yet go forth a mighty power to revolutionize the literary taste of future generations-He hated the world with all the fierceness of his distorted intellect, and despised its blindness because it obstinately refused to confirm his exaggerated opinion of his own genius.
No human talent could equal the magnitude of his ambition. In the latter years of his life he ceased to admire Cicero, Ovid, Bacon and Locke, who had formerly been his models; and he now denounced them as mountebanks, egotists, and literary pirates. Milton he anathematized as “ a religious hypocrite,’.’ and even Homer and Shakspeare were “fools admired by a race of fools.” His literary criticisms are remarkable for their sweeping vindictiveness, and nothing else. It is not remarkable that he should acquire the reputation of being demented; indeed it could not well be otherwise. His delicate organization—his fierce passions—his unparalleled vanity—and his utter failure to attract the public mind,—all were admirably adapted to destroy the balance of his intellect. He often felt himself “trembling on the verge, above the awful abyss of mental oblivion,” as he describes it; but we are led to believe that his insanity was of a much tamer kind—a calm, fertile valley into which he often made incursions aud returned, almost at pleasure, laden with the gorgeous exuberance of his invisible paradise.	_
As an artist, he met with nothing but failure; and though his wonderful skill was occasionally recognized, he. received little else than pity, where his egotism demanded worship.
The question of his sanity was never definitely settled. Swinburn positively asserts that he was eccentric, but never insane; while another biographer, Mr. Rossetti, says of him: “He was a sublime genius, often entirely sane, often, for whole weeks at a time, visionary and exalte without precisely losing his hold upon sanity, and sometimes unmistakably exhibiting an insane trait.” This conclusion is more in accordance with the whimsicalities of his life.	•
His religious belief, if he could be said to have any, took the form of transcendentalism, and in his visionary moments he often fancied himself in communion with the spirits of other worlds—a pleasant companionship, no doubt, to one who had so few friends in this. The portrait painter, Richmond, was ardently attached to Blake, whom he characterizes as a faithful friend, and one deserving of immortality. The artist was one of the few men who had confidence in Blake’s genius, and, consequently, they never quarrelled. But with Haley and Stoddard he lived in a state of constant enmity, and the history of their bickerings is replete with petty feuds, and, withal, offensively minute in de'tail.	.
He never rose to the dignity of a great poet, or a great man,—he was incapable of it. He played the part of a petulant, spoiled child, whenever he appeared upon the stage, and he acted his part well. He was a genius—a great genius perhaps—but he was nothing more. The
whole order of his life seems to have been reversed. When a child, he was forced by adversity to do a man’s work; when he should have been a man, he acted like a child. His earlier poems are his best; they lack the acidity and mawkish sentimentality of his later years, and are at times exquisitely tender and sweet. They are all wanting in human interest.
Collins, whom Blake resembled in so many things, but. chiefly in misfortune, will retain his slowly acquired reputation; but it is perhaps safe to predict that a hundred years hence Blake’s poems will be out of print and his
name forgotten.
T. A. D.
Turning from Darwin to Thomas Aquinas,
Unless in thought with thee I often live, Augelic Doctor! life seems poor to me.
What are these bounties, if they only be '
Such boon as farmers to their servants give ?
That I am fed, and that mine oxen thrive,
That my lambs fatten, that mine hours are free—
These ask my nightly thanks on bended knee ;
And I do thank Him who hath blest my hive
And made content my herd, my flock, my bee.
But, Father ! nobler things I ask from Thee.
Fishes have sunshine, worms have everything I
Are we but apes ? Oh 1 give me, God, to know
I am death’s master ; not a scaffolding,
- But a true temple where Uhrist’s word could grow.
—Catholie World.
Carnivorous Plants.
Dr. Hooker in his address, delivered before the British Association at Belfast, attempted to prove that the digestion of plants is similiar to that of an animal, and also that they have a nervous system. He gave a full di scription of certain carnivorous plants which whenever they catch an insect dissolve it in a certain secretion, and assimilate it to itself. The following is a description of the principal plants he made mention of.
The first is the Diontea, or Venus’ Fly-Trap, which grows in the sandy bogs around Wilmington, North Carolina. Each leaf of this strange plant bears at its top an appendage which is very like a steel trap, and acts like one, opening and closing. This trap is always open when the sun is shining, and has on its surface several long bristles. As soon as any insect brushes against any one of these lo’ng bristles the trap suddenly closes, and captures the intruder, pressing him all the harder for his struggles, and soon depriving him of life. If the insect escapes, the	i
trap slowly opens and prepares for another capture,	di
Mrs. Mary Treat, who has made a very thorough examina- ’ tion of these singular plants, says that besides flies, they will take beetles, bugs, spiders, millepeds, aud even “Grand- ’ daddy-long-legs, which latter very leisurely drop their bod- 'I ies into the trap, leaving their long legs sticking out. She | states that the legs show signs of life from twenty-four to thirty-six hours after the victim was captured. If she freed any one of the insects after having been imprisoned two or three hours, they would look around in amazement for al moment and then speed away, uninjured. But when one ; was taken out after twenty-four hours’ imprisonment, although it might be alive, still it would never recover. By that time the insect was covered with a mucilaginous sub
THE.SCHOLASTIC.	341
stance which proved fatal to it. One of these leaves is not able to digest more than three flies; if they close on the fourth, they die soon after. It takes a leaf from seven to fourteen days to digest an insect 5 for the bugs and beetles it takes longer than it does for flies and spiders, the shell of the bug or beetle resisting the action of the slimy secretion. If, two or three days after an insect is caught, the leaf is opened, the insect is found enveloped in a copious slimy secretion; but if the leaf is left to finish the work of digestion, and opens of its own accord, the secretion disappears.
Next conies the Drosera, er the Sundew, as it is called. It is described by Mr. H. Kirke “ as consisting of a tuft of diminutive orbicular leaves, from the centre of which there shoots up in midsummer a slender stem of inconspicuous flowers.” The leaves are covered with shining scarlet hairs, secreting at their tips drops of a clear, viscid Said, resembling dew, which increases with the heat of the suit, whereas real dew under like circumstances is dried up. It is on this account the plant has derived its popular name of Sundew-. This secretion attracts by its sweetness tiny insects—such as gnats, Gies, and midges—which no sooner taste this fatal liquid than they are lost; for while the adhesive quality of this secretion serves- to hold them fast, the delicate little hairs, growing on these leaves, move slowly but surely upon their victim, fix their little points like fangs, and suck its juices, leaving nothing but a dry carcass. • They then leisurely relax their hold, return to their natural position, and await the approach of a new Victim. It lias been proven that these curious plants cannot be sustained without favoring their carnivorous habits. It is also proven that if these sensitive little hairs are touched with a straw, or a bit of paper, they will not act, and it is only when they are approached by their natural food that they show signs of life. The Sundews are natives of both the hemispheres, and are to be found in sandy and marshy places.
The Cephalotus, which is nearly allied to the Sundew, is a native of New Holland, and is described by Muller “as an almost stemless herb, the upper part of which is divided into two or three short stems that bear clusters of purplish leaves?’ Placed among these leaves are several beautiful and highly curious appendages, that are attached to the plant by rather stout stems. The form of these appendages is ovate or slipper shape; they are of a green color, tinged with purple; and they have two lateral oblique wings, and a central one that is dilated at the margin. The wings ace fringed hairs. Over the top of this trap is a cap-shaped formation, which acts as a lid. For a bait, the trap has a watery-colored fluid, which attracts insects, particularly ants. The color of the inner walls is dark purple. The main stalk rises about two feet above the cluster of leaves, and is surmounted in June-and July by a cluster of small, white flowers. This plant catches its prey in the same way as the Pitcher-plants.
The three following plants belong to the family known as that of Pitcher-plants. The first is the Sarracenia or Sidesaddle Flower, which consists of eight species, all natives of the United States. The inner surface of the tubelike flower of this plant is covered with fine bristles projecting inward and downward, which natural abattis extends to within a short distance from the bottom. Below this the tube is filled with a mucilaginous, astringent fluid, which acts both as a narcotic and as a digester of its unlucky victim. Along the outer ridge extending to the ground, there
is a secretion in the form of crystal drops of honey. Thia secretion differs from that in the tube in that it is sweet but not intoxicating. Along this pleasant but treacherous highway unwary insects are led to their destruction. For if the insect once passes over the upper edge, it becomes entangled in the labyrinth of bristles, and each of his struggles, on account of the peculiar arrangement of the bristles, ends in a further entanglement, until at length the exhausted victim falls into the liquid beneath, where he passes from the various stages of intoxication to death. So effectual is this breastwork that an insect seldom escapes, and. a tube is often found filled to the depth of several inches with decaying ants, flies, hornets, and other insects.
Another plant, very like the Sarracenia, is the Darling-tonia, which is a native of the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada. This plant has pitchers of two forms: one, pecu-. • liar to the infant plant, is made in the form of a twisted* leaf; the other is a large pitcher, with a large inflated head which acts as a roof for the trap below. From the outer edge of this head there is suspended a flabby two-loued organ, orange-red in color, and covered with a Sweet liquid on its inner surface. The internal structure of this plant is the same as the Sarracenia. It has the same abattis of bristles, used for the same purposes, and also the same intoxicating fluid. The fact that the head, which covers the tube, is waterproof, proves clearly that the fluid is a secretion, and not rain or dew. The colors of the Darlingtonia seem to have been chosen, as an additional attraction, and they seem to have been arranged to charm the eye of the insect.
The last and in many ways the most formidable of all these vegetable ghouls, is the Nephentes, or the Pitcherplant of the Indian Archipelago, which numbers upwards of thirty species, all of which are wood-climbers. The lower part of the leaf of this curious plant is expanded and is used as foliage; then it contracts into a tendril, by • which tendril the plant is enabled to climb; at the end of this tendril is a pitcher, generally of five or six inches in length; and on the end of this pitcher there is a lid which exactly fits the mouth of the pitcher. When the leaf is full- . grown, this lid opens by a hinge, and thus allows the rain and dew to enter. It is stated that these pitchers have been found, in the mountains of Borneo, measuring a foot and a half in length, and with a bowl large enough to drown a small animal or bird. As regards the interior’formation of these bowls, Dr. Hooker states that from the mouth to a variable distance down the pitcher is an opaque, glaucous surface, formed of a fine network of cells, covered with & -glass-like cuticle, thus affording no foothold to the insect who may venture within. Although always exposed to the entrance of rain and dew, the fluid in these pitchers is always acid, and hence is evidently a secretion of the plant, and is intended as an aid for digestion. It is plainly evident that these plants need this animal food for their proper growth and development; and Mr. Ravenel, who carefully examined a cross-section of one of the pitcher-plants, found near the bottom tubular cells leading down through the petiole or stem, into the main stalk. Through these canals the liquid manure is conveyed to various parts of the plant.	Fairfield.
—Two medical societies met in Portland the other day. A car load of grave-stones also arrived during the day. It is not often that the eternal fitness of things sticks out in this manner.—Portland Press,
242
THE SCHOLASTIC
Health.
Health consists in being free from physical ailments, and is, therefore, the natural state of the body. It is the greatest of earthly blessings, for if we are unhealthy we can find no enjoyment or pleasure, and life is a drag. A person without health can do no good for himself or anyone else, because he is continually downcast and troubled, and cannot engage in any vocation, consequently life posses slowly and sadly.
Persons who enjoy good health should, therefore, make proper use of it. They'should be thankful to their bountiful Creator for His great kindness in bestowing on them, perhaps not worthy, this greatest of blessings. They should employ* it in the service of God, and make all their actions redound to His glory and praise; they should never forget His kindness to them, and in their turn they should be kind to those who are not so fortunate as themselves, and do all the good they can for their fellow-beings.
They should try to preserve their health, and show their Creator that they appreciate His goodness. They should be temperate in eating and drinking, and abstain from all vices and irregularities which tend to •weaken their minds and constitutions.
They should work, and work cheerfully, not imposing too heavy a task on themselves, but endeavoring to find some occupation suited to their strength and ability; they should also take sufficient exercise to keep their bodies and minds fresh and active.	.
One cause of the unhealthy condition of persons living in cities is uncleanliness. If cleanliness is neglected for any length of time, one is almost sure to catch some infectious disease. Persons should therefore keep from all impurities and uncleanliness, as otherwise sickness is sure to result.	•
But if God in His wisdom ordains that a person shall lose his health altogether, or for a certain time, the person so afflicted should suffer patiently, and receive his misfortune from the hand of Go 1. He should moreover do all in his power to regain his health, and be careful of himself, to hasten his recovery;—he should employ a good physician, aud take whatever is prescribed for him. cheerfully and regularly, as this is the only course for him to pursue in order to regain his health. When sick, he should not be impatient and surly, but should take every, thing coolly as it comes, be kind to everyone, and not be forever complaining, as is the habit of too many sick persons. He should not trouble himself about any unnecessary business, or think of anything that might bother him, as all these things tend to increase his illness, while their opposites will, in a great measure, hasten his recovery.
“ Mack.”
Literature.
The Messenger of the Sacred Heart of Jesus : A Monthly Bulletin of the Apostleship of Prayer. March, 1875. Baltimore ; John Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore street. Terms, §2.10 per annum.
The contents of this monthly are: I, Devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus; II, St. Eudoxia; III, The Acolyte; or the Play of a Free Will; IV, St. Ni na; V, The Popes in Exile; VI, Princess Amalia Gallitzin; VII, The Apos-■ tolate of the Week; VHI, General Intention; IX, Graces Obtained. The number is very entertaining.
The Young Crusader: A Monthly Magazine. Boston: No. 15 Cornhill. March, 1875. Terms, §1.50 per annum.
The contents of this excellent magazine for boys are: I, Two Ways; II, St. Cuthbert; III. Lucy; IV, Chickadeedee; V, Little Kit; VI, Practicing; VTI, Canoes; VIII, Lulu’s Birthday Party; IX, Down the Danube in a Canoe; besides short extracts. The Young Crusader is an excellent magazine for boys and girls.	■
—The Sodesianum has been added to our list of Exchanges. It -is a very neatly printed journal, and seems to be conducted with ability.	'
—Messrs. D. & J. Sadlier & Co. announce as in press, “ The Orphan’s Friend,” by Rev. Ar A. Lambing, and “ Bits of Blarney” by R. Shelton Mackenzie.
—The Kreuzer Bros, of Baltimore, are issuing a series of Catechisms by the Rev. Father Muller. "
Scientific Notes.
—The subject of underground temperatures, at the Brit-tish Association, was treated in a report by Professor Everett, in which it is pointed out that the average result thus far is that the temperature increased at the rate of 1° Fahr, in every 50 or 60 feet in depth. A very valuable set of observations has been received from a mine, 1,900 feet deep, in Prague, Bohemia. The depths and corre-
sponding temperatures are as follows: Test.................................
68..............................
299..............................
621..............7...............
939................................
1,290..............................
1,414..............................
1,652..............................
1,900..............................
" Fahr. .47,9 .48,8 .50,7 .57.8 .58.3 .59,4 .61,2 .61,4
—Herren Behum and Wagner have recently published their measurements of the earth. According to them, the length of the poles’ axis is 12,712,136, metres; that of the maximum diameter 12,756,538 metres, the minimum 12,752,701 metres, the circumference is on the shortest meridian 40,000,038, and on the longest, 40,060,903 metres.
—The twenty-first recorded return of Ence’s Comet was first observed by Prof. Holden and Paymaster Tuttle, on the night of the2Gth of January, after a diligent search,' during a whole month, to ascertain its position. It is a telescope comet, and will reach its perhilion on the 13th of April, and arrive at its nearest point to the earth on he 4th of May, when its distance will be about fifty million miles.
—A characteristic effect of snake-poison is rapid decomposition of muscular tissue. From Dr. West Mitchell's-experimentsit appears that after a few hours the wounded muscle becomes almost diffluent, and assumes a dark color' and somewhat jelly-like appearance; under the microscope it has the appearance of a map of minute granules.
—The “Copley Medal” of the London Royal Society, for the year 1874, has been awarded to M. Louis Pasteur, for his researches on Pebrine (a disease of the silk-worm); the “Pumford Medal” to J. Norman Lockyer, for his spectroscopic researches on the sun and on the chemical elements; a “Royal Medal” to Prof. Wm. C. Williamson, for his contributions to Zoology and Paleontology; and a “Royal Medal” to Henry Clifton Sooby, for his researches on slaty cleavage, and on the minute structure of minerals.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
343
„	Musical Notes.
—The Vocal Class are preparing a number of first-class songs for St. Patrick’s Day.	,
—The Mendelsshou Club have not rehearsed much lately.
—Three or four new members have been added to the Orchestra. It is intended to double the number of instruments. By the way, why not add a kettle-drum?
—What is the reason we have such a few number of flute players here, this year?
Society Notes.
—The 22nd regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held Feb. 25th. At this meeting the following deserve honorable mention for declamation: L. Pilliod, J. French, H. Quan, and E. Courtney. After a lengthy discussion, about the origin of the “Prince of Portage Prairie,” etc., the meeting adjourned.
—The 2Gth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Feb. 28th. At this meeting the debate: Resolved, “That Railroads are Beneficial,” took place. The affirmative was supported by Messrs. Solon, Foxen, Downey, Best, Perea and McNamara. The negative was sustained by Messrs. Minton, Wood, Arnold, Dore, and McIntyre. At the close of the debate, the President summed up the arguments, and gave his decision, accordingly, in favor of Railroads. He then made some lengthy remarks, on the manner in which the debate was carried on, and praised several of the members for their care in preparing their speeches. Sir. Schmidt then read an essay on “Truth,” and Messrs McNamara and Minton delivered declamations. After this, Master A. Kramer was unanimously elected a member.	■
—The St. Aloyisus Philodemic Association held their 4th regular meeting of the second session last Tuesday evening, Prof. Dailey presiding. After the reading of the criticism of the last meeting by Sir. Skahill, the Society proceeded to consider the subject of debate: “Resolved, That the Capitol of the United States Should be Removed to the Mississippi Valley.” The disputants were: on the affirmative, Messrs. Hoyt, Kelly and Graves; on the negative, Messrs. Mathews, Ball and Grier. Mr. Hoyt opened the debate in a pleasing manner, and showed an improvement on former efforts. Mr. Ball spoke with animation, but briefly, not having prepared sufficiently. The other speakers have done much better on former occasions. The J decision was in favor of the affirmative. Mr. Monahan delivered an essay on “ Industry”; Mr. Caren, a declamation.	.
. —The Columbians will give the Entertainment on St. Patrick’s Day.
—The first meeting of the Academia was held on the afternoon of Wednesday, March 3rd, Mr. Gillen acting as Secretary. After adopting rules and regulations for the govern’ ment of the Association, an election of officers took place, ‘ which resulted as follows: Director, Rev. Father Bigelow;
President, Rev. J. A.Zahm; Vice-President,T. A.Dailey; Secretary, E. J. McLaughlin; Treasurer, T. F. Gallagher. The next regular meeting will take place on the last Monday of March. -
—No two men ever thought more of each other than Pope and Bishop Atterbury. The great poet was a Catholic (“a good Catholic,” as he was styled by his great French cotemporary Racine), while- Bishop Atterbury, as a matter of course, was a most zealous and able defender of the Protestant cause. He seems to have been the only Protestant clergyman of rank that concerned himself in relation to Pope’s Catholicity, and it was evidently the love he bore the poet that induced him, on so many occasions, to “argue the point” with him. Quite a number of their letters to each other are of a controversial character—and on the Bishop’s side teem with solicitude to bring over the illustrious little poet to the true faith. But, remarkable as it may appear, Pope, in his replies, proved himself, as a theologian, to be quite upon a par with his exalted and learned antagonist. As a last resort, the Bishop enumerated and recommended to the poet’s earnest and thorough perusal a batch of Protestant works, which he (the Bishop) implored his beloved little friend to read. Pope’s reply was to the effect that, at “ the age of fourteen," he had carefully read the works in question—as, also, the Catholic publications bearing upon the same, and had come to the sincere conclusion that the Catholic was the true faith. Poor Bishop!—Pen and Plow.
—Two painters were employed to fresco the walls of a magnificent cathedral; both stood on a rude scaffolding, constructed for the purpose, some eighty feet from the floor. One of them was so intent upon his work that he became absorbed, and, in admiration, stood off from the picture, gazing at it with delight. Forgetting where he was, he moved backward slowly, surveying critically the work of his pencil, until he had neared the end of the plank upon which he stood. At this critical moment his companion turned suddenly, and, almost frozen with horror, beheld his imminent peril; another instant and the en- . thusiast would be precipitated upon the pavement beneath; if he spoke to him it was certain death—if he held his peace, death was equally sure. Suddenly he regained his presence of mind, and seizing a wet brush, flung itagainst the wall, spattering the beautiful picture with unsightly blotchesof coloring. The painter flew forward, and turned npon his friend with fierce imprecations; but, startled at his ghastly face, he listened to the recital of danger, looked suddenly over the dread space'below, and with tearsof gratitude blessed the hand that saved him. So we sometimes get absorbed in looking upon the pictures of this world, and, in contemplating them, step backward, unconscious of our peril, when the Almighty dashes out the beautiful images, and we spring forward to lament their destruction— into the outstretched arms of mercy, and are saved.—Pen and Plow. 	.
—Carlyle says nine-tenths of the miseries and vices of manhood proceed from idleness;-with men of quick minds, to whom it is especially pernicious, this habit is commonly the fruit of many disappointments and schemes oft baffled; and men fail in their schemes, not so much for the want of strength, as from the ill-direction of it. The weakest living creature, by concentrating his powers upon a single object, can accomplish something; the strongest, by dispersing his over many, may fail to accomplish anything.	-________ ____________
—“What can’t be cured must be sold fresh,” is what they say in Porkopolis.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Suhulastic* *
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana. .
TEBM3:
Oneyear......................................tl CO
Single copies (Sets.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
The Scholastic fen* the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is. fifty cents; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Earns P.- 0., Infl.
I —In the year, 178&, the Catholies of the city of London, \l at the earnest request of Mr. Pitt, submitted to six of the principal Catholic Universities of Europe the three following propositions, viz:
•	“ Has the Pope or Cardinals, or any body of men, or any
individual of the Church of Rome, any civil authority, power, jurisdiction, or pre-eminence whatsoever, within the realm of England ?
.	“ Can the Pope or Cardinals, or any body of men, or any
individual of the Church of Rome, absolve or dispense his majesty’s subjects from their oath of allegiance, upon any pretext whatsoever ?	'
Is there any principle in the tenets of the Catholic faith by which Catholics are justified in not keeping faith with Heretics, or other persons differing from them in religious opinions, in any transaction, either of a public or a private nature?”
To these propositions the Sacred Faculty of Divinity of Paris, after an introduction according to the usual form of the University, answered;
“ Neither the Pope, nor the Cardinals, nor any body of men, nor any other person of the Church of Rome, hath any civil authority, civil power, civil jurisdiction, or civil pre-eminence whatsoever in any kingdom; and consequently, none in the kingdom of England, by reason or virtue of any authority, power, jurisdiction or pre-eminence by divine institution inherent in, or granted, or by any other means belonging to the Pope, or the Church of Rome. This doctrine the sacred faculty of Divinity of Paris has always held, and upon every occasion maintained and upon every occasion has rigidly* proscribed the contrary doctrines from her schools.
“Neither the Pope, nor the Cardinals, nor any body of men, nor any person of the Ciiurch of Rome, can, by virtue of the keys, absolve or release the subjects of the king of England from their .oath of allegiance. .
“This and the first query are so intimately connected, that the answer of the first immediately and naturally applies to the second, etc.
“ There is no tenet in the Catholic Church, by which Catholics are justified in not keeping faith with Heretics, or those who differ from them in matters of religion. The tenet, that it is lawful to break faith with Heretics, is so repugnant to common honesty and the opinions of Catholics, that there is nothing of which those who have defended the Catholic faith against Protestants, have complained more heavily, than the malice and calumny of their adversaries in imputing this tenet to them, etc., etc., etc.”
The Faculty of Divinity of the University of Douay, on the 5th day of January, sent a reply to the propositions, as follows
“(To the first and second queries the faculty answers— That no power whatsoever, in civil or temporal concerns, was given by the Almighty, either to the Pope, the Cardinals, or the Church herself, and, consequently, that kings and sovereigns are not in temporal concerns, subject^ by the ordination of God, to any ecclesiastical power whatsoever ; neither can their subjects, by any authority granted to the Pope or the Church, from above, be freed from their obedience, or absolved from their oath of allegiance. _
“ This is the doctrine which the doctors and professors * of Divinity hold and teach in oar schools, and this all the candidates for degrees in Divinity maintain in their public theses, etc., etc., etc.
“To the third question the sacred faculty answers— That there is no principle of the Catholic faith, by which Catholics are justified in not keeping faith with Heretics, who differ from them in religious opinion. On the contrary, it is the unanimous doctrine of Catholics, that the respect due to the name of God, so called to witness, requires that the oath he inviolably kept, to whomsoever it is pledged, whether Catholic, Heretic, or Infidel, etc., etc., etc.”
The reply of the Faculty of Divinity of Louvain was:
“The faculty of divinity at Louvain, having been requested to give her opinion upon the questions above stated does it with readiness—but struck with astonishment that such questions should at the end of this eighteenth century be proposed to any learned body, by inhabitants of a kingdom that glories in the talents and discernment of its natives. The faculty beingassembled for the above purpose, it is agreed with the unanimous assent of all voices to answer the first and second queries absolutely in the negative.	’
“The faculty does not think it incumbent upon her in this place to enter upon the proofs of her opinion, or to show how it is supported by passages in the Holy Scriptures, or the writings of antiquity. That has already been done by Bossuet, De Marca, the two Barclays, Goldastas, the Pithteuses, Argentre Widrington, and his majesty king James the First, in his dissertation against Bellarmine and Du Perron, and by many others, etc., etc., etc.
~ “ The faculty then proceeds to declare that the sovereign power of the state is in nowise (not even indirectly, as it is termed) subject to or dependent upon any other power, though it be a spiritual power, or even though it be instituted for eternal salvation, etc., etc.
“ That no man nor any assembly of men, however eminent in dignity and power, not even the whole body of the Catholic Church, though assembled in general council, can, upon any ground or pretence whatsoever,-weaken the" bond of union between the sovereign and the people; still less can they absolve or free the subjects from their oath of allegiance.	.
“Proceeding to the third question, the said faculty of Divinity (in perfect wonder that such a question should be proposed to her) most positively and unequivocally answers—That there is not, and there never has been among the Catholics, or in the doctrines of the Church of Rome, any law or principle which makes it lawful for Catholics to break their faith with heretics, or others of a djffi rent persuasion from thenlselves in matters.of religion, either in public or private concerns.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
34$ .
t
7 y
“ The faculty declares the doctrine of the Catholics to be, that the Divine and natural law, which makesit a duty to keep faith and promises, is the same: and is neither shaken nor diminished if those with whom the engagement is made hold erroneous opinions iu matters of religion, &c. &c.”	-
The same propositions were answered by the Faculty of Divinity of Alcala, in these words:
“ To the first question it is answered—That none of the persons mentioned in the proposed question, either individually, or collectively in council assembled, have any right in civil matters: but that all civil power, jurisdiction and pre-eminence are derived from inheritance, election, the consent of the people, and other such titles of that nature.	.
“ To the second it is answered, in like manner—That none of the persons above-mentioned have a power to absolve the subjects of his Britannic majesty from their ’ oaths of allegiance.
“ To the third question it is answered—That the doctrine which would exempt Catholics from the obligation of keeping faith with Heretics, or with any other persons who dissent from them in matters of religion, instead of being an.article of Catholic faith, is entirely-repugnant to its tenets.”
The University of Salamanca replied to the propositions, on the 17th of March, 1789, as follows: •
“ To the first question it is answered—That neither Pope, nor Cardinals, nor any assembly or individual of the Catholic Church, have, as such, anj’ civil authority, power, jurisdiction cr pre-eminence in the kingdom of England.
“To the second it is answeied—That neither Pope nor Cardinals, nor any assembly or individual of the Catholic Church, can, as such, absolve the subjects of Great Britain from their oaths of allegiance, or dispense with its obligations.
“To the third it is answered—That it is no article of Catholic faith that Catholics are justified in not keeping faith with heretics, or with persons of any other description, who dissent from them in matters oFreligion.”
On the same day the University of Valladolid answered the same in the words following:
“To the first question it is answered—That neither Pope, Cardinals, or even a general council, have anj’ civil authority, power, jurisdiction or pre-eminence, directly or indirectly, in the kingdom of Great Britain : or over any other kingdom or province in which they possess no temporal dominion.
“To the second it is answered—That neither Pope nor Cardinals, nor even a general council, can absolve the subjects of Great Britain from their oaths of allegiance, or dispense with their obligation.
“To the third it is answered—That the obligation of keeping faith is grounded on the law of nature, which binds all men equally, without respect to their religious opinions; and with regard to Catholics, it is still more cogent, as it is confirmed by the principles of their religion.”
These, propositions and the replies to them by these great Universities will be interesting at this day, when the same questions are brought forward by the late Premier of England. All persons should understand that since the promulgation of the dogma of Infallibility the powers and authority of the Popes have been in nowise changed, but remain the same as they were in the person of Peter 1
and his successors. We give the answers of the learned Universities without other comment.
—The conduct of Pope Zachary, in regard to the succession of Pepin to the French throne, has not unfrequently been severely criticised by non-Catholics. However, when we rightly understand the condition of affairs in France, and the reply of-the Pope to the French embassy, we cannot find anything for which to blame the Pope.
Eginhard, who lived shortly after the affair of which he writes, says: “Buchard and Fulrad were sent to Rome, for the purpose of consulting Pope- Zachary concerning the kings who were then in France, and who, having the name of kings, did not enjoy any portion of the royal power. The answer was: ‘It were better that he should be king in whom the sovereign authority resided.’” Now what was the state of the French monarchy at the time this declaration was made? Childeric III, a descendant of Clovis, was king of France, but he enjoyed none of the prerogatives of a king. The successors of Clovis were weak and indolent, abandoning the cares of the realm to their ministers. The monarchy was almost on the brink of ruin ; and was saved from annihilation only by the efforts of Charles, surnamed Martel, the mayor of the palace. Pepin, the son of Charles, succeeded to the power of bin father and led the hosts of France to victory, exercising all the powers of a sovereign. France presented the extraordinary spectacle of having a king only in name, while another was, in fact, the real king. This slate of affairs gave great discontent to the people of^France.
Among the natives of Northern Europe the crown was originally elective. It had, among the French, become hereditary on account of the extraordinary ability of their first king. But the last descendants of Clovis had, by their weakness and incapacity, brought upon themselves the contempt of the French lords, and it was only natural that these lords should endeavor to revive the. ancient . mode of succession to the throne, and thus obtain a successor to the throne worthy of ruling them. The family of Pepin enjoyed all the prerogatives of kings save the name. All the burdens of the government devolved upon them. At home and abroad they were looked upon as the real rulers, while the Merovingian kings were left simply to the ruling of their own household. This, in itself, was a good and sufficient reason why the French lords should return to their ancient method of electing their sovereigns. Besides, a great length of time had not elapsed since the custom had fallen into disuse, and it was of great good to the state that it be revived.
Pepin, then, being king in fact, resolved upon being king in name. He desired the sanction of the Apostolic See because the whole nation was faithful in its attachment to it and paid to it the highest respect. It was to his interest to obtain the sanction of the Pope, and have his election confirmed by him, because he could then more safely depend upon the loyalty of his subjects. For this purpose the embassy of which we spoke above was sent to Rome, and to them Zachary made the reply: “It were better that he should he king in whom the sovereign authority resided.”
By this reply of the Pope, the laws of justice and wisdom were in nowise endangered. All persons should see the justice and good that would accrue to the state by having him enjoy the title of king who exercised the kingly authority. Far from disturbing the peace and welfare of

346
THE SCHOLASTIC.
the state, it would rather serve to protect them. Were things to remain as they were before Pepin’s time, there would have been two rulers in France: the one nominal, the other real, and this contrary to the constitution of the empire and the wishes of the people. How many civil wars the prudent reply of the Sovereign Pontiff prevented we can never know.
—We .see that the New York Observer and some other papers in the United States have taken up the charge made by Gladstone with respect to the civil allegiance of Catholics. We came across, the other day, the reply of the late Bishop England, of Charleston, to a similar charge, made in 1824, by the mount Sion missionary. We. print the whole reply; and if the reader will simply strike out the name of the mount Sion missionary. General Jackson, and Bishop Dubourg, and substitute that of the Observer and those of any General and Bishop in the United States, he will have an excellent reply to the Observer, or any other paper making similar charges.
Bishop England writes:
“Now, were we disposed to amuse ourselves, what scope is given to the imagination? And, really, we scarcely know how to be serious in this case. Let us see, on one side, his Holiness Pope Leo XII granting to his trusty and well-beloved son, King George IV, his old American possessions, and the Duke of Wellington sent out to take possession; and, on the other side, the American Catholics called upon to give up their possessions. Now, does the editor of the missionary believe the Catholics of Louisiana would desert Old Hickory, who, no doubt, would be sent to New Otleans again, if necessary? Let us suppose the Catholics disaffected, and the General a little more accommodating than usual. He waits upon the Bishop, bows to him, and, kneeling, asks his blessing to win his heart. Doctor Dubourg requests the General to be seated, and the following dialogue takes place:
Bishop. My dear General, I am charmed, truly delighted to meet you, and quite edified by your piety. Can I do anything to serve you ? to gratify you ?
Gen. You recollect, sir, I protected New Orleans on a former occasion from the British rapacity and profligacy; for which, jou prayed the bh ssings of Heaven upon me, and thanked me in your Cathedral.
Bishop. Yes, General, and we feel the same sentiments of gratitude still, and ever shall pray for your welfare, and venerate you as the instrument used by God to save us from the worst calamities.
Gen. But the British forces are again arrived, and I am again called upon to do my duty. Why do I not find the members of your flock in my ranks ?
Bishop. My dear General, they feel now as they did then. But there is a very material change of circumstances.	.
Gen. Will you not exhort them to support me—to protect their country—to fulfil the obligations which they have contracted with the Government—to observe their oaths ?	.
Bishop. Why really, General, I feel a little delicacy in doing so at present, and I will take it as a great favor, if you will not press me to an explanation.
Gen. What can be your objection now ? You have done so on a former occasion ?	.
- Bishop. Yes; my dear General, it is true I then did so, but the circumstances were different from what they now are.
Gen. Wbatis the difference? Is it not the same enemy ?	\j
Have you not the same property to protect ? Have you not the same motives for action ?
Bishop. Yes, General; but have you not heard of the Proclamation of the Duke of Wellington? and of my having received a particular order to publish it to my flock?
Gen. What order? From whom?
Bishop. You seem to be a little moved; but, General, I must do my duty, and feel equally disposed to fulfil it as you do to fulfil yours.
Gen. I desire no more: I am only come to request the performance of that duty; it is the duty of a Bishop to exhort his flock to fulfil their obligations. Your flock are obliged to preserve that Government which they have established, and contracted with, and which has fulfilled its part of the compact. It is their duty to defend their houses, and their families, and their country; and I request you will discharge your duty, in exhorting them to the discharge of theirs.
Bishop. But, General, seriously, did you not hear that Pope Leo XII bestowed this country on his most sacred majesty, King George IV, and. the Duke of Wellington is only come hither to take possession for King George IV ? I cannot oppose him.
Gen. Sir, you are a traitor. What has Pope Leo to do in this ?
Bishop. I am no traitor. The Pope can give away kingdoms and republics too, and be has done so.
Gen. But the British will take your houses and property : you will be stript of all.
Bisnop. We are aware of that, and have no remedy.
Gen. Will you not defend your property?	.
Bisnop. God forbid. It would be a crime against our faith to keep a particle, because the Pope has given it all away.
Gen. But I am at a Joss to know what right Pope Leo XII has to bestow a place which never was his, and to transfer property which never belonged to him.
Bishop. Upon that there can be no question; for the editor of the miss onary, published at Mount Zion, in Hancock County, Georgia, has a good library, is an excellent critic, has made a critical examination, and has a tender conscience; and thus qualified, he has declared that the Pope possesses temporal power over all the goods and possessions of Christians, to dispose of them as kepleases. Now we have seen his Bulls disposing of our goods and possessions to the British soldiers. We trust you do not mean to complete our misery by stripping us of the title of Christian, as his Holiness has stripped us of our goods and possessions. We must sooner give up the goods of life, than those of eternity; we must not destroy our souls.
Gen. Well, do as you please with goods and possessions, but you must defend the nation and its Government.
Bishop. That is impossible, for the same learned Theban has taken upon his conscience to assure us, that this power of the Pope extends “even to the transferring of kingdoms from one to another”: and this has been transferred to King George.	-
Gen. But this is not akingdom; this is a republic. The Pope cannot bestow this.
Bishop. That is a Jesuitical quibble: a vain distinction. His power must be construed widely, and favorable to him. The word kingdoms means any territory.
Gen. When Popes formerly made those transfers, it was not upon the plea of Divine power inherent in them, but

THE SCHOLASTIC.
34?
upon the plea of previous contract, of some kind or other. Between the Pope and us, there is no contract of this description, though lie might have had the power formerly, ■in special ca-es, upon those grounds. He has no such grounds as regards this Union; you must then defend it, or else------”
We acknowledge that we have taught the General much patience, and given him more words than he would be disposed to use. But does any one imagine Bishop Dubourg would be the fool, the simpleton, this exhibition would designate? Yet, if the principle of the Missionary .were true, such would be the language of the Bishop.”
Just as matters were in 1824, when this humorous imag-ginary conversation took place, so they are now; and, making the proper changes in the names, we would have take place just what the Observer declares. Of course all Catholics know that the Pope never, in the exercise of his authority, can do wrong hence, if he cannot do wrong, he cannot absolve us from our civil allegiance.
Personal,
—Dr. Cassidy, of’66, was the first graduate in the Scientific course.
—Rev. P. J. Golovin went to Chicago on business last Wednesday.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael, of ’74, is doing good work in Indianapolis.
—Very Rev. Father Benoit, V. G., has been with us for the week past. .
—Rev. Father Graham left us on Monday last. Success attend him.
—The first President of the University, Very Rev. E. Sorin, is still living.
—Very Rev. A. Granger was the first Director of Stud-' ies of the University.
—Bro. James has been reinstated as Director of the Manual Labor School.
—M. McCormack is recovering from his sickness. He
■ will be out in a few days.	-
—The Janitor has been kept very busy by the great number of visitors to the College.
—Of the. Presidents of the University, two are dead viz; Revs. P. Dillon and A. Lemonnier.
—Prof. A. J. Stace, we see by the South Bend papers, is taking an active interest in the Plymouth Railroad.
—Very Rev. Father Benoit. V. G , left for Fort Wayne on the 5 th. We. would be pleased to see the Very Rev. gentleman here frequently.
—Of the different. Directors of Studies at Notre Dame, five are d< ad viz., Revs. F. Cmntet, N. H. Gillespie, J. M. Dillon, P. Dillon and A. Lemonnier.
—The first “ Graduates ” of the Commercial Course were Charles Boylan of Illinois, John G. Prell of Indiana, Wm. Bunbury of Michigan, John Byrne of Wisconsin and John H. Cody of Indiana. They received their diplomas in June, 1860.	__________ _____________
Local Items.
—Skat! '	'
—Bulletins.
—Have you a card ?
—Very little local news.
—Snow-storms every day.
—The sleighing is still good.
—Bulletins on Wednesday last.
—Have you seen the new Lamp ?
—The card frenzy still continues.
—Dick received 1500 cards at one time.
—Those squeaky doors ought to be oiled.
—They are still working away in the new church.
—Wednesday morning was too cold for some boys.
—Great preparations are being made for St. Patrick’s Day.	'
—Prof. Gregori is still at work on the Stations for the new church.
" —There are many visitors to see the Sanctuary Lamp. It’s a beauty.
—Window-curtains were never intended to be used as handkerchiefs.	’
—The monthly meeting of the Faculty was held on Wednesday last.	,
—Rev. Father Zahm received a number of works for the College Library.
—If you don’t patronize the Circulating Library ypt. don’t belong to the ton.	■ /
—The Columbians will make their first public appearance on St. Patrick’s Day.	’
—Now, that hedgelmg should be flayed alive if this is what it calls good weather!
—The upper corridors in the College are receiving a fresh touch wiih the brush. ■
—We hear that Rev. Father Golovin is to preach the panegyric of St. Patrick on the 17tb.
—The number of subscribers in the Junior Department to the Circulating Library is very great.
—The snow-storm prevented all travel in the neighborhood of Notre Dame on Wednesday last. 4
—All the tables, except two belonging to the Amusement Club in the Senior Hall, have been done away with.
—All persons who desire to see the new Lamp, maybe satisfied by calling at the reception-room in the Presbytery. .
—“ Our friend John” says that, those who have charge of funerals are called undertakers, because they take people under ground.
—Prof. O’Mahony has b°gun practicing the young Columbians for St. Patrick’s Day. We expect to see an enjoyable Exhibition.
—Messrs. Ryan, Pugh. Cullen, O'Connell and Monahan deserve credit as powerful auxiliaries to the Thespians at the Exhibition of the 23rd.
—A large number of the pupils of the High School of Mishawaka paid the College a visit on Tuesday last. Every year they make the visit duting sleighing time. They are always welcome.
—A correspondent calls our attenHon to the fact that great, credit is due to Prof. T. F. O’Mahony for his labors in behalf of the Thesoians. It was our ignorance alone which caused us to make no mention of him in the regular report of the exhibition.	.
—A regular old fashioned spelling match took place he.re, the other day. for the pie. The sides were led by Messrs. Mitchell and Faxon. Mr. Mitchell’s side won the pie, which they generously divided with the conquered side. The b- st spellers were Messrs. Courtney, Frazee, Best and Monahan.
—And now we understand that still another lot of hooks will be purchased for the Lemonnier Circulating Library, in a few days. The Circulating Library has lately become the great institution among the students, and deservedly so, for it supplies them with many good things. Everyone should become a subscriber.
—One case of book* in the Circulating Librarv has been named after Tim*. J. Ewing, Editor of the Columbus Herald, who presented 50 vols. to the Library. Another case has been named after Prof. 0. M. Schnurrer, who donated thirty volumes. We are pleased to see the friends of the Library thus honored for their donations.
—Our friend John is “ no good ” at weather prophesying. He said that the thunder and lightning on the 22nd was
SIS
THE SCHOLASTIC.
a sign that Spring was coming; be told us that the snow ■would soon be gone for good; and now we have it kme-deep, and tbe Spring wi 1 come—we don’t know when. We would advise him to let the weather question drop. It’s very uncertain.
—The thanks of the Directors of the Lemonnier Circulating Library are tendered to W. J. Fullerton, T. Kinsella. Jno. D. O'Hara and B. Camillus, for donations of books, M r. O’Hara presented a copy of “ Munchausen’s Travels,” “Don Quixote,” and “Life in China;” W. J. Fullerton gave Jules Vernes’ “ Field of Ice;” T. Kinsella presented “Memoir of Hon. Thos. Ewing;” and B. Camillus gave copies of “ Popular Poetry,’’ “ Pursuit of Knowledge.” 2 vols; “Snarleyow” and “Chronology and Universal History.”
—The New Sanctuary Lamp arrived on Saturday last, it is truly a magnificent work of art.
The base of tbe whole work consists of a bud bursting into bloom. From this bud ascend several exquisite lilies, from tbe centre of which emerges the point of the Lamp, which gracefully expands into a mass of golden arabesque crowned by a circlet of blue enamel ot various shades. The section is attached to the Lamp proper by three green pendants fashioned after “the stj le of a crosier. The body of the Lamp represents an antique urn, ornamented with eglantines, foliage and flowers, which tastefully follow the classical contour of dbe vase. From the interior of this vase there shoot up three delicate branches, which draw together and th< n expand into a mass of beautiful drooping petals. In the centre of this mass rests a crown whose charming filagree adonis, without concealing, the crystal chalice which contains the oil. The circlet of the crown is blue, with tbe inscription, in Latin: “ In Him was Life, and the Life was the Light of men.” An aureole at twelve gold and blue stars, with intervals of golden foliage, ornaments the top of tbe crown. In the midst of this constellation tbe sacred light burns.
The upper portion of This fine wotk consists of three dragons, represented as struggling with impotent rage to escape from the humiliation of supporting tbe blessed light. These figures are the most costly portion of tbe work, Their 03es are ot rose topazis; their head of solid silver, surmounted by an egret of lilac and golden plumage. Nine topazes and Eastern tmquoises glitter amid their feathers. Each throat is garnished with a beautiful cornelian. On the back of tbe neck is a bristling crest of malachite, while the quills of each wing are fastened with the latter precious material and Indian garnet. Between these brilliant figures thi re are tbiee shields, blue, with a golden repre?entation of scenes in the Nativity of Our Lord, wherein he manifes s Himself, by lights,—to the shep-heids. the Magi, and in His own Divine Petson. Three beautiful chains of golden leaves, flowers and blue globules, attached to the dragons’ necks, meet above in the inner centre of a leflecting crown, composed of tbe monogram “ A. M.” (Ate Maria) interlaced with the cross and six broad leaves. From the bottom of tbe Lamp hang two goldm pendants connected about the middle by a medallion on which there is the following inscription: “ This Lamp has been pmented to the Sauctuaryof Our Lady of the Sacied Ileart at Motre Lame, Indiana, by the devoted friends of Jesus and Mary in America, as a token of their faith and burning lore, to keep scutch in their names and perpetuate through the day and through the night their adorations, their praises, and their suppliMtionsbsfore the august'Sacrament of the Altar, December 8,1874.” From the foregoing faint description, we may form some idea of the exceeding beauty of this exquisite specimen of Christian art.
x Chapel of Our Lady of Lourdes.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY OF REV. A. LEMONNIER, C. S. C.
Very Kev. Julian Benoit, V. G., Fort Wayne,Ind. .$70 00
Rev. Jno. Ford, P. P., St. Joseph’s, Ind......... 10	00
Dr. R. H. Barrett, Cuba"..........................10	00
Master P. Guilloz, St. Louis, Mo.................. 3	00
Additional Arrivals.
Joseph P. Devine,............San Antonio, Texas^
William G. Morris,...........Jackson, Mississippi,
William Campbell,............Chicago, Illinois.
Oliver E. Myers,.............Wabash, Indiana.
William T. Grover,...........Chicago, Illinois,-
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.- ’
V, Baca, F. Brady, J, Berringer, J. Brown, F. Bearss, T. Cochrane, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M, Clarke, W. Canavan, R. Doherty, J. Devine, M. Egan, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C, Favey, F. Farrell, J. Flaherty, P. Guil-loz, T. Grier, E. Gault, G. Hoyt, C, Hess, A. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, J, Hogan, W> Hughes, W. Jenkins, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, F. Keller, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Logsdon, G. McNulty, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. Mc-Gaviu, T. Murphy, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, E. McLaughlin, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Matliinore, L. Moran, M. MeCor* mack, A. Mohan, V. McKinnon, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, C. Proctor, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, M. Regan, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, J. Soule, P. Shaul, J. Verment, C. Walters, F. Wilhelm, R. White, J. Whalen, C. Welty.	-
- JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Byrne, A. Bergck, G- Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J, Dore, J. Delvecchio, R> Downey. F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, J. French, J. T. Foley, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, C. Hake, M. Kramer, P. Kelly, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, C. V, Larkin, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, J. Lynch, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, D. Nelson, G. Nester, J. Nelson, C. Ottoway, C. R. Post, E. F. Riopelle, F. Raymond, J. A. Smith, W. Smith, E. Sugg, T. J, Solon, T. Summers, Paul Sehnurrer, H. Sickle, C. Treanor, C, Walsh, C. J. Whipple, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, E. Washbum, F. Rosa, T- Quinn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Michael McAuliffe, Joseph Career, John O’Meara, Francis Carlin, Francis McGrath, Samuel Goldsberry, Thomas Hooley, Edward Raymond, Albert Bushey, Francis Campau, Walter Cttnninghath, Edward J. Dubois, William Cash, Louis Goldsmith, Sylvester Bushey, Charles Bushey, Harley McDonald.
- Ch ss Honors-
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MARCH 4.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Senior-Class—J. Connolly, L. Proudhomme, J. Obert, V. Baca, L. Evers, J. Larkin, W. Jenkins, A. O'Brien, F. Montgomery, P. Shaul, M. Esan, F. Brady, T. Solon, T, O’Leary, F. Weisenburger, A. Hess, A. Schmidt, C. Hess, M. Allen. F. Wilhelm, C. Robertson, J. Thornton, W. McGavin, W. Meyer J. Claffey, T. Crelly, J. Flaherty, H. McGuire, J. Griffith,’ E^ Monahan, J. Wood, J. Golsen, J. Dore, F. Frazee, H. Korty, G. Gross, C. Hake, J. Perea.
Junior Class—W. Stout, C. Favey, J. Logsdon, A. Mohan, W. Hughes, L. Moran, J. Lynch.
SAINT MANY’S ACADEMY.
ADDITIONAL ARRIVALS.
Miss E. Colwell............Greenville, Illinois.
“ Alice Smith,...........Greenville, Illinois.
“ I. Pierce,.............Climax, Michigan.	-
“ E. Pierce,.......'.....Climax, Michigan.
—On Thursday the examination in exercises and scales took place in the Musical Department. '
—Tliere were a few day s when skates could be used to advantage, and sliding on the spacious sheets of ice, produced by the freezing of the pools occasioned by the late “February thaw,” was a source of much merriment.
—On Monday evening, the second number of Stella, Maris was read in the Study-Hall. The editresses were the Misses Julia Nunning, Marion Faxon, and Ada Walsh. The paper was read in a distinct and beautiful manner.	-
—A contributor to SteUa Maris says that a certain individual who fell between the Academy and the Chapel of
THE SCHOLASTIC.
349
Loreto, declares that the attraction of gravitation is much stronger in the Winter time than in the Summer. ■
—Last Thursday afternoon, a few of the young ladies of the third class in instrumental music held a reunion in the vocal-room. Being recreation-day, the attendance ■was small, but we hope to meet the whole class soon The entertainment, as on a previous occasion, consisted entirely of Technical exercises. Miss Sophia Harris played one of Concone’s descr'ptive Eludes, the subject, “Wind, and Rain.” Chromatic passages smothered with the pedal, pattering staccato notes, and short gust t of criscen-dos and diminuendos described admirably an April shower. Miss Ada Bytnes gave Major Scales, and an etude on soft broken chords, sustained and detached notes, octaves, etc. Both young ladies showed good musical appreciation of their sul jecls. Miss Lydia Wyman selected, from Czerny’s velocity, exercises on clear, smooth runs, arpeggios for both hands; her improvement is excellent, being only her second year at St. Mary’s. Miss Bridget Wilson played a short study on grupettoes. Swift arpeggios, and runs, evinced strength; all were particularly pleased with her rendition of Minor Scales; equality, power and true no es, show careful practice, and must have gratified her teacher.
ART NOTES. .
—We were favored, on Sunday, by a sight of the magnificent Sanctuary Lamp for the new church at Notre Dame. Gorgeous as the description might seem when it appeared in the Ave Maria, the reality fully justifies it. The elegance of outline in the entire lamp would make it “a joy forever,” even if every gem should fall out of its setting; but when we add to this elegance of outline all the charming details as to design and workmanship, we have not only “a golden lamp” sit thick with jewels, but a work of religious art to hang before the Tabernacle of the Living God and His Ever-Present Christ, and .by its pure flame to worship Him whois the “Light of the World.”
Well may the choicest gold of Ophir and the purest gems of the mine be used for Him who created and lends them to His other creature, man; thereby to put into mortal hands an acceptable offering! Well, too, may those jewels of finest water and purest tint, that are destined only to adorn a perishing beauty or to honor a perishing fame,—well may they envy the lot of these jewels and enamels, destined to pay unceasing adoration, in union with the pious worshippers of time, the glorified spirits of the saints in heaven, and with the flushing ranks of seraphs in bliss! To use the gifts of God in the service of God is to restore to creation its primal end and its pris mal felicity.
—The likeness of our venerated Pontiff, Pio Nono, stand-in the parlor of the Presbytery of Notre Dame, and is a work of which Signor Gregori may justly be proud. The sittings for this admirable portrait, three innumber, were given by the Holy Father; the date of each one being given on the sleeve of the lace rochet, in a manner to show how much this privilege was prized by the artist. The expression of the venerable counteuance is truly that of a saint; and is one that every person who sees the picture must carry in his mind as long as Jie lives. The beauty of treatment in the unobtrusive accessories, such as the crimson cape of velvet, with its ermine edge; the hand, raised in blessing, with its cameo ring on which is a head of the Blessed Virgin; the closely-fitting white cap of the meek Vicar of Christ, and hardly to be distinguished from the hair, white as moonlight, that crowns the placid temples; all this is worthj- of mention. But the crowning merit of Signor Gregori’s picture is that which must ever outweigh each and all of these; for it is the expression given to that holy and benignant face—so sweet, and yet so strong— which will give it a place in the heart of entire Christendom, so long as the threads of cauvas hold together.
—Miss Elia Lappin has been promoted from the Fifth to the Fourth Class in Drawing. The rapidity with which this young pupil has passed through the first elementary studies, has been equalled by her exceedingljr creditable performance of them, and both speak volumes for her diligence and docility.	* * *
—In some of the new styles there is no change. Poor relatives are cut, the same as last year.
TABLET OF HONOR.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING FEBRUARY 28.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled :
Misses M. VValker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehy, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair, L Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dil-ger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, E Quinlan, J. Ereigb, K. Klar, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poqnette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Shiel, M. Carlin, K. Casey, M. O’Mahony, R. Morris, E. O'Connor, M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, N. McAuliffe, H. Russell, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, M. McFarlane, S. Cunningham. D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle, E. Edes, S. Reising, C. West, E. Botsford, L. Gustine, L. Ryan, G. and F. Wells, L. Johnson, A. Smith, E. Colwell, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, M. Railton, M. Quinn, S. Swalley,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Reynolds, M. and B. Siler. H. Peak. J. Brown, L. Kirchner. N. McGrath, I. and 0. Yates, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L Hutchinson, H. Kraus, L. Walsh, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, C. Orr, M. Derby, K. Hudson, M. Bell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, M. and C. Hughes, I. Mann, E. Simpson, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier, L. and A. Schuurrer.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRAWING.
3rd Class—Misses R. Neteler, L. Ritchie.
4th Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Cullen, M. and E. Thompson, J. Stimson, E. Lange, A. Koch, E. Lappin.
5th Class—Misses M. O'Connor, M. A. Schultheis, L. Arnold, P. Gaynor, L. Kirchner, J. Kreigh, K. Morris.
WATER COLOR PAINTING.
4th Class—MLses B. Wade, C. Morgan.
5th Class—Misses L. Henrotin, N. McAuliffe.
1st French Class, 1st Div.—Misses J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div.—Misses K. Joyce, L. Tinsley, J. Kreigh, S. Harris, M. and E. Thompson, F. Dilger, J. Stimpson, M. Poquette, A. Harris, B. Wilson, N- McGrath.
2nd Class, 1st Div.—Misses A. Ciarke, M. Riley, H. Russell, B- and K. Spenser, M. and K. Hutchinson, C. Morgan, P. Gaynor, L. Ritchie. A. McGrath.
2nd Div.—Misses M. Wicker, E. Haggerty, R. Can oil.
3rd Div.—Misses J. Fanning, J. Benni tt, C. Woodward, L. Wyman, A. Walsh, M. Dailey, L. Arnold, G. Walton, A. St. Clair, M. Walsh.
Latin Class—Misses A. Smith, N. Foote, A. Byrnes, K. Joyce, M. Cravens, D. Green, J. McGuire, M. Brady, E York.
1st German Class—Misses M. Faxon, J. Nunning, E Dennehey, S. Harris, L. Kirchner, B. Golsen, M. Schultheis, R. Neteler, L. Bosch.
2nd Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Kelly, R. Klar, S. Reising, E. Botsford, A. Koch, H. Kraus.
3rd Class—Misses B. Wade, H. Peak, L. Walsh. honorably mentioned in vocal music.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote, E. O’Connor, E. Haggerty and L. Henrotin.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer, J. Riopelle.
2nd Class—Misses J. Kearney, M. Wicker, M. Riley, D. Cavenor.
2nd Dial—Misses A. Smith, J. Locke, E. Dougherty, C. West, L. Arnold.
3rd Class—Misses C. Morgan, M. Walker, A. Curtin, L. Kirchner, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, A. and M. Walsh.
ssga
350
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—2nd Div.—Misses J. Bennett, L. Walsh, M. Anthony, A. Koch.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class-w-Misscs Quinlan, Spier and A. Smith.
2nd Div.—Misses Green and B. Spencer.
2nd Class—Misses Kreigh and J. Nunning.
2nd Div.—Misses K. Hutchinson, K. Greenleaf, E. O’Connor, M. Julius, J. Kearney.
3rd Class—Misses A. Harris, L. Wyman, A. Byrnes. B. Wilson, S. Harris.
2nd Div.—Misses A. St. Clair, M. Hutchinson, M, Craven, E.rDennehey. L. Kirchner, C. Morgan, L. Hen-rotin, L. Tinsley, M. Koch, J. Stimson, L. Arnold and G. Wells.	J
4th Class—Misses J. Locke, H. Kraus, A. T. Clarke, A. Dilger, D. Cav^nor, A. Duncan, M. Eaxon, E. Haggerty, J. Bennett, F. Wells.
2nd Div.—Misses Bf- Golsen, L. Hutchinson, M. A. Roberts, M. Redfield, F. Dilger, K. Joyce, C. West, A. Pool.
5th Class—Misses M. and E. Thompson, A. O'Connor, L. Johnson, M. Riley, E. Botsiord, M. Bryson, S. Reising, L. Ritchie.
2nd Div.—Misses A. Curtin, H. Peak, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, R. Canoil, L Walsh, L. Gustine,-M. Schultheis, C. Orr, F. Taylor, C. Woodwind.
Gth Class—Misses H. Pinks, P. Gaynor, S. Hole, A. McGiath, M.Rejnolds, N. McGiaiJirM^O Coiinor, B.and M. Siler, E.-Dobeity, 8. SwalleJfN. McAuliffe, E. Lappin, A. Goeueyf	--
2nd Div.—Misses S. Edes, I. Fisk, Ei-Simpson. R. Net-eler, L. Ryan, L. Brownbridge, M. Quill, M. Brady, K. Casey, S. Moran, M. Gaynor.
7th Class—Misses J. Brown, E. Yoik, E.Ecles, C. Maigrey, L. Scbwass, M. Anthony, L. Kelly, M. Daily, S. Cash, L. Best h, K. Mon is.
8th Class—Misses M. Bell, A. Ewing, K. Hudson."
9th Class—Misses M. and C. Hughes, R. Goldsberry.
10th Class—Misses M. Derby, M. Heilman, A. Peak, Y. Mier.
Harp—Misses M. Wicker, M. Walker, E. O’Connor.
—In the account of musical exercises at ^St. Mary’s Academy, in the Scholastic of Feb 20th, the word “slurs’' in the last line of the first column of page 318, was misprinted “ steers.”
St. Mart’s, South Bend.—It is comforting to know, that after all, a girl is suspected sometimes of possessing brains. Here is a great seminary for girls, -with 300 in it, only three hours’ ride from Chicago (if you don’t stop on the way to pay frigid tribute to Boreas and imperfect snow-plows), winch is managed on the theory that not only have girls brains, but that these brains need education. There are young ladies’ schools which, by implication at least, admit the brains supposition, but are guiltless of providing means for their development. The fashionable young ladies’ academy,—think of Plato as the father of our modern “ Academy” !—seems to suspect that girls have brains, and then proceeds on the Chinese plan of pedal development—compression—the smaller, the prettier. St. Mary’s is a fashionable school,—that is not to be denied. The blooming damsels who make merry its domestic woods, who actually run and jump and eat and laugh and sleep as if they weie perfectly healthy, and who spend half a minute tn raptures over the beauties of the snow-crystals and the next halt in piling those crystals into a sphere, for what purpose you may inquire, these girls, graceful, aspiring, and comely, are, in 1 he best sense of t he word, “fashionable.” They aie especially conceited at this moment having just passed through that most terrible of ordeals,—except one,—the semi-annual examination. The exception—the most terrible ordeal of all—is the other semi-annual examination, which has a public “exhibition” as a finale in June. The public exhibition is not of quite so much value, in the judgment of your correspondent, as the semi-annual examination. The latter deals with scholarship; Ilie other is a little pageant, made up of tulie and flowers and essays and salaams and musie. .This is delightful, if a success; but the examination is valuable. The exhibition shows a girl objectively only ; the examination exhibits the real girl, as she is to be afterward in society and the household. The examination of a girl’s head is a very different thing from the display of a young lady’s toilet, and although I know some girls whose toilets are infinitely better than their heads, and more to be commended, yet the average girl’s head is a comparatively interesting study, provided there be anything in it. Now the average young ladies’ academy permits the suspicion, as J said, that a girl’s head may not be wholly unfur
nished apartments waiting for takers who will pay in advance and waive “the comforts of a home but it does little toward fitting the rooms up. beyond, perhaps, putting lace curtains for show on the windows. But St. Mary’s is at once fashionable and substantial'; it compels the girls to learn polite economy, domestic economy, political economy,—and useful things besides. Their salutations are of the sort that French ladies made in the court of le grand moxarque. A girl who can’t make a “bow” at St. Marj's has no sianding in local society. She is parmnue. But a airl who would commit an error of syntax in conversation, or fail to reach the average in algebra, aucient history, chemistry, or Latin, would be mildly, but fatally, ostracized. The standaid out here is one of brains, not of dress or money or parents’ social position, as is too commonly the case. But I halt at the door of the examination rooms, instead of going in. The graduates were examined in geometry, geology, logic, and literature. These are taught by Sisters and professors. The first-named study is necessarily bookish, until it becomes practical as it did in the youthful bands of Lhe’Father of his Coun-when he was a poor but honest F. F. V. I have no doubt, if these girls ever go farming they will sum up how many acres they have, and where they have them. Their knowledge of geology, which the soil of Indiana is rather indifferent to, in the upper"strata, has carried them back to the pliocene period, but there is no danger of their slaying there. They would return on tangents of syllogisms, if necessary. Logic—the science of reason—this class has familiarly taken to, just as if the sex, in the opinion of primeval consei valives, was not constitutionally de-' void of it. I wondered why the examiner did not ask them to analyze Gladstone’s expostulation. But then, he might as well have asked them to apply logic to the construction of a cobweb. The geological charts prepared by the young ladies were very suggestive of thorough work. The examination of the first senior class in algebra covered equations of the second degree, and A and Y were dragged out of their concealment a hundred times. These girls did admirably in history and rhetoric. Their teaching in physiology related chiefly to hygiene, and if they learn that well, the next generation will be the better for it. With, the creditable perversity of a possible has blue, each evidently ’ sought to shine to best advantage in the most robust studies— hence the arithmetic questions were incisive and practical, and the Minervas were equal to the test. The third class covered itself with glory and participles. If there be anything that a girl hates in grammer, it is participles: but the.-e girls revelled in participles as if they were actually in love with them for their complexity and absurdity. The preparatory class did some neat parsing. In Latin the course is only begun, but hie, httc, hoc was ground out in orthodox fashion, with ecclesiastical vowels, and by June I suppose the girls will be flirting with arnia virumque.
The French and German classes were very ready-lipped, having the essential advantage of living, talking, and playing with mistresses who were born on the Seine or tiie Rhine. Foreign languages in St. Mary’s have the native flavor. Among the essays were “ A Visit to Rhetoric Hall,” by Julia Nunning; “A Rhetorical Dream,” by Lizzie Ritchie ; “ Form and Spirit,” by Genevieve Walton; “ Propriety,” iMiss Julia Kearney, it was very proper; “Can the Mind be Cultivated Independently of the Heart?—of course it couldn’t, unless it were a man’s,”—by Anna Curtin ; “ A Peail in the Casket,” by Margaret—which is pearl—Walker. There were a couple of commendable poems— there is poetry in the stream, the valley, and the woods of St. Mary’s,—“The Human Voice,” by Elizabeth Biadford, who read her rhythm beautifully; “Beitliazzar’s Dream,” by Emily Haggerty, a poetanata. I fancy ; and “ Opening Chesnut Burrs,” by Loretto Ritchie. The classes sustain three literary spasmod-icals, and four literary societies, and if the school does not turn out Bassis, Colonnas, De Staels, and Brownings, at least we may expect Montagus and Blessingtons.
The institution possesses qne feature, peculiar to itself—a perfectly equipped Art Deparinfcnt. According to the tacts and figures of the Bureau of Education, it is the only young ladies’ academy in the Unitid States which affords thotough practical and technical instruction in this most chaste part of human endeavor. The department is in charge of Miss Eliza Starr, well known in Art affairs in the East and West,—a patient, painstaking, enthusiastic instructor. The Art school is not devoted to stupid imitation. Of the three hundred specimens exhibited, not one was from a flat model. All were from objects,—still l>fe, landscapes, fruits, flowers, casts, and therewere too,really chaiming original designsof religious subjects. It is impossible too highly to commend this leatureof'the school. In music, the classical is studied to the utter contempt of the fiivolous. The programme was a medium one, showing progress toward the standard, and included Tbalberg’s “ Huguenots,” Beethoven’s Sonata Pathetique, Meyerbeer’s Addio Terra, Yativa, and Chopin’s Polonaise, Op. 26, No. 2. Misses Spier, Smith, Foote, O’Conner, and Spenser are entitled to mention for musical skill.
Finally, is it not conforting, I repeat, to know that there is an academy run on the proposition that girls have brains ?—« Chicago Times,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Now Ready.
-	THE ’
Vatican Decrees.
AND
.	" CIVIL ALLEGIANCE.
IN ANSWER TO MR. GLADSTONE.
By His Grace
ARCHBISHOP MANNING.
One vol., 12mo., paper,...50	cents.
’	ALSO,
Wnw lev. 1 r. fctm’s
« ko	50
REPLY”
. TO .
MB. GLADSTONE.
One vol., 12mo., paper, .	.	.	50 eents-
ALSO,
|Uv. Hisltop Yauglian’s
REPLY
TO	.
MR. GLADSTONE.
One voi., 12mo., paper, ...	25 cents.
ALSO, BISHOR ULLATHORNE’S REPLY TO AIR. GLADSTONE.
One vol., 12mo., paper, ....	25 cents.
Sent by mail on receipt of price.
THE CATHOLIC PUBLICATION SOCIETY.
LAWRENCE KEHOE, General Agent.
9 "Warren Street, .	.	. New York.
JOHN II. CODY & CO., MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
HEADING, HOOPS, AC.
Factory at Junction of P., Ft- W. & C., Ft. W., M. & G, G. B. & I. Ft. W., J. & S., AND W. &. &. E. CANAL.
FORT 5VAYNK
G0LSE1T & EASTMAN,
Successors to J no. Clarke, & Co.,
DISTILLERS,
21 «fc S3 RIVER STREET, CHICAGO.
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER, .
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., ■ .	Over Coonluy's Drug Store,
.	South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney -will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at S o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members of the Col-	-
lege Societies, etc., etc-,
Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
0’24-tf
CARPENTER HATTER I
105 MICHIGAN st. dec 5-%tf.
SOUTH BEND.]
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
OJY2STZDY FACTORY^
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15e,
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35c.
Caramels ------ 35c. Molasses and Cream Candy -	25c.
Proportionately X.ow Prices to Wiiole-sale Casli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf

If
352
THE SCHOLASTIC.
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
• A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DIME, INDIANA.
$1.00 PEK YEAH.
THE “Scholastic" is the title of a. neat little paper published every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of rhis paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline ar this University and at St. Mary's Academy, and ot the progress of their sons and "daughters in these two m-titniions. For this pur' ose. regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names ol those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry .deserve special commendation from their various professors and. teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive; while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and abi’it.i, render “The Scholastic" a valuable publication for all who desire variety and utility in their reading. “ The Scholastic ” consists of sixteen widetwo-co umn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matter and the remainder witu advertisements.
Notice to Advertisers:
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Adverti=ements for “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the followinglist of
prices:
Oue Page,	(per month,) -	-	-	-	§10 00
One Column	“	-----	6 00
Half Column,	“	-	-	-	-	4 00
One-Third Column,	“	-----	2 50
One-Eighth Column,	“	-	-	-	-	1 50
Address,	Editor of THE SCHOLASTIC,
■ Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. KALLWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 A. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at .	Toledo, 10-20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. si.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.12 a. st. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. M.; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a st. (No. 4). Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. st.; Buffalo 4.20 a. st.	‘
9.11 P. st-(No. 6>. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05: Buffalo. 1.10 p. si.
8.00 p. at. (No. 10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at - Toledo, 2.30 a. st,, Cleveland 7.05 a si., Buffalo 1'10 p. m.
5.44 P. -st. [No.70], Local Freight. GO.] NG WEST.
3.18 a. si. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. st.
5.24 a. st. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 0.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. m.
0.31 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. sr.
5.44 p- st. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9	■
8.08 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. st , Chicago 11.10.
. 9.15 a. st. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.	'
J. IV. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PaBSONS, Snp't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
Chicago, K-oclv Island. and Pacific K.K
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel. '
Trains.	leave,	arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a in	3.30 p	m
Pern Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a	m
Night Express*	10.30 p m	6.15 a	m
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, lc74. -
	Going	East.	
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit
Mail -	-	-	5 DO a m	9 02 a m	5 45 p m
Day Express -	.- 83<)am	11 47 am	6 30 pm
Accommodation	-	3 35 p in	7 35 pm	8 45am
Atlantic Express	- 5 15pm	8 55 p m	3 50 am
Night Express -	- 9 pm	12 45 pm	8 GO am
	Going	West.	
Trains	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 a m	4 05 pm	8 05 p m
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 p m	9 00 pm
Accommodation -	1 50 p m	6 30 a in	10 35 a m '
Evening Express	- 5 40 p m	2 3'> am	6 3o a m '
Pacific Express -	- 10 00 p m	5 00am	8 30 am >
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm. 030 pm, *9 am, *7pm.
Arrive at Niles—S 45 a in, 3 55 p m. 7 10 p m *9 40 a m, *740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 3 J a m 9 2) a in, 5 10 p m, ‘8 a in, +5 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 a in, 10 a m, 5 55 p m, + 840 a m, +5 40 p m
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, via aNiles.
Depart—8 07 a m, 6.38 p m, + 9 07 a m, + 7 07 p m.
Arrive—707 am, 9 42 am, 546pm, +8 32am, +532pm
Going w est, via Yilcs.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus * + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
_	Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
(STRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Vy Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City and Denver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western' Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St.Louis and Spri ngfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, DI., and Louisiana, Mo.
leave, arrive.
*9:40 a.m. *8:10 p.m.
•12 30 p.m. *2 50 pm
•12:30 p.m. *2:50 p.m, *4:30 p.m. *9:20 a.m.
[9:45 p.m. 17:30 a.m.
+9:45p.m.-§7:30 a.m
* Except Sunday, t Except Saturday. \ Daily. § ExceptMonday The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
j. c. mcmullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TEACK EAILE0AD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m*
3rd train	“	“	9.00. p. m.	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsficld with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant. Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jn., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYER8, Gen’l Pass.and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.	'	’	•