Notre Dame Scholastic.
3>isce quasi semper ■victnms; vive quasi eras morifrums.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 6, 1875.
Number 10
K The Stricken Ash.
Three ash trees, light and trim, For many years together
Growing tall and. slim, .
Had cooled our summer weather.
And maidens, wistfully,
Would lift their wondrous lashes, And say, ’Twould pity be
Aught harmed those graceful ashes.
There, many a morn in May, High on the topmost branches, The thrush his roundelay
Through all the valley launches.
While, tired upon the grass, Some trudging little sinner Sought rest in that sweet place, When tugging papa’s dinner.
But once the cold too deep Into the heart did enter,
And a fair ash numbed to sleep, ' Down to life’s mystic centre.
And when the Spring was seen To call her children cheery, Two trees came forth in green, While one stood gray and dreary.
And the maidens sighed, Alas!
And the thrush’s note was mournful;
But the urchin on the grass
Looked up in manner scornful.
But again the kindly heat
Went down with an August shower, .
And the stricken root did greet
With its heaven-brought healing power.
And life again did shout,	’
And the sap went up in glory, And the fluttering leaves came out
To tell the marvellous story.
And then the sister trees
Grew deeper green for gladness, As they rustled every breeze
In their ecstatic madness.
And when the Spring was seen ~ To call her children cheery,
Three trees came forth in green, While none stood gray and dreary.
The maidens clapped their hands, Trilled loud the peerless songster,—
But, gazing on the sands, Unconscious trudged the youngster.
•	M. C.
Buccaneers.
We doubt whether there has yet lived a school-boy who has not in the height of his youthful ambition determined, to become a pirate or buccaneer. It may not be to their credit—but instinctively, almost, the youthful mind pictures to itself the glorious independence of the buccaneer, aud imagines that life to be the most perfect on earth.
The name Buccaneer was applied to those French and English pirates who in the seventeenth century committed all kinds of depredations on Spanish commerce along the Spanish settlements in America. The first of these men were Frenchmen who attempted to settle in the Antilles after the Spaniards had conquered these places. As it was the desire of the Spaniards to monopolize these possessions, they drove out the Frenchmen, who took refuge in Hispaniola, where herds of cattle swarmed. These cattle they hunted, selling their hides to the Dutch who traded along the coast. The Spaniards however looked with jealousy upon these settlers, and lost no opportunity of harassing them, hunting them down throughout the island. These Frenchmen—or Buccaneers, as they were called— were forced to protect themselves, and to do this they united together and bound themselves by oath to render all assistance to each other, and to wreak vengeance upon their foes, especially the Spaniards. Should one of their number be killed, he was to be signally avenged; while those who were simply wounded and disabled were to receive support and compensation from the others. ’ They were to share in the plunder which was taken from their enemies, but stealing from a Buccaneer was to be severely punished. They drove the Spaniards from the island of Tortugas, fortified it, and from it sent forth bands of fifty one hundred, and one hundred and fifty, to attack merchant vessels on their way from America to Europe. They seldom attacked a vessel coming to America, knowing that it would be more difficult to dispose of its cargo. But all vessels returning would, if possible, be taken, because they knew it was laden with gold and precious stones. The Spanish galleons, for safety, sailed in fleets. These were followed by the Buccaneers, and if perchance one became separated from the fleet it was captured, and after being plundered the crew were thrown overboard and the ship scuttled.
The French Buccaneers established themselves at St. Domingo, the English at Jamaica, and the booty which they captured was spent in the most licentious way. Drinking and gaming was the order of the day with them, and when they had run through their means and money, another marauding expedition was begun. To such a pitch did their depredations come, that Spanish commerce visi
146
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bly declined, and scarcely a Spanish vessel would venture upon the seas near America. Then the Buccaneers changed their tactics and began to fortify towns and inhabit them.
Among the most distinguished ruffians who became Buccaneers was a Frenchman named Montbar, who sailed to St. Domingo, and, becoming an ordinary sea-robber, became celebrated in the annais of crime. The same day on which his services were accepted by the Buccaneers he fell in with a vessel and attacked it with fury, scarcely leaving a Spaniard alive. He displayed his usual cruelty on every occasion, and obtained the name of the Exterminator Another of the Buccaneers who obtained great notoriety was Francois L’Olonnais, who committed depredations on many of the Spanish settlements,—and who even, such was his impiety, carried off the treasures of a church to furnish another which he intended to erect by way of thanks to Heaven for his success!
The most notorious Buccaneer was a Welshman named Henry Morgan. He fought many sea-fights, and battles on land, and won all of them, causing terror to the Spanish colonists, and committing all kinds of depredations on the settlements. Another Buccaneer was Van Horn, a native of Ostend, who had spent many years in the service of the French. He ravaged many of the settlements of the Spaniards, and his cruelty and greed were insatiable. He captured Vera Cruz, and plundered not only it but many other cities besides. •
In 1697 a squadron of seven ships, under the command of a Buccaneer named Pointis, attacked Carthagena and rifled it. Eight millions of dollars were seized, and the pirates left the place; but as the avaricious commander kept nearly all this sum to himself, the Buccaneers returned to the place and secured enough to repay them the share denied by Pointis. However, on their return to Europe they were attacked by a fleet of Spaniards, English and Dutch, and most of their ships were captured or sunk. This was the last great exploit of the Buccaneers. As the more remarkable of their leaders dropped off, no one was found to supply their places; and many of them being induced to accept civil and military employments to draw them from the piracy which Governments were unable to suppress, the organizations gradually fell to pieces.
L. L.
Wilhelm von Kaulbach.
As Peter von Cornelius, a disciple of Overbeck, strayed from the ideas and principles which actuated the illustrious leader of religious art, so it was his fortune that the greatest pupil of Cornelius should diverge in his art-labors from the principles of his master.
Wilhelm von Kaulbach was the greatest of Cornelius’ scholars. He first saw light in 1805, in a small Westphalian town. His father was an engraver, and not possessed of great means; hence it was with some difficulty that Kaulbach was entered at the Art Academy at Dusseldorf, which at that time, with Cornelius at its head, was attracting the attention and admiration of Germany. He studied faithfully under the great master, and when Cornelius went to Munich to fill the position of director of the Academy at that city, Kaulbach with many other pupils followed their teacher.	.
At Munich the young Westphalian artist found an eager patron in King Ludwig, who was then erecting the Odeon,
a hall for musical and social purposes. Kaulbach received commissions from the king to paint frescoes of Apollo and the Muses in colossal proportions, and was appointed to paint for the palace-garden arcades the four principal rivers of the kingdom and a “Bavaria” in colossal allegorical figures in fresco, besides designing cartoons of the va--rious virtues of a sovereign.
The architect of the new palace erected for the king engaged Kaulbach to paint the queen’s trone-hall with twelve representations from Klopstock’s Battle of Hermann. He was also commissioned to paint for another room in the palace a series of subjects from Goethe’s poems, partly in wax-color and partly in fresco. At the same time he painted in the palace of Prince Maximilian a series of frescoes with “.Cupid and Psyche” for the subject.
It was from this period that the gradual estrangement of Kaulbach from many of his brother artists, and his divergence from the school of Cornelius, took place. It was the aim of Kaulbach to represent every contrasting aspect of humanity, not only on its grand heroic side, but also its quiet, peaceful, domestic capacity, and its fatal facility for wandering into error and vice. To follow out this aspiration, the dignified abstract manner of Cornelius did not suffice him. He coveted a closer familiarity with life, desiring among other things to become a truer colorist. His brother artists, attached to the school of Cornelius, devoted all their work to the grand central thought in a picture and despised all anxiety over details. They he’d that color as an important feature in art was of no moment, and looked upon Kaulbach as a renegade from their principles. The latter, however, gave little heed to their condemnation, and set about his work. He repaired to Venice to study coloring more thoroughly, and afterwards went to Rome. In the latter city he spent one year, and obtained great success by the strange and weird picture, the “ Battle of the Spectres.” This was founded upon a story of a battle between Romans and Huns, in which all the combatants were killed, and which was renewed by the spirits of the slain, to be continued through all time.
Kaulbach’s genius now became widely known. He was offered the directorship of the Dresden Academy, but King Ludwig appointed him his court painter. He was elected a member of the Academies of Munich, Vienna and Berlin, and became a correspondent member of the Paris Institute and Knight of the Order of St. Michael.
For the king of Bavaria he painted the “ Destruction of Jerusalem,” in which he displayed not only noble composition but also correctly-studied coloring. This picture obtained for him from the king of Prussia a commission to paint a series of representations from Jewish history.
In his pictures, even in those painted whilst still under the influence of Cornelius, Kaulbach showed great originality and vigor, and if he errs by loading his composition with system and abstruse intention, his great genius makes up for it. He deservedly stands among the first, of • the German painters of the century.	L. J. C.
Vacation at CoHege.
Summer vacation at college is not sojirksome and monotonous as many people suppose. The majority of those students who leave their college home in the hope of finding pleasure and enjoyment in return for the long, weary I months of confinement at study, are in a manner disap
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
147
pointed, and after a few weeks of rambling are as anxious to return to the field of their labors as they were to abandon it for a few days of recreation. But the student who, not having the convenience of visiting home, nor the advantage of some kind friend’s invitation to pass a few weeks away from college, resigns himself to the loneliness and seeming ■wearisomeness of the summer days, finds much more enjoyment than he had expected, much more time to recreate and recuperate the mind for the fatigues of another year’s study. Many may seem to think that there is nothing passing, from day to day, to impart life to the surroundings. It is true the neighboring walks and promenades are not filled with the bustle and confusion which mark the busy thoroughfares of the city. There is no atmosphere clouded with the smoke of numerous factories, nor is there the ceaseless tramp of business-men engaged in the duties of their calling. Yet there is enough of that agreeable, animating noise of the many persons who come to visit, and some who come in search of rest from the cares of worldly life, and others who come to enjoy the comparative solitude of summer vacation. Buildings in the course of erection, the rattle of wagons occasionally, and now and then the rolling of a buggy over the grand walks, the shrill whistle of neighboring factories and the roll of fleet-
Ug cars which pass within a mile of the building, all this gives a semblance of life to the most dreary part of the day •md brings to the mind recollections of the city. But when the shades of evening come, and the sun, inclined towards the western horizon, illumines nature with a peculiar pleasing light, when the evening breeze fans the verdure of the garden and gently binds the boughs of large shade trees, when chirping birds seem to appreciate the beauty and loveliness of nature by warbling their melodious songs, then it is that a pleasant evening walk is most enviable, and that the stay at college is most relished.	J.
A Valley in. Upper Michigan.
One day last vacation one of my friends and I wbnt out on a hunt along the south shore of Lake Superior. When about twenty-five miles from home, we unexpectedly came into a very beautiful valley; I say a very beautiful valley, because it was the most pleasant one that I ever laid my eyes upon, and I have seen many valleys famous for their attractions.
It had the outlines of a horse-shoe on a large scale; it is on account of its shape that it is called Horse-Shoe Valley. All arround its perimeter it was lined with tall oaks, from fifty to sixty feet high. Through it meandered a tranquil river, whose water was dazzling in the sun. On this small river you could see here and there flocks of ducks, and in fact almost all sorts of water-birds. The silence of the valley was broken only by the songs of beautiful birds, and by a fall of the river at the east side of the valley. Each bank of the river was covered with many species of flowers and plants, whose perfumes were most delicious. On the north side of the valley, and situated on a high cliff, was a fine building having the resemblance of a castle; from this point one could have a beautiful view of the country for miles around. The owner of this building, although a rich man, sat at the foot of the cliff tending his sheep. He did not do this through indigence, but for a pastime. We approached him, and after conversing with him for some time, he offered to show us the beauties of the valley, and after
wards those of his house, which he called his castle. We were delighted with both places, but more so by the jovial talk of the old man. He told us that he enjoyed the company of young folks, and for that reason he asked us to come again sometime when we should be at leisure.
We left in the afternoon, well pleased both with the valley and the old man. I intend to visit him again as soon as a good opportunity presents itself.	R. J. M.
De La Salle.
The Chevalier Robert de La Salle was born at Rouen, France, about the year 1635, and died in Texas, March, 1687. He received his education at a Jesuit seminary in France, which he left after ten years of study, crowned with honor and success. Fired by the fame of such explorers as De Soto and his own countryman Father Marquette, full of youth and beaming with intelligence, he left his country and joined a band of emigrants for Canada to seek his fortune amid the adventures and explorations of the New World.
He reached Canada about 1667, and immediately embarked in the fur-trade, hoping by this means to come in frequent contact with distant tribes, and so receive information of the situation of different rivers. Often in the silence of the summer nights, as he carelessly pulled the oars of his little canoe, was he dreaming of a glorious name, one which should be inscribed in history beside that of Columbus, as the great discoverer of the passage from Canada to China—for this was his favorite project. Returning to France in 1675, he received letters patent granting him the command of Fort Frontenac, where now stands the city of Kingston, and granting him other privileges besides, raising him to the rank of a nobleman. He returned to America immediately, arriving in Canada just as Father Marquette and Joliet had returned with the news of the discovery of the Mississippi River. La Salle was one of the first to be convinced that the river so recently discovered by Father Marquette was identical with that which had been discovered more than a century before by De Soto.
He soon set out again for France to submit a plan which he had formed, to his sovereign, Louis XIV, who approved of it very highly. Associating with himself Tonty, an Italian veteran, as lieutenant, he enlisted thirty mechanics and mariners for the enterprise, after which he sailed from Rochelle, J uly 14,1678, for Fort Frontenac. He sent Tonty with several carpenters to the Niagara River to construct a bark, and he himself followed shortly afterwards; both had to return on foot, a distance of about three hundred miles. This, and other adventures of a similar nature, prove the-strong and persevering mind of La Salle, which surmounted even the greatest obstacles.
The vessel was soon finished, and was called the “ Griffin.” La Salle and his companions embarked in it on August 7th, and after having ploughed the waves of Lakes Erie and Huron they reached Green Bay on the 2d of September. Here La Salle loaded the Griffin with a rich cargo of furs and sent it back to satisfy his creditors, whose suspicions his enemies were striving to arouse.
La Salle and his men sailed over Lake Michigan in light canoes and at last reached the mouth of St. Joseph’s River, which they ascended as far as the Kankakee. They continued their journey, sailing down to the Illinois, and the Illinois as far as Lake Peoria, where they built a fort which La Salle called Crevecceur (The Broken Heart) because
148
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
here the news reached him that the Griffin was buried in Lake Michigan He ordered his men to set about constructing a new vessel, which, however, they could not finish for want of implements. La Salle, never discouraged, resolved to return the whole distance, from Lake Peoria to Fort Frontenac, on foot—a journey of about 1200 miles. He guided his course by the high land situated between the basin of the Ohio and the Lakes. The history of the human race records few enterprises so hardy, but the indomitable spirit of La Salle did not hesitate for a moment. He arrived at Fort Frontenac only to learn of fresh disasters. Almost heart-broken, he set out again on the 23d of July, 1680, and went back in a canoe, and to his great surprise found the fort on the Illinois abandoned by Tonty.
We may easily imagine what grief he must have felt on seeing himself thus abandoned in his enterprises; but, firm of purpose as ever, he set out in search of Tonty, whom he succeeded in rejoining in the harbor of Mackinaw, and both returned to Fort Frontenac to prepare anew for the great expedition, which they resumed on the 28th of August, 1681. This time they went by the Chicago River, and after having endured many trials and hardships they found themselves at last on the waters of the Great River, about the 16th of January, 1682. Pressing on, they soon passed the mouths of the Missouri and the Ohio; they made peace with the Indians wherever they came, smoking with them the calumet of peace, and instructing them as well as they could in the Christian religion, telling them of the one true God, the Creator of heaven and earth. Bancroft, describing the descent of the Great River by our adventurers says: “His sagacious eye discerned the magnificent resources of the country. As he floated down its flood; as he framed a cabin on the first Chickasaw bluff; as he raised the cross by the Arkansas; as he planted the arms of France near the Gulf of Mexico, he anticipated the future affluence of the emigrants, and heard the footsteps of the advancing multitude that were coming to take possession of the valley. They followed the stream and found themselves on the 6th of April where the river divides into three channels. La Salle took the western, hoping still to find his imagined passage to China. Tonty took the middle channel, and Dautry followed the eastern. About two leagues further down the water commenced to become salty, and lo 1 .. . O glorious sight! '
‘“The sea! the sea! the open sea, The blue, the fresh, the ever free.’
“ On the 19th of April they took possession of the country in the name of King Louis XIV. For this purpose they erected a cross whilst chanting the VeziUa Regis and the Te Reum, then they raised a column with the following inscription: ‘ Louis the Great, King of France and Navarre, reigns; the 9th of April, 1682.”
They soon retraced their steps, but La Salle fell sick during the voyage and had to stop at Fort Prudhomme, which had been built by him in remembrance of one of his companions who had been lost there in the downward voyage but who was found shortly afterwards. After forty days’ rest he continued his journey as far as the Illinois country, where he stopped for a month, strengthening the friendly feeling of the Indians] and pushing forward the fur-trade. He had the intention of commencing, the following spring, a more thorough exploration, and also the colonization of the valley. For this reason he again returned to France to ask for assistance from his sovereign, Louis XIV. He landed at Rochelle on the 23d of December, 1683. In
France he conceived the plan of approaching the river from the south, and having received four vessels from the Government for the expedition, he set sail on the 24th of July, having a crew composed of vagabonds picked up in Rochelle—a great disadvantage, as it afterwards proved. Having reached the Gulf of Mexico, they found themselves completely astray, and every fresh attempt to reach their destination only seemed to leave them farther from success. Finally, having lost all hope of reaching the Mississippi by sea, La Salle resolved to search for if by land, in which he was likewise unsuccessful. Seeing everything turning against him, he proposed to travel as far as the Illinois country to receive help from the good and faithful Tonty. To follow up this plan, La Salle chose a few companions and set out on the 22d of April, 1686. They .crossed fivers, forests, prairies and marshes, enduring unheard of hardships and braving every species of danger. La Salle resolved to return to Fort St. Louis, for, having marched one hundred and fifty leagues, there still remained about one thousand miles to travel. They arrived at the fort on the 17th of October, and were welcomed by all. It was here that he received news of the destruction of his last vessel, and this accident completely disconcerted his plans. Bancroft says of him: “ Heaven and man seemed his enemies; and with the giant energy of an indomitable will, having lost his hopes of fortune, his hopes of fame; with his colony reduced to about forty, among whom discontent had given birth to plans of crime; with no Europeans nearer than the River Pameo, no French nearer than Illinois, he resolved to travel on foot to his countrymen at the North and return from Canada to renew his-colony in Texas.”
La Salle resolved a second time to go on foot to Illinois, and, having selected twenty companions, he left on the 12th of January, 1687. This was the last effort of the courageous explorer, for dissensions arose on the way, to which he fell a victim. Father Donay, an eye-witness, gives the following account: “We proceeded a short distance along the bank to the fatal spot, where two of these murderers were hidden in the grass, with guns cocked. One missed his aim, but the other shot De la Salle in the head. He died an hour after, on the 19th of March, 1687. La Salle pardoned his murderers, but Divine Justice overtook them.
In concluding this brief sketch of the life of La Salle, it may be well to remark that no writer has ever ventured to cast the shadow of suspicion on his integrity or honor, and moreover, that all historians of the New World vie with one another in bestowing praise upon the good qualities, the indomitable energy and intrepid character of the Chevalier Robert de la Salle.	A M. K.
A Noble Aim.
We are rejoiced to see that our fellow-students are not altogether lost to every sense of humanity and philanthropy. At a meeting held among the better class the other day, the necessities of an indigent portion of our countrymen formed the subject of earnest and anxious consideration, and the Secretary has furnished us with a synopsis of the proceedings, which we are glad to be able to lay before our readers.
Mr. Plug was unanimously called to the chair, and Mr. Parstickler appointed Secretary pro tem., after which Mr. Grubstruck arose and moved that this Association be
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149

known under the style and title of the “ Society for Providing Tramps with Hand Organs.”
Mr. Snorter demurred to this on the ground that the name was not comprehensive enough, and did not sufficiently indicate the enlarged spirit of philanthropy which he felt was destined to prevail throughout our midst. He did not disparage the charms of music. He was aware that this, like every well-constituted society, must originate in harmony—develop in harmony, and eventually culminate in harmony—what did the poet say?— _
“ From harmony—from heavenly harmony
This universal frame began ;
The hoopdedoodum closing full in man.”
He could not positively swear that “hoopdedoodum” was the precise term, but it meant the same thing, and what was the odds? If he could place a hand organ in the hand of every tramp in the University—he should have said the universe, but the tail slipped out unconsciously—if he could, he repeated, place a hand organ or proper substitute therefor—	’
Mr. Mylde arose timidly and was ashamed to interrupt the gentleman, but would like to be informed what he considered a proper substitute for a hand organ.
Mr. Snorter savagely inquired whether the time of the assembly was to be wasted in answering frivolous questions such as these ?
The Chair did not consider the question as frivolous. It was a matter of doubt in his mind, and, he ventured to say, in that of every seriously thinking man also, as to what were the essential elements upon which the notion to which we annexed the term “hand-organ” depended for its existence per se. Was portability alone sufficient, or was the idea of grinding necessarily involved ? This question of Mr. Mylde he thought eminently well calculated to open up a train of thought in the right direction.
Mr. Smirke, prefacing his remarks with a “ Te-he-he! ” said that any one would readily comprehend, after seeing the original model of the organ in class-room No. 4—
Mr. Ponderus begged leave to interrupt the speaker. Any allusion to class-room No. 4, or its ornaments, should be couched in terms indicative of admiration not unmixed with awe. He thought that the last speaker should be mulcted in the sum of fifty cents for unseemly levity.
Voices on all sides exclaiming “ Fine him,” “ Fine him,” the Chair appointed Mr. Snatchyercash Treasurer pro tem., and directed him to collect a fine of fifty cents from Mr. Smirke immediately. The amount not being discoverable after a thorough search of his person, he was ignominiously hustled out of the assembly.
Order being now restored, Mr. Cistum Attick arose and said that the real question before the house was whether this Society should have a name or not. He paused for a reply.
Mr. Legsettle moved that it be called the association for the promotion of Velocipedestrianarianationism.
Mr. Mylde again arose and with some trepidation ventured to inquire if there was any more of that word, and if the speaker were merely stopping to take breath.
Mr. Legsettle disdained any such impertinent interference, and was not to be turned aside from the path of duty by a mere—here he confessed himself obliged to pause for an epithet of sufficient energy to convey his contempt for the author of this interruption—but he would forbear for the present, and simply state that in his opinion velocipedes would be more serviceable to tramps than hand
organs. He had witnessed the performances of the Minims with velocipedes, and was free to say that no tramp who had at heart the conscientious fulfilment of the duties and responsibilities of his station in life would hesitate for a moment to accept a velocipede if gratuitously offered. He should advocate the tricycle rather than the bicycle, as safer and more commodious. In this again he was guided, by the experience of the Minims, and also upheld by the old proverb: “ Taste and tri before you bi.” Hand organs at best were a mere luxury—
Mr. Mews here begged to interrupt. Let us take a rapid glance at the state of affairs and endeavor to estimate the numerous and evermoving throng of fellow-beings now known as tramps at the proper figure, and let us reflect that if each one were supplied with a hand organ our woods, our mountains, our rivers, our prairies, our whole land in short would resound with the harmonies of Lauterbach and Beethoven! What a grand—what an exalting thought! And did not the honorable gentleman who had preceded him see clearly that the use of the velocipede would destroy the very nature, essence, and quiddity of the tramp, whose tramphood consisted, as he understood it, in the act of tramping?
Dr. Yonge Meddick said the views just expressed on the exalted character of the strains evoked from the hand organ indicated nothing more than a morbid state or condition of the auditory nerve. Just as the vitiated palate craved indigestible nutriment, so did the vulgar and degraded sensorium crave the titillations produced by irregular and spasmodic atmospheric vibration.
Mr. Skandle here arose and asked whether, goodness gracious! we were going to sit here and listen calmly to language such as those ?	.
Mr. Sower Morrills said that he never liked to judge any one too harshly, and for his part he did not claim to understand all the enormity of Dr. Meddick’s licentious remarks. But where public decency was at stake we could not be too cautious, and besides, his maxim was omne ig-noturn pro obscceno. The villainous expression of the doctor’s countenance too clearly indicated his real meaning, and there was therefore nothing left but to suggest that he be removed as a nuisance.
The Doctor here arose to explain, but was met by cries of “ Down, down! ” “ Shame, shame,” and the Chair directed his removal, which was immediately effected.
On the restoration of temporary serenity, Mr. Scurtz Fluttering took the floor, and elegantly gesticulating with perfumed handkerchief and lemon kids expressed his desire that the young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy be invited to cooperate with this Society in its benevolent object. They needed no proof of the zeal and amiability of the softer sex. He had read the inscription “ Ladies Entrance ” over a door in South Bend. It was doubtless designed for the useful information of the world at large, but as for him, the entrancing capabilities of the fairer portion of humanity had been familiar to him from his tenderest years. Persons of delicate susceptibilities such as his needed not to be told that ladies entrance us by their loveliness,—their winning ways,—their—	'
Mr. Cistum Attick was sorry to interrupt the gentleman, but he was entirely out of order. They were now engaged in choosing a name for their Society.
Mr. Spunky said that as there was no chance of coming to an agreement the Society had better adjourn.
The chair doubted the power of the Society to adjourn.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
They had no name,—no object,—no constitution—no "byelaws,—no fixed powers or functions How could they do anything, then ? How could they adjourn ?
Mr. Goose said that was pretty rough, as the hour for retiring was sounding, and he felt sleepy.
Mr. Bogus then said he would take the responsibility of going to bed on his own shoulders. .
And so they all went to bed.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Farieon has written a Christmas stoiy, “An Island Pearl.”
—Taine has nearly completed his “ History of the French Revolution.”
—Theodore Thomas will bring out Liszt’s “Prometheus” this season in Boston.
—The library of Congress, Washington, has 4,800 bound volumes of newspapers.
—A new edition of the works of Walter Savage Landor are soon to be issued in London.
—Mr. Blanchard Jerrold’s authorized “Life of Napoleon HI” has reached its third volume.
—“The Puritans and Queen Elizabeth,” announced, with an introduction by ex-President Hopkins.
—Liszt, before leaving for Italy, spent a few days at Leipzig, where he was the object of many ovations.
—Ole Bull has been giving concerts in Stockholm recently. He is about to make a farewell tour of Europe.
—Mr. Ewing, sculptor, of Glasgow, has completed the model for the Burns statue, which is to be placed in that city.
—Dean Stanley is preparing for publication the third series of his “Lectures on the Histoiy of the Jewish Church.”
—Capt. Richard F. Burton has another African book in press, entitled “Two Trips to Gorilla Land and the Cataracts of the Congo.”
—A. new supplement to “McCulloch’s Dictionary of Commerce,” bringing the last edition of 1869 up to 1875, is in the press in London.
—The friends and admirers of the late Stephen C. Foster, whose ballads are still very popular, propose erecting a monument to his memory.	■
—A book of ghosts and goblins will soon be given us, entitled “ History of the Supernatural,” by Frederick Lee, vicar of All Saints, Lambeth.
—A Boston house is endeavoring to secure a copy of the small model of the Concord Minute-Man, to be duplicated and put upon the market before Christmas.
—A volume of recollections of fighting and hunting in South Africa, by Maj. Gen. Bissett, will be published in November under the title of “ Sport and War.”
—The Academy actually praises Miss Braddon’s last— “Hostages to Fortune”—as containing most studied and careful writing, with characters skilfully handled.
—A new way of teaching music to the young is by means of a fairy-tale, recently published in London, “ forming an allegorical and pictorial exposition of the elements of music.”
—An opera bouffe on an American subject is to be brought out at the famous Carl theatre, in Vienna, next month. It is in three acts, and pictures life among the mountains in Salt Lake City.
—It is proposed to erect a monument and statue, from a design by Sir Gilbert Scott, R. A., at Wisbech, to Thomas Clarkson, a coadjutor of Wilberforce in the suppression of of the slave-traffic.
—Mr. W. P. Fogg’s “Arabistan, or the Land of the Arabian Nights,” an important journal of travels through Egypt, Arabia, and Persia to Bagdad, is in the press of Low & Sons, London.	-	*
—Mr. George Cary Esgleston has written for the Put-names a book entitled “The Big Brother,” which The Publishers' Weekly is kind enough, to inform us is not a biography of bis brother Edward.
—Amelia B. Edwards, whose fame as a writer of travels bids fair to eclipse her reputation as a novelist, has in press “A Journey of a Thousand Miles Through Egypt and Nubia to the Second Cataract of the Nile.”
—The London Athenecum hails the appearance of a new book on the royal tiger of Bengal as “very opportune,” because “the prince of Wales will soon be engaged in hunting this most fierce and dangerous of all wild animals.”
—The colossal corner group of the Albert Memorial, Hyde Park, London, representing “ America,” is to be reproduced in terra- cotta, under the direction of Mr. Bell, the sculptor, especially for exhibition at the Philadelphia Centennial.
—The people of Philadelphia have the object in view of establishing an Industrial Art Museum in the Quaker City, based upon a somewhat similar plan to that of the South Kensington Museum, London, to be placed in Memorial Hall, at the close of the Centennial Exposition next year.
—The town of Dijon has just taken up the project, abandoned some time since, of raising a statue to Romeau. Thanks to the efforts of two Dijon artists, it is possible that next summer the statue will be unveiled with similar fetes to those which took place this year at Rouen in honor of Boieldieu.	•
—Carpeaux, the artist who died recently near Paris, had an intense admiration for Michael Angelo. A short time befoi e his death he managed by a convulsive effort to support himself on crutches for a few moments at the foot of e bust of Angelo, and then falling down exhausted he said. “ I, too, have kept his centenary.”
—Prof. Bain will publish in November the third edition of his treatise on “The Emotions and the Will.” The work has been to a great extent rewritten. It contains a full discussion on the doctrine of evolution in its bearing upon both emotion and volition, and embraces a novel handling of various matters connected with ethics.
—M. Guichard, a French painter, is preparing a great practical and historical work on Decoration. He has obtained permission from the administration of the Beaux-Arts to install his studio at the Garde-Meuble, in the very midst of the wealth of all kinds—furniture, tapestry, vases, etc.—belonging to that great national establishment.
—The current price of the first edition of Shakspeare, 1623, is not far from £500 for a perfect copy. An exact reproduction of it by a photographic process, guaranteeing not only accuracy but absolute identity with the original, will soon appear in a small octavo volume. This "is the third reproduction by some photographic process, the other two having been in folio and in quarto.	.
—The son of Hugh Miller is treading in his father’s steps, both as a geologist and a writer. He has written a biography of his father’s life-long friend, Sir Roderick Murchison, and he is engaged on the geological survey of England. By a curious coincidence, he makes his debut as a writer in the Inverness Courier, the same paper as that in which his father did, and under the same editor, Dr. Carruthers.
—A curious monograph is promised in England, on “Ecclesiastical and Academical Colors.” The first part will give an explanation of the various colors used in the services of the church, with tables of colors; and part second, “a list of hoods worn by graduates of British and ■colonial universities, and members of theological colleges, with a short account of those universities and colleges which grant hoods and confer degrees.”
—Mr. James Grant Wilson has prepared a considerable work on “The Poets and Poetry of Scotland, from the Earliest to the Present Time.” It will comprise characteristic selections, with biographical and critical notices, and portraits on steel. The first volume, from Thomas the Rhymer, A. D. 1226, to Richard Galt, 1776, is announced for publication in Edinburgh next month.
—Miss Foley’s design for a fountain, which she intends to send to the Centennial Exhibition, is described as follows : It is intended to represent children in the bath, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	151
,	it might, therefore, be appropriately termed “ The Bath of
■	Beauty.” The children are life-size, of the age of four, six
and nine. The fountain consists of an artistic arrangement of two basins, measuring about seven feet from the lip of the upper basin to the base of the lower one. The diameter of the lower basin is seven and a half or eight feet. The fountain is the first work of Miss Foley on a large scale.
—The artists throughout the country will be interested in knowing the names of the gentlemen composing the committee of selection required by the special regulations of the art department of the Centennial Exhibition. The list, just published, is composed of some of the most prominent artists of the country. The names are as follows: William Hunt, Daniel Huntington, S. R. Gilford, Thomas Hicks, J. Q. Ward, Henry K. Brown, S. B. Waugh, William T. Richard, and Howard Roberts. From the high .	character and artistic standing of the members of this com-
I1 mittee an impartial selection may be expected.
—In looking over the papers of a deceased client in a town of Pomerania, a lawyer is said to have discovered twenty-three manuscripts of the author of Don Giovanni, namely: several Symphonies, composed at Salzburg, j	Vienna, and Olmutz, and including one with the date
t	1667, for two violins, two violas “d’amore,” two oboes,
I	two horns, and three double basses; a concerto for or, '	chestra and pianoforte (1774); and in the instrumental ac!	companiments for the interludes (13th May, 1766) in a Latin
1	comedy,	entitled,	Appollo et Hyacintha. We are afraid
;	■	that the report	is loo good to be true.—Watson's Art
I	.Journal.
f	—Some of the American painters who have been resi-
i	ding at Rome and Paris during the last decade, says a
J	morning contemporary, have returned home with the im'	’ pression that American cities afford better markets than
’	all Europe—for them. The trouble with our artists is
'	that, after acquiring all that is good for them across the
)	water, they will persist in idling out of their element,
i	imitating Europeans, and copying Cupids and Angels,
!	Venuses and Madonnas, when by coming home they
’	might strike an original vein and profit by it. Painting
f	over the red brick houses of this continent would be bet-
ter than being the millionth man to make the last and worst copy of a great Raphael or a famous church fresco. —Watson's Art Journal.
'■ .	—A collection of 250 choice paintings belonging to the
t estate of Jay Cooke were sold a few days since in Phila-i delphia. They represented a cost of about §100,000, but :	were disposed of at about one-fourth that amount, among
50 buyers. The prices realized on the large pictures were generally small. The “ Night After the Battle,” by Nehlig, ■	six feet high by nine feet in length, brought only §200.
! :	Its exhibition at the Sanitary Fair brought §30,000. “ Sunset
‘ on the Old Wreck,” by.DeHaas, which cost 10,000, brought '	§520. The gem of the collection, by Bougereau, cost §8,000,
;	brought §2,800. Landscape by Sonntag brought §855.
;	“ Paul Preaching at Athens,” by Rothermel, was sold for
§550. The smaller paintings commanded a better price in proportion to their cost.
!	—The Hew York Herald prophecies that Von Billow will
i	be attended upon his tour in this country by a ghastly pro-
cession of musical critics, maddened by his playing. The Boston men discovered that he expressed the meaning of -. Chopin by his gestures quite as clearly as by his performances, and now he has wrecked the intellect of the critic of The Providence Press, who thus describes the extraordinary behavior of the piano: “ He touched the piano and it began to sing; sang as if it repented of a shallow and soulless life;' sang as if it saw new paths of melody and heights to be scaled: sang as if it would send out tendrils into all realms of sound and seize on ravishing chords it had not known before. Wonderful it was to hear this familiar instrument thus taking on a new and lofty ambition.”
—New York Art Gossip.—Mr. Page’s bust of Shaks-‘	peare is almost ready for casting, and will probably be outfor
the holidays. Samuel Colman, who has been travelling all over the eastern continent, has at length returned and has fitted up a studio on Fifth Avenue. J. D. Smillie still lingers at Montrose, Pa. Louis Tiffany will return to the climate of eastern topics in December. George Butler has gone to Italy to remain. Vaini’s pictures and other effects will be
sold by Leavitt & Co. for the benefit of his family. John. Rogers has a new group of clay representing Shylock, Portia, and Antonio in the court-scene. John Mulvany, formerly of Chicago, has just finished a large scene representing the trial of a horse thief, and contains about twenty-five figures. The characters are all from life, and it ia intended for the Centennial Exposition.	'
—Concerning the volume of Niebuhr’s “Lectures on Roman History,” the English publishers announce: “The lectures of which a translation is now offered to the public may be termed a posthumous work of Niebuhr’s, inasmuch as his family allowed fifteen years to pass after his death before committing to the press a careful collation of the notes taken by his disciples at the time of their delivery. Not only is their purpose and extent different from that of Niebuhr’s great work on Roman history, but they also give his last opinions on many important points; and, having been addressed to an audience of young men to whom the illustrious professor was endeavoring to communicate his own glowing enthusiasm for his subject, they attract the interest of the general reader by all the charms of a spirited conversational style.” They were delivered at Bonn, and are translated from the German edition of Dr. M. Isler.
Books and Periodicals.
—The November number of BrainarTs Musical World— . a welcome visitor—has been received. In the miscellany we read: The Old Church Bell, (Poetry); Brought to Light; Hans Von Bulow; Young Bangs; Musical World Letters; The Hints; Hans Von Bulow, his visit to America ; Monthly Musical Review; Musical Gossip; Comical Cadences. The editorials are: Our Letter Box; The New Euclid Avenue Opera House; Ritter’s Fourth Symphony; Our Centennial; Wagner’s Festival; Lowermost Writers; Hans Von Bulow; The Musical Academy; The Musical Season; The Temperance Piano; Our National Hymns; Success; Editorial Chit-Chat; How to Make Money. The music of the number is good. The pieces are: Marching Thro’ Georgia—Grand March—E. Mack; Tho’ Absent, ever Dear—Amy Weddle; The Magic of Music—Transcription—W. Kuhe; Pretty Bird with Bosom Red—Joseph Chas. Franklin. Terms per annum, §1.50. Single copies, 15 cts. Published by S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland.
—Messrs. Hardy & Mahony, of Philadelphia, the energetic publishers of the Catholic Standard and the Catholic Record, announce that they are making arrangements to commence in January the publication of The American Catholic Quarterly Review, which they intend to serve as a medium for the discussion of religious, philosophic, scientific and other topics of interest to intelligent Catholics. The Revieio will be under the editorial control of Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, D.D., assisted by Very Rev. James O’Connor, D.D., and George D. Wolff, Esq. . In. the first number of the Review, articles from the pens of Right Rev. P. N. Lynch, D.D., Bishop of Charleston; Very Rev. James A. Corcoran, D.D.; Very Rev. James O’Connor, D.D.; O. A. Brownson, LL.D.; Rev. Edward McGlynn, D.D.; Rev. Joseph V. O’Conor and George Dering Wolff, Editor Catholic Standard, will appear. The subscription price will be §5.00 per annum, payable in advance. We cannot but hail with pleasure this new Catholic literary enterprise, and wish the promoters of it every success. We trust that the Catholics of the United States will give to the publishers material aid, by subscribingfbr it, and that the career of the American Catholic Review may, in both a literary and financial view, be a complete success.
Life of the Apostle St. Jonx. By M. L. Baunard. Translated from the First French Edition. New York : The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Warren S treet. 1875. Pp. 417.
A very beautiful history of the life of St. John has Mr. Baunard written, and one worthy the perusal of all who admire the disciple whom Jesus loved. We intend in the next number of the Scholastic to print a very touching story related in this book. To young men particularly the volume is of especial interest, and for them no better birthday gift could be procured.
152
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, November G, 187o.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Tribune Store, South Bend, and at the Students’ Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum,Postpaid.
The New Quarterly.
We are rejoiced to learn that in January the enterprising publishers of the Catholic Record will begin the publication of the American Catholic Quarterly Review, which they intend to serve as a medium through which all questions of interest to the Catholics of the United States may be discussed. We wish the promoters of the Review every success, not only in a literary but also in a pecuniary view and trust that it may have a long and successful career.
Last year we called the attention of our readers to the duty incumbent on them and on the Catholic public Of giving to such periodicals as Brownson's Review, the Cath, olic World, the Catholic Record, and the Manhattan Monthly, that support which their excellence deserved; and now that Dr. Brownson has discontinued his Review we call upon them to subscribe for the American Catholic Review and swell from the start its subscription list. At the same time that we urge them to do this, we trust that they will continue to give that aid to the World, the Record and the Manhattan which they have heretofore extended to those publications.
There is not a great deal of money made in publishing literary magazines, and unless the proprietors are able to do more than pay expenses they should not be expected to continue the publication, for there is no duty imposed upon them of losing money for the benefit of their co-religionists. Were these magazines to suspend, we would hear a great deal from people who have done nothing towards supporting them, crying out that the Catholic public do not give that aid and encouragement to their magazines which ought to be given. Let them show their sympathy in the cause of Catholic Literature in the United States by subscribing, and then if the magazines fail they may complain with a good grace.
It would be a great calamity to the Catholics to have any of these periodicals fail. They are able defenders of the faith, and exponents of Catholic thought, and are therefore of the greatest importance to the Catholics of the United States.
Should they.by any chance suspend publication, other magazines would have to be started in order to give us representatives in the literary field. They may, it is true, have their failings, but so have all Monthlies and Quarterlies. They should, then, receive every encouragement, and it becomes the duty of every good Catholic to aid them at least by subscribing for one or more-of them according to his means.
In order to encourage young men of talent to enter
upon literature as a pursuit, our magazines should be gen erously supported. None of our Catholic weekly press, we believe, unless we except a few Eastern papers of long standing and large subscription lists, pay writers for their articles. It is necessary then that there should be magazines to utilize the talent of our Catholic writers and from the proprietors of which they can receive such remuneration as will justify them for their labor. We want good magazine-writers as well as editors, and if the general public will give the publishers proper support, they in turn will be able to gather around them able reviewers and sprightly essayists.	•
It is to be hoped, then, that this new venture, the American Catholic Quarterly Review,—may receive the proper encouragement from the public, so as to enable the proprietors to pay well for articles of merit, and thus secure the best of writers for their Review. We doubt not but that it is the intention of the Bev. Editor to draw around him the best talent the Catholics of America can furnish, and we wish him God-speed in his undertaking.
----------- m ------- Church. Music.
Brainards Musical Monthly for November, in an article on Catholic Church Music Beforms, says: “ We know that the Catholic Church aims at unity in all things. While formerly she was satisfied to boast of the uniformity of forms, ceremonies, government and language, she now aims also at uniformity of music. Hence she does away with German music and supplants it with the Palestrina style and the Gregorian chants, concerning the authenticity of which we know after all but very little. It is evident that the music of the nineteenth century is to be banished, and that the strains of 300, yes, of 1200 years ago, are to be used exclusively in the Church. This looks more like a part of that great policy, that of bringing the people nearer to Borne and farther away from everything else, than a mere art reform measure.”
From the foregoing it is evident that the editor of the Musical Monthly knows more about music as an art than he does about church music, or the part which music is intended to perform in the Catholic Church service. The Church never did, nor does she now, aim at reforming music as an art; but what she does aim at is strict propriety on the part of the music allowed in her solemn services. And as to supplanting modern music, and what the editor of the Musical Monthly is pleased to term “ German music,” this is not in any sense of the word true, for we see her giving not only approbation but encouragement to the works of many of the best composers of church music now in Germany,—men who are German to the manor born, and whose music is as much entitled to the appellation of “ German music,” as is that of Beethoven, Mozart or Haydn. If such men as Witt, Greith, Kaim, Stehle, Mettenleitcr, Oberhoffer, Kothe, Schweitzer, Benz, Uhl Bampis, and such others, are not true Germans, then we would like to know where the editor of Brainard's Musical Monthly would have us look for Germans; and yet these men, some of the very best composers that Germany has produced at the present day, are those whose reformatory measures have received the highest approbation of the Church within the last few years, and whose splendid compositions, with all the embellishments of harmony and counterpoint, are now being introduced in many places—and with episcopal sanction—to the ex

THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
153

i
*
elusion of what the editor is pleased to call, though with no intention to slight them, on his part—the “ trumpeting and kettle-drum ” kind. When the editor of the Monthly tries to draw a line between what he imagines the “ Roman ” and “ German ” in this respect, he is evidently at a loss, and we would advise him and others to study some. thing more of the spirit of the Church before attempting to set themselves up as judges of her actions. The intention of the Church in giving music a part in her solemn ritual is to draw the mind, and the heart, and the sense of the hearer to Heaven, and not to Rome or any other earthly city—to make music a form of prayer and a means of elevating the heart to God, instead of tickling the senses and bringing one, as it were, into the midst of a concert room or military drill. And as to the “ laces,” and “ gold,” and the “ richly decorated altar,” and the “ incense from the golden vessels,” and the “rich paintings”—if the writer be a Protestant, and take the Bible as an article of faith, we would simply refer him for answer to a description of the Temple of Jerusalem and the vestments worn by the priests of the Old Law at a time when—as any reasonable person must concede who takes the Bible as the inspired word of God—that Law was the rule and guide of the chosen people of God. He may then begin to see that every article used in the solemn services of the Catholic Church has a deep significance, and yet one which every Catholic, even those of the most ordinary comprehension, may clearly understand.
When “ the works of a Michael and Joseph Haydn, of a Mozart and a Beethoven, as well as those of a host of others, are turned out of their own Church,” it is not because Mozart and Haydn and the others were not good and pious members of the Church—as the editor of the Musical World says they were—but because their compositions, albeit noble works of art in their way, are not in keeping with the all-absorbing spirit of prayer which should accompany the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass.
We would remark here, by the way, that it is a great pity that editors, and reporters, and critics, who make it their business to take cognizance of Church matters, do not read up and study the forms and spirit of the Church from Catholic books and other authentic sources—as abundance of the former may be obtained for a moiety from the Catholic Publication Society’s store and elsewhere—before attempting to describe her ceremonies or judge of her motives in adopting this or that measure as she may deem necessary. They would then be guarded against the use of language or expressions that clearly show their ignorance to those who know better, and would be prevented from leading the ignorant into deeper error.
With regard to the respective merits of the Palestrina and the “trumpeting and kettle-drum” style, we recollect seeing, some years ago, au article in Dwight's Journal of Music, copied from a London musical paper, which spoke ■ very sneeringly of the (Ecumenical Council, saying that instead of defining Papal infallibility, etc., they might have done some real service to the musical art by discussing the question of church music, and reviving the Palestrina school, making it obligatory over the whole Church. The writer proved himself a bigot, but this did not prevent him from giving his testimony in favor of the encouragement the Church gives to the greatest and purest in art. Had such a command been given, perhaps this same person would have been loudest in his cry of tyranny, etc. We
must, however, do the able journal in question the justice of saying that this was the only instance in which we discovered anything bitter against the Church, her liturgy or her discipline. The great Protestant writer Thibaut, in his work, “ Uber Reinheit der Tonkunstf treats this matter at some length, and, from among hundreds of paragraphs equally to the point, we will content ourselves with quoting the following: “The worshippers of modern ideas {der Neuheit) receive these opinions with a bad grace, and especially is it considered a malicious depreciation not to make an exception in favor of the Masses of J. Haydn and Mozart. I admit that those masses are pleasing, because they have something stirring and sensuous, but I insist on the fact that they are in the main voluptuous, worldly—in a word, unworthy the noble ideal of the Church; and that no person can find pleasure in them if he be acquainted with older masterpieces in the pure church style, or even with the better class of oratorios.” One word more from Ludwig Hohl, a pantheist, in his work“J7er Geist der Ton-kunstf in regard to Mozart’s Requiem-. “It is neither Catholic nor Protestant, but a pecular conception of the eternal of its own, according to the requirements of the genius of modern times, and therefore not according to the Church, {kircldich). No Catholic will find in it the true expression of the spirit of his cultus."
From the foregoing it will be seen that some of the best musical critics, even while they admired the genius and versatility of Mozart and Haydn, were anything but blind admirers of their compositions; and that even they, simply from the standpoint of a good taste, considered them unfit for the Church. As to Palestrina, we regret to see his magnificent compositions classed as national music—as Italian, or Roman, or anything else of the kind; towering works of genius, they belong to Christendom, and should not be circumscribed by the limits of state or country, any more than Mozart or Haydn should be confined to Germany.
And the Gregorian Chant, the standard music of the Church—“concerning the authenticity of which after all we know but very little ”—its authenticity is clear and beyond dispute, and we would we had time and space to exonerate it; but other and abler peas have already done this in the Catholic World for 1869, and in the Dublin Review of last year, to which we refer any who may be anxious to know something about this time-honored chant, which has resounded throughout the cathedrals of Europe for the last twelve hundred years;
Father Lemonnier.
To the Editok of the Scholastic :—The poet tells us that
The evil that men do lives after them ;	•
The good is often interred with their bones:
and it is indeed but too true that we are ready enough to forget the good man’s existence as soon as the green sod is well set upon his grave. It is therefore almost as surprising as it is pleasant to find this unfeeling law of human nature occasionally suspended, and the clear stream of affection and reverence still flowing on as if there were no death or separation.
This is the thought that struck me as I read in the Scholastic of last week the notices of the anniversary services in remembrance of the death of Father Lemonnier. He is indeed of the number of those who are gone but not for
154
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gotten. The St. Cecilians did themselves honor in having the Solemn Requiem Mass offered for his eternal welfare, and in placing the beautiful statue of our Lady as a mark of the deep human love which still clings to his memory. Father Lemonnier’s sensitive and modest nature would certainly have shrunk from the anticipation of these posthumous honors, could he know of their coming; but thjs in the very character which grateful hearts delight to reverence, for there is something godlike in honoring those who never sought honor but always deserved it. May the young Cecilians not only now reverence the beautiful character of their well-beloved Director, but always hold it fast in memory as the pattern of a sweet Christian life
F.
Personal.
—John F. Wheeler, of ’73, is at Munster, Illinois.
—James Cunnea, A, B. of ’69, is banking at Morris, DI.
—T. H. Grier, B. S., of ’75, is rusticating at Geneva Lake, Wis.
—John Broderick, of ’68, is in the grocery business at Cairo, Ills.
—W. J. Clarke, A. B., of ’74, is a Notary Public in Columbus, Ohio.
—Rev. Father Sorin returned from his trip to Texas on Saturday last.
—Rev. W. F. O’Mahony is now making the Jubilee with his parishioners.
—J. J. Healey, of ’61, was elected County Clerk in Chicago, last Tuesday.
—Thomas Cochrane, of ’75, is now employed by the Chicago Hibernian Bank.
—Charles Hildebrand, of ’67, is in business with his father in Cleveland, Ohio.
—Prof. Pepper, who lectured here last winter, has just complet ed a series of lectures in Chicago.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., starts to-morrow evening for Rome, rza Canada and Paris, France.
—Thomas W. Ewing, A. B. of’69. is editor and proprietor of the Sunday Herald, Columbus, Ohio.
—Hon. Claude R'opelle, a former student of the University, is now one of Detroit’s noted lawyers.
—Dennis J. Hogan, A. B., of ’73, is now pursuing his law studies at Columbia College, New York city.
—Samuel and William Dum, of ’72, are at present engaged in the manufacture of flour at Amanda, Ohio.
—Huck, of ’54, was elected Treasurer of Cook County, Ill., on Tuesday last. His opponent, Mr. Hesing, had a nephew here some years ago.
—Thomas B. Clifford, of’62, at present a New York Attorney, has an advertisement in another column. He sets a worthy example, and we wou’d be very well pleased to see more of the cards of those who have left Notre Dame to engage in this noble profession.
Local Items.
—Wictory!
—Who drank that cider?
—It is becoming quite cold.
—Boating will soon be over.
—The Collegiates are champions.
—Very few persons in the Infirmary.
—The Columbians are looking up a play.
—The retreat ended last Sunday morning.
—And that item* has not been dug out yet I
—The Columbians were organized in 1872.
—Therefore I rehiterate—yes, sir, rehiterate!
—What is the name of the new Lecture Hall ?
—James, what about Sing Sing ? It’s a pa-lace.
—A revival of the Junior Orchestra is talked of.
—The Philopatrian Society was founded in 1872.
—Another of the new Stations has been painted.
—The new lecture-room is being nicely fitted up.
—The County Surveyor is now surveying a la rose.
—Private letters should never be used as book-marks.
—Silence reigns supreme in the Campus these cold days.
—The St. Cecilians have lively and interesting meetings.
—The Philopatrians are by no means slow in their exercises.	•
—The Philodemics will give an entertainment in December.	•
—Now.who would think that he would carry a razor in his boot!
—Stale jokes of fifteen years’ standing are all the go with some.
—The United Scientific Association was founded in the Spring of 1868.
—The election in Chicago was all the talk at Notre Dame on Tuesday last.
—Bulletins were made out on Wednesday last, and sent off on Thursday.
—Who are those dead-beats that are smoking all the Professor’s cigars ?
—The Archconfratemity was organized in the month of September, 1845.
—Joe, why does your father let you smoke? ’Cos then TH not eat so much!
—The classes began work again with their accustomed energy on Tuesday morning.
—The two cousins had their pictures taken last Wednesday, and of course they were splendid.
—Lectures on Scientific subjects, with illustrations, will soon be given in the new Lecture Hall.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was first organized by Prof. J. A. Lyons, in 1859.
—The Band has been highly complimented for the excellent manner in which the members play.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association was started in the year 1851. It is the oldest Literary Society in the College.	'
—The Amphion jClub will make its first appearance at the Philodemic Entertainment. It is proposed to double the quartette.
—The Telegraph-room for the students has been removed to the College building. The office still remains in the Infirmary building.
—Let me have men about me that are fat; aud not such as in their troubled dreams arise and startle the dormitorv with cries of “ Fire.”	- y
—All Saints’ Day was.celebrated with great solemnity at Notre Dame. The sermon, an excellent one, was preached by Rev. Father Colovin.	1
—The yard back of the College will be nicely fixed up when the old steam-house shall have been completely torn down and its ruins carted away.	J
—In a few days, and the last boiler will be in its place in the new steam-house. The delay in placing it was caused by the repairs necessary to be made on it.
Mr. Editor—A friend of mine desires to know who Silas Newcomer is. He says he asked all the Prefects but thev were unacquainted with this singular personage. ’ M. J
—We noticed a couple of Nimrods out, the other dav with “ their guns upon their shoulders” and their pouches by their sides. And they came home with nothing more!
—Professor—What is the difference between “festinare ” and “ accelere ” ? Student—The former means to hurrv up right away, quick, get; and the latter means hurry up slow. That student was promoted.	y A
t •• 1 .-j
J j

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
155
11
—The organization of the University Cornet Band dates from 1846. A fine set of instruments belonging to the original members are now on the bottom of the lake. Anyone may have them who can get them.
—The Thespian Society was founded in 1861. Among the charter-members were Orville T. Chamberlain, Frank Cottin.Thos. Naughton, John Lonergan, Frank C. Bigelow, Jno. Schutt, Edward M. Brown, Thos. E. Lonergan, and Jos. E. Kelly.
—The way the young man laid in chicken last Tuesday is surprising. We hear it stated that not so much as a bone was left after he had done. We were afraid that the platter itself would be called into requisition to satisfy him; but it wasn’t.
—The “ new departure ” of the Philodemics promises to give more life to the Society. It serves to make the literary exercises more interesting by giving them more variety, besides adding to the fund of general knowledge which each member should possess.
—A new feature has been developed in Euclid: one of his devoted disciples has discovered that baseball can be played by pure geometrical demonstrations, such as, you must throw a ball from shortstop to first base, an angle of forty-five degrees, etc.
—The 9th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place Nov. 1st. Mr. Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Mr. Meyer, of Wabash, Ind., honored the meeting with their presence. Declamations were delivered by Masters A. K. Schmidt, H.D. Faxon, E.F. Arnold, C. J. hippie, J. French, N. Dryfoos. ’
—The third regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-demic Society was held Tuesday, November 2nd, in their hall. Messrs. Harkness, Hansard and Euans, were admitted to membership. It was decided to hold a competition in oratory for the “Boys” the second week in December. The literary exercises over, the Society adjourned. ’
—The third regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held October 31st. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Herzog, Murphy and Obert; Mr. Lonstorf read an Essay, Mr. J. H. Cooney was elected a member; an extempore debate took place, the subject being: “Resolved that the use of Tobacco is more injurious to man than the use of Alcohol.” The president reserved his decision.
—We had a visit from a queerly-built negro the other day. He had a double set of ribs, and could, by working himself, move them from under his arms and bring them • down to encase his thighs. He was very strongly built and could take a good-sized iron bar, and by striking it against his arm easily bend it. It seems hard to believe, but it is a fact. His arms, which are very large, were, when he stretched them, as hard as stone.
—Mr. J. Chirhart, living one mile north of Notre Dame, . is the happy possessor of a musical prodigy in the form of a mouse. Every evening at the lighting of the lamp this musical quadruped gives a few selections from the difficult compositions executed by canary birds, and it shows by its tact at imitation that the art of vocal music is not exclusively the property of the human animal and the fowl. We think the Mendelssohn Club would be greatly bene-fitted by the addition of this new debutant.
—The curator of the Museum has been made the recipient of a large collection for the Cabinet, the past week. Among the collection were upwards of four hundred and fifty specimens of rock-formers; rocks of the different Geological Ages; ores; minerals used as gems; all the rare elementary bodies, besides more than one hundred and fifty species of fossils. A large number of specimens will be received in the course of the coming month, and the curator expects, now that large rooms have been given him, to make the Cabinet the most interesting place at Notre Dame. The many scientific graduates are interesting themselves in it, and are aiding him in many ways.
—The remains of Rev. Fathers Deseille, Petit, and Cointet, and of Mr. William Phelan, are being removed from the vaults under the old church, where they rested for many years. Father Deseille, who was a missionary among the Indians in Northern Indiana, died in 1838, in
i
g
I »
?
• t
> ''
’ I
the old log church which stood on the banks of the lower lake. He was a zealous priest who worked among the poor Indians with a truly apostolic zeal. Rev. Father Petit was also a missionary among the Indians, and lived in the old log hut near by the log church on the lower lake. He died in St. Louis, on his return from an expedition to the far West. Rev. Father Cointet died in 1854. He was the second Prefect of Studies at Notre Dame. Mr. William Phelan, the stepfather of the late Father Gillespie, was one of Notre Dame’s greatest benefactors. He died in the year 1855.
—A friend in Watertown, Wis., writes:
“Knowing that you are pleased to hear from any of the branch colleges of Notre Dame, I have undertaken the pleasant task of giving you an idea of the progress and present condition of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. The College is situated on a beautiful elevation near the junction of the St. 'Paul & Milwaukee, and Chicago, & Northwestern Railroads, and overlooks the flourishing city of Watertown. Its site is a beautiful one. The buildings, though not very extensive, are sufficiently commodious for a large number of students. The study-hall, play-hall, dormitory and class-rooms are of ample size and are well ventilated. The dwelling house occupied by the Faculty is the flnest, outside Chicago, to be seen on the Northwestern Railroad. One of the many questions asked concerning a college, is, “Is it situated in a healthy climate ?” In answer to that question I refer you to the health record, or to anyone who is acquainted with this part of Wisconsin. Amongst the inhabitants of this vicinity the paradoxical saying is common that “if you wish to die in Watertown, you must leave it.” By all it is admitted that the health of this location is unsurpassed in the United States, This instituton is yet in its infancy; its progress is steady and sure. A young man can pursue as good a course of studies here as in any of the numerous colleges throughout the West. All our institutions of learning, especially Catholic ones, have had to undergo trials and troubles, and such will be the case with all that strive to attain eminence. I have not the slightest doubt but that this College will, in the course of a few years, be an honor not only to Wisconsin, but to the whole West. The attendance is not extraordinarily large this year but it is very fair, and the prospects of its increasing are very promising. We are not blest with a great number of societies, yet those we have are good ones. The first is the St. Patrick’s Literary Society, founded under the directorship of Rev. P. J. Golovin, in the Spring of 1873. It has for its object the cultivation of elocution and composition and the acquiring a correct knowledge of history. At present it is under the directorship of Rev. M. B. Brown, with J. E. Shannahan as President. The next is the Cecilian Glee Club, under the directorship of Rev. E. Lilly. This Society is a promising one, and with such an able Director it cannot fail to meet with snceess. The Circulating Library Association is the next and last on the list, as I have named them in the order in which they were founded. It is under the joint direction of our President and Vice-President, Rev. P. W. Condon and Rev. M. B. Brown. This, Mr. Editor, though far from being a good account, is sufficient to give you and your readers some idea of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart and its many advantages.	Respectfully, Chorographos.”
—The games of baseball for championship have been concluded—the final game being played last Monday. The Collegiate nine came out victorious, consequently they are champions for this season. The following is the result of last Monday’s game:
COLLEGIATE.
R.<0.
UNIVERSITY.
R.
o-
Monohan, s. s, Busch, 2d.... Devoto, e.... Otto, c. f...
Ball, 1. f... Logan, 3rd.... Campbell, r. f. Graves, p....
Lonstorf, 1st .
Total....
Collegiate.
University
3 1
1 4
3 2 ?|4l 1! 3
1 3
0 4|
1 4
1 2
1
McKinnon, 2d.. Pilliod, s. s. Ruhl, c....... McKernan, c. f. Dwyer, p...... Cooney, 1. f.. Campau, 1st.... Perea, 3rd.... Hertzog, r. 1....
Total.....
INNINGS.
1 1
1 1
1 1 0
1 0
3 3
5 4
3
2
2
3
27
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	s	9	
4	2	0	2	2	1	0	1	0	—12
2	7	3	0	0	1	0	0	0	— 7
Umpire—George J. Gross.
Scorers—A. J. Mooney and G. Otero.
156
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
SEXIOK DEPARTMENT.
R. Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, J. Buckles, F. Bearss, W. Ball, M. Blackburn, W. Canavan, P. Cooney, D. Connors, J.’Connolly, R. Calkins. J. Cooney, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, H. Dehner, J. Dwyer, W. Dechant, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, B. Euans, T. Flanagan, W. Fogarty, E. Graves, T. Gallagher, G. Gross, A. Hertzog, J. Hamlin, J. Harkin, J. Handley, T. Hansard, S. Kennedy, F. Keller, -P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, J. Lipp, E. Monohan, P. Alattimore, P. J. Mattimore, D. Murphy, H. Maguire, C. Myers, J. Monning, R. Maas, F. Maas, W. Murdock, P. McCauley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, T. McGrath, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, W. McGorrisk, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, A O’Brien, E. Pefferman, J. Perea, T. Quinn, F. Rettig, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Schweighardt, G. Sullivan, F. Vander Vannet, R. White, F. White, C. Weber, T. Wendell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. Burger, C. J. Clarke, J. J. Davis, W. Dodge, E. Davenport, H. Faxon, J. J. French, F. J. Flanagan, P. J. Frane, C. Gustine, S. Goldsberry, R. Golsen, C. Ham, P. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, B. Heeb, E. Hall, G. Huck, A. Hamilton, M. Kautzauer, F. Klaner, J. Kinney, J. Knight, M. Kauffman, 0. Larkin L. Lacey, J. Mosal, M. McAuliffe, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, M. A. Otero, C. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, E. F. Riooelle, F. Rosa, A. E. Ryan, S. Ryan, H. B. Scott, T. Schwuchow, W. A. Sheehan, A. K. Schmidt, P. F. Sehnurrer. G. Strict, H. Sickel, G. F. Sugg, W. Taulby, P. Tumble, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, E. Woodward, E. Washburn, M. Halley, J. English, W. Connelly, C. Hagan, 0. Myers.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F.,P. McGrath, C. C. Campau, C. Faxon, O- W. Lindberg, F. A. Campau, A. J. Bushey, J. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, G. Lowery, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, J. A. Duffield, L. J. Frazee, T. A. Hooley, J. Seeger, O. Stanton, Mortimer Gustine, G. Rhodius, W. Cool-baugh, B. Morris, W. Gash, H. McDonald, C. Bushey, C. Long, E. Oatman.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY NOV. 4, 1S75.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Seniors—H. Maguire, T. Quinn, J. Quinn, D. Byrnes, D. Connors, J. Hamlin, W. Fowler, P. W. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, F. Vander Vannet, W. Kreigh. J. Buckles, J. Lipp, G. Schweighardt, C. Ely, R- Calkins, Jos. Connolly, J. Harkin, F. White, C. Robertson, A. Pefferman, F. Maas, E. Gramling, J. Dempsey.
Juniors—F. Schwuchow, F. Ewing, H. Faxon, J. Davis, W. Sheehan, W. Heeb, P. Hagan, C. Ham, D. Nelson, W. Taulby, F, Rosa,-F. McGrath, S. Goldsberry, E. Raymond, J. O’Meara, P. Frain, C. Larkin, P. Tumble, T. Byines, G. Huck, C. Or-singer, C. Peltier, H. Sickle, M. McAuliffe, J. McClorey, W. Ar-nolcl, M. Otero, F. Hoffman, J. Knight, J. Kinney, J. Byrne, J. French, C. Clarke, R. Golsen, W. Davis, W. Morris, W. Roelle.
MINIM DEPARTMENT,
M. Gustine, B. Morris, W. Coolbaugh, H. McDonald, J. Seeger, J. Stanton, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, G. Rhodius, W. Smith, C. Long, E. Oatman.
----------^<x» »
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] commercial course.
A. Hoag, E. Atfield, F. Keller, J. O'Rourke, P. Flanagan, L. Pilliod, J. Retz, J. Foley.

—The fine days bring many visitors. Old friends and new are always welcome.
—Several of the young ladies, having only a few weeks since entered the classes, will not receive bulletin notes till next month.
—The uniform routine of quiet school duties is accompanied by such a lively interest in those duties that no one complains of monotony.
—On Friday the pupils had the privilege of visiting the Community Cemetery at Notre Dame, to see the statue raised in memory of Rev. Father Lemonnier, 0. S. C.
—The Bulletins, which will be sent this week to the parents and guardians of the pupils, will give evidence of the standing of each pupil in her classes and her success or failure in observing the rules of the Institution.
—Not very long since, a few special friends had the privilege of hearing a private treat of artistical music, given by the post graduates of St. Mary’s—‘'Amite pour Amitie,” by Mason—Meyerbeer’s grand “ Skating Scene ” ; a transcription by Liszt—two of his famous “Rhapsodies” and one of Chopin’s exquisite Ballads—formed the first part; “Birdies’ Trill,”—“Hungarian Dances,” by Brahms —and Chopin’s great “ Concerto,” No. 3. Each of these gems was performed in a masterly style.
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, J. Locke, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, AL Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady, M. Walsh, C. Woodward, L. Henrotin, E. Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, J. Pierce, P. Gavnor, M. Spier, E. O’Neil, R. Casey, A. Henueberry, H. Julius, "J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, A. Prettyman, C. Monran, H. Russell? AL and E. Thompson, S. Moran, AI. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, B. Siler, I. Maas, U. Goodell, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, AI. Hutchinson, G. Youell, L. Gustine, T. O’Brien, S. Swalley, M. Parker, L. Moran, N. King, E. Edes, G. Wells, M. Hooper, L. Tighe, AI. Usselmann, M Marky, A. Sievers, M. Thelan, L. Schwass, A. Miller, F. Gurney, C. Morrill, J. Darcy, M Telford, M Railton, C. Whitmore, R. Filbeck, L. Weber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Fisk, O’Conuor, Wilson, Cullen, Dryfoos,Lang, M.and A. Ewing, N. and M. McGrath, L. and A Kirchner, AI. and E. Mulligan, I. and A. Mann, J. Holladay, M. Hogan, L. Walsh, AI. Redfield, McFadden, Derby, Kocb, J. Morris, Chilton, N. Morgan, Merritt, Faulkner, Gordon, Mitchell, AL and C. Hughes, Simpson, Smith, Davis, Feehan, Lambin, Duffield, Goldsberry, A. and L. Sehnurrer.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, J. Locke, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara.
1st Sr. Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady.
2d Sr. Class—Misses AL Walsh, L. Kelley, C. Woodward, L. Henrotin, E. Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens' P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Neil, R. Casey, A. Hen- 4 neberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, A. Prettyman.
3d Sr. Class—Misses C. Morgan, H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor7B. Siler, I. Mass, U. Goodell,” I. Edes, N. Tuttle, M. Hutchinson.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Gustine, T. O’Brien, AL Parker. G. Wells, AI. Hooper.
2d Prep. Class—Misses F. Gurney, C. Morrill, J. Darcy, M Thelan.
3d Prep. Class—Misses M. Railton, C. Whitmore, R. Filbeck L. Weber.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH LESSONS.
2d Sr. Class—Misses I. Fisk, AI. O’Connor, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
3d Sr. Class—Misses A. Cullen, H. Dryfoos, T, Lang, AI. Ewing.
1st Prep. Class—Misses N. McGrath, L. Kirchner, J. Holladay, M. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Hogan, A. Koch, L. Walsh, N. O’Meara, M. Derby, N. Mann, A. Ewing, AI.Redfield.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses J. Morris, L. Chilton, L. Kinsella M. Bell, N. Morgan, L. Merritt, L. Faulkner, A. Kirchner, m! McGrath,’D. Gordon, E. Mullieran, I. Mann, A. McGrath, J.” Mitchell, E. Simpson, M. and C. Hughes.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Smith, M. Davis, AI. Feehan, M, Lambin, R. Goldsberry, J. Duffield, M. McFadden.
2d Jr. Class—Misses A. and L. Sehnurrer, A. Morris.
1st French Class—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, J. Kreigh, E Thompson, AI. Thompson, N. McGrath, A. Harris, B. Wilson.
2d Class—A. Clarke, M. Riley, L. Arnold, H. Russel, P. Gaynor, K. Hutchinson, C. Woodward.
3rd Class—Misses I. Reynolds, J. Bennett, T. Walsh, M. Walsh, AI. Hutchinson, A. AIcGrath, L. Ritchie, AI. Brady, A* Dennehey, J. Pierce, L. Brownbridge, I. Fisk, L. Kirchner. M. Redfield, E. Alulligan, A. Sievers.	’	•

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
157
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.	.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJAZKT ZFZE^Jk.ZN’CISCO,
Sacramento, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Binds, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular rou’e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b’lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse air brakes, Miller's safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity" with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i raveling.	_
PULLMAN PALACE LEVIES
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee. ,
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,
General Superintendent.
MICIUG-AjV central r. r.
Time Table-August 29, 1S75.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5,15 pm	9 00 p.m
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 01 “	6 35 “	7 43 “	11 15 “
** Niles 		9 02 “	12 15 p.m	8 30 “	8 51 “	12 45 “
“ Jackson		2 12 p.m	4 05	7 00 a.m	12 47 a m	4 55
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	(> 30 “	10 15 “	3 50 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 50 a m	4 CO p m	5 40 p.m	9 50 “
“ Jackson		10 37 “	12 30 p.m	7 15 ••	9 25 “	12 45 a.m
“ Niles		3 40 p,m	4 19 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 15 “	5 45 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 45 u
Ar. Chicago. ...	ri 35	8 00 “	10 20 '•	6 30	8 00 “
Wiles and So nt 11 Ucnil Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15	p tn.
“ Notre Dame—8 22	7 23	“
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “	8 00	“
W. H. Stennett,
Gen’l Passenger Agent
§9 0G a.m. §7 00 p.m.
9 07 “	7 07 “
9 40 “ '	7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8	00 a.m.	"	§5 00 p.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8	32.	“	5 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “	8	40	5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted.
tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
§Sunday only.	.
H. B. Lkdyabd,	Wm. B. Strong,
. Ass’t Gen’l Sup’t, Detroit. ’	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELSSTINE. Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
CL ZHZ. SZEaZZEZiZEZE^ZEI^,
Hais, Caps and Furs,
TRENKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, ancl Gents’ ’Furnishing Goods, Etc., LIO NII cl rip; tin Street, sottth: zbzehstzd, tttzd.
DITSON & GO’S MUSIC BOOKS
For Catholic Churches.
Books containing Morning and Evening Service.
THE OFFERTORIUM.......;............Fiske. 2.50
The newest work. Plenty of easy as well as more difficult music.
THE CANTATA. No. 1 Morning Service. .Werner. 2.25
THE CANTATA. No. 2. Evening Service.. “	2.25
THE MEMORARE.......................... 2.75
THE CATHOLIC CHOIR BOOK...........Garbert. 2.50
LYRA CATHOLICA...........Wilcox	& Southard. 2.50
STABAT MATER......................Rossini.' 45
~M~ A AATHA
By Beethoven, in C.... 65 Haydn, 1st, 2d & 4th ea. 80 Haydn, 6th..........1.00
Haydn, 7th & 8th, each. 65 Haydn, 3d...........1.00
Rossini Messe Sol’nelle 1.60 Bordese, in F.........65
De Monti, B flat......65
Guignard............1.00
Southard in F........ 50
“ D................50
Weber, in E flat......65
“ G................50
Mozart, 2d, 7th	& 9th, ea 65
“	1st Mass......65
“	12th...........80
'•	15th...........65
Gounod, Messe Sol’nelle 80
Concone,mF...........65-
Farmer, B flat........80
Lambillotte, Pascale...2.50
Niedermeyer.........1-25
Stearns, in A........1.50
Thayer, No. 1.......2.00
Zimmer..............2.00
Suhuul Music Munks
Constitute a perfect series, providing in the best manner for every class in every school, academy and seminary.
AMERICAN SCHOOL MUSIC READERS.
In 3 books, of which Book 1, (35 cents), is admirably arranged for primary schools. Book II (50 c* nrs), and Book III (50 cents) for Grammar and younger High School or Academy classes. Compiled by L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden.
CHEERFUL VOICES.
(50 cents), by L. O. Emerson, is a capital collection of school songs for common schools.
THE HIGH SCHOOL CHOIR,
(§1), by L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden, is fully equal to their last book, “ The Hour of Singing,” which for some years has been the standard book. The present work; like the other, is for High Schools, Academies and Seminaries.
THE NATIONAL HYMN & TUNE BOOH
50 cents), furnishes the best collection of sacred music extant for opening and closing schools.
Any of the above books mailed, postpaid, for the retail price.
jgpTIie prices above given are for one style of binding, A slight increase for more expensive styles.
OLIVER DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO.,
Boston.	711 Bioalway, SEW M
LY ON & HEALY, Clilcago.
158
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A-ZETID
JEWELRY-
All Kinds of Engraving Done-
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JAMES BONNEY,
TZEZIE ZE’HOTOG-ZEEJAZPZLEIE^
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,'
SOUTH ZBZETTID., nSTTDI-A-TST^V.
Mr. Bonney -will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with, jaw, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ot home during tneir stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, )
CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS
For JHeals, Oysters,
ICE CREAM, E’lES, ETC-
MEALS A.T ALL HOURS.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, DZETTTTST, 109 LdZTCTLTG-^LIT STBEET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
PHILADELPHIA BAZAR.
ITT. POLLACK,
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Goods, White Goods, Embroideries, Laces, Ribbons, Artificial^ Parasals, Sun Umbrellas, etc. Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Gents’ Furnishing’ Goois A Specialty.
M. Livingston & Co.,
_A.ZR,ZE TZETZE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
They Have tlie Best Cutter in the City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Cloths, Cassimeres, "Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satis'action guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BETO, ITO.
ESTABLISHED 1852.
M .3^, Bakst I Iiq
Dealers in
BOOTS JLMTSD SHOES, The Largest Retailing House in the State Comer of Washington ani Michigan Sts., SOUTH BEND.
CANDYI CANDYI CANDYI
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory, 100 Van Buuren St., CHICAG-O, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately Bow Prices to "Wholesale Cash Buyers.
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave lo inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to the IVational Hotel, and Adjacent to t he Ivalee Shore and Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my office, through 1 he Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Norre Dame and St.	I
refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKEY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	159
McDonald,
THE FHOTOG-RAPHEB,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
Eittsburgh, Fort Wayne Ss Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEBRUAHY, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
3
Trains with Through Cars to No. 3.
NEW YORK. Day Ex.
Ex. Snnd v
No. 6. No. 4.
Pac. Exp. Night Ex.
Daily. Ex Sa & Su
Lv. CHICAGO.........
Ar. FT. WAYNE.......
“ Lima.............
“ Crestline.................
“ Mansfield.................
“ Orrville..................
“ Massillon.................
“ Canton....................
“ Alliance..................
“ Rochester.................
“ ..Pittsburgh..............
Lv. Pittsburgh...............
Ar. Cresson..................
“ Altoona....... ...........
“ Harrisburg................
9 00
2 25
4 35
5 34
7 00
7 50
9 42
10 15
10 S3
11 15
1 18
2 20
3 10
a.m.
p.m.
ic cc
cc IC
cc cc
CC
cc
a.m.
Ci
cc
5 15
11 35
1 25
3 01
4 40
5 20
7 12
7 45
8 00
8 40
11 12
12 15
1 10
p.m. CC
a.m.
Cl cc cc cc cc cc cc cc
p.m. cl
10 00 p.m.
5 20 a.m.
8 00 “
9 17 “
11 10 “
11 50 “
1 46 p.m.
2 19 “
2 38 “
3 20 “
5 58 “
7 05 ,l
8 10 “
“ Washington.............. “ Philadelphia............ “ New York................
“ New. Haven...............
“ Hartford.................
“ Springfield.............. “ Providence............... “ Boston...................
7 30 “
12 05 p.m.
6 25 “
9 10 “
4 15 “
7 35 “
11 10 “
12 40 a.m.
1 35 “
4 25 “
5 50 “
5 55 “
11 05 “
3 15 a.m.
6 20 “
3 10 “
6 50 “
10 49 “
12 23 “
1 00 p.m.
•3 48 “
4 50 “
12 10 a.m.
4 13 “
7 45 “
9 07 “
8 05 “
11 15 “
3 36 p.m.
5 55 “
7 03 “
7 40 “
05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
St
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All :he branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.	•
Particular attention is paid to the'religions instruction of Catholicpupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious, exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every poriion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, bean ifnlly a'dorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power. '
The proximity of the two in«tinitions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.	•
For further particulars concerring this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located gregard to Church and Markets, a very desirable prooerte consisti11 ot three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame honys well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal house, young i rees. grapes, sh ubb^ry e c., will be sold at reasonable figures toa good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 23,1875, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:
GOING EAST.
2 35 a. m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30: Clevelands pm; Buffalo 9 15.
10 39 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p in; Cleveland 10 15.
12 57 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 60; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9 IO pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland. 7 <’5; BuffiJo. 1 10p n .
7 53 pm, Tcle'do Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4 pm, Local Freight.	•
GOING WEST.
3 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 am.
4 53 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte5 45; Chicago 820 a m.	.
3 i> m. Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte3 55; Chicago 6 30.
4 50 p in, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45: Chicago, 8 20.	’
8 02 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
11 30 a. m.	■	“
8 35 am, Local Freight.	•-	’
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
TLTZDTJLLSrjA.	.
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundsed Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroad, it is easy of aceess from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee................’................. §5	00
Board, Bed and Bedding, ancLTuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing aud Meneing of Linens, per session of five months •.........•................ 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, each... 10 00 Instrumental Music................................. 12	5q
Use of Piano........................................ 10	00
Use of Violin....................................... 2	50
Telegraphy......................................... 10	00
Vocal Lessons	J General	Class Principles.......... 10	00
vocal Lessons,	j Vocal	Calture...................... 15	00
Elocution—Special Course...........’................ 5	00
Use of Library (per session)........................ 100
Drawing............................................ 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus......... 5	00
( Classical Course.................. 10	00
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course................ 10	00
( Commercial Course.................. 5	00
Students who spend their vacation at the University
are charged extra.............................. 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with, date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE. ’
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.
160
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Srantl Central fctel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS-HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD,
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK. Special Attention Givento Depositions.
6
J
NEW BOOKS.
OLD BOOKS.
DEALER IN
DEALER IN HAVANA CIGARS
1O1 Main Street,
Two Doors Souti of Ei. Gillen’s,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SCARCE BOOKS.
RARE BOOKS.
[Branch, of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
JANSEN, McCLURG& CO.,
HAIR-GUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
Importers and. Dealers in Fine
Corner NVasliingtoiL and :MlcliJgaiL Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store)
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
KEEPS THE
CHICAGO, IHLinsrOIS.
LUCIUS TONG-,
ATTOTLTTZEY-JUT-L.A'W',
AND NOTARY PUBLIC,
B. 9 044 Fellows’ BM, south bend, Indiana.
SAMUEL ENGEL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his
Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Mieliigan. Street, SOUTH LBtEUSTZD., TJST3DIJL35r_A.
Will dispose of his
GOODS A.T JLTTOTTOLT Until January 1, 1876.
SUITS MADE TO ORDER AT THE LOWEST PRICES.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
ZNLEYHldEL LIVINGSTON, 60 Wa string ton St., Three Boors West of Blom’s Cigar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
ES^Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps. Clothing and Gents" Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AKU JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
englravintgUa specialty
Repairing Rone in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOUTH ZBZEZLTZD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER, MERCHANT TAILORS Clothiers and Dealers in
Gents7 Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 NXicliigan St., SOUTH: SE3STTD, TTTTDI^ATTAu.
The
A. McKay. Prop., TTILHIS, TATOTTIG-KLUr. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House The Students’ Office, HETTBY ELUM, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc INo. 54= "Waslilngton St., • south: zbzeznid, iltd.