
lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 19, 1880.
Number 41.
The Golden Side.
BY MBS. M. A. EIDDEB.
There is many a rest in the road, of life, If we only would stop to take it;
And many a tone from the better land, If the querulous heart would make it!
To the sunny soul that is full of hope, And whose beautiful trust ne’er failetb, The grass is green and the flowers are bright, Though the wintry storm prevaileth.
Better to hope, though the clouds hang low, And to keep the eyes still lifted;
For the sweet blue sky will-soon peep through, When the ominous clouds are rifted!
There was never a night without a day, Or an evening without a morning;
And the darkest hour—as the proverb goes— Is the hour before the dawning.
There is many a gem in the path of life Which we pass in our idle pleasure, That is richer far than the jewelled crown, Or the miser’s hoarded treasure;
It may be the love of a little child, Or a mother’s prayers to Heaven, Or only a brother’s grateful thanks For a cup of water given.
Better to weave in the web of life A bright and a golden filling, And to do God’s will with a ready heart And hands that are swift and willing, Than to snap the delicate, minute threads Of our curious lives asunder, And then blame Heaven for the tangled ends, And sit and grieve and wonder.
The Modern French Poets.
Tn studying the history of French literature we see at a glance the radical change it has undergone, and how it differs in the various stages of its development; and although this difference may also be found in the literature of other nations—especially in that of Spain, Italy, and, I may say, Germany—yet no where is it so apparent as in the literature of the French. For it is here we find a total abandonment and neglect of an early national literature, and in its stead the abrupt assumption of one entirely new, or, at least, differing so much from the first, that it would seem to be the literature of two distinct nations. At a comparative recent date, the literature of the French has once more returned to the point where it was left off a few
centuries before, and has, in consequence made but little progress in what characterizes a nation in this respect. The fact is, that the poets of France, instead of perfecting what was so nobly begun, and what was in reality a peculiar ideal type of national literature, discarded this type, and adopted either that of other nations, or set up a conventional ideal of their own, which every one was bound to follow, or disclaim the name of poet. No one will deny that France is the least poetical of all the nations of Europe, that is, in the sense of expressing poetry in language or painting; but it must be said that in the poetry of courage and deeds they outshine all the others, and in this they resemble the old Romans who, although not writing the very best of poetry, yet showed the greatest poetic spirit in originating magnificent poetical themes, both on the battle-field and in the Forum.
Thus it was in France but a few years ago. More tragedies were enacted in the streets of Paris than in its theatres; and a greater epic poem is expressed by many an army of theirs than by their best epic poets. For this reason the history of France, like that of Rome, is far more poetical than their poetical literature itself; although even’ in history they are characterized more by the beauty of thought and word, and by their splendid and rapturous style of graphic description, than by the simple excellence of truth and the quiet spirit of the beautiful.
At the expiration of the Middle Ages, on the threshold of modern history, we meet a man who opposed concrete nature and sound common-sense to the unnaturalness of the romance, which had lost itself in idle and empty allegory, and was the last to pursue an original course in the national literature of France, and with whom died out, for a time, the national type. This man was Francois Rabelais.
Although most of the stories of Rabelais are unfounded and untrue, yet he was a man of comprehensive knowledge, of great genius, but of no stability, as to character. His was a most chequered life—becoming by turns Franciscan, Benedictine, doctor and teacher of medicine at Montpellier, editor of medical writings, physician at Lyons, and lastly Canon and curate in Mendon, near Paris, where he breathed his last, in the year 1553, with these words on his lips: “Jevais chercker la grand, Peut-etra." “I go to seek the great Perhaps.” His last will was:’ “I have nothing, I owe much;- the rest I give to the poor.” He it was who produced that masterpiece of satirical romance, “ Gargantua and Pantagruel.” Nothing can compare with this piece in boldness of composition and wording, in the power of delineation of characters, in acuteness of wit and humor, in satirical and caustic pointedness with which he reprehends the customs and manners of the time. With one bound he goes from one extreme to the other—from gravity to levity, from the serious to the ridiculous, and vita
640
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
versa, cloaking wisdom under the appearance of abjection, but at the same time in such a graceful and pleasing style, as to make it attractive. His compositions are in the world of poetry what the paintings of monstrosities are in the world of art,—they show what an object should be, by representing what it should not be. His satires were specially directed against the sophistries of the schools, the corruption of the clergy, (of which he was a good specimen) and the depravity of morals in Parisian society at the time; these are described most minutely. Against the drunkenness and gluttony of the age he also strikes a strong blow; and, strange to say, towards the end of his work he enters the arena of politics. “ Gargantua and Pantagruel,” his two main characters, are well chosen; the first a glutton, the latter a toper. Gargantua, Rabelais borrowed from an old Celtic giant-story, which says that when he was yet a child he sucked the milk of ten nurses, and when grown up he is represented as standing with each foot upon a high mountain, and bending down drinks up the river that flows beneath. Pantagruel is represented as a gigantic personage, beneath whose tongue a whole army can take shelter from rain, and whose mouth and throat is covered with cities of an immense population. But, nevertheless, he is a virtuous prince, devout, and even severe in his morals; his chief blame consisting in taking the profligate, intemperate and coward Panurge for his favorite. Pantagruel, according to the etymology of the word, means “ All Thirsty.”
Now Panurge is a really learned, but eccentric personage, a kind of a spoiled child, and because of his halfwittedness becomes the privileged court-jester of Pantagruel. He is of a middle stature, with an aquiline nose, handsome, but a regular libertine, whose strange disease consists in a “ want of money.” Before, however, he became attached to Pantagruel his great object was to play a number of malicious jokes, and for this purpose he was clothed in a dress with countless pockets, wherein he had stored away the materials for the execution of these jokes. One of the pockets is full of little horns containing fleas, with which he amuses himself by blowing them on the necks of ladies in church; in another pocket he has a store of hooks to fasten peoples’ dresses together; in a third, a bottle of oil to soil handsome suits; in another, itching powder, etc., etc. Now, although these are not very amiable qualities, yet the reader cannot help having a special predilection for Panurge, if for no other purpose than food for repeated outbursts of laughter.
In the third book, Pantagruel makes Panurge Governor of Salmagondin, where he loses all the revenues of the state, and, instead of giving any satisfaction to his master, he bursts out in a perfect eulogy on indebtedness, which is a masterpiece of burlesque. The next freak Panurge takes in his head is to get married, and for this purpose he attires himself in a coarse gown, and puts on spectacles. But just then he has a doubt as to the felicity of conjugal life; he tries every means to become assured, and men of all professions are consulted—the theologian, the lawyer, the physician, the philosopher, the poet, the idiot, the sybil, etc., etc., all of which try to dissuade him from marriage, till finally he takes council from the “ Holy Bottle.” He sets out in company with his master, and at last finds it. The oracle is asked, and the answer given is: “ Drink.”
We must not misjudge Rabelais fo’1 the most extravagant representation of his characters, his object having
been to represent a monstrous burlesque. It was he that gave shape to the literature of the French; and in his day this new-formed language commenced to become respected and cultivated till the time of Francis I, when its use became universal. What Rabelais did for the elevation of the French language has never been surpassed, even with the exclamation of Louis XIV, “ Detat c'est moi ”/ all progress in this respect was at a stand still. Henceforth the language was twisted, contorted, and pressed into all sorts of shapes to suit court-manners, and consequently that natural freshness, so much admired in the language of Rabelais, becomes for ever a thing of the past.
Language has been fittingly compared with the ideal of beauty of the court lady and with that of the simple maiden of the heath. The beauty of the one is all but natural, and therefore not as pleasing as the simple beauty of nature, without cultivation. Compare the beauty of form of the Venus de Medici with the form of one of our modern belles. What a contrast! So it was with the French language in the age of Rabelais and that of Louis XIV. The literature of France in the time of Louis XIV was formal and constrained; and this will become more apparent by the perusal of Boileau. If the form, the conception, the execution of the language and versification are to be regarded, we find nothing but excellence. But if we want to find out what poetry is, in vain may we look for an answer here.
Corneille a great poet, is all but natural. The characters of his tragedies move like chess-figures on the board. Each character is allowed to appear so far and no farther; this restriction made so apparent imposes on the mind an uneasiness bordering on disgust. Compare Corneille with our immortal Shakspeare; what avast difference. The characters in Shakspeare are allowed to move and act according to their own good will; he does not impose restriction on them which cannot be imposed by themselves. Corneille’s great productions are “ Cinna,” “ Polyeuct,” “ The Horatians,” which may be considered his masterpieces, and last, his “ Cleopatra.” Corneille’s “ Cleopatra ” when compared to the “ Cleopatra ” of Shakspeare is simply ridiculous. After Corneille appears Jean Racine, a noble poet, and without doubt the best of the French dramatists. His characters are not the unnatural and restricted chess figures of Corneille; his glory, however, is based on his “Andromachus,” where love has found for the first time its natural and true expression. In his “ Phaedra ” the great merit of this poet consists in the beauty with which his main character is introduced, while in “Ephigenia” he makes the mistake of modernizing too much the customs of the ancients, and vice versa. In “ Britannicus ” the sublime genius of our poet appears to its full advantage for the last time. His subsequent works, however, “Berenice,” “ Esther,” and “ Athalie,” do not bear that freshness of his earlier productions.
During the same period of prominence in tragedy France produced its great comedy-writer in the person of Moliere. In this department he stands alone. In fact, no one before or after his time could ever reach the borderland of his genius. His characteristic pieces are “ Tartuffe,” the “Miser,” the “Misanthrope,” and the “Learned Women. There is, however, one fault generally pointed out in Moliere, i. e., he combines the laughable with the most severe morals, so that very often a most comical address will gradually change into a severe moral reproof. It is true that from a moral standpoint he may do good to
i
'I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ml
the reader in this way; but much of his literary value is lost by these digressions.
Epic poetry was not much cultivated during this period; but in its stead we find a great penchant in the Frenchman for erotic and comic poems; and in this they are supplied by the narratives of Lafontaine. Morally, Lafontaine stands very low, and therefore most of his productions are not commendable to the reader, especially the young. His conceptions are drawn principally from the fables of Arioste and Boccaccio. He was the most eccentric and most curious man of his time and it is for this reason that his works bear the stamp of his originality. Lafontaine is not a Frenchman, but a child of nature,—a “ man animal,” so to speak; and hence it is that he has the animals as his brethren, and regards them in precisely the same manner as we regard our fellow-men.
One more poet remains to be spoken of, and this is such that I would be glad he had never lived; his name is Voltaire, “ the scoffer.” To him I will but allude, as he has often been exhibited in all his aspects by better pens than mine. As a writer of tragedy he stands high; his principal works are “ Merope,” “ Zaire ”; his masterpieces “Alzire,” “Trancred,” and “Mahomet.” “Trancred” merits praise, but “ Mahomet ” is a monster. It is in this latter production that Voltaire immolates historic truth on the altar of infidelity, hatred, and fanaticism. Here the great monster of impiety literally revels in invectives against the priesthood and the religion of Christ. His “ Henriade,” although far surpassing anything in the epic poetry of France, has sunk to a simple historical narrative. Finally, Voltaire succeeded only too well in misrepresenting the person most dear to the Frenchman, “ La pucelle (T Orleans ”—the Maid of Orleans. What the intention of Voltaire was in thus desecrating the person of the Maid of Orleans is hard to determine. Surely his motive in so doing must be a devilish one. Here we leave Voltaire, and the rest of the poets, of the modern period in French literature.	A. M. K.
“It Might Have Been.”
Of all sad words,'by tongue or pen, The saddest are these: “ It might have been.”
How great is the import conveyed in these few words! Surely none are more true, and how well they apply to our every phase and condition of life! The Infidel who, at the height of his career, after having seen his doctrine of atheism devoured at one gulp by those hot-headed sectarian fanatics, who base their existence on the teachings of one of the useless members lopped from the Catholic Church, may perhaps feel a sense of gratified ambition at his success, but the retrospective view which memory unceasingly presents to him cannot fail to awaken the sickening thought “ It might have been.” Perchance there appears to him, while glancing through the dim vista of years, a father’s loving counsel, a sainted mother’s tearful pleadings, as they strive to point out to him the dangerous rocks of the channel into which he is drifting, and then with all the care-fraught weight of a stifled heart comes the bitter reflection “ It might have been.”
The drunkard, reeling and staggering along the streets, pursued or followed by a jeering crowd, experiences moments when the desire to reform penetrates to his inmost heart, and perhaps there looms up before him—poor,
depraved wretch that he is—a vision of childhood’s sunny days, when the heart was free, and before sickness and disease bad made their terrible inroads on the once manly form. He sees the rosy-cheeked boy just budding into manhood; the tempter—the glass—oblivion—and then comes the death-knell of a blighted existence: “It might have been.”
The streets of our cities teem with thousands who are given over to these the prevailing vices of our day. It has become almost a moral impossibility for young men of the present day to avoid entirely the snares laid for them by the crafty. Vice, we are told, commands a premium; and he who would aspire to eminence among his fellow-men must gain it by flattery and adulation. Davy Crockett’s-mottoes need a complete remodelling before they can be ap plied to the present generation, and as for the maxima of “ Poor Richard,” to quote Bret Harte, “they appear fresh* but in practice they are stale.” We are a “ rushing ” people; first we plan, then reflect; and if—as is too often the case —we find ourselves in advance of the age in which we live, we ascribe it to chance, and perhaps reflect that “ it might have been ” worse. The demand and want of the present day is for men—sober, solid, reflective men,—men capable of putting into practice the wholesome teachings of morality, and of exercising a beneficial influence on society at large—none of your sentimental gawkies, whose conversation and general make-up would sicken apost, and who are fitted for nothing but lavender kids and eye-glasses.
Old customs change, let them; time flies—it can’t be recalled—it must be improved while on hand. He who strives to be first, seldom finds himself last. Let people tell you. infidelity is gaining ground, and to this let them add their belief that the religious prospects of our country are on the wane—so they are, from their point of view; but, for pity’s sake, do not let them set their glasses astride your nose; from constant use they have become corroded, and he who accepts them finds to his surprise that they reflect the matter in the same light. Cast them aside, view the subject in the light dictated by your better judgment. Supposing that infidelity is increasing, combat it everywhere ; and never once let it wrap its deadening folds about you; remember that its breath is poison, and its sting sure death. Should you lose your life in the contest, what does it matter? many have sought the martyr’s crown, and it was denied them. Stand for your colors, battle for your faith, and do not let golden opportunities pass, and then sadly exclaim: “ It might have been.”
Drunkenness is on the increase—so it is among fools. Will you class yourself among the number? will you enter the ranks as a sot, an inebriate? will you forego manhood ? will you transform the noble shape in which exists the image of God into a loathsome, repulsive mass below the brute? Life is a stern reality, youth is transcient, old age insecure, and death certain.
A man, little better than a sot, gave a banquet, and asked of those present while filling their glasses: “Ho, comrades! shall we drink like men or beasts?’? “Like men!” they all exclaimed. “Then,” said their host, “.we shall only drink what we want, for beasts never get drunk!” Have courage enough to dash aside the cup; have clear grit and pluck enough to say “No," when invited to take a glass for just this once; it is once too often, and is the prelude to another, and paves the way to the final wreck of manhood. Beware of the potion that will
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
take from you friends, character, money, manhood, all,—all that constitutes the man. It will be too late then to repine, when memory refuses to produce aught else than the sting of a seared conscience, and the bitter reflection “ It might have been.”
Life’s path is strewn with pearls for those who take the trouble of gathering them. The highest positions of trust are to be filled, must be filled with men of integrity and energy, moral men,—men who make and maintain truth as their standard; the lists are open, can you refuse to enter and face manfully the battle of life ? Advance, storm the citadels of error and superstition, lend a helping hand to the fallen, counsel the doubtful, and deal charitably with the erring, and in due time you will reap the reward of a well-spent life; for the poet tells us:
“How long we live, not years, but actions tell;
That man lives twice, who lives the first life well.”
B. O.
John Lingard.
John Lingard, one of England’s most famous sons, and one in whom the world has found a man of solid worth, and noble mould, and one of whom the Catholic Church may well feel proud, was born at Winchester, England, of pious parents, in the year 1771. As the persecution, then raging in England against the Church, rendered it impossible for Catholic parents to educate their children at home, the Bishops, aided by the nobility, founded colleges in France, Spain, Italy, and other Catholic countries, and to one of these—the English College at Douay, in France— young Lingard was sent at the early age of eleven years. Here he remained nearly five years in quiet study, until driven back to England by the horrors of the French Revolution. During his entire collegiate course, our youth was no less distinguished by the brilliancy of his talents than for his rare modesty of disposition..
Not long after the arrival of young Lingard in his native land, a gentleman friend, hearing of his wonderful powers of mind, induced him to leave his fellow-students who had established themselves in England, and become the instructor of His son. He was induced, after much persuasion, to accept the situation; but growing dissatisfied soon after, he went to Crook Hall, where most of the students of Douay had congregated, and were pursuing the course of study so inopportunely broken in upon by the Revolution. Here he finished his theological course, and was ordained in April, 1795, by Rt. Rev. Bishop Gibson.
For some time previous to this, Father Lingard had acted as Vice-President, and later as Prefect of Studies of the Institution at Crook Hall; and for many years taught both natural and moral philosophy with extraordinary success, and gained a wide-spread reputation as an instructor. He was mild as well as firm in all his resolutions, and won the universal respect and love of all with whom he came in contact. During this time he devoted his leisure hours, which were few, to the study of the antiquities of his country, and always took an especial delight in ruminating the incidents of earlier times. These frequent reflections finally came forth in a work, entitled “ The Antiquities of the Anglo-Saxon Church,” published in 1806.
This work appeared in two volumes, and its contents evinced an uncommon depth of research and penetra.
tion of mind, as the author not only noticed the rise and progress of the various monasteries but also that of literature during the same time. About five years later, Lingard quitted Crook Hall and withdrew to the secluded mission of Hornby. Here, as his leisure time was considerably lengthened, he gave the world many short but valuable minor publications, besides contributing to several noted periodicals. But it was not until after years of silent and almost unconscious preparation that he applied his energies to the great work on which his reputation is founded—“The History of England, from the Invasion of the Romans to the Accession of William and Mary.” This work was published after the repeated and urgent solicitations of his numerous friends, who were convinced that such a work would throw new light upon various subjects of controversy; and in this they were not disappointed, as his reputation lor veracity and truth remains unquestioned by both Protestant and Catholic authors up to the present day. He sought only original manuscripts, and spent several years in compiling his works.
He visited Rome twice, and both Pope and Cardinals favored his designs and gave him free access to the archives of the Holy See. Pope Pius VH acknowledged the merits of Lingard by conferring on him the triple academical honor, D. D., and LL. D.; and Leo XII intended to add the Cardinal’s hat, but Lingard, after receiving the ring usually given to Cardinals, very humbly declined the dignity. After returning to England he finished his preparations, and between the years 1819 and 1830 gave the world the first eight volumes of his memorable “ History of England from the Invasion of the Romans (B. C. 55,) to the Accession of William and Mary,” in 1668. This work, complete in thirteen volumes, is an admirable production, and one of which any unbiased mind may well feel proud. It was, however, subjected to rigid scrutiny by Dr. Allen, who wrote two elaborate articles against it, which were published in the Edinburgh Review, and by Rev. W Todd, in his defence of the character of Cranmer. To these formidable antagonists, Dr. Lingard replied, in 1826, by a “ Vindication” of his fidelity as an historian in so vigorous and pointed a manner that his enemies were completely silenced.
Before this time, England had been led to view English affairs from the Protestant or Infidel side of the question only; but, in the works of Lingard, they had them from a Catholic and truthful standpoint, and were doubtless led to see for the first time that there were two sides to the question. The earnest discussions which have ensued have not shaken the author’s reputation for candor and sincerity; and the utmost that can be brought against Lingard is, that he leans a little towards his own side of the question, and that his judgment of men and things is to be received with some degree of caution. Hence Lingard’s word may be taken in preference to any other author of English History, embracing, as it does, his candid and unbiased opinion of the matter in question.
Of the literary merits of his History there has never been but one opinion. All his critics, the Edinburgh Remew included, award him the highest praise for clearness of thought, perspicuity, and beauty of style. In a word the sterling merits of his works can scarcely be overl estimated. There is, however, one fault in his work commonly brought against him by Catholics, and that is Gallicanism; but this may readily be excused if we think of the place where he received his education. Those
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	648
opinions in regard to the Papal authority were instilled into his mind while yet young, and an opinion once thoroughly formed is with difficulty eradicated. Pope y Leo XH said to those who assailed the moderation of the
writer on this subject: “Why, these gentlemen seem not to reflect either upon the times or the places in which the history was written!” Cardinal Wiseman paid the follow' ing tribute to his memory: “It is a providence that, in history, we have had given to the nation a writer like Lingard, whose gigantic merit will be better appreciated . in each successive generation as it sees his work standing calm and erect amidst the shoals of petty pretenders to usurp his station. When Hume shall have fairly taken his place among the classical writers of our tongue, and Macauley shall have been transferred to the shelves of romancers and poets, and each shall thus have received his true meed of praise, then Lingard will be still more conspicuous as the only impartial historian of our country. This will be giving rightful honor to him, who at such a period of time worked his way not into a high rank, but to the very highest point of literary position.”
.	Lingard wrote several other works. Among these may
be mentioned his “ Translation of the Four Gospels,” and “ Catechetical Instructions,” and “ Lessons from the English Saints.” -He was a serious student, and worked hard for the accomplishing of what he did. It is said that he used to take notes and hear class at the same time. His writings wrought a great change in the opinions of both Catholics and non-Catholics. His enemies at one time (in 1828) had a plan on foot to have his history destroyed, but happily they did not succeed.
Lingard’s works have been translated into almost all the modern languages. As a man, he was modest, unassuming, and possessed of great energy and penetration of mind. This venerable historian tranquilly breathed his last in July, 1851, in the eighty-first year of his age.
Foot-Prints.
“Lives of great men all remind us, We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Foot-prints on the sands of time.”
As we pass through life on our way heavenward, we see on our pathway the foot-prints of those who have gone before; some are ever on the beaten path of duty and honor, others are seen towards the right and left and finally disappear in the marshes and pitfalls of error. By following the former we will be sure to attain our journey’s end in safety. If forgetful- for a brief space of the dangers which beset us we follow the lead of the latter, the slipping of our feet in the mire will soon remind us that we have wandered from the highway; and if we would not be lost in the labyrinth of evil we must at once retrace our steps, regain the right way, and start once more, very far behind those who began the journey with us, perhaps, but with the hope of overtaking them at some point before they reach the golden gates of the celestial city.
It is not my purpose to trace the career of those whose foot-steps have not been in the way of truth, justice and patriotism, but to mention briefly a few of those whose sublimity of life have left lasting “ Foot-prints on the sands of time.”
In traversing the historic land of England we note the
foot-prints of the many great and noble men who have rendered the English name illustrious. Among them, those of Edward the Confessor are especially worthy of attention. The blessings of his reign were the favorite theme of the writers of English history. He was pious, kind and compassionate; the protector of the weak, the father of the poor, more inclined to pardon than to punish. The laws and the customs of the good King Edward were the bases upon which the Magna Charta, the bulwark of English liberty, was formed.
Crossing the channel into France, we are met by the foot-prints of so many noble characters that we are at a loss to choose among them. It is hard to pass by those of a Clotilde, a Blanche, a Louis IX, a Margarite, a John the Second, who returned to captivity rather than break his word, saying, “If honor were banished from every other place it should find an asylum in the breasts of Kings.” What an noble example has not Bayard, the Knight without fear and without reproach, left to posterity ? He followed in the footsteps of his noble mother, whose advice to her son forms an illuminated page in history. “ Serve God,” said she, “and He will help you; be mild and courteous to everyone by divesting yourself of all pride; be neither a flatterer nor a slanderer, for such people seldom come to great excellence. Be loyal in word and deed, keep your word; be helpful to the poor and orphans, and God will reward you.”
In Spanish history among others the foot-prints of the great Captain Rodrigo, the Cid, are clearly visible even at this late day. His fidelity to his successive sovereigns, in spite of their ingratitude, and his unswerving devotion to his country present a spectacle well worthy of consideration, at a period when the majority of men seem to have no higher object in life than the acquisition of riches or the forwarding of selfish interest.
But why linger over these foot-prints, which are but those of frail humanity, while the foot-prints of our Redeemer are seen on every side ? The impression of His feet yet remain on the rock upon which He stood at the moment of His Ascension; but it is not necessary to go to Palestine to see His blessed foot-prints. Ko: they are visible in every sphere of life no matter how humble or exalted; the monarch can follow in His footsteps as well as the poor mechanic, whose calling He has ennobled. Yes, let us all endeavor to follow in the way He has pointed out, since it is only in so doing that our feet may “leave a mark but not a stain.”	A. S. W.
Art, Music and literature.
—Benziger Brothers are the exclusive agents for the celebrated religious statues of froc-Robert et Fils, Paris.
—Elihu Burritt’s Life, Labors, and Writings, edited by Charles Northend, will be published before long by Messrs. Sampson, Low & Co.
—Benziger Brothers’ house at Einsiedeln is about to publish a new work in serial form (12 parts), edition de luxe, profusely illustrated, of Montalembert’s excellent “Life of St. Elizabeth.”
—A new edition of Father Valuy, S. J., “Guide for Priests in their Private and Public Life,” will be found announced among the Record of New Books. This excellent book contains a revised list of the best theological works.
—L’lmprimerie de St. Jean I’Ev., Toumay, has of late published most beautiful pocket-editions of a Breviary, in
644
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I vol, small 8vo., and a Missale Romanum in 18mo. They i are sought for by the seminarians for their studies, by missionaries who have to travel, and also by devout laymen versed in the language of the Church.
—The cause of Catholic literature in the United States has sufiered a serious loss in the person of Mr. John Murphy, Publisher, Baltimore, Md., whose death occurred recently at the above named city. Mr. Murphy was a good Christian man; he has acted well his part in life, and we hope that he is now in the enjoyment of his reward.
—The illustrious astronomer, Father Secchi, S. J., has now a monument to his memory on the Pmcian Hill, at Rome. It consists of a magnificent marble bust of the great Jesuit priest, just placeci there by the Roman municipality in recognition of the good Father’s services tn the cause of science. The municipality has thus to some extent redeemed itself. This action throws a gleam of sunshine upon a very dark background, and relieves considerably the gloomy surroundings.
—Mdme. Pauline Lucca has been singing with immense success in Berlin. On the evening of her farewell performance, in response to loud plaudits, the diva advanced before the curtain and expressed her gratitude in a lew sentences broken by emotion. Passing from his box to the stage, the Emperor also took the opportunity of thanking Mdme. Lucca lor the great pleasure afforded him by the exercise of her talents, and the artist was subsequently presented, in his name, with a beautiful and costly bracelet, set with diamonds and other precious stones.
—The British school of oil-painters at the Paris Exhibition consists of 283 works. Among these are ten paintings by Millais, including his iar-famed “ Chilly October ”; ten by Alma Tadema; nine by Watts; and five by Frith, including the “ Railway Station ” and the Derby Day. Praiseworthy, however, as the collection is, it is far from being perlect. Miss Elizabeth Thompson, now Mrs. Butler, for instance, is not represented by her best work, the “ Roll Call,” but by her worst “ Inkermann,” and Fred, Ansdell, Horsley, Pickersgill, and other eminent Royal Academicians are not represented at all.
—The Goupil gallery in New York contains some newly-received works by the leading modern artists. Benjamin Constant isrepresented by his “ Siesta”; and two fresh examples of that great draughtsman and idealist, Gerome’ the “Coffee-House in Cairo” and“Unfolding the Flag” (a Mussulman standing at the entrance of a mosque and unfurling the sacred banner), are of moderate size and characteristic strength. A very large Schaeyer,—three horses and their drivers pursued by wolves; an early and most learnedly and effectively-toned Troyon,—the date is 1852; two commanding specimens of that Prince of landscapists, Jules Dupi6; and a sweet little Rosa Bonheur, about eight by sixteen inches, painted half a dozen years ago, constitute a satisfying and stimulating exhibition.
—Gerome, the painter, is now fifty-five years old, but is remarkably young in spirit. He is an indefatigable student in his art, and carefully notes and profits by competent criticism. He is said by a correspondent of the San Francisco Chronicle to be overwhelmingly ambitious, but he rarely lets it be perceived. His father was a goldsmith, and wished to rear the boy in his trade, but the latter was rom childhood an artist, spending most of his time at school in drawing men and animals and mde portraits of his schoolmates on his slate. He declared over and over again that he would do nothing but paint, if he had to beg his food on his way to Paris and the best instruction. So his father yielded, and the young Jean, in the years that have followed, has won fame, a beautiful home, and a fortune of $300,000.
—There is in the Royal Library at Stockholm a manuscript which, when open, covers about a square yard of surface, and requires about two or three men to lift it. It contains three hundred and nine leaves of thick parchment, probably of asses skin, containing the Old Testament, the antiquities and Jewish wars oi Josephus, the Origines of Isadore, a medical work of Johannicus Johannes Alex-andrinus, the New Testament, a curious picture of the devil, and other miscellaneous matter. It belonged to a small Benedictine monastery at Podlazic in Bohemia. The
date of the transcription may be ascribed to the period between 1224 and 1239. Late in the sixteenth century it was taken to Prague, whence it was carried off by the Swedes, in the last year of the Thirty Years’ War—1648. Since then it has been in its present home.
—“The History of Philosophy,” by Mgr. Gonzales, Bishop of Cordova, in Spain, author of “ Studies on the Philosophy of St. Thomas,” and other philosophical works, has just been published. Tne right of translation has been received from him by Dr. R. V. Howley, D.D., in a letter accompanied by a copy of his book. The letter, which is dated Cordova, April 24th, 1880, says:—“ I grant you, with much pleasure, authority and permission to translate and publish it (‘ Historia de la Filosofia’) in English; and you may, if necessary, make use of this letter to notify publicly your right of translation.—»J« The Bishop of Cordova.” Dr. Howley will proceed at once to translate the work, which he declares to be the best, or rather the only one, on this subject from a thoroughly Catholic and scientific point of view, with which he is acquainted. It will, beyond all doubt, be a boon to the professor, the lecturer, and the student, and not less so, in our days even to the preacher and pastor of souls.—Catholic Register.

Scientific Notes.
—M. Louis Favro, the chief engineer who built the St. Gothard tunnel, fell dead in the tunnel on the eve of the completion of the boring. His bust in marble is to be placed over the entrance.
—A new museum has been opened at Paris, which contains all the artistic furniture belonging to the Kings of France, from the time of Louis XIII up to the present day, and which was accumulated in that unique building known as the “ Garde-Meuble.”
—A. Washington paper states that “Professor Riley, late of the Agricultural Department, has startled the public with statistics recently published concerning the ravages of the cotton worm, Aletia Argillacea. He is one of the most intelligent of the large body savants, of which he is an invaluable member. He is very youthful in appearance, tall, slim, and delicate in physique, with a pale, emaciated face, its pallor enhanced by a fierce black moustache and an abundant growth of dark hair. In speaking, his words are uttered in jerky sentences, with nervous energy, and what he says is to the point, and of the best.”
—There is now in the museum at the City of Mexico a remarkable sword, made from an aerolite or meteor that fell in the State of Durango, Mexico. A Mexican gentleman sent to Gen. Ord, of the United States Army, a small slab or tablet, about an inch thick and six inches square, which was sawed out of the meteor. It resembled iron, and, in fact, was what is known as meteoric iron. The piece weighed two pounds. Gen. Ord sent it on to the National Armory at Springfield, to be worked into a sword, for Gen. Trevino, of the Mexican Army, who has done sb much to rid our border of the Indians that infested it. Considerable trouble was experienced in annealing the meteoric iron, but at last they succeeded, and, with the scabbard, it forms a very creditable specimen of American skill. The sword is a small, straight blade, and is a fancy dress sword, the mounting representing an eagle with the olive branch and arrows, such as we see on a quarter of a dollar now and then. The grip is of silver wire, and the whole thing is very pretty. On the blade is the Spanish sentence, which, translated into English, reads: “ Made of iron that fell from the skies of Mexico. Presented to G. Trevino, General of Division, by his friend, Gen. Ord, U. S.A.”
—A letter from the famous archseologist Schliemann, dated March 14th, says: “I have just returned from Asia Minor, where I have at last finished that digging out of Troy which I began in 1870. During ten years I have struggled with great difficulties, among which perhaps the most troublesome has been the large amount of debris under which the ancient city was buried. It has been necessary to dig down and dig up the ground for more than
t,he n;o;tre dame scholastic.
645
sixteen yards below the surface. But I am fully recompensed for all my trouble. I found the remains of seven different ancient cities; the last of them was the Ilion of 5 Homer. That city was built by the jEolians, banished from Greece by the Dorians in the eleventh century before x our era. In one of the buried cities I found many statues of Minerva with the owl’s head, whence her name of Glau-. copis. In another city were found many images of the divinities. But the most interesting and important of all discoveries is, of course, the city of King Priam. Every * - article found in the ruins of that city bear unmistakable i	signs of having been destroyed by fire and in a time of
I . war. There were discovered many remains of human bodies in full armor. I dug out and cleared away the debris * from the entire wall that surrounded the city, and also from all the principal buildings. Now lam finishing a large.volume in English, describing with full details all my discoveries, and containing 200 illustrations of the most important of the discoveries. My Trojan collection is now in London, but at the end of this year 1 shall lake it to my villa in Athens, which is fire-proof, built only of marble
L_ and iron. I have received large offers for my collection from the United States, England, France, and Germany, , but I cannot part with it for any money in the world.” —St. Petersburg Golos.
—On removing the last portions of the fallen vaulting . from within the tomb recently discovered on the banks of the Tiber, two other cinerary urns have been found, mak-x ing eight in all. One of these is of travertine, egg-shaped, rudely worked, and without any inscription. Tne other, > of marble, 45 centimetres in height by 34 in width, is beautifully sculptured somewhat in the form of a small „ temple. At the corners are delicate spiral fluted colonnettes, with Corinthian capitals and bases, the lid above forming the pediment, on tne front of which two birds are I sculptured. On the upper part of the front of the urn, between the colonnettes, is a panel bearing the words “ossa. A. crispini . caepionis,” and below it an elegantly formed tripod in full relief, with a griffin standing , upon a pedestal on each side. Upon the sides of the urn ,	are sculptured two twined dolphins. At the same time the
.	right-hand half of another large inscription, evidently be-
' longing to the exterior ef the tomb, was found. It read as follows:
*	“E . STL . IVD . TR . MIL . Q. TR . PL . PR
I . CESARIS . AVGVSTI . EI ESAKIS . AVGTST1I NA . CAEPIONIS . F . VXOR ICIVS . Q . F . C. N . O . BT . GEMINI.”
*	The continuation of the excavations along the Via Sacra has disclosed in situ one of the pedestals and the foundation of the other on which stood the two columns fronting the left wing of the Temple Romulus, son of Maxentius, i and corresponding exactly to those of the right wing from around whicn the removal ol the accumlation was completed on the 20th of April. The workmen are now engaged in taking down tne ancient doorway from the spot to which it was raised and placed aslant by Urban VIII, in order to re-erect it in its original position on the level ot the Via Sacra.—London Weekly Register.
.	College Gossip.
—	Oxford University comprises twenty-one colleges.
—	The University of New Brunswick has decided to admit women.—Record.
.—Russia has now eight universities, that at St. Petersburg having 1,000 students.
.	—It is stated that the Alleghany College, Pa., authorities
have recently suspended five students for hazing.
—	The Supreme Court of Iowa has recently decided that students have no right to vote where they do not expect to make their permanent residence.
n	—It is reported that Prof. Moses Coit Tyler, of the Uni;	versity of Michigan, a graduate of Yale, will pass part of
■	the summer in Cambridge, so as to avail himself of the ad-
। vantages afforded by the College Library in continuing his U work, “ The History of American Literature.”—Echo.
—A Professor was explaining in a young ladies’ school in France the theory according to which the body is entirely renewed every seven years. “Thus, Mlle. F-------p said he, addressing a blonde with a wide-awake face, “ in seven years you will be no longer Mlle. F--------------“Ihope not,” replied the unsophisticated damsel, casting down her eyes.----------------------------------------------'
—Cardinal Newman has been received with distinguished honors at Trinity and Oriel Colleges, Oxford. He graduated at the former sixty years ago, and was afterward elected a fellow of Oriel. After the reception he preached to crowded congregations in the Roman Catholic chapel of 8t. Giles. He nad not preached in Oxford since he occupied the unversity pulpit in 1842.
—There was a young man from Aurora, Who thought he would like to encore a Festive actress, whose part Had impressed his young heart.
So he clapped with his hands, and stamped with Ids feet, And the next thing he knew he was out in the street, And somebody’s boot tore a hole m the seat
Of the pants of this man from Aurora.
—The graduating exercises at the artillery school at Fort Monroe, Va., closed Wednesday evening, April 28th, with the distribution of medals by Gen. Sherman. Yesterday the Secretary of War and Gens. Sherman and Hancock visited the Soldiers' Home and Normal School, returning at 5 p. m., when they witnessed the weddings of Lieuts. Clarke and Murray to the youngest daughters of the late Gen. De Russey, of the U. S. engineers. The party left the same night for Washington.
—There were in England a year ago about 700 Catholic primary schools employing upward of 1,700 adult instructors and nearly 2,000 pupil teachers. The number of children upon the registers was 191,000, and there were accommodations for 35,000 more. Tne value of the education given in these institutions has been tested by the reports of Government inspectors, and by the amount of the grants which they, in common with other denominational establishments, receive irom the Government in proportion to the results of the official examiuations. The result is that they bear favorable comparison with any other primary schools in the country.
—In the Baltimore School Board recently, the Committee on Baltimore City College reported that they had ascertained that on application to the Secretary of War, colleges accommodating more than 150 male students may be furnished with a drill-master and.all necessary arms and accoutrements. The committee say that military drill and tactics would in no way interfere with the efficiency oi the college as an institution of learning, but would rather add to its usefulness if the subject should be intrusted to a proper instructor, and the committee propose to ask tor tne detail of a iormer graduate ot the college, who is now and has been for a long time an officer ol the regular army, and who is willing to be detailed for the purpose. A resolution was adopted authorizing the President ol the board to take the necessary steps to have military tactics taught in the college, and to secure the detail of any officer recommended oy the committee. .
—The title mania has seized upon the students of the Imperial Technical University at Vienna. They complain that while the young man wno studies for any other profession departs from his Alma Mater a D. D., an M. D., a Ph. D. or a D. with some other Latin genitive, the young man who turns aside into a practical road, and comes forth successfully as an engineer or mechanician is not, titularly speaking, one whit the better lor his studies. Feeling that by the loss of some distinctive title analogous to that enjoyed by the members oi other professions they are put on a lower social plane, they have petitioned the Government to empower the technical high schools to grant the academical degree of “ doctor ” to all those who successfully pass an examination laid down for such a degree. The request is not an unreasonable one in a country like Austria, where the title of doctor carries with it the enjoyment ot civil privileges that are denied to those who nave no title, and where the passion for titles, foolish as it may seem to us, is almost universal.—Baltimore Sun.
646
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 19, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thietebnth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	•
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per A-iumm, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Angers, Mgr. Freppel, recently declared before the congregation in his cathedral that the entire clergy and all good Catholics of the land would rally around the Jesuits and defend their rights. Not only in France, but even in other parts objections are raised against the unworthy designs of the French radicals. Thus the British Government has taken the lead, objecting to the expulsion of religious belonging to the British Empire. The same has also been done by Spain; and it is asserted, on good authority, that even Germany and Russia will do the same in behalf of their subjects. Among the Jesuits of Russian nationality is the prince Gagarin, a blood relation to the Czar himself. The members of other non-authorized communities of men number 5,917 belonging to 397 congregations; all the superiors of these different bodies will hold a council in which resolutions setting forth a decisive line of action are to be passed. The late decision of the French ministerial council, declaring aU congregations of women without exception to be authorized, may be viewed as a step towards reconciliation; meanwhile collections are being taken up everywhere for the maintenance and defence of Catholic schools, and in the diocese of Nimes alone 55,000 francs (about $11,000) have been contributed in less than a week for this noble purpose. All measures of resistance to the radical Government are directed and organized by a committee of Catholic senators and legislators who have established themselves at Paris. -
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The French Jesuits, foreseeing that the hour of exile from, their native land is fast approaching, are preparing new homes abroad; among them are some in Spain, Africa, and the East. The principal new foundations, however, are by all accounts, to be established in the little principality of Monaco (situated on the northern coast of Italy), and beyond the Pyrenees. In those places, it is said, colleges capable of accommodating a large number of students are to be constructed, and will probably be completed within a year from their commencement. The land was purchased some time ago. The Superior-General of the Order is said to be supervising the plans and directing the enterprise. The number of Jesuits, who perhaps, before long may be exiled from France is about 1,480; they conduct 56 colleges spread over 44 departments. The intended blow may, however, be averted, lite Decentralisation, a Catholic journal published at Lyons, assures its readers that the Jesuit College of St Joseph, in St. Helena street, Lyons, will not be closed, come what may; and the same journal asserts that this fact can be affirmed of all other Jesuit schools in France. Should this be the case, we may ' ascribe it to the determined and able opposition of the French Catholics to the unjust proceedings of the Government. This movement first started in the Provinces of Flanders and Hainault, where 25 delegates presented a document to the prefect of Lille (Department du Nord) covered with thousands of signatures loudly protesting against the expulsion of the Jesuits and other religious Orders. The same has been done at Ronbaix, Tourcoing, Armentiers, and other places. The valiant Bishop of
—As vacation is now about to set in, and students, therefore, about to have a little relaxation from the daily routine of college life, it will, we hope, not be amiss to say a word as to how vacation should be spent, so that it may prove a source of pleasure, as well as of instruction and gain. In the first place, what is most likely to cross the mind of a student on leaving college is: “How can I spend my time in a manner profitable, and at the same time delightful ? Will it not interfere with my advancement to take pleasure-trips, excursions, etc.?” Now, we know that to all students is given sufficient time during the summer months to recreate themselves, without infringing on the portion that should be allotted to study, or the careful reading of some good book—a book from which may be drawn maxims and reflections that will be of no ordinary benefit in afterlife. The reading of bad literature cannot be-condemned in too strong terms. It is most decidedly the worst vice of the age, as from, it almost every badness takes it rise. Hence it is hoped that Notre Dame students will never be guilty of reading what is sure to corrupt their morals, and thereby make them a prey to the evil one. And, as far as we are concerned, we would say to all, avoid bad literature,—literature in which are implanted the seeds and germs of immorality.
Let us for a moment cast a glance at society; let us examine well her tenets, and we are sure to find something wanting—a something, too, that pertains to moral rectitude; and this is but too apparent—too clearly exemplified in‘Rie’ younger class—the rising generation, that must certainly be drinking from a poisonous fountain. And it is by so doing that their.hearts and souls become so hardened, so dead to everything spiritual..,
Man was made to walk, as far as he can, and as well as well he can, in the path of rectitude; of peace, of industry; and uprightness of life. The soul of man naturally tends
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
647
to what is good, beautiful, and true; and it is only when her nobler qualities become contaminated by the foul breath of the world, its notions, and ideas, that she sinks down to look at vice with an unconcerned eye, and becomes unable to appreciate what she before so ardently | longed for.
God no doubt wishes all to be saved; the God-man gave His most precious life for this reason. He did what He could to give us a good example, yet how few there are who profit by it. But besides all this an amount of evil and wickedness surround our youth on every side, as is but too truly verified in a number of dailies and weeklies published here and there throughout the country. If we for instance, examine the filthy trash that appears in many of the publications of New York city, of Chicago, etc., we cannot help regretting the evil intention of those publishers that would drive souls into hell for the sake of a dollar. Men, who strive to make a living in such a way, are but base and repugnant wretches, and unworthy of the pure air of heaven. But to our mind, parents are in a great part responsible for the fall of their children. They do not take sufficient pains to preserve them pure; they will admit into their houses newspapers, both illustrated and otherwise, that are a disgrace to civilization. They won’t support a decent paper; they won’t support a good Catholic paper; but they will support and they will buy weeklies and dailies filled with nonsensical and ugly stuff that it would be well for the whole world to be ignorant of. But a few weeks ago an illustrated Catholic weekly had to suspend for want of support, while such weeklies as Puck, etc., etc., make money, and laugh at the world for its folly.
But we started out by referring to vacation time, and with the intention of drawing the minds of students to the fact of never losing any time. We are not forbidden to recreate ourselves, but we are forbidden to waste time to no purpose. Time is life, and life is precious; therefore he who wilfully squanders time, squanders something most precious,—something that money cannot buy. Again, youthful impressions are lasting. They do not wear away in a day or so; hence it becomes the duty of all charged with the care of youth to do what they can and may, in order that good impressions be made, so that when their charge grow to maturity they may be as they ought, Christians in not only name but in reality.
There is a time for everything; a time for study, a time for play, a time in which to visit, and a time in which to acknowledge one’s dependance on the good God above.
' This is all in conformity to the laws that govern our moral and physical being; one cannot be neglected to the detriment of the other, but both must be cultivated together if we wish to fulfil the end for which we have been created.
Let all, then, remember that vacation is not to be spent in absolute idleness, or to no purpose. It must be used to advantage, and by so doing all will be well.
—I have no objection to our youth being hound and gilt. I only wish that they should be also lettered,.—Lord Chesterfield.
—h man of well-improved faculties has the command of another’s knowledge. A man without them, has not the command of his own.—Dr. Newman.
An Entertainment at St. Laurent College, near Montreal.
Editor of Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dear Sib :—I beg leave to send you for insertion in your excellent paper a short account of one of those pleasant and instructive entertainments which great occasions call forth from time to time amid the routine of college life. Such was the grand Entertainment witnessed by us at St. Laurent College, near Montreal, on the 3d inst.,—to the students, an oasis amid the desert; to outsiders, an agreeable, intellectual treat. The occasion was the return of the President, Rev. L. Geoffrion, C. S. C., from a voyage to France, whither he had been called in the spring on business relative to the interests of his Order. Very Rev. A. Louage, G. S. C., the newly-appointed Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Canada, was duly invited, and honored with his presence the gallant efforts of the entertainers.
The exercises of the evening were of a diversified nature, and the programme was well executed throughout. Orchestral music was furnished by the College Band, under the guidance of Prof. A. Lecours. Mr. T. A. Barron, the worthy President of the St Patrick’s Literary Association, made a few introductory remarks in felicitous style. Mr. S. Modore followed with a fine oration, in French, on the “Union of Science and Religion.” Messrs. T. A. Barron, G. P. Lyons, Wm. Keating, and Wm. O’Donnell sang in a rather artistic way the song “ Only a Dream of Home.” Then followed the grand feature of the Entertainment, “ Major Andre,” a drama of revolutionary times. Nothing, but the success of the actors, could equal the delight of the audience during the production of this rather unartistic play. ’Twere too long trespassing on your valuable space to appreciate all who took part in its representation. I will only notice a few who, by nature of their parts, were entitled to comparative prominence. Foremost among the latter are the characters of “ Benedict Arnold ” and “ Major Andre,” personated respectively by Messrs. J. F. Campbell and J. Lenahan. Mr. T. A. Barron succeeded admirably in the role of “Major Andrd’s old Father,” and Mr. W. Keating as “ Hezekiah Smith.” In the scene of Andre’s capture, though the speeches were at times unduly long and tedious, Messrs. J. Farrelly, T. A. Nealon, and J. McLaughlin distinguished themselves, each in his characteristic way. The latter gentleman, however, in his rendition of “ Williams,” the Irishman, discarded too often into low burlesque, and, instead of truly interpreting, tended to degrade and vilify the noble and proud Irish character, whose language he was called upon to speak. But that was the fault of the play-wright rather than the actor’s. In other scenes of the play were to be remarked Mr. Wm. O’Donnell as “General Washington,” Messrs. Wm. J. Kelly, J. Cuddihy, J. Connolly, D. Murphy, and G. Brown as American officers; and on the English side, Mr. Wm. Kenny, who played remarkably well the part of “Sir Henry Clinton, supported by Messrs. J. McCarthy and D. Murphy as British officers. The young gentlemen deserve all the more credit as the play was one of those which depend on action for most of their interest.
After some solos and duets, both vocal and instrumental, came a laughable farce, “The Black Statue,” in which Mr. Wm. Keating in his nigger-pranks was as inimitable as ever. The sides of the audience were doubtless shaking with suppressed merriment while nestling be
648
THE NOTRE DAME SOHOLASTIO.
neath the friendly covering of the couch. Too much praise cannot be awarded to the Rev. Moderator of St. Patrick’s Association, Rev. M. McGarry, C. S. C.,_ and to. Messrs. T. Barron, J. F. Campbell, B. Padien, Geo. Lyons and W. Kelly, composing the committee of arrangements, for the great success which characterized the Entertainment. The closing remarks were made by the Rev. Father Carrier, 0. S. C., in’his usual pleasant and felicitous manner.	.	S.
Personal.
—E. Ward, ’78, resides at Mishawaka, Indiana.
—Joseph Hallinan, ’65, is practising medicine at Logansport, Ind.
—Ed Mitzger (Commercial), ’65, is an extensive farmer in St. Joseph Co., Ind.
—W. H. Dodge, ’77, is in the manufacturing business at Mishawaka, Indiana.
—Wm. Longley (Commercial), ’65, is in the dry-good business at South Bend, Ind.
—Hugh Gillen (Commercial), ’65, is'an extensive drygood merchant of Ottawa, Ill.
—Louis F. Heeb (Commercial), ’65,'is’in the brewing business with his father at Dubuque, Iowa.
—W. S. Howland (Commercial), ’65, has a large hat and cap establishment at Denver, Colorado.
—Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, D. D., spent a few days at Notre Dame in the beginning of the week.
—Rev. Julius Fr&re, C. S. C., arrived at Notre Dame on Friday last, after a pleasant trip to his native land, France.
—Rev. J. Shea, C. S. C., pays us a friendly visit occasionally. He speaks very highly of the inhabitants of St. Joe, and of the surroundings in general.
—Henry Beckman (Commercial), ’73, is in business in Cleveland, Ohio, and is doing well' Mr. Beckman is a business man in every sense ot the term.
—T. Hansard, ’75, of Youngstown, Ohio, is, we understand, travelling in the interests of that model Catholic weekly, The Catholic Universe.
—The genial and amiable Rev. Chaplain of St. Mary’s has completely recovered from his recent indisposition, and now looks as hale and hearty as ever.
—Bro. John Chrysostom, who has been travelling in the interests of the Ave Maria during the past year, has returned to Notre Dame, where he intends to remain some time.
—Rev. John O’Keeffe, C. S. 0., went to Lafayette on last Thursday evening. He lakes charge oi St. Mary’s Church, of which the late Father Noll was the beloved pastor.
—The somewhat sudden death of Rev. Father Noll, the popular pastor of St. Mary’s Church, Lafayette, Ind., is announced. Father Noll was a truly zealous and good priest, and mis loss will be felt by many. May he rest in peace.
—We are sure the many friends of Gerald E. Sullivan, ’76, will be glad to learn that he has associated himself with the Senior member, Harrison Noble, of the law firm of Noble & Lutes, Tiffin, Ohio. The new firm will engage in general law practise at the old stand, Noble’s Block, opposite National Hall.
—Among the visitors at Notre Dame during the past week were A. H. McIntyre and lady, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Marlette, Evansville, Ind.; Prof. L. Gregori, Mr. and Mrs. Seymour, Chicago, Ill.; Dr. W. L. Stanfield, Westville, Ind.; Dr. Alexander J. Mullen, Jr.; Peter Donnelly, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. J. D. Henderson, Mr. J. B. Lafever and lady, South Bend.; Air. M. Daniel Mor-issey and J. Hall, Elkhart, Ind.
—We are pleased to learn that John D. McCormick, ’73, has been nominated by the Democratic party of Fairfield County, Lancaster, Ohio, for Prosecuting Attorney.
The Ohio Eagle,—a paper published at Lancaster—speaking oi Mr. McCormick, says: “ From among the names of the worthy gentlemen who were presented for Prosecuting Attorney Mr. John D. McCormick was chosen. He will bring to the office both ability and industry. Mr. McCormick served one term as Mayor of this city, and made a popular and energetic official. We congratulate the mem-beis of the Democratic party oi Fairfield County on the choice they have made, and we are sure that if Mr. McCormick is elected, he will fulfil the office to the entire satisfaction of all concerned.”
Local Items. '
—Monday is Society Day.
—Examinations close this evening.
—Good-bye will shortly be in order.
—The Graduates were examined on Monday last.
—The Regatta will take place on Tuesday afternoon.
—The examination in Law took place on Wednesday last.
—Extra meetings of the Faculty were held during the week.
—Every day a large number of strangers visit Notre Dame.
—Examination and vacation are now two important terms.
—There are some very good baseball players among the Minims.
—Our friend John complains very much of the hot weather.
—Extensive preparations are being made for Commencement Day.
—The young trees lately planted behind our Office are doing well.
—The promenades around the lake after supper are enjoyed by all.
—The examination in the Music Department took place on Monday last.
—Mr. Bonney, the photographer, was keptjVery busy on Wednesday last.
—The Minims played ball to their hearts’ content on last Wednesday.
—The recreations were prolonged a half an hour during the examination.
—Next Wednesday will bring the scholastic year of 1879-80 to a close.
—The invitations for the Commencement exercises were sent off this week.
—Who will be the happy recipients of the grand medals at Commencement ?
—One more issue of the Scholastic and the present, volume is completed.	’
—The Lemonnier Library is receiving some valuable contributions of books.
—The average percentage of each student will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
—Work on the new Exhibition Hall has been postponed until after Commencement.
—The best time made during practise by the Boat Clubs is six minutes and twenty-five seconds.
—The grove in which the Calvary is situated is one of the most beautiful around Notre Dame.
—A large number of visitors from South Bend attended the St. Cecilian banquet on Tuesday last.
—Students wishing choice seats and beds next year must be back in time when school re-opens.
—The boys say the examiners were in no way sparing in the questions they proposed during the week. ,
—We return our most sincere thanks to a member of the Faculty for a nice present handed us the other day.

1THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
649
—All persons having books belonging to the Lemon-nier Library will please return them immediately.
—Now and then we hear' our weather-prophet's name mentioned in connection with winds, storms, etc., etc.
—Many students speak of having Class and Society pictures taken, but Mr. Bonney says they are slow about it.
—The Juniors and Minims generally spend their recreations after supper along the banks of the St. Joseph’s Lake.
—It is expected that the attendance at the Alumni meeting this year will be larger than at any meeting previous.
—Any one wanting anything in the line of photographs will find Mr. Bonney at his old stand during the next few days.
—Boys, look out for your First Honors and Class Premiums. It would be very foolish to lose them on the last heat.
—Band and Orchestra rehearsals are now in order, and we hope to hear some very fine music at the closing exercises.
—The scenery about St. Joseph’s Lake is now really lovely, and the promenade on the banks is greatly frequented.
—The man from Iowa says he is happy in the thought that he was so fortunate as not to have been born in Canada. *
—Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger administered the Sacrament of Confirmation at South Bend and Lowell on Sunday last.
—We notice that the contributions, thus far, received by the Ave Jfaria for the suffering poor of Ireland amount to nearly $1,000.	.
—On next Tuesday evening the beautiful play of “ Hartwell at Hamford ” will be rendered in Washington Hall by the Thespians.
—The class-rooms have been converted into sleeping apartments for the accomodation of visitors during Commencement Week.
—The general answering of the boys during the examination was good, and showed marked improvements. So the examiners say.
—The Graduates of the Law Class were highly complimented by Hon. Anderson, of South Bend, who took part in their examination.
—It is said that there will be an unusually large number of visitors from Chicago attending the Commencement exercises here this year.
—Every student should strive to have his name figure on the last Roll of Honor, which will be made out on the morning of June 23d.
—The Thespians, under the guidance of the indefatigable Prof. J. A Lyons, are making great preparations for the Commencement Exercises.
—We hope that the students will not fail to send in for publication the names of their friends who will attend the Commencement exercises.
—“ The Class Book of ’80,” edited by the Graduating Class, is well worth the price for which it is offered, and every student should procure at least a copy.
—The Military Company have received another “boom,” in the shape of army guns, which were sent to them, through the kindness of Gen. Torens, U. S. A.
—There will be lively work in B. Bernard’s trunk-room on next Tuesday morning, when all the students pack their books and clothes for their homeward journey.
—The boat crews are practising seriously for the coming race. No pains are spared on the part of both crews to come off to good advantage on the twenty-third.
—The Society exercises take place on next Monday. As usual, they will consist of orations, essays,-music, etc., etc. On this day everything is expected to come off well.
—The last championship game of baseball was played on last Wednesday between two Junior nines. The Juniors h^d the honor of closing the baseball season at Notre Dame.
—All wishing extra copies of the next number of the
Scholastic would confer a favor upon us by advising us of the same, as otherwise we shall print only the usual number.
—The examinations, as had been announced last week, were quite severe. Many did not come off as brilliantly as they expected; but yet, on the whole, the result has been very satisfactory.
—Hon. Jno. Gibbons and Dr. Shaffer of Keokuk, Iowa, have donated a collection of fine specimens of geodes, illustrative of the geode production of Iowa. For this the Curator tenders his best thanks.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Rev. D. A. Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio, for a large and valuable collection of minerals and fossils. Many of the specimens are of unusual rarity and value.
—The work on the grounds just in front of the College is progressing rapidly. Although it may appear quite barren of grass and flowers just at present, it will doubtless be very fine at no distant day.
—We are in hopes that the Boat Clubs will do as well as the Baseball Clubs have done, by way of affording amusement, and that they will not, as formerly, throw up the race from lack of grit, or use of grease.
—All speak in the highest terms of the grand banquet which was given by the St. Cecilia and Philopatrian Societies on Wednesday last, under the supervision of their kind and esteemed President, Prof. J. A. Lyons.
—A game of baseball was played on Wednesday forenoon between the Star of the West and Quicksteps—the former of the Junior, the latter of the Minim Department— resulting in a victory for the Quicksteps, by a score of 18 to 3.	.	’
—The “ Class Day Book,” published by the Class of ’80, is now ready, and a handsome publication it is. It snrely deserves a wide circulation. We are certain that all who read it will be well satisfied. Let no student be without a copy of it.
—The Juniors visit the lake every evening and witness the Boat Clubs practising. They are about equally divided in regard to the merits of both Clubs and say the race will be a closely contested one. This also seems to be the general opinion.
—Mr. B. Herder, Publisher, Fifth street, St. Louis, Mo., has the sincere thanks of the College authorities for the valuable number of German works lately presented to the library of Notre Dame. It was the intention to have these books appear in full in the columns of this paper, but for want of space this desire cannot at present be accomplished.
—The deciding game of baseball for the championship of the Junior Department was played on last Wednesday, in which the Actives vanquished their opponents,—the Mutuals—after a closely contested game of eleven innings. The Actives were declared champions of the Jr. Department by the Umpire, A J. Barger, amidst much enthusiasm among the friends of the Active Baseball Club. Three hearty cheers were then given for the champions, when all retired, well pleased with the day’s sport.	.
—Peter F. Cunningham & Son, Publishers and Booksellers, 817 Arch street, Philadelphia, Pa., keep constantly on hand, besides their own beautiful publications, a large stock of standard Catholic works, published in Europe and America, and receive all new publications as soon as issued. Their arrangements and facilities are such that those who favor them with their orders can depend on promptness and strict attention thereunto. Their central position, and the great railroad connections at their hand, help to lighten their work in despatching orders.
—We had the pleasure the other day of seeing a very neat and interesting view of the Minims’ Campus, with the recreation-hall, gymnastic apparatus, and the Minims themselves in the foreground. In this picture is presented a distant view of the new Music Hall, as also a part of the Seniors’ and Juniors’ play grounds. The whole is unique, and artistically executed, and, to our minds, it forms a new departure from the usual way of taking groups. It was copied from an original water-color painting, handsomely executed by Bro. Albert, and is no
650
tHE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
doubt a mark of devotedness on his part to his young charge, the Minims.
—The final game for the championship of the Junior Department was played on last Wednesday, June 16th, resulting in a victory for the Actives. The following is the score._______________________________________________
ACTIVES.	R. o.	MUTUALS. R. 0.
A. Hellesbusche, 1st b...
J. McCarthy, 2d b.....
A. A. Caren, 3d b.....
F. Schied, c..........
J. Browne, r. f.......
A. Burger, 1. f.......
F. Dever, p...........
J. Seeger, s. s.......
F. Grever, c.f.... >..
3
3
1 0
1
1 0
0
1
2
2
4
4
3
5
4
4
J. A. Gibbons, r. f..... A. S. Rock, c...... P. Nelson, c. f.... F. Kleine, 1st b... E. G. Sugg, 2d b... R. O’Connor, p..... J. Scanlan, s. s... F. Glade, 3d b..... F. Phillips, 1. f...
Total................10	30
Total..............
SCORE BY INNINGS.
—The first championship game between the Excelsior and Star of the West Clubs was played on Friday, June 4th, resulting in a complete victory for the latter Club. The following is the score:	'
EXCELSIOR.
R.
O.
STAR OF THE WEST. R. O.
L Ruppe, 1st b	 L. Dering, 3d b		4 1	0 3
G. Rhodius, s. s		0	4
F. Becker, 2d b		1	3
E. Croarkin, p		1	3
W. Coghlin, 1. f.		1	3
N. Nelson, c..					1	5
A. Coghlin, r. f.		0	4
V. Butler, c. f.		1	9,
Total		10	27
J. Guthrie, p........
F. Quinn, 3d b....... T. Devitt, s. s......
W. Cleary, 1st b..... W. Herrick, r. f..... A. Mergentheim, c.... J. Kelly, 2d b.......
W. De Haven, c. f.....
H. Guynn, 1. b.......
Total
SCORE BY INNINGS.
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	
EXCELSIOR.		1	0	1	1	0	0	1	0	0	—4
STAR OF THE WEST...	2	3	0	2	0	0	3	0	0	—10
The second championship game between the Star of the West and the Excelsiors was played on Wednesday, June 9th, resulting in a score of 6 to 6. Game was called at the end of the seventh inning on account of the darkness. Bro. Lawrence, C. S. C-, was unanimously elected director of the Excelsior Baseball Club.
—There is no day to which ecclesiastical students look forward with greater pleasure, or with more serious consideration, than the one on which they are to be elevated to the high dignity of the priesthood. Towards this, many long years of hard and serious study tend; and hence when the day has arrived on which their labors are, we may say, to be crowned, they hail its advent with joy and pleasure, and look upon it, and justly too, as the happiest day of their whole lives. It is, it is true, the day when their work in the true sense of the word begins; but the thought of being Christ’s vicegerents, of being His true representatives here on earth gives a fresh impetus to the newly-ordained of going through their labors with hope and courage. On Tuesday last we had the pleasure of seeing four young ecclesiastics raised to this high dignity, and to say that we congratulate them from the bottom of our hearts is but a feeble expression of our sincere well wishes. May their years of labor and usefulness be manifold, and may they exercise the functions of the sacred ministry in a manner ever pleasing .to Almighty God. The names of the young gentlemen who were ordained priests are: Revs. Alexander M. Kirsch, James Rodgers, Joseph Scherer, and Paul Kollopp.
On the day preceding, three of the above named received deaconship, and Messrs. Patrick Moran, Thos. McNamara, Nicholas Irman and Peter Rosen received Minor Orders. The officiating Prelate was Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, D. D., Fort Wayne, Indiana.
/^-The firm of Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, has generously contributed the following valuable works to the Lemonnier Library Association: Manual of Universal Church History, by Rev. John Alzog. Translated with editions by Rev. F. J. Pabish and Rev. T. S. Byrne, 3 vols.; Commentary on the Law and True Construction of the Federal Constitution, by John King; History of the Army of the Cumberland, Its Organization, Campaigns and Battles, by Thomas B. Van Horne, U. S. A. Illustrated by Edward Ruger, 3 vols.; The Bible in the Public Schools, Arguments in the case of John D. Minor et al. Versus the board of Education; American State Universities, Their Origin and Progress, and History of University of Michigan, by Andrew Ten Broek; Considerations upon the Nature and Tendency of Free Institutions, by Frederick Grimke; Life of Rev. Charles Nerincks, by Rev. Camillus P. Meaes. The Firm of Van Antwerp Bragg & Co., of Cincinnati, have given through their gentlemanly agent, Adam Schmidtb, a second donation consisting of the following works: Grote’s History of Greece, 12 vols.; The Life and Work of Pestalozzi, by Herman Krusi; Manual of Ancient History, by Thalheimer; General History, M. E. Thalheimer; Medioeval and Modern History, by Thalheimer; How to Teach, by Kiddle, Harrison and Calkins; The Science of Education, or the Philosophy of Human Culture, by John Ogden; The Art of Teaching, by .John Ogden; School Supervision, Payne; Graded Selections for Memorizing, Peasler. The members of the Library Association avail themselves of the generosity of the Editor of the Scholastic to express their gratitude for the above gifts.
The members of the Lemonnier Library Association gratefully acknowledge donations received from the following friends of education. From A. Zahm, of Huntington, Ind., Five Years in an English University, C. A. Bristed; Irving’s Traveller: From Prof. Ivers, 2 vols of the Catholic World; Hoyle’s Games. From M. Leit, of Cincinnati, Ohio, The Queens and Princesses of France, White; Journal of Eugenie De Guerin, edited by G. S. Trebutien; Letters of Eugenie De Guerin; Divine Faith and Natural Reason, Baine; The Jesuits: Their Studies and Teachings, Maynard; Milner’s End of Controversy; Life of Pope Pius IX, Father Bernard O’Reilly; The Betrothed, Manzoni; The Glories of the Catholic Church, with a Preface, by Cardinal Wiseman. From Rev. Father Colovin, Watertown, Wis., McCauley’s Complete Works, Student’s Edition, 8 vols., viz.: History of England, 4 vols.; Essays, Critical and Historical, 3 vols.; Poems and Speeches; Thackery’s Works, 10 vols., viz.: Philip; Irish and Paris Sketch-Books, etc.; Catharine; Christmas Books, Ballads, etc.; Barry Lyndon, Burlesques; Book of Snobs, Denis Duval, etc.; Four Georges, English Humorists, etc.; Vanity Fair; The Virginians; Pendinnis; Esmond, Lovel. From Rev. Matthew Russell, of Dublin, Ireland, Verses on Our Lady and The Saints. From E. Palmer, Indianapolis, Condition and Fate of England, by the author of The Glory and Shame of England, 2 vols.; Life of Lord Edward Fitzgerald, Thomas Moore; Life of Dr. Maginn, Thos. D’Arcy McGee; The Clergy and the Pulpit, M. L’Abbe Isidore Mullois; Reason and Revelation, Thomas S. Preston; The Question Solved, An Answer to Rev. Dr.. Clarke’s “Question of the Hour” and other Anti-Catholic Problems, J. C. Hannan; Trials of a Mind, L. Silliman Ives; Protestantism and Infidelity, Weninger; Points of Controversey, Smarius; Attempts to Establish the Reformation in Ireland, McGee; Becanus’ Analogy Between the Old and New Testaments, Trans, by Dr. Killeen; The Works of Rev. Arthur O’Leary; Laurentia, Lady Fullerton; The Progress of the Age and the Danger of the Age, Rev. Louis Heylen, S. J.; The Spae Wife or the Queen’s Secret, Boyce; The Sabbath School Index, Pardee; A Critical History of Free Thought, by A. S. Farrer; Sermons by Francis Skurray, B. D., 2 vols.; Sermons upon Religious Education and Filial Duty, J. M. Wainwright, D. D.; Robert Hall’s Sermons and Review; Pentateuch and Book
i
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
651
of Joshua, J. W.Colenso; Rev. Theodore Dehon’s Sermons; by Hugh Blair, D. D.; Public Library of Indianapolis.
—The annual banquet of the St. Cecilian and Philopa-trian ;Societies took place on Tuesday last, and was in every respect the most notable event of the season. At half-past three, a large and highly respected number of visitors from South Bend were ushered into the Seniors’ refectory by Very Rev. President Corby and other members of the Faculty, where they found (everything—in the way of eatables—that the season could possibly afford. In fact, when we say that Prof. J. A. Lyons had full charge of it we are sure that all know that it was something fully worthy of the occasion. After all had done full justice to the many things set before them, Masters McCarthy, Gibbons and Burns stepped forward and read in a clear intelligible manner the following toasts:
The Pope, Our Holy Father Leo, SHI: May Christ, whose Vicar he is, protect and bless him, and render his Pontificate as glorious as that of his illustrious predecessor. Responded to by Very Rev. Father Corby.
The President of the United States, the elected chief of a free people: May the office ever be filled with wisdom, and the free institutions of the land be maintained in their original integrity. Responded to by Hon. Mayor Ham.
Our Sister Societies: May their future equal their past. May their members, individually and collectively, fully attain their object; may they dwell together in unity, friendship and harmony. Responded to by Rev. T. E. Walsh.
College Reminiscences: When once we shall be scattered miles away from one another, may the hallowed remembrance of our college days bind us together in spirit, rolling back the tide of years, recalling the loved faces of our old companions, and again supplying the ‘‘Olden golden days of yore.” Re sponded to by Rev. P. W. Condon.
The Press, the motor ot civilization, the lever by which the world is moved. May it crush out evil, establish (the) right, always do justice, cultivate the beautiful, advocate the good, and uphold the true. Responded to by Rev. Mr. Stover.
The University of Notre Dame, our Alma Mater. Ever fondly in future life our hearts shall turn to thee: May the new beginning she has made be the key-note of uninterrupted harmony till her mission be fulfilled. Responded to by Hon. Mr. Anderson.
’ —John B. Piet, of No. 174 Baltimore Street, Baltimore, 'Md., has the thanks of the Lemoonier Library Association for the following contributions: The Month,—A Magazine and Review—from January 1867 to December 1876, bound 8 vols.; Early History of Maryland, Mexico and Mexican Affairs, A Mexican Campaign, Homcepathy, Elements of Hygiene, Health and Happiness, Essays and Lectures, by a Richard McSherry; The Nobleman of ’89, An Episode of the French Revolution, by M. A. Quinton; Life of Margaret Roper, Daughter of Sir Thomas More, Agnes Stewart; Visit to Bois D’Haine, Francis R. Howe; Lectures on the Eucharist, Cardinal Wiseman; Lectures on the Ceremonies of Holy Week; The Four Great Evils of the Day, The Sovereignity of God, The Grounds of Faith, Cardinal Manning; Science and Religion, Lectures on the Reasonableness of Christianity and the Shallowness of Unbelief, Abp.Vaughan; Lloyd Pennant, by Ralph Neville; Beeck-enbrook, a Rhyme of the War, Preston; The Mysterious Castle, Hughes; The Wreath of Eglantine and other Poems, by Daniel Bedinger Lucas; Gordon Lodge, or Retribution, by M. A. White; The Brown House at Duffield, Minnie Mary Lee; Life of Mrs. Seton, by D. White; Hubert’s Wife, by Minnie Lee; Destiny, by Dauiel Flynn; The Money God, or the Empire and the Papacy, Al. A. Quinton; Florence O’Neil, or the Seige of Limerick, Agnes Stewart; Known Too Late; Seven Stories, Lady Fullerton; The Fire of London, Lady Fullerton; Coun-
’ tess of Glosswood; The Wise Nun and other Tales, Miss Taylor; In Six Months, by Mary M. Meline; Flowers From the Garden of the Visitation; Life in the Cloister; Isabelle de Verneuil, Mrs. Charles Snell; The Children of Mary; The Last of the O’Malleys, Taunton; Elmwood, or the Withered Arm; Growth in Holiness, Faber; Devotion to the Sacred Heart, Dalgarius; Hortense and Historical Romance,R. J. Halm; Beauties of the Sanctuaries; Dame Dolores, Taylor; Life of Decalogue; Father Larkin’s Mission in Jonesville, Nichols; Matron of Israel-Mother of St. Elizabeth; Keeper of the Lazaretto, Souve, tre; The Orphan of Alsace, A Story of the Crusades; Elizabeth,.Queen of Hungary; The Green Island, Kirby; Elizabeth,' the Lily of Portugal; The Fatal Consequences
of Telling Lies; Trouvaille, Lady Fullerton; The Three Wishes, by M. T. S.; Constance and Marion, or The Court ins, by M. A. B.; Pride Corrected. Purchased by the Library Association: History of England From the Earliest Times to the Reign of Victoria, M. Guizot, 4 vols.; History of England, Abridged, John Robinson; History of France, M. Amadee Sabourd, 3 vols.; Great Cities of the World, Frost; History of England, Martineau, 4 vols.
—The following is the programme of Commencement W eek:
Tuesday, June 22d, a. m.
Solemn High Mass (Alumni) -	-	-	6 o’clock
Breakfast ...	-	-	-	. 7.30 “
Annual Meeting of Alumni	...	9.30 “
Afternoon.
Alumni Banquet -	-	-	-	- . 1.30 o’clock
Regatta -	-	-	-	-	-	- 3	“
Supper -.-	-	-	.	.	5.30 «
Evening.
Washington Hall ------	7 o’clock
PART FIRST.
Grand Opening March -	-	- N. D. U. C. B.
Solo and Chorus -	-	-	-	- Glee Club
Oration of the Alumni -	-	- D. E. Meloney, ’74
Solo (by request) -	-	-	-	- M. T. Corby
Music..........................University Orchestra
Prologue............................- A. J. Burger
PART SECOND.
HEARTWELL AT HAMFORD; OR, “Firm Friends” and “Fast Friends.”
A Drama in Three Acts. By the Thespian Association. . Cast of Characters:
Air. Kindwin, President	-	-	-	Thomas Simms
Air. Sharp, Vice-President -	-	- A. J. Burger
Air. Wells, Professor -	-	-	-	Patrick Larkin
Larry O’Toole, servant (“A clane swape) - - D. Donahue Ernest Heartwell, an Undergraduate (true to the core - -'	'-	-	-	- John B. McGorrisk
Willie Lovejoy, a Freshman (Rather young yet - - --	-	-	-	- Frank Bloom
Johnny Winkles, Willie’s chum (Fond of fun) -	- -
...................W. H. Arnold
Alerriman, an Undergraduate (“Let’s have a lark,”) - --	-	-	- Bernard Claggett
Rufus, ah Undergraduate (“Always od hand ”) - - G. Sugg Loftus Swellington, an Undergraduate (“Awli,” - - --	-	-	- John B. McGrath
Simon de Verd, a Freshman (Sold again) -	- F. Wall
McGrubber, an Undergraduate (“Lend us a cigarette)” - -
-	-	-	-	-	- J. Noonan
Reinhardt, an Undergraduate -	-	- R. Stewart
Doubleday, an Undergraduate (“Satan preaching against
Sin’’) ...	- John B. Berteling
Raymond (“A soft spot yet ”) -	-	- R. E. Keenan
Sordie Levi, Pawnbroker (“Yes, ma tear—yes,”)	-	-
’ -	-	-	- John B. McGrath
Hon. W. Lovejoy, (Willie’s father) -	- Geo. Clarke
Air. Heartwell, (Ernest’s father) -	- D. Harrington
Redderville, Detective ... Michael Burns Epilogue................................T. Simms
Closing Remarks - - - - - - -----------------------
March for Retiring -	-	-	- N. D. U. C. B.
Wednesday, June 23d, 8 a. m.
Entrance Alarch.....................N. D. U. C. B.
Chorus -	-.....................Glee Club
Poem of the Alumni ...	- W. T. Ball, ’77
Alusic (Solo)	----- - M. T. Corby
Oration of the Day -	-	-	- Hon.|E. Dunne
Alusic....................................University	Orchestra
Valedictory.........................John B. McGrath
Music...............................N.'D. U. C. Band
Distribution of Premiums—Preparatory Ciasses Awarding of Class Prizes and Honors. Awarding of Diplomas—Commercial Course.
652	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
£
£
Conferring of Degrees—Classical and Scientific Courses.	.
Closing Remarks...............................
Music—“Home, Sweet Home,” -	-	N. D. U. C. B.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
senior department.
R. M. Anderson, W. Arnold. J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, J. P. Brice, F. Bell, F. Brennon, M. T. Burns, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, R. S. Campbell, Geo. Clarke, F. T. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, G. Donnelly, J. Delaney, H. J. Dulaney, A. Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, D. Harrington, G. Harris, W. Hamilton, S. Henock, J. Kinney, R. E. Keenan, T. Kavanagh, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, E. Lynch, F. Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. Mc-Gorrisk, E. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. McNamara, E. Molitor, W. McAtee, T. A. Mattingly, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, R. C. O’Brien. J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, B. H. Pollock, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, O. Randolph, T. W. Simms, H. C. Simms, G. Suge, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, P. F. Shea, J. Smith, F. C. Smith, L. Smith, W. Scholfield, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, H. Wathen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien, A. Meyer, J. Hunt, W. Hesse.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Browne, A- J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A. Bodine, A. A. Burmeister, T. P. Byrne, F. Becker, M. J. Bums, M. G. Butler, G. Castanedo, J. Carter. A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, A. M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin. W. S. Cleary, J. W. Devitt, H. J. Devitt, T. F. Devitt, 8. T. Dering, F. T. Dever. J. E. Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, G. H. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, H. G. Guynn, E. H. Gall, L. J. Gibert, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, A. J- Hellebusche, F. R. Johnson, P." A. Joyce, J. M. Kelley, F. A. Kleine. L. 8. Keen, R. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, 8. Livingston, A. B. Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. 8. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. P. Morrison, P. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A. Otis, C. F. Perry, F. B. Phillips R. M. Parrett, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts, C. F. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. £L Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A. 8. Rock, A. W. Rohrback, R. J. Simms, J. K. Schobey, E. G, Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. A. Simms. R. C. Semmes, C. Schneider, C. H. Thiele, C. A. Tinley, W. M. Thompson, A. T. Tate, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weney.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, G. I. Smith, H. C. Snee, J. 8. Courtney, J. A. Campan, E. A. Howard, G. C. Knight, C. C. Echlin, C. E. Droste, W. H. Hanivan, H. A. Kitz, G. Woodson, W. M. Olds, G. E. Tourtillotte, H. P. Dunn, G. P. Van Mourick, A. Van Mourick, F. Mattes, J. M. Courtney, W. Ayers J. W. Bannister, J. J. Henry, J. A. Kellv, A. A. Molander, W. V. O’Mally, C. Metz, E. O’Donnell, L. J. Young, W. Miller, A. F. Schmuckle, F. B. Farrelly, J. H. Dwenger, J. E. Johnson,- H. Metz, C. E. Campau, H. J. Ackerman, J. R. Bender, C. Young.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Rev. Father. Walsh conducted the examinations of the Graduates in History.
—Very Rev. Father General has presented the valuable gift of a telephone to St Mary’s.
—Mrs. Howard Stanfield, of South Bend, has attended the Examinations quite faithfully.
—The Music Classes, both vocal and instrumental, have given the highest satisfaction, up to the present, in their examinations.
—The. semi-monthly report of the Academic Course will not appear. The examinations are occupying the atten
tion of the pupils and the final report of the scholastic year will he presented in the Annual Catalogue.
—The examinations of the French and German Classes were honored by the presence of Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, Very Rev. Father General, and Rev. Father Fallize. The young ladies acquitted themselves admirably in French.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior Department the reading was “Somebody’s Mother,” by 0. Lancaster; “Oda d L'Eucharistie," Mgr. Letourneau, by Mary Feehan; “Muttersprache," by Miss Reutlinger; and “Through Death to Life,” Henry Harbaugh, by Catharine Campbell.
—The Graduating Class passed a delightful day at St. Joseph’s Farm on Tuesday. The weather was pleasant, the ride refreshing, and the release from study very beneficial to the young ladies, after the severe application required to honorably acquit themselves in presence of the examining board.
—The semi-annual examination in Catechism was conducted bv three examining bureaus. Very Rev. Father General, Very Rev. Father Corby, and Rev. Father Shortis examined the Graduating and First Senior Classes; Rev. Father Zahm the Second and Third Senior Classes, and Rev. Father Condon the Preparatory Classes.
—Visitors: Rev. Father Foley, Saint John, New Brunswick ; Prof. A. Gregori, Mr. and Mrs. Seymour, Mr. Hen-nesy, Mrs. Hutchins, Chicago; Mrs. Newport, West Meriden, Conn.; Miss F. Howe, Bailly Homestead, Porter Co., Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Bilson, Goodland, Md.; Mr. Clarke, Mr. Beardslee. Mrs. Clarke, Mrs. Beardslee, (Graduates—Class ’68), New York; Mr. Hinkley, R. M. S., Cleveland, O ; Mr. Spry, Plymouth, Luzern Co., Penn.; Mrs. Stafford, Fairbury, Ill.; Miss Condon, Laporte. Ind.; Mr. Wright. Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. Reinhard, Mrs. Taylor, Miss Pool,Niles, Mich.; Miss Foster, Cincinnati, O.; Mrs. Engel, Goshen, Ind.; Miss Bettendon, Jackson, Mich.; Mr. Gall,Indianapolis, Ind.; Miss Dunn, Savanagh, Georgia.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Kilielea, McGrath, Woodin,' Keenan, Hambleton, Ewing, Maloney, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Buck, A. Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, I. Semmes, Dillon, S. Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, Brnser, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Lancaster, Simms, Dessaint, Hammond, Thompson, Rasche, Wright, Engel, Wurzburg, A. Smith, Callinan, Edelen, Revnolds, McCormick, par auxUeMe. Misses Cavenor. Rosing, Gordon, Lloyd, Neu, Usselman, Donnelly, De Lapp, Gall, English, Julius, O’Connor, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Price, Baroux, Gavan, Orr, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Horner. Saloman, McFadden, Reinhard, Cleghorn, Leydon, Keena, Wall, Moxon, Cox, Brown, McCoy,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, Feehan, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Butts, French, Populorum, Van Namee, Lemontey, S. Semmes, Hackett, Casey, Crummey, Fishburne, Garrity, E. Dallas, Watson, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, C. Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, Ginz, Paquette, Clarke, Hutcheson, Harrison, Zimmerman, Considine, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, I. Hackett, B. Garrity, M. F. Fitzgerald, Wilkins, Robinson, M. Baroux, Campau, parezceffence. Misses J. Wells, E. Ryan, Fisk.
r
4.
t
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAlTTKTCE EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, Si, postpaid.
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	653
BUY THE
CLASS DAY BOOK OF 80.
Published by the Class of ’80.
Besides containing the Guide and Hand Book to Notre Dame and St Mary’s Academy, it embraces
“CLASS SO^TG,” POETRY, LITERARY SELECTIONS, ETC.,
Together With
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, ’VEESITY EXCHANGE NEWS, LAUGHABLE ANECDOTES & HUMOROUS EXTRACTS.
For Sale at Students’ Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SIN GEE COPT,	... 50 CENTS.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
is the only route between Chicasr^ and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chic ago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Bleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for teats in the finest Seclining Chair lilacs Cart to the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and 8T. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and
PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minims districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMuixnr,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager, 210 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adams, Chicago,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the ■ usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farm- ' ing region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the
United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at / Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Untvbbsitt affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE, „
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. AV. CORBI, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.