lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA NOVEMBER 20, 1875.	Number 12.
Twilight.
BY FITZ GREEN HALLECK.
There is an evening twilight of the Imart,	.
When its wild passion-waves are lulled to rest,
And the eye sees life’s fairy scenes depart, As fades the day-beam in the rosy west.
’Tis with a nameless feeling of regret
We gaze upon them as they melt away, And fondly would we bid them linger yet, But hope is round us with her ansrel lay, Hailing afar some happier moonlight hour; Dear are her whispers still, though lost their early power.
In youth the cheek was crimsoned with her glow;
Her smile was loveliest then ; her matin song Was heaven’s own music, and the note of woe
Was all unheard her sunny bowers among.
Life’s little word of bliss was newly born ;
We knew not, cared not, it was born to die, . Flushed with the cool breeze and the dews of morn, With dancing heart we gazed on the pure sky, And mocked the passing clouds that dimmed its blue, Like our own sorrows then—as fleeting and as few.
And manhood felt her sway too—on the eye,	•
Half realized, her early dreams burst bright, Her promised bower of happiness seemed nigh,
Its days of joy, its vigils of delight;
And though at times might lower the thunder-storm, And the red lightnings threaten, still the air
Was balmy with her breath, and her loved form, The rainbow of the heart, was hovering there.
’Tis in life’s noontide she is nearest seen, Her wreath the summer flower, her robe of summer green.
But though less dazzling in her twilight dress, ■
There’s more of heaven’s pure beam about her now;
That angel-smile of tranquil loveliness,
Which the heart worships, glowing on her brow;
. That smile shall brighten the dim evening star
That points our destined tomb, nor e’er depart
Till the faint light of life is fled afar,
And hushed the last deep beating of the heart;
The meteor-bearer of our parting breath, • A moonbeam in the midnight cloud of death.
Peter of Cortona.
Many years ago there dwelt near Florence a poor shep herd boy named Peter, who had become discontented with his life, and longed to become an artist. So, one day, filled with this desire, he quitted the sheep he was tending and wended his way to Florence. He had in that city no r iend or aquaintance except a poor lad of his own age>
who had some years before gone from their native village to become a servant in the house of Cardinal Sichetti. When Peter had seen the city well, and delighted his eyes with the sight of such pictures as he was able to obtain, access to, he betook himself to the Cardinal’s palace in order to see his old friend Thomas. He had to wait for a long time, but at last Thomas appeared. “What! you here, Peter! What can have brought you to Florence?”
“ I am come to learn the art of painting.”
“ Ah, my friend! would it not be better for you to learn kitchen-work ? Then you would be sure not to die of hunger!”	•
“Have you not as much to eat here as you desire?” enquired Peter.
“ Yes, indeed, I have,” answered Thomas; “ did I choose to do so, I might eat every day until I made myself sick.”
“In that case then,” said Peter, “I shall do very well. As you have more than enough, and I none a| all, I will bring my appetite and you your food. We shall then get along famously.” '
“ Very well,” said Thomas.
“Let us begin immediately then,” said Peter, “ for as I have had nothing to eat all day, I would only be too well pleased to try our plan at once.”
Without more ado Thomas led poor little Peter into the garret where he slept, and, bidding him wait, went to the kitchen for the fragments of the table. He soon returned, and the two lads made a merry feast, for Thomas was in high spirits and Peter’s appetite was by no means poor.	.
“Now,” said Thomas, “you are fed and lodged; the next thing is how are you to study.”
“I shall study as all artists do, with pencil and paper.’
“ How will you study with pencil and paper when you have no money with which to buy them ? ”
“It is true I have no money, but then here you are a servant to a Cardinal; you must have plenty of money; and as you are rich, it is the same as if I was.”
Thomas replied that as far as regarded victuals, he could procure all that he desired; but as to money, he would have to wait for three years before he would receive any wages. This Peter did not mind. As the garret walls were white, he could with charcoal furnished by Thomas draw pictures there. So he set to work on the walls, and labored away, until at last Thomas received a silver coin from a visitor at the Cardinal’s. He hesitated not a moment as to what he should do with it, but with joy brought it to his friend. Pencils and paper were bought, and then every morning, bright and early, Peter went out studying the pictures in the galleries, the statues in the street, and. landscapes in the neighborhood. When evening came,-tired out, yet still delighted with his day’s work, he. crept
178
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hack into the garret, where he found that his faithful friend Thomas had his dinner hid away in the mattress for him. In the course of time the charcoal sketches rubbed off the walls, and Peter did bis best endeavors to ornament his friend’s room.
It so happened that one day Cardinal Sachetti, who was restoring his palace, went with his architect to the very lop of the house, and by chance entered the servants’ garret. No one was in the room; but both the Cardinal and the architect were amazed at the genius displayed in the drawings on the walls. Thinking that the drawings were the work of Thomas, they sent for him. The poor fellow learning that the Cardinal had been in the garret and had seen what he called Peter’s daubs, went to his master full of dire forebodings.
“ Hereafter you shall not be my servant,” said the Cardinal ; and Thomas, believing this to be disgrace and dismissal, fell on his knees and said: “ Oh, your Eminence, what will then become of poor Peter?”
He was commanded by the Cardinal to relate this whole story, which he did.
“Bring him to me when he comes in to-night,” said his Eminence, smiling.
But Peter did not come back that night, nor the next, until two weeks passed, and there was no sign of him. Then came the news that in a distant convent the monks had received and kept with them a poor lad of fourteen years who had come to them for permission to copy a painting of Raphael which was in the chapel of the Convent. This lad was Peter. Sometime afterwards the Cardinal procured that he be sent to Rome, there to study under one of the first masters in the Eternal Cityi ****««****
Long years afterwards there dwelt in one of the most beautiful houses in Florence two old men. They lived as brothers, but were not. One said of the other: “ He is the greatest artist of our agebut he said of the first: “ Henceforth, for evermore, he is the model of a faithful friend.” . .	  H. D. F.
Fitz-Greene Halleck.
There is not in the United' States a schoolboy that has not declaimed that best of martial lyrics ever written, “Marco Bozzaris.” It has that true ring in it which makes it the favorite of everyone, and if on account of the great number of times it has been declaimed and read it has lost some of its freshness, it has by no means become worn out It is, to change one of its verses, one of the few, the immortal lyrics that shall never die.	_
Fitz-Greene Halleck was born in the year 1795, in Guil ford, Connecticut. When in his eighteenth year, he became a clerk in the banking house of Jacob Barker, a situation which he held for many years. He also was, he informs us in one of his epistles, “in the cotton trade and sugar line.” For many years previous to the death of John Jacob Astor he was the confidential agent of the famous millionaire and was named by him one of the original trustees of Astor Library. In 1849 he retired from commercial business, and resided in his native town until the year 1867, when he died, at the age of seventy-two, and it is said in the communion of the Catholic Church.
Halleck composed poems in his boyhood, and at an early age began to write for the newspapers. He formed the acquaintace of Joseph Rodman Drake in 1819, and the
friendship which existed between the two poets was tender and sincere. They formed a literary copartnership, and under the name of Croaker & Co. they began the publication of the “ Croaker Papers,” which by their sprightliness became very popular in their day.
The early death of Drake in 1820 was commemorated and mourned by Halleck in that beautiful elegy beginning with the words:	-
“ Green be the turf above thee, Friend of my better days!
None knew thee but to love thee,	’
None named thee but to praise.”
Halleck published his longest poem—"Fanny”—in 1821. It is a satire upon the literature, fashions, politics and follies of the time, and is written in the measure of Byron’s “ Don Juan.” It enjoyed great popularity on account of the variety and pungency of its local and personal allusions, and is to-day one of the most enjoyable satires to be found in American literature.
Halleck visited Europe in 1822 and ’23, and it is to reflections occasioned by this visit that we are indebted to him for the poems on Burns and Alnwick Castle, which with “Marco Bozzaris” and some other poems he published in 1827. In 1865 he published his “ Young America,” which although not equal in merit to his earlier poems, displays considerable poetic ability.
When we reflect that, in all, the poems of Halleck do not include much more than four thousand lines, we cannot» with all who have been charmed with his writings, .but regret that he who “ could write so well should write so little.” Of his poems it has truly been said by Griswold in his “Poets and Poetry of America”: “ There is....... an essential pervading grace, a natural brilliancy of wit, a freedom yet refinement of sentiment, a sparkling flow of fancy, and a power of personification, combined with such high and careful finish, and such exquisite nicety of taste, that the larger part of them must be regarded as models almost faultless in the classes to which they belong.” The late Henry T. Tuckerman, the graceful poet, essayist and critic, says that “ the poems of Fitz-Greene Halleck although limited in quantity, are perhaps the best known and most cherished, especially in the latitude of New York, of all American verses........................................ The school-boy and the old
Knickerbocker both know them by heart. In his serious poems he belongs to the same school as Campbell; and in his lighter pieces reminds us of Beppo and the best parts of Don Juan. “ Fanny,” conceived in the latter vein, has the point of fine local satire gracefully executed. Burns and the lines on the death of Drake have the beautiful impressiveness of the highest elegiac verse. “ M irco Bozzaris ” is perhaps the best martial lyric in the language; “Red Jacket” the most effective Indian portrait; and “ Twilight ” an apt piece of contemplative verse; while “Alnwick Castle ” combines his grave and gay style with inimitable art and admirable effect.”
Halleck was a man of a singularly social turn of mind. He delighted in gay and cordial fellowship, and was brimming over with anecdote and conceits of a whimsical kind, yet with a great and remarkable power of narrative. He did not conceal his fondness for discussion, and would often carry his views to the very extreme merely for the pleasure of argument. In his manner he was impressive and winning to a high degree. His wit was keen and biting, yet never ill-natured, and severe ouly when directed against humbug and pompous pretensions.	■ R. G,
J
i
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
179
ri
The Homes of the Dead.
A writer in an old number of the Metropolitan says that the grave of the Christian, with its cross above it, and its sublime prayer, “ May he rest in peace! ” is a subject which gives rise to many reflections. The Catacombs, as they are opened, show that so were the first Christians buried, with the prayer of pace carved on the slab that closed the niche in which the body was placed. The Catholic grave yard thus furnishes a point of resemblance with the primitive Christians’ that no sophistry can elude, no blindness fail to see. The simple sign of the Cross has now replaced the fish and other monograms and emblems of our Lord: but we, like them, will have His blessed Name or Sign appear above the spot where those we love await the resurrection.
Await the resurrection! how purelv Christian is this thought: we might say how purely C itholic! In the lives of Irish Saints the reader cannot fail to be struck at the frequency with which this idea is brought forward. A holy man leaves a spot because it is not the place of his resurrection; he goes on and founds another convent on the spot where his bones are to await the day to which Job looked forward with such hope.
Christianity came to revolutionize the mode of treating the dead. Full of respect for the bodies which the Sacraments had sanctified, for bodies that were to reign glorious in heaven, it treated them with all reverence; the rites of pasanism gave way, and if pride seeks to live beyond the grave, its exhibition is discountenanced as much on the tomb-stone as in the gilded saloon.
The mode of burial in various ages and times has differed remarkably. What history tells is comparatively little, but, strangely enough, man’s tombs are more enduring than his palaces. The structure in which he is to mingle with the dust outlives the pile reared for his voluptuous ease or lordly pride.
The pyramids of the Nile, the mounds of the Mississippi, the pillar towers of Ireland, stand solemnly reminding us that all traces of their builders have passed away. Wisely did the Egyptians, as if foreseeing this, call the tomb the eternal house, and their palaces but hostelries.
“ His sepulchre shall be glorious,” said the prophet of our Divine Lord; and glorious indeed is that Church of the Holy Sepulchre, that tomb of our Redeemer. Christianity has rendered'glorious too the tombs of the faithful servants of her Spouse. What is St. Peter’s at Rome but the noble tent pitched to shelter the pilgrims who gather at the tombs of St. Peter and St. Paul ? What the shrines of saints, but tabernacles for the palmer?
The rites of burial were intimately connected with the sepulchre. It has always been deemed more or less of a reliffious rite, and in every system of religion the honors paid the dead form a conspicuous part. To be deprived of burial was a misfortune exceeding all others.
The dead were originally simply wrapped in cloths and deposited in the earth; but a desire of preserving the beloved one as long as possible from decay led to the selection of natural caves or artificial chambers in the rock for this purpose. The latter are to be found in Palestine and Western Asia in great numbers, and such was doubtless the sepulchre which the children of Heth offered to Abraham, but the holy patriarch selected for the resting place of his beloved Sara “ the double cave jn the field of Ephron,
looking towards Mambre and surrounded by trees.” Rachel, however, was buried in the highway leading to Bethlehem Ephrata, and Jacob raised a monument above her.
Of the funeral rites of the patriarchs the Scriptures give us no account; nor of the manner of preparing the body for the grave.
In Egypt and in some other parts the stone raised by affection to mark the final resting place of a relative grew into an edifice; the Mausoleum was a palace; the castle of St. Angelo was originally a tomb.
The Jews wrapped up the dead in winding-sheets with aromatic spices, as the Gospel notes, thus embalming the body to prevent decay; but the Egyptians opened the body, extracted the viscera and filled it with substances to check corruption. The body then wrapped iu many folds of cloth was encased in wood, or deposited in a stone coffin. How effectually they succeeded in embalming need not be said. The pyramids and rock sepulchres of Egypt, a wonder in our day as in that of Caesar, contain bodies of men who were perhaps contemporaries of Moses, of men who died before the hand of the great prophet and legislator had traced a line of the world’s authentic history. And we can gaze on those unwasted features that will perhaps perserve every lineament when we have mouldered into dust.
Among the natives of America the mode of burial was curious; a temporary burial preceded the final one, and this may have been the case in Egypt. Many Indian tribes had near their villages cemeteries where the dead were placed after their decease on raised scaffolds, well wrapped up in bark, to prevent the birds from attacking them. The Indian mother in many tribes, on losing an infant, bent down the topmost branch of some fragrant blossoming tree, and casing her little one in bark, bound it to the branch, which she then loosed, to let it bear to its giddy height the body of her babe, to wither away amid the incense poured from the censers of the flowers, and the psalmody of the birds of the forest. In other tribes the mother buried her young child, as Rebecca was buried, in the highway, believing, however, that the soul would glide into some other to animate another child.	•
In other tribes, however, a grave was made, lined with mats, or bark, or stone, and in it the Indian was placed in a sitting posture, with his arms and equipments beside him.	.
At certain periods the bodies were taken from the temporary scaffolds and interred in one common grave, lined with furs, enriched with precious articles—or what barbarism so esteemed, kettles and wampum, bows, and subsequently guns. These graves were sometimes straight, but generally circular, and the depositing in them of the bones of the dead—each skeleton wrapped up separately in furs— was attended with games and feasts and rejoicings, that lasted for several days and attracted crowds. These graves are often profaned by the plough of the white man, and the practice was carried on in historic times. The mounds of the West were probably made in the same way by successive generations of a tribe now extinct. And it is not unlikely that the mummy case of the Eygptian remained for some time in the dwelling house of the deceased, as is still the custom in China, before being removed to the pyramid.
The Greeks, and especially the Romans, burned the dead, as the Hindoos have done to our day. In this case
7
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the body was laid upon a pyre, or funeral pile, composed in whole or in part of fragrant woods. The nearest relative applied the torch, and when all had mouldered to ashes, collected these and placed them in an urn. This was then laid up in the monument erected to the memory of the deceased.
The early Christians adopted the mode of burial of the Jews, as the catacombs at Rome, hollowed into the rock on which the city lies, show us their mode of burial. The recent work of Northcote dispenses with an account of these and of the light which they throw on the early history of the Church. It will suffice to say that there are streets and avenues, miles in length, cut in the rock in various directions; that in the side walls deep niches are cut in, into which the bodies were introduced, after which the entrance was closed with a slab, often giving the name, sometimes only the symbols of Christianity or the emblems of martyrdom.
The practice of the early Christians gradually spread, and cremation disappeared with paganism.
The ancients had no peculiar place of burial. Tombs were sometimes in the city, but most frequently in the country, on the road-side, in caverns and gardens. The tombs of the kings of Judah were hollowed in the rock beneath the temple. A law of the twelve tables at Rome forbade any body to be burned or buried within the city.
As the catacombs were not only the tombs of the martyrs, but the churches of the early Christians, when persecution passed away the church was raised above the tomb of the martyr that became the altar of the basilica. Where the church stood without the walls, and sometimes even in those in the cities the faithful sought to be interred near it, or even within it. This was at first the privilege of Bishops and persons of the highest rank, but gradually became the usual custom.
The Church, however, opposed it, and cemeteries then grew up beside the sacred edifice, at first around those without the cities, and gradually even within the walls. Thus through devotion to St. Columbkill the island of Hy became a great cemetery for the Celts and Scandinavians; princes even of Norway wishing to be borne to that holy island for sepulture.
In more recent times sanitary laws have controlled the practice of burying in cities and in churches. Paris seems first to have begun to remove the bones from the city cemeteries to subterranean repositories, called catacombs, but differing entirely from those at Rome.
Cemeteries were then formed at a short distance from the cities, and that of P6re la Chaise, so called from a Jesuit Father to whom the land had been given, is famous for the beauty with which it is laid out, as well as for the strangeness of some of the monuments and the interest attached to others. A ramble through it is part of every tourist’s labor.	.	.
In England the Catholics have now their separate ceme teries, and such too has been from the first the case in this country. In many parts the burials were under or beside the churches, but as buildings grew up around, larger sections of land were purchased in the vicinity, and duly consecrated.
The Church blesses the ground where her children repose in death, as she blesses their habitation in life, the food they eat, the ship or car by which they travel; but her conseceation of what in olden times was called “ God’s acre,” is more solemn, and she refuses entrance into it to
those who die in the act of sin, to suicides, and in some parts to those who have neglected their Easter duty.
The ceremonial of the blessing of a new cemetery, like all the other benedictions of the Church, is full of beauty. On the day preceding the rite, a cross is erected in the burying ground, and a three branched candlestick placed before it At the proper time the priest, in amict, alb, stole and white cope, goes to the cemetery, with attendants bearing the holy water, censer, ritual and candles. Then the priest recites the following prayer:
“ Almighty God, who art the Guardian of souls and Ward of salvation, Hope of them that believe, look down propitiously on this act of our service, and at our coming in may this cemetery be cleansed, blessed, and sanctified, that the human bodies resting here after the course of this life, may merit in the great day of judgment to obtain with their happy souls the joys of eternal life. Through Christ our Lord.”
He then recites the Litany of the Saints, introducing the words “ That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to cleanse and bless this cemetery, we beseech Thee to hear us.” After this has been said kneeling, all rise, and the priest, intoning the antiphon Asperges, and the psalm Miserere, proceeds to make the circuit of the ground, sprinkling it with holy water. In returning to the cross he offers up the following prayer.-
“ O God, the framer of the whole world, and Redeemer of the human race, and perfect disposer of all creatures visible and invisible, we beseech Thee with a suppliant voice and pure heart to vouchsafe to purge, bless, and sanctify this cemetery, where the bodies of Thy servants must rest after the slippery paths of this life; and do Thou who dost through Thy great mercy grant to those who trust in Thee the remission of all their sins, bountifully impart also perpetual consolation to their bodies resting in this cemetery and awaiting the trumpet of the first archangel. Through Christ our Lord.”
Then setting the candles on the top and arms of the cross, to remind us that Christ, by His death on the Cross, first during His three days of separation from His body, bore light into the realms of death, he incenses and sprinkles the cross. The cemetery is then ready, to receive the bodies of the faithful.
Little Wonders.
It is wonderful what works men areable to do. It isrelated by Pliny that a certain Myrmecides wrought out of ivory a chariot with four wheels and four horses, and a ship with all her rigging and tackling, both in a compass so small that either could be hid by the wing of an ordinary honeybee. We would be tempted to disbelieve this were it not for the authority of Pliny, whose story is corroborated by-JElian, and did we not have it on the most unquestionable authority. In the twentieth year of the reign of Queen Elizabeth a London blacksmith, Mark Scalliot by name, made a lock of iron, steel and brass, and consisting of eleven pieces, which together with the key weighed but one grain. The same blacksmith also made a chain of gold of forty-three links. Fastening one end of this chain to the lock and key, he put the other around the neck of a flea, which drew chain and lock with the greatest of ease! The weight of the chain, lock, key and flea, all together, was but one grain and a half!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
181
It is related that Hadrianus Junius saw at Mechlin, in Belgium, a cherry-stone which was cut into the form of a basket. In it were laid fourteen pair of dice on which were the spots so distinctly marked that they could be easily discerned bv the naked eye.
Probably the most wonderful piece of mechanism’ was that shown in Rome during the pontificate of Pope Paul the Fifth. It was a set of turnery exhibited by a man named Shad, a turner of Wittbrach, who had purchased it from the artist, Oswaldus Norhingerus. It consisted of no less than sixteen hundred dishes, all perfect and complete in every part, yet so slender and small that all of them could be very easily enclosed in a case made out of a pepper-corn of the ordinary size! It is said that the Pope counted them himself, but that fin order to do so he was forced to make use of spectacles, for they were so small as to be nearly invisible to the naked eye. Although his Holiness satisfied his eyes of the fact, he gave an opportunity of examining and judging for themselves to a number of people. Among those who counted the dishes we are told were Gasper Schioppius and Johannes Faber, the latter being then one of the most prominent physicians of Rome.	.
Many wonderful things are related of the skill of Tur-rianus. Among other things constructed by him were iron mills which moved of themselves, and which, though so minute in size that a monk could carry one in his sleeve, were sufficiently powerful to grind in a single day grain enough for the consumption of eight men.
Knights-Hospitallers.
In the year 1053 some Italian merchants from Amalfi by permission of the Caliph of Egypt established at Jerusalem an asylum for Latin pilgrims. They were allowed a chapel built near the Holy Sepulchre, and two hospitals, one for women and one for men. In the course of time they were allowed to establish a chapel for each hospital, and that connected with the hospital for men was dedicated to St. John the Almoner, who in the seventh century, as Patriarch of Constantinople, had succored the Christians in Jerusalem when oppressed by the Saracens.
Many pilgrims to the Holy Land entered the hospital and gave themselves up to the service of the poor. As it was a charity which recommended itself not to one state of Christendom but to all Europe, large contributions flowed into it from all quarters, more especially from Italy, and it soon became wealthy.
When the first Crusade was undertaken, the hospital wa a merely secular institution devoted to the relief of the sick and its charities were bestowed upon all who applied. The Holy Land having been conquered by the Crusaders and the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem founded, the hospital received great favors from leaders of the war. Godfrey of Bouillon, and others following his example, gave landed property in Europe to it. Many of the Crusaders entered it, and this led Peter Gerard, who was at the time rector of the hospital, to organize it into a regular religious house, the members of which took the three vows of poverty, chastity and obedience, besides the obligation of devoting their lives to the service of the poor and sick in the Kingdom of Jerusalem. Their dress was a plain black robe with an eight-pointed white cross on the left breast. The order was approved by Pope Paschal II, who by a bull issued in
1113 conferred many special privileges on it. Its first.su perior was Gerard, who established in the different parts of Europe branch hospitals where the same services were rendered to pilgrims as was performed for them by the parent house in Jerusalem.
Gerard died in the year 1118, and Raymond du Puy was chosen his successor. Raymond was a native of Dauphine, and was noted for his strong martial tastes. He proposed to his companions that while they retained all the vows of religious, which they had already taken, they should add to them that of bearing arms in defence of religion. This proposition was in accordance with the spirit of the age, and was promptly acquiesced in by the brethren. The Order became a military fraternity, and Du Puy became its first Grand Master. “ Having,” says one of its historians, “ been originally organized for charitable purposes only, it successively received the character of a religious, republican, military and aristocratic constitution. It must be considered as religious, since every member took the three vows of chastity, obedience and poverty; it was republican, since by the original constitution of the Order their chief was always selected from themselves by their own nomination; it was military, since two of the three classes into which it was divided were constantly armed, and waged an unceasing war with the Infidels; and it was aristocratic, since none but the first class had any share in the legislative and executive power.”
It was not long lifter becoming a military order before it rose to fame; and the progress of the members, with the large amounts donated to it by pious persons, enabled it to wage war for years with the Saracen powers. Though distinguished for its valor in war, yet at the battle of Tiberias in the year 1187 it was nearly annihilated. It recovered, however, and after the fall of Jerusalem the female branch of the order returned to Europe, while the male branch established itself at Mirgat. Uufortunately for the order, the knights were often involved in disputes and hostilities with the Templars and other orders, yet they gallantly defended Christendom against the infidels. At the battle of Gaza, in the year 1244, the knights were nearly exterminated by the Kharizmians. The order, however, continued to recruit, and their power again rose. In the year 1291 Acre fell into the hands of the Saracens, and the knights established themselves at Limisso, in Cyprus, where they received recruits from their commanderies throughout Europe. As pilgrims were conveyed in their vessels to the Holy Land, sea-fights with the Saracens became frequent, and it was not long before the brethren became as famous for their skill in naval warfare as they were for battling on land.
The Order seized Rhodes in the year 1309. This island, which had for many years been the headquarters of Mussulman corsairs, was converted into a strong Christian bulwark, and for two centuries it was held by the Hospitallers, although assailed with great fury on many occasions by the Mussulmans. The first siege of Rhodes by the Turks occurred in the year 1480. Peter D’Aubusson, who. was then Grand Master, defended the place with great skill and success. The second siege took place in 1522, when Philippe Villiers de L’Isle-Adam was Grand Master. The Turks were held at bay for six months, but at last the garrison capitulated on honorable terms to the Sultan, Solomon the Magnificent.
On the fall of Rhodes, the remnants of the order, after having gone first to Candia, then to Messina and' then to
tv
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

the main land of Italy, passed over to Malta, which was ceded to the order by Charles V in 1530. The Island of Malta was then a barren rock, but the knights converted it into one of the strongest places in the World. There they carried on war with the Turks, who were menacing Christendom, and with such fury, energy and success, that their new home furnished them with a new name, and they became known as the Knights of Malta. In the year 1551 the Turks attacked the island, but without success-The attack was renewed in 1565 with an armament which was supposed to be invincible. For four months Jean Parisot de la Valette defended the island, and the besiegers were compelled to give up their attempts against the place. This defence by the Knights of St. John was marked by numerous romantic incidents of war, and the fame of the order rose to its greatest height. For more than, two centuries it continued to enjoy the worlds’ esteem, and in the long conflict between the Christians and Mussulmans which the Mediterranean witnessed, the white cross of the Knights Hospitallers of St. John was in the thickest of the fray. With the close of the eighteenth century the disputes between the Christians and Turks had ended, and the order encountered the enmity of the revolutionists of France. Malta was seized in 1798 by Bonaparte on his way to Egypt, and since then, though protected by great nations, the order maintains a shadowy existence. Its day of usefulness is over, and we may never expect to hear of the white cross of the Knights of Malta figuring again in the annals of war.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Morris’ translation of the JEneid is now out of the printer’s hands.
—A portrait of Corot has been sent to Florence by his family, to be added to the grand collection of portraits of artists painted by themselves in the Uffizi.
—The announcement is made that George Bancroft, will write four more volumes of American history ! Good gracious, will this old man never give us a rest.
—Gerome is studying Turkish architecture in Baroussa and Constantinople. It is said that he is going to try his hand at painting marine views—a complete change of style.
—Mr. H. James, Jr.,brings his novel of “Roderick Hudson” to a close in the December Atlantic Monthly. In the same number Prof. Boyesen continues his account of the German romantic school of writers.
—Mr. W. W. Story, the celebrated American sculptor, is an amateur actor of great histrionic ability. At private theatricals in Rome he is said to have rendered the character of Shylock equal to the best actors.
—M. Gambon, a well known decorative French artist, has just died at the age of seventy-four. Among his decorations are those of tbe new opera house in Paris—a Syl-phide, Janita, Zerline, les Noces Venitiennes, and le Cor-saire.
—Sixty-eight plays, founded on the American Revolution, have been submitted to M. Michaelis, in Paris. If they are produced in this country next year there will probably be another American revolution, founded on the sixty-eight plays 1
—Mlle. Heilbron has signed an engagement at St. Petersburg for two months. She was to leave London on Oct. 21, and merely pass through Paris on her way to the Russian capital, where she will make her debut in the role of Marguerite in “ Faust.”
—Four lectures by Prof. Erdmann, of Halle, Germany, have just been published in book form. Tne fi s’, on Philosophy, was delivered in 1854; the second, on Faith and Science, in 1856; the third, on Fichte, in 1862; and the fourth, on Frederick William UL, in 1860.
—Mr. Justin Winsor is to be the editor of a new qud terly folio to be named The Facsimilist. It will be published by J. R, Osgood <fc Co., and each number will contain from twelve to sixteen heliotype reproductions of rare engravings, MSS., title-pages, etc., accompanied by twenty pages of letter-press.
—An album of photographs of more than usual interest has been imported by Scribner, Welford & Armstrong. It consists of “ Views of Scotland,” and includes a number of places of literary and historic interest, such as Burns’s cottage, Scott’s library, the house of John Knox, Holyrood palace, Loch Katrine, Loch Arne, &c.
—The Sumner memorial committee have selected three of the models submitted. They are by Mr. Thomas Ball, Mr. Martin Millmore, and Miss Anna Whitney, each of whom will receive the sum of §500. The committee have not decided to design the memorial after one of these models, the choice being left entirely to their option.
—A telegram from Cincinnati dated Nov. 13, says:—Mr. David Swinton on to day gave notice that he will commence building an esplanade east of the fountain esplanade on Fifth street next spring. A forum ornamented with bronze statuary will be the art attraction placed there.-The entire cost will be over §100,009. The work will be completed in two years.
—A new opera, Mejistofele, has been produced at Bologna. It is in four acts, with a prologue and an epilogue. Both the libretto—founded upon Goethe’s Faust—and the music are from the pen of Sig. Arrigo Boito, who was called on the first night twenty-one times. The principal characters, Margherita, Faust, and Mefistofele, were sustained respectively by Signora Borghi-Mamo, Signori Campanini and Nanetti. •
—Dr. Leopold Damrosch has been engaged to conduct the orchestra at the Von Bulow concerts in New York, which commence to-morrow evening. A great deal of complaint was made of the orchestra in Boston, and much fault was found by the public with Mr. Carl Bergman, who conducted it. The trouble, whatever it was, ended in a disagreement of the pianist and the director, and a withdrawal of the latter indignantly.
—Egypt is going to be fully represented at our National Centennial, and will send over a complete Arabic orchestra, who will perform their characteristic national melodies, also a troupe of dancing girls, who will illustrate the diversities and recreations of life in the harem. The large number of two hundred persons will also be sent,.who will include representatives of every department of Egyptian life and customs.—Watson's Art Journal.
—Makart’s pictures of “ Abundantia,” which have received such severe criticism in New York, were painted to cover the wall space above fifteen feet of wainscoting, and intended simply as decorative and not representative art. In the position they were to occupy, the effect would be quite different from that “on the line,” and perhaps the drawing is not so far wrong when viewed at a different angle. As a painter he stands in reputation now at the head of the young artists of Germany.
—The eminent Leipzig publisher, C. F. Peters, whose cheap editions have already done so much for the cause of music, announces that he is about to bring out, in a cheap form, the complete collection of Bach’s “ ChurchCantatas,” in vocal score. As a large number of these works are still unpublished, and most of the remainder are only to be had in sets of ten, and in full score (in the Bach Society’s edition), the proposed issue, at about 18 pence each; will be a great boon, and will doubtless be eagerly sought for by musicians.
—Messrs. Jansen, McClurg & Co., of Chicago, have begun the publication of a delightful series of love-stories in holiday style. Last year they published “ Memories,” a German love story, and this year they announce “ Graziella,” an Italian love story, which will be put out in the same charming style which helped to make “ Memories ”so popular, “ Graziella ” is from Lamartine’s pen, and has been translated for Jansen, McClurg & Co., by James B. Run-nion, of ’60. It will be published before the first of next month.
—The Free Society of Fine Arts in Paris, of which Da-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
183
guerre was a member, has just made a present to the Museum of Aft and Trades, in that city, of the first picture taken by Daguerre at Paris on the 2d of October, 1839, in the presence of a number of members of the Society. The , plate represents the river-bmk gallery of the Tuilleries.
Only thirty-six years have passed since it was made, and now Daguerre is dust and the Tuilleries is ashes, and the very work which was intended to preserve forever the name of the great optician has given place to the new name of photograph.
—A new oratorio, entitled Daniel, was performed in Philadelphia on the evening of the 4th. The work is from the pen of Mr. W. W. Batchelor, of that city, and is highly spoken of for its skilful treatment. The soloists were Mme. Henrietta Behrens, Miss Mary Grigg, and Mr. Bradshaw, who acquitted themselves very acceptably. The oratorio is divided into three parts, as follows: “The 9*'	Dream of Nebuchadnezzar,” “The Fiery Furnace,” and
“ The Den of Lions.” This is not the first time that this biblical subject has furnished the libretto for an oratorio, as one was written some time ago by Mr. George F. Bristow, and performed with success under his direction at Steinway Hall.
—The Academy, of Rome, furnishes some details of the unexpected death of the young composer Ehrart. He was returning with one of his friends, Signor Lambert, from a pleasure trip to Venice and Bologna. They were on their way to Florence in a railway train. Suddenly Ehrart leaned against his companion, who thought him asleep. They entered a tunnel. Feeling a rather strong pressure upon his shoulder, Lambert tried to raise his friend, but the body fell back on him. At last the train emerged from the tunnel, and Lambert, with the other travellers, found that the young man was dead. Lambert succeeded in stopping the train at the first station, which was an hour’s distance fr om the spot where the catastrophe was discovered.
—Preparations are being made to place a statue of Grat-I	tan in front of Trinity College, in Dublin, between the
k.-	college gate and the statue of King William. This locality
‘	will then have quite a group of remarkable statues—Ed-
mund Burke and Oliver Goldsmith, two beautiful works, within the College quadrangle; Thomas Moore, about a perch from the same sp ot, opposite a facade of the Bank of Ireland (the ugliest statue in Christendom); William Smith O’Brien, at Carlisle Bridge; and William the Third and Henry Grattan, in friendly proximity, before the “Irish Parliament House.” On the centre of New Carlisle Bridge, which is about to be constructed the width of Sackville street, it is probable that a statue of O’Connell will be ultimately placed.— Watsons Art Journal.
—The painter Miessonier isbuilding a princely residence in the most fashionable quarter of Paris, according to the Home Journal. The panels of one of the saloons will, it is stated, be decorated by M. Meissonier himself. M. Meis-sonier owns a large country seat at Piosay, about twenty miles from Paris. The grounds are very extensive, and comprise a very fine park, and several dwelling houses belonging to M. Meissonier and his family. The Abbaye was formerly the property of a rich s isterhood, where many ladies of rank sought a refuge from the pomp and vanity of the
■	world outside.— Watsons Art Journal.
'	—A correspondent of an English newspaper, referring
to Mr. Thornbury’s discovery that no important street or square in London is named after Shakspeare, calls attention to the fact that no public statue of Milton exists in London, “nor,” says the writer, “ to the best of my belief, anywhere else, unless there is one in the United States.” He continues: “Although Milton, like all great geniuses, belongs to the whole human race, he is in a peculiar sense the -property of Londoners, as he was born in London, passed the greater part of his life in London, and died and was buried in London. Notwithstanding all this, we have no public statue of him in the city so peculiarly associated with his fame. I conclude that the foundation in Park lane can hardly be called a sufficient memorial of our great epic poet.”
—In Mr. W. W. Story’s dedication to Mrs. Kemble of his play of “ Nero,” he says: “ This play, which was writ-
ten in the summer of 1872, had been laid aside in my desk, when I had the pleasure of meeting you in Rome in the winter of 187-3-74. The story of‘Nero,’ as recorded by ancient writers, and especially in the vivid sketch of Suetonius, and the more elaborated and highly-colored pages of Tacitus, had long haunted my mind as a powerful subject for dramatic treatment, and I could not rest till I had tried my hand at it. But the enthusiasm of writing once over, many were the doubts that assailed me as to my own success in treating it, and as to the interest it might have for the public. A man’s judgment upon his own work is a blind one; and having confidence in your critical ability, as well as in your frank honesty, I asked you to do me the favor to hear me read it, determined in my own mind to abide by your decision as to whether I should publish it or not. You kindly consented to my request; and a small company of friends (fit, though few) met in your apartment in Rome to hear it. It was a winter’s evening—the key was turned in the door against all the world—and the reading began. You will remember how it was suddenly interrupted by a shock of earthquake, which rattled the windows and shook the house in strange accord with the story. At its conclusion you encouraged me to print it.’
The Power of a Penny.
Exactly sixty years ago Mr. Francis Bailey calculated that if one penny had been put out at 5 per cent, compound interest at the Birth of Christ, it would have amounted to more money than could be expressed by three hundred and fifty-seven millions of globes, each equal to the earth in magnitude, all of solid gold of standard quality, worth at the mint price §15 per ounce. Mr. Hillman carried the calculation on to the end of 1846, and found that at the same rate the number would be 2,117,530,864—two thousand one hundred and seventeen millions, five hundred and thirty thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four worlds of solid gold; supposing the diameter of the earth to be 8000 miles, these globes placed in a straight line would reach into space 16,860,346,912,000 miles, quantities too large for human comprehension.
—A writer in the Art Journal recently remarked as follows in regard to the great Catholic painter of Florence, Fra Bartolomeo:—“ Travellers who have time and inclination will do well to make a special study of Fra Bartolomeo in Florence and the neighboring towns of Tuscany, wherein still are found the major part of the works of a painter of whom we know too little, and cannot know too much. During my present tarriance (sic) in Florence, I took a delightful walk to the convent among the mountains at Pian’ di Mugnone, whereunto Fra Bartolomeo retreated to recruit his health. The picturesque and ciam-bering road passes through a gorge beneath the hill of Fiesole, and then follows the torrent which on either side is flanked by the inexhaustible quarries that for centuries have supplied Florence with building materials.' I reached the convent door just as the sun had dipped beneath the mountain, and the golden hues of day were tempered with the purple shadows of evening. The door was opened not by a monk, but by a poor peasant who, with his wife and children, walked shoeless and stockingless through church, convent, and garden, of which, since the suppression, they are the keepers. Poverty and desolation reign supreme; but in a chapel and in a garden oratory a couple of frescoes still defy destruction. They are marked by the master’s accustomed earnestness; but an unusual haste shows them to be the fugitive efforts of leisure hours—the fruits of a pencil which even in days of sickness was never idle. I felt it a privilege to walk in the. stillness of twilight among those cloister walls, planted in the solitude of nature, to recall, in imagination, the time when the good monk Bartolomeo brought painting materials in order that he might make through his art an acceptable service and leave among his brethren some memento of his visit. A very pretty little book might be written by any one who would take the trouble to visit and describe these and other haunts of the old masters in and about Florence.”
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NotTe Dame, November 20, 1875.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Tribune Store, South Bend, and at the Students’ Office, at Five Cents per copy.
A Catholic University.
Both the Boston Pilot and the New York Tablet have since the commencement of the scholastic year advocated the establishment in the United States of a Catholic University similar to those in Europe. The New York Tablet in its article suggested that Georgetown College would, with the generous support in the way of endowments of the Catholic people of the country, supply our present want for such an institution. This suggestion of the Tablet is taken up with a commendable zeal by the College Journal, which advocates in a long editorial that Georgetown be made a great national Catholic University. The Salesianum, however, does not favor the idea of making a National University of any of the now existing colleges. It says: “We have always admired Georgetown College; but we think that her success and prosperity depend upon an adherence to the plan on which it is at present con. ducted, and we have serious doubts whether, if Georgetown College were made a Catholic University in the sense in which the establishmc nt of such an institution is urged, it would be a success. The distinguished name of Georgetown College, its situation near the Capital of the country, the fame of the religious order which conducts it, and the historic associations surrounding it, would indeed seem to indicate that it is destined to become the Catholic Univer sity of this country; and we would not object. But Georgetown College is doing a good work as it is, and we hope it will continue to do so in future; but we think, if a Catholic University is to be established, it should not be done by the transformation of an ancient and venerable institution of learning. Commence from the beginning. Build an edifice adapted to the purposes of an University. Provide the proper means to make it rank with the best in the country. The simple inauguration of the movement in this way, as something new in the history of Catholic education in America, will give an impetus to Catholic educatoin which we think can be obtained in no other way.”
We have already written in favor of one or more National Catholic Universities, and are still convinced that they are what is needed in this country. But we do not believe that much will be accomplished towards the establishment of any, unless there be a perfect understanding and agreement among all interested in Catholic education in the United States; and in order that such a state of affairs may take place, we believe it to be necessary that representatives of the different colleges should meet together from time to time, when they wouldbe all able to discuss and determine affairs of this nature. We finally believe that if a National University for Catholics be established it will be by those who are connected with oiir colleges.
Reminiscences of the Dead.
No. 2.
BEV. BENJAMIN M. PETIT.
Last week we gave a brief sketch- of Father de Seille, the first missionary at Notre Dame of whom we have any knowledge, unless the well-known Father Badin, the ProtoPriest of America, of whom it is not now our intention to speak, although we would gladly give him a separate sketch if f ny one will be kind enough to furnish us with the materials; we will now speak of Father Petit, the second on our list, and the successor of Father de Seille, beside whose remains and those of Father Cointet his are interred in the new Church.
Benjamin Marie Petit was born in Rennes, France, on the Sth of April, 1811. Having finished a brilliant course of studies in the college of that city, he took up law as a profession and was for several years a successful pleader at the bar. During the year 1835, however, he felt himself called to the holy ministry, and the Right Rev. Gabriel Brute, Bishop of Vincennes, who happened at that time to be on a visit to Rennes, encouraged the young lawyer in his new aspirations. It seems that by so doing the saintly Bishop attached to his far Western diocese the services of one who was destined to become a great aquisition and one of its brightest ornaments.
Mr. Petit commenced his theological studies at St. Sul-pice, Paris, but finished them in Vincennes. He was ordained deacon on the 24th of September, 1837, and naturally expected to have considerable time to further prepare for his elevation to the priesthood. Shortly after being admitted to the diaconate, however, a letter came, announcing the death of Father de Seille at Notre Dame, where he had been a missionary among the Indians for seven yeara The next nearest priest at that time was Father Francis, at Logansport, who had been ailing for some time and was unable in his weak state of health to attend to the spiritual wants of so extensive a mission. So the poor Indians wrote the Bishop a most touching petition to send them a priest, and the consequence was that Rev. Mr. Petit was immediately ordained and sent to console them. He was ordained on the 14th of October, celebrated his first Mass next morning, and a few days afterwards started for this place, .where he remained until September of the year following, devoting his time to the Indians and the few white Catholic families in the neighborhood. And we may remark here that never was a man hap. pier on this earth than was Father Petit in his apostolate among the Indians,—he who had formerly been a polished member of the French bar, now a simple missionary, —as we may see by his letters to his mother, which glow throughout with an unction and fervor and warmth of natural feeling that is extremely touching.
About this time an order was given by the United States Government that the Indians of Indiana should be transferred beyond the Mississippi, and in the month of September, 1838, the Pottawatomies were ordered to take up their line of march for the new camping ground, 500 miles distant. A rebellion was imminent; but the counsels of the good priest prevailed; and they were satisfied —even joyful—as long as they had their beloved Father with them. So, notwithstanding his delicate constitution, he determined to accompany them, and obtained permis-
'	I	.
‘	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	185
sion from his Bishop to do so, provided he would return as soon as another priest could he found for them. The poor Indians died in great numbers on this hasty and unprepared for march, in the cold season, and the good father himself had his weak constitution completely shattered by it.
The journey to the Osage River, their new destination, lasted two months, and on their arrival there Father Petit had the consolation of finding Father HoGken, a Jesuit missionary, awaiting the exiles.. Here Father Petit remained in a state of great suffering for six weeks, the effect of fever and over-exertion, but on the 1st of January he thought himself strong enough to return. After going a distance of one hundred and fifty miles on horseback, he found himself unable to continue, and stopped at St. Louis, where he was received with the greatest kindness by the Jesuit Fathers, as we learn from a letter of his to Bishop Brute, the last one he ever wrote.
Three weeks afterwards the good Bishop received a letter from the Rector of the Jesuits informing him of the death of his beloved young missionary. It states that he arrived at St. Louis on the 15th of January, reduced to a most pitiable state by fever, eleven running sores on different parts of his body, and his person covered with the tint of the jaundice. ‘‘|God,” writes the good JesuitFa-ther, "certainly gave him strength which his body did not possess, in order to reach St. Louis, and finish his days in the midst of his confreres, and give us the happiness of being edified by his virtues.” He speaks in the highest terms of the devotion to the Blessed Virgin and to his Crucified Lord exhibited by the missionary in his last moments—and of his patience and resignation under his painful sufferings. He expired on the night of the 10th of Fabruary,'1839, aged twenty-seven years and ten months. -
In 1856 Very Rev. Father Sorin went to St. Louis and with the kind assistance of Father de Smet succeeded in finding where the remains of the lamented Father Petit were buried, and had them carefully disinterred and brought to Notre Dame, where they now rest by the side of those of his saintly predecessor and Rev. Father Cointet, C. S. C., who also labored here for several years on the mission, and whose life was equally as edifying as the two we have sketched.
A short account of the labors of Father Cointet will appear in the next number of the Scholastic.
Personal.
; —W. B. Smith, of ’67, is now in business in Detroit.
—R. L. Aiken, of’69, is in business in Evansville, Ind.
—James Wilson, of ’71, is in business in Trenton, N- J.
—James J. Cresswell of '56, is a dentist at Galena, Ill.
—Charles Wild, of ’71, is in business in San Francisco, Cal.
—E. von Donhoff, of 69, is practicing medicine in Louisville, Ky.
—John Coppinger, of ’68, has a large law practice in Alton, Ill.
—H. P. Kinkead, of ’71, is in the book business, Lexington, Ky.
—W. Carr, of ’72, is still editing the Toledo Review, Toledo, Ohio.
—John M. Gearin, of ’71, is a member of the Oregon Legislature.
—Richard M. Dooley, of’71, is with Wells, Fargo & Co., Ogden, Utah.	.
—Douglas Cook, of ’58, is doing an excellent business in St. Louis, Mo.
—John Boyle, bf ’74, is in business with his father in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Jacob Eisenmann, of’72, is in business with his father in Louisville, Ky.	_
—Wm. Waldo, of ’70, is doing a prosperous business in Independence, Mo.	.
—Rev. P. Glennen, of’52, is stationed at St. Anthony’s, near St. Paul, Minn.
—A. Filson, of ’72, is, we understand, doing well in Grand Rapids, Mich.
—Rev. W. Elliott, of ’58, is preaching a successful mission in St. Paul, Minn.
—Chas. K. Barker, of ’64, is in the wholesale tobacco business, Detroit, Mich.
—George V- Burbridge, of ’73, is in the hardware business in Springfield, Mass.
—Rev. J. Bleckman, of ’67, is pastor of the Catholic Church in Covington, Ind.
—Louis Roth, of’72, is employed by his father at the St. Nicholas Hotel, Cincinnati.
—Rev. John H. McManus, of ’64, is pastor of a Catholic Church in Vicksburg, Miss.
—E. S. Pillars, of ’68, is residing in Tiffin, Ohio. We believe he is in the law business.
—Geo. P. Colvin, of ’60, is employed by the United States Express Company, Chicago.
—J. B. White, of ’65, is in the book and stationery business, 316 N. Main St., St. Louis, M<>.
—D. A. Clarke, of ’70, is still managing editor of the Catholic Columbian, Columbus, Ohio.
—M. T. Corby, of ’65, is President of the Victor Organ Company, 246 State St., Chicago, Illinois.	“
—M. J. Murphy, of ’75, is in the office of J. P. Kingsbury & Co., cotton brokers, 135 Pearl St., New York City.
—Mr. D. H. Louderback, agent for the Western Electric Manufacturing Company, of Chicago, was here on a tour of inspection last week.
—Rev. Fr. Golovin paid flying visits to Chicago and Detroit this last week. * He is now in Toledo, and will return to the College on Monday.
—Prof. Luigi Gregori is stopping in the city a few days, and is making some exquisite colored cravon portraits of the family of a Chicago artist.—Chicago Times.
—Father Fairbanks had a mission given by Fr. Cooney, C.S.C., commencing Sunday, October 24, and ending on the 31 ult. Fathers Keogh, Thill and McGinnity assisted during the mission, which proved very successful, nearly 700 partaking of the Sacraments.—(Milwaukee)] Salesi-anum.
—Mr. F. G. Brown, the popular and gentlemanly manager of the Western Union Telegraph office in South Bend, was married last Wednesday evening to Miss Addie Massey, daughter of the present City Treasurer. Immediately after the ceremony the happy couple left on an extended Eastern tour. They have our best wishes.
Local Items.
—Snow.	.
—Yanika!
—I told you so.
—Give me an item!
—No more baseball.
—Shakspeare! Hem!
—Please pass the butter.
—The lost goose has been found.
—The old sheep has gone to pastures new.
—The St. Cecilians rehearse every evening.
—In-door recreations are the order of the day.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

—It was too cold to go walking last Wednesday.
__Two more velocipedes arrived on Wednesday last.
—“Ye fat Paunch, and ye call we coward I’ll stab thee.” __Say, now, didn’t you say you would set up the pie ?
__The Directory will be published in about four weeks.
__The Minims claim that they have the “ boss dormitory.”
—Romeo and Juliet will be played by’the Juniors, eh! Max.
—The Amphion Quartette Club has elected Rev. J. FrSre Director.
—It is rumored that the Minims are to give an Exhibition soon.
____Alley-ball in the recreation hall now breaks the monotony of the day.
—The Junior study looks much like a-hot-house with its collection of flowers.
—The storm-door at the entrance of the College building is a convenient thing.
—Great interest is manifested by the members in the various literary societies.
—S >me students went off hunting last Wednesday but did not report their luck.
—The portraits of the Pope and Father Sorin attract great attention in the parlor.
—We think the weather-prophet should turn in and prophecy a spell of fine weather.
—The Amusement Club in the Junior;Department will soon put up their tables for the winter.
—Can you imagine a more distressing situation than that of a local when items are scarce ?
____Quite a number of persons took tickets for the benefit of the Female Catholic Protectory of New York.
—It was not the mistake he made in class, that he minded; but it,was the laugh which followed it.
—The Scholastic Almanac will be a nobby affair. Advertisers should apply for space to Mr.'J. A. Lyons.
—Prof.—Give me an example- of a cogitative being. Smith—Ahorse; because he has the power to produce another.
—We visited the hall in South Bend where roller-skating is exhibited. Could this kind of skating not be introduced here?
—The members of the Boat Club convened last Wednesday and raised the remiinler of the boats. Good-bye navigation.
—We learn that there is to be a collection of books purchased for the students studying German, forjtheir private reading.
—The Seniors have sent to Paris for an iron-clad football, as they always put their feet through the common American ones.
—“Look here” said J. to A. a few days since: “ In what month does the lake usually freeze?” “ Oh?” said A., “ in December, if the weather permits it.'1
—Francis B irnard, aged 12, one of the students at the Manual L ibor School, died at his home in South Bend on Sunday, and was interred on Monday.
—Tne German classes were never so well attended, nor was there ever a time when so much improvement was noticeable among those attending them.
—S. became vexed last Wednesday because he could not procure a Number Eight hat. But he became much more so when he could not find any seventeen-and:a-half collars in the store.
—“ I am an artist engaged in adjusting movable alphabets,” is what educated printers term themselves when they are hunting winter quarters after a season at Long Branch-Saratoga or Joliet.
—A young man in the upper study was found busily engaged in looking over a natural history for some account of the Kings of England. Did he think they were all naturals, or was he one ?
—He had just come back from Chicago and looked glum.
“ What you got in the city wasn’t very good, eh ?” asked a friend. “On, what the fellow back of the counter gave us was all right, first-rate; but the hot water was bad! ”
—The St. Cecilians will soon give their entertainment. It will be an enjoyable afftir. “Solon Shingle” and an adaptation from the French will be produced. The members of the Society are now reheirsing, and we shall be greatly disappointed if they do not produce something worthy the ancient glory of their society.
—Mr. Bonney has a finely finished stereoscopic view of the grave of Rev. Father Lemonnier on the day on which the statue was erected, and also a photograph of the same. They can be procured at his art-gallery here on Wednesdays. Hereafter he will charge but $2.00 per dozen for photographs of students, and we think it is inducement enough for anyone.
—“ He hadn’t been in our town more’n a week,” said Silas,” and yet when we went out to the watermelon patch by moonlight and Blazeaway put a charge of pepper and salt into him, why that young man just cavorted around and hollored and used such language as though he’d been one of the native born aristocrats of the place.”
—Most of our college exchanges complain that the students of their colleges do not take the proper interest in their papers, at least that they do not sho w it by writing for them. We don’t complain, as we manage to get enough to fill our paper each week:—yet we think a little more might be done to give variety to our columns.
—Prairie chickens, says the County Surveyor, are very wild just now, and it’s impossible to get a shot at them. He says that they light on trees now; that pheasants are numerous, but shy; that quails are of a retiring disposition, and that rabbits are very eccentric in their manner of procedure. He further says that he saw some deer-tracks —if they were not made by a calf—:near Osceola.
—A meeting of the Philodemics was held on the 16th. Messrs. Harkness, Gillen and Euans answered the questions proposed at the preceding meeting. The debate of the evening was on the question, “ Was the Execution of Charles I Unjustifiable?” Messrs. Ewing and Cooney were on the affirmative, and Messrs. Ball and Otto on the negative. Tne decision was reserved. Mr. Robertson was elected to membership.
—A number of experiments with the batteries, the magic lantern, etc., were given for the benefit of the Minims on Wednesday evening by Rev. Fr. Zahm. That they enjoyed them we can vouch, as can anyone who passed anyway near the hall which they were given. From the pleased manner in which they took in all that was given, we doubt not that the Minims always extend a welcome to Fr. Zahm, and are willing to have the entertainment repeated every week.
—The residence of Mr. Thomas Chalfant, one-half mile south of Notre Dame, took fire about 2:30 p. m. on last Monday, and the entire building was destroyed. The cause arose from a defective flue, which had .been used but once before. Mrs. Chalfant was the first one to discover the smoke, and immediately gave the alarm by vigorously ringing the dinner-bell, which brought to the house Mr. Chalfant, Bro. Charles, Brother Alfred and their assistants. The furniture was all saved, and the building was insured for $4,000, which fully covers all damage. "
—In the last number of the last volume of the Scholastic we patheticilly advised our friend John to “ Go west as far as he could get,” and that he has taken our advice and prospered can be plainly seen from the following extract from a postal card received on Wednesday last^ and also from the number or the draft:
Burlington, Ia., Nov. 16,1875.
I to-day remit you draft No. 96,940 on C-s National Bank
for S3 40, amount in full of Mrs. H------s wash bill, which please place to my credit.	Yours truly, F. E. E. T.
—The fourth and fifth regular meetings of the Columbians were held on the 6th and 13th inst., respectively. At the former meeting Messrs. Murphy, McHugh and Campbell delivered declamations, and Mr. Bree unread a criticism on the previous meeting. Mr. H. O’Brien was unanimously elected a member. At' the latter meeting Mr. McHugh read a criticism on the previous meeting. Mr
TSE KOTRE SAME SCHOLASTIC.
187
Logan read a sketch of the life of the late Father Gillespie, C.S.O. Rev. Fr. Bigelow, and Mr. Thomas Walsh were elected honorary members. Mr. Baca was elected a member.
—The Juniors got their English foot-ball, and there is a lively time in the Campus since its arrival. On the 14th inst., F. Rosa and J. Lynch chose sides, and we had the pleasure of witnessing one of the best games ever played at Notre Dame. The contest was the best three out of five. Lynch’s side won the first game, Rosa’s side the second, and they stood equal at the end of the fourth game. The excitement was intense when they commenced the final struggle. After contesting for an hour and a quarter, Rosa’s side became the victors. During the progress of the contest, such encouraging exclamations as “ Give it one for St. Louis,” “ That’s a Chicago kick,” were indulged in. At the close of the game all repaired to the Junior Refectory, where B. Crespinian was kept busy for about half an hour dealing out lunch.
—The Chronide, of Ann Arbor, says: “ The Owl, of Santa Clara, Cal., has, unexpectedly to us, enrolled itself among the things that were. We always regarded it as one of the best of oiir exchanges, and deeply regret its discontinuance. It unfortunately laid itself open to criticism by bringing its creed in too great prominence, and the papers throughout the country are mow engaged in mutilating the dead in a manner that reminds us forcibly of the scriptural remark upon the gathering together of eagles. We cannot but regret that some of these critics have not more of the virtues of The Owl, and we sincerely wish that it were alive to belabor some of them with its former skill and strength.” We concide fully in the sentiment expressed in the last sentence. If there is anything we despise, it is to see papers badly edited finding fault with those which show superior ability. The Chronide is not one of these fault-finders, but it is ably conducted, and reflects credit upon the University of Michigan.
—The Poliuto Musical Club was formed last Sunday evening, amid the most favorable prospects of success. The election of officers resulted as follows: Director, B. Leopold; President, J. F. Fleury; Vice President and Secretary, James L Ruddiman; Treasurer and Promoter, G. Roulhac. Mr. Fleury was chosen Lecturer on Political Economy and General Critic, and Mr. Ruddiman as Orpheonic Representative and Delegate to the Centennial Exposition. Other noted amateur musicians hold office in this Society, but on account of a desire on their part not to become famous by having their names in print we withhold the same. During the first rehearsal an appce-ciative audience made vain attempts to gain admittance to the hall, and after the fourth trial it was only by the earnest assurance of the President that the Society would soon appear in public that they could be induced to cease their boisterous approval. Much is expected from this organization, and it is in nowise doubtful but that they will always be able to fill the bill.
—The “clerk of the weather,” as our great weatherprophet is known, writes to us that the cold weather which has visited us for the last few days has surprised him as well as all others. He says that the probabilities are (though sometimes the elements will get upon such a rampage that even Old Prob, himself will be at sea) that the last quarter of the pale silver moon will bring us colder weather. “Tue robin,” he sadly says, “is gone, and overcoats and ove<shoes are in order, for their departure is the first sign of winter.” (We thought that the snow was sign enough—but never mind.) “The next sign of the weather will come to us at the beginning of the next month.” However, he predicts that the ruling winds of the winter will be the northwest and the east winds. He does not give this as absolutely true, but simply as a probability. All who are anxious to know to a certainty should call upon him about the first of December, when he will prophesy without any ifs or buts according to the rules laid down by the late celebrated Mr. Ryan, the great weather prophet of Michigan, in whom he places the most unbounded confidence.
—" Sally, what time do you folks dine ? ” “ Soon as you go away—that’s missus’ orders.”
—The eighteenth annual celebration of the festival of St. Cecilia will be given on next Tuesday evening by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. The following is the
PROGRAMME.
Grand Opening March......*... *..............Band
Overture................................  Orchestra
Address Salutatory....................A. K. Schmidt
Song and Chorus.......................Quartette Club
Prologue..............................C. J. Whipple
Song—“ Style”.........................A. K. Schmidt
THE TWO ORPHANS, OR PAINTER AND MUSI, GIAN.
Morin..................................P. M. Tamble
Alfred................................A. K. Schmidt
Felix..................................J. A. Lynch
Lerond.................................E. F. Arnold
Rhyme..................................H. D. Faxon
Durandeau............................E. F. Riopelle
Lord Townbridge....................... .A. C. Ryan
Jacob..................................M. Katzauer
Paul ...................................W. J. Davis
Gerald................................W. W. Dodge
Harold................................E. D. Gleason
Clerks, Guests, etc. Music..........................................Band
THE PEOPLE’S LAWYER.
Solon Shingle.........................A. K. Schmidt
Robert Howard..........................H. D.	Faxon
Charles Otis..........................C. J. Whipple
John Ellsley..............................J. Nelson
Hugh Winslow...........................W. G.	Morris
Mr. Otis..................................J. French
Tom Otis..............................C. V.	Larkin
Judge of the^Court....................E. P.	Arnold
Tripper................................A. C. Ryan
Timid..................................0. C. Ludwig
Clerk of the Court........................A. Burger
Sheriff...............................M. Kauffman
Foreman of the Jury....................J. T. Foley
Thompson..................................F. Rosa
Gibbs..................................M. A. Otero
Quirk.....................................F. Klaner
John..................................W. J. Roelle
Simpson...............................N. S. Dryfoos
Jurymen and Villagers.
Epilogue..............................C. V. Larkin
March for Retiring.............................Band
RoH of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baea, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, M. Blackburn, W. Canavan, P. Cooney, F. Claffey,D. Connors, J. Connolly, B. Calkins, J. Cooney, T.Carroll, H.Dehner, J. Dwyer, W. Dechant, J. aud E. Dempsey, J. Ew iug, L. Evers, B. Emms, P. Flanagan, W. Fogarty, E. Craves, J. Golsen, A. Hertzog, A. Hoag, J. Harkin, J. Handley, 1'. Hansard, S. Kennedy, J. Kurtz, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Kiely, E. Monohan, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, D. Murphy, H. Maguire, B. Maas, P. McCauley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, T. McGrah, B. McGrath, W. McGorrisk, J. MeEniry, P. McCullough, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, J. O’Bourke, P. Otero, J. Perea, T. Quinn, J. Budge, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Schweig-hardt, F. Smiley, G. Sullivan, F. Vandervaunet, B. White, C. Weber, T. Wendell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. J.Byrnes, A. Bergck, A. Burger, C. J. Clarke, J. J. Clarke, J. J. Davis, N. S. Dryfoos, J. Cavanaugh, H. Faxon, J. F. Foley, J. French, F. J. Flanagan, P. Frane, P. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, S. B. Goldsberry, E. Hall, G. Huck, M. Kautzaner, J. E. Knight, M. Kauffman, O. Ludwig, H. Millen, A. McIntosh, M. Mcauliffe, G. Nester, M. A. Otero, C. Orsinger, J. A. O’Meara, 0. Peltier, F. Bosa, H. B. Scott, W. A. Sheehan, G. F. Sugg, W. Taulby, P. Tamble, N. H. Vanamee, H. Weber, C. Whipple, M. Hally, J. English, H. F. Henkel.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Faxon, L. J. Frazee, J. A. Duffield, A. Bower, G. Rhodius, P. Nelson, C. Campau, A. Bushey, M. Gustine, J. Stanton, J. Seeger, W. Smith, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, C. Bushey, B. Morris, A. Campau, H. McDonald, W. Cash, E. Oatman, S. Bushey,
188
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, NOV. IS, 1S“5.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
P. J. Moran, P. McCauley, A. Hoag, D. Murphy, C. Saylor, H. O’Brien, E. Atfield, C. Weber, F. Keller, P. Flanagan, F. Bearss, J. Hagerty, C. Whipple, J. O’Rourke, J. Foley, M Kauffman, J. Retz, L Dryfoos, J. Neldhart, J. Golsen, 5. McEniry, W. Fogarty, P. McCollough, M. Blackburn, J. Kreuth r.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
M. Gustine, J. Stanton, J. Seeger, W. Smith, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, 0. Bushey, B. Morris, A. Campau, H. McDonald, W. Cash, E. Oatman, S. Bushey, J. Haney, P. Haney.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly,—Director of Studies.]
MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—C. Robertson, J. Connolly, A. O’Brian, James O’Rourke, D. Byrnes, P. Tumble.
French—G. Gross, A. Hertzog, O. Ludwig, W. Morris.
Note.—Mast. W. Breen should have been honorably mentioned last week in the Class of Music.
4
—A course of lectures will soon commence.
—Competitions in algebra have succeeded those in history and rhetoric.
—Jane thinks a certain young lady pianist who indulges herself in the extravagant mode of breaking wires to cool her temper should be obliged to practice on a “dummy.” Her pa will find [her rather expensive!
—Jane attended the reading of the Graduates’ paper last Sunday evening. Among other interesting questions was one about “Bars used in Music, and of what use would a Dunbar be made?’’ After turning the question over in her mind all night, she ran to the music-hall early in the morning to enquire. The mistress smiled quietly and said : “She would use a done-bar at the end ot every piece of . music.”
—Dancing and calisthenics have been resumed. The pupils enjoy these exercises as out-of-door-sports will soon cease to be attractive till snowballing begins—but the morning walk to the gate will continue to form part of the daily programme. The exercises in the Literary Societies are very animated. Criticisms on the works read and criticisms on the style of the reading tend to keep everyone interested.
—The three papers formerly issued have been merged in one, the “Rosa Mystica,” to be edited by the Senior classes. Each class will contribute to and take turns in editing said paper. Last evening the young ladies of the Graduating Class read the first number of their edition. It was a very creditable paper, and well read. The letter from Denver City, written by their former classmate, Miss J.W., was rich and racy. Sn.ch letters will be always welcome contributions. The bon mots were sparkling, and the ready response of laughter proved that the witty things
• were appreciated.
—Friday, the 12th, being the anniversary of the death of Rev. Father Gillespie, C. S. C., theChapel of Loreto was draped in black and a Requiem Mass was celebrated there by Rev. Father Vagnier, C. S. C. In the large Chapel a High Mass for the dead was chanted by Rev. Father Zahm, C. S. C. The community and Catholic pupils attended. The grave of the loved Father Gillespie, whose position as chaplain at St. Mary’s, had made his name loved and revered among its inmates, was beautifully decorated. Such evidences of affectionate remembrance were no doubt
very consoling to his devoted mother and relatives who are now at St. Mary’s.
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote. J. Locke, E. Dennebey, K. Joyce, E. York, I. Reynolds. K. McNamara, A. Walsh, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, M. Brady, B. Wade, M. Walsh, L. Kelley, C. Woodward, L. Henrotiu, A; Duncan, S. Hole, C. Morris, M. Cravens, J. Pierce, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Neil, A. Henneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigb, K. Hutchinson, A. Prettyman, M. Murray, R. Neteler, H. Russell, M. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, B. Siler, I. Maas, U. Goodell, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, M. Hutchinson, K. Casey, G. Youell, L. Gustine, E. Pierce, T. O’Brien, S. Swalley, M. Parker, L. Moran, N. King, G. Wells, M Hooper, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe, A. Spangler, M. Usselmann, D. Locke, M. Marky, A. Sievers, M. Tbelan, L. Schwass, A. Miller, L .Leppig, F. Gurney, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, J. Darcy, M. Railton’, C. Whitmore, R.Filbeck, L. Weber.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, J. Locke. E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A.St. Clair, E. York, I.Reynolds, K. McNamara.
1st Sr. Class—Misses L. Ritchie. A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady. B. Wade.
2d Sr. Class—Misses M. Walsh, L. Kelley, C. Woodward, L. Henrotin, E- Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, C. Morris, M. Cravens, J. Pierce, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Culliton, M. Spier, E. O’Neil, R. Casey, A. Henneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigb, K. Hutchinson, A. Prettyman.
3d Sr. Class—Misses C- Morgan, H. Russell, M. Gaynor S. Moran, I. Maas, U. Goodell, I. Edes, N. Tuttle, M. Hutchinson.
1st Prep. Class—Misses G. Youell, L. Gustine, T. O’Brien, S. Swalley, M. Parker, N. King, G. Wells, M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, A Spangler.
' 2d Prep. Class—Misses A. Seivers, M. Thelan, A. Miller, F. Gurney, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, J.'Darcy.
3d Prep. Class—Misses M. Rail ton, C. Whitmore, R. Filbeck.
The Junior Department having been reorganized last week, there will be no report from their Prefect till next week.
1st French Class—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
2d Class—A. Clarke, M. Riley, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, H. Russel, P. Gaynor, C. Woodward, K. Hutchinson.
3rd Class—Misses I. Reynolds, J. Bennett, T. Walsh, M. Walsh, M. Hutchinson, J. Holladay, A. McGrath, L. Ritchie, A. Dennehey, J. Pierce, M. Brady, L. Brownbridge, A. Seivers, A. Kirchner, I. Fisk, M. Redfield.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote. 2d Div.—Misses E. O’Connor H- Julius, G. Kreigb.
2d Class—Misses J. Nunning, K. Hutchinson. 2d Div.—• A. Dennehey, M. Culliton, M. Julius.
3d Class—B. Wilson, A. Harris, L. Kirchner, M. Cravens, A. Sievers, L. Henrotin, IJMaas, G. Wells, E. Dennehey, A. Duncan, A. St. Clair, A. Byrnes. 2d Div.—M. Hutchinson, C. Morgan, M. Usselmann, A. Koch, M. Spier, A. Henneberry.
4th Class—H. Russel, K. Joyce, F. Dilger, A. T. Clarke M. Roberts, J. Locke, M. Redfield, F. Gurney, J. Bennett,’ D. Locke. 2d Div.—A. O’Connor, A. Prettyman, E. Thompson L. Johnson, M. Thompson, A: Gordon, M. Reily, N. Tuttle, ’
5th Class—M. Thelan.* * J. Holladay, A. Kirchner, A. Cullen, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, L-Kinsella. 2d Div.—B. Siler. M. Gaynor, M. Siler. C. Woodward, A. Walsh, S. Hole, L. Walsh L. Gustine, M. Walsh, A. McGrath, I. Reynolds, L. Leppig, N; Me-' Grath, P. Gaynor, U. Goodell, L. Merritt, A. Spangler.
Gth Class—M. O’Connor, T. O’Brien, M. Mulligan, M. McGrath, M. Hooper, H. O’Meara, E. Simpson, L. Schwass L. Weber, H. Dryfoos, J. Morris, M. Brady, A. Miller, A. Morgan, S. Edes. 2d Div.—E. Pierce, N. King, L. Brownbridge J. Mitchell, S. Swalley, R. Casey, I. Fisk, M. Parker, A. Ewihg, K. Morris, L. Faulkner, E. Edes, K. Casey, N. Johnson, M. Derby.
7th Class-J. Pierce, M. Ewing, C. Morrill, M. Marky L Kelley, E. Cannon, E. York, R.Filbeck, J. Darcy, S. Cash’ C. Fawcett, L. Tighe, L. Fawcett.
8th Class— R. Goldsberry, M. Hughes, C. Hu^he®
9th Class—M. Davis, A. Peak.	3
10th Class—L. Lambin, E. Mulligan, J. Smith, J. Duffield.
Harp—E. O’Connor, E. Dennehey.
Guitar—R. Devoto, B. Wade.
Organ—C. Whitmore.
Harmony—Miss Foote, Miss Arrington, Miss Devoto Theoretical^Classes—J. Nunning, A. T. Clarke, H. Hutch
w1*
I	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	189
r
|	inson, E. O’Connor, E Dennehy, G. Wells, M. Julius, G. Kreigh,
>	M. Cravens, H. Julius, L. Kirchner,'A. Dennehey, A. Harris, A.
x St. Clair, B. Wilson, L. O’Neil, I. Maas, A. Sievers, L. Weber, | M. Roberts, A. Dunean, C. Morgan, F. Dilger, M. Redfield, E. | and M. Thompson, L. Walsh, A. Walsh, M. Walsh, T. O’Brien, I M, Ewing, A. O’Connor, L. Johnson, S. Edes, B. Siler, C. Wood-■	ward, M. Siler, I. Fisk, M. Schultheis, N. McGrath, A. McGrath,
’	M. Thelan, A. Soangler, L. Moran. D. Locke, L. Kinsella, A.
Morgan, T. O’Brien, C. Morrill, J. Pierce, R. Casey, .M. Marky, M. Parker. C. Whitmore. L. Fawcett, A. Ewing, A. Kirchner, C. Fawcett, M. Telford, M. Derby, C. Hughes, J. Mitchell, J. Smith, N. Tuttle, S. Swalley.
’ Those who imagine the Theoretical Classes beneath their attention cannot be surprised to find their names missing. As we said last year, we neither give, nor shall we receive, fake notes.
,	Scales and Exercises—Misses Foote, E. O’Connor, H.
Julius, G. Kreigh, H. Hutchinson, J. Nunning, A. Dennehey. M.
■ Julius, B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. Culliton, M. Cravens, L. Henrotin, G. Wells. E. Dennehey, A. St. Clair, I. Maas, A. Sievers, L. Kirchner, M. Roberts, A. Duncan, A. T. Clarke, A. Byrnes, A. Henneberry, M Spier, M. Usselman, M. Redfield, L. O’Neil, A. Koch, M. Hutchinson, F. Dilger, A. O’Connor, L. Johnson, L. Gustine. A. Morgan, A. McGrath, A. Spangler, N. McGrath, K. Joyce, F. Gurney, M. Thelan, U. Goodell, R. Casey, M. Parker, L. Brownbridge, S. Edes, A. Miller, S. Hole. S. Swalley, L. Schwass, H. Dryfoos, M. Brady, T. O’Brien, J. Pierce, J."Morris, M. Hooper, C- Morrill, J. Mitchell, L. Leppig, L. Faulkner, M. McGrath, E. Cannon, B. Siler, A. Kirchner, M. Siler, M. Gaynor, M. O’Connor.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
On and after Sunday, May 23,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	-
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30: Cleveland3 p m; Buffalo 0 15.
10 39 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m; Cleveland 10 15.
IS 57 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 aO; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 a m.
9 IO pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 C5; Buffalo, 1 10 p u-_
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30; Cleveland 10 55 a m.. Buffalo 7 pm.	•
4 pm, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 a_m. Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m.
41 53 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte5 45; Chicago 8 20 a m.
3 i> m. Evening Express. Arrives at Lapfrte3 55; Chicago 6 30.
<1- 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45: Chicago. 8 20.	’
S 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago' 11 30 a. m.
8 35 a m, Local Freight. J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and verv conveniently located gregard to Church and Markets, a very desirable properte consisti11 of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame houys well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal house, young trees.grapes, sh'tibbery e'C., will be sold at reasonable figures toagood buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
Michigan Central Bailway
McDonald,
THE FHOTOG-RAFEEER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
6:1 WASHINGTON ST.,
SOUTH ZBZENTZD, Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of MENS’ & BOYS’ FINE BOOTS & SHOES
OF THE
Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Brackett & Boyden’s
Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
Largest StocK in the City.
Time Table-A_xigust 29, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 ‘- 9 02 “ 2 12 p.m 5 45 “	9 CO a.m 11 01 “ 12 15 p.m 4 05 *• b 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 30 “ 7 00 a.m 10 15	5 15 p m 7 43 “ 8 55 “ 12 47 a m 3 50 “	9 00 p.m 11 15 “ 12 45 “ 4 55 ‘‘ 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 37 “ 3 40 p,m 5 15 “ 7 35	9 50 a m 12 30 p.m 4 19 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “	4 co p m 715 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 '•	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 '•	9 50 “ 12 45 a.m 4 30 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “
Niles and. Sontli Bend Di-vision.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9 06 a.m.
“ Notre Dame—8 22	7 23 “	9 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 U0 “	9 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00	a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8 32	“
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “	8	10
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
§5 00 p.m.
5 32 “
5 40
♦Sunday excepted. {Daily.	{Saturday and Sunday excepted.-
§Sunday only.
H. B. Ledyard,	Wm. B. Strong,
Ass’t Gen’l Sup’t, Detroit.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEAXEE IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
Give a Call and. See the Nobby Styles
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
LADIES,
We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes;
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
190
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Co.,
_A_td-ttl TTTZEj
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
Tliey Have tire Best Cutter inthe City, and make suite in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Then stock of Clotiling. Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Fni’nisliing Goods, is the largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisiaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE.
94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
ESTABLISHED 1852.
M M Balw a Mm.,
Dealers in
BOOTS JVTsTZD SHOES, The Largest Retailing House in the State Cornu of WashihEtoii anil licliigaii Sts., SOUTH BEND.
CANDY! CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
p. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
TOO Van Buren St., CHICAGO, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy..........................15c
Fine Mixed Candy......................25c
Choice Mixed Candy.;.....J............35c
Caramels..............................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy..............25c
Proportionately Low Prices to Wliole-sale Casli Buyers.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOGHAFHEB;
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH SETSTTD/ TdSTTDT^LSrjA-
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together -with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
c. H- SHEERER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’'Furnishing Goods, Etc.,
IIO Michigan Street,
~ ’ SOUTH EEUD, ITTZD
DITSON & CO’S MUSIC BOOKS
For Catholic Churches.
Books containing Morning and Evening Service.
THE OFFERTORIUM.................Fiske.	2.50
The newest work. Plenty of easy as well as more difficult music.
THE CANTATA. No. 1 Morning Service. .Werner. 2.25
THE CANTATA. No. 2. Evening Service.. “	2.25
THE MEMORARE....................... 2.75
THE CATHOLIC CHOIR BOOK.........Garbert. 2.50
LYRA CATHOLtCA.........Wilcox & Southard. 2.50
STABAT MATER..................................iRossini.	45
MASSES.
By Beethoven, in C.... 65 Haydn, 1st, 2d & 4th ea. 80 Haydn, 6th..........1.00
Haydn, 7th & 8th, each. 65 Haydn, 3d...........1.00
Rossini Messe Sol’nelle 1.60 Bordese, in F.........65
De Mont', B flat......65 Guignard..............1.00
Southard in F.........50
“ D................50
Weber, in E flat......65 “ G...................50
Mozart, 2d, 7th & 9th, ea 65
“	1st Mass.......65
“	12th........... 80
*•	15th............65
Gounod, Messe Sol’nelle 80
Concone, mF...........65
Farmer, B flat........80
Lambillotte, Pascale.. .2.50
Niedermeyer.........1-25
Stearns, in A.......1.50
Thayer, No. 1.......2.00
Zimmer..............2.00
School Music Books.
Constitute a perfect series, providing in the best manner for every class in every school, academy and seminary.
AMERICAN SCHOOL MUSIC READERS.
In 3 books, of which Book 1, (35 cents), is admirably arranged for primary schools. Book II (50 c< nts), and Book III (50 cents) for Grammar and younger High School or Academy classes. Compiled by L. O. Emerson and W. S.
Tilden.	’
CHEERFUL VOICES
(50 cents), by L. O. Emerson, is a capital collection o school songs for common schools.’
THE HIGH SCHOOL CHOIR,
(§1), by L. O. Emerson and W. S. Tilden, is fully equal to their last book, “ The Hour of Singing,” which for some years has been the standard book. The present work, like the other, is for High Schools, Academies and Seminaries
THE NATIONAL HYMN & TUNE B00E
50 cents), furnishes the best collection of sacred music ex tant for opening and closing schools.
Any of the above books mailed, postpaid, for the retail price.
E^The prices above given are for one style of binding, A slight increase for more expensive styles.
OLIVER DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO., Boston.	711 Broaiway, NEW YORK
LYON & HEALY, Cliicago.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
191
The Scholastic Almanac
3?OIt 1S76
' Will Ba Eeaiy For Delivery on December 15, 1875.
Single Copies, 95 Cts.
For further information address J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame.
f THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
r South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Hills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with n>w, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all-the comforts 01 home during tneir stay.
.	JERRY KNIGHT, {.proprietors
CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
IDETTTIST,
109	STREET,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
PHILADELPHIA BAZAR,
.TZ. ZPOTiTrJACSZ,
97 Michigan St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
A new and complete assortment of Hosiery, Gloves, Fancy Goods, White Goods. Embroideries, Laces, Ribbons, Artificials, Parasals, Sun Umbrellas, etc. Agents for Domestic Patterns. Large stock of Zephyr Germantown Works’ Yarns.
Gouts’ Furnishing Goods A Specialty.
SHIOKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DANE AND ST. MARI’S ’BUS LINE I
Whilst f return my thankt to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent reqnest of many of my patrons, purcuaeed SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
.Attached to the National Hotel. andAd-jaeent to 1 he Lake Shore and Michigan Sontliex’n Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Depot, J shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains
For my attention to the paTohsof Notre Dame and St. Mery’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
.	P. SH1CKEY.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayns & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. K. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
FEBRUARY, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side ) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars to	No. 2.	No. 6.	No. 4.
° NEWr YORK.	Day Ex.	Pac. Exp.	Night Fv-
	Ex Snnd’y	Daily.	Ex Sa & Sa
Lv. CHICAGO				
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	
“ Lima		4 35 “		§ 00 u
“ Forest		5 34 “	3 01 “	9 17 “
“ Crestline		7 00 “	4 40 u	11 10 “
“ Mansfield			5 20 “	11 50 “
“ Orrville		9 42 “	7 12 “	
“ Massillon		10 15 “	7 45 “	2 19 u
“ Canton 		10 33 “	8 00 “	2 38 “
“ Alliance		11 15 “	8 40 “	3 90 “
“ Rochester			11 12 “	
“ Pittsburgh		2 20 “		
Lv. Pittsburgh		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
Ar. Cresson 7.				
“ Altoona		7 30 “	5 55 “	12 10 a.m.
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 u
“ Baltimore!		6 25 ‘ “		7 45 "
“ Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 u
“ Philadelphia		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 u
“ New York		7 35 “	6 50 "	11 15 “
“ New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	
“ Hartford			12 23 “	
“ Springfield		1 35 “		7 03 “
“ Providence		4 25 “	3 48	7 40 “
“ Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LEXTE
That rtrs tne celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. ’1 hrough tickets for sale at ail principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. HYEES, G. P. & I. A.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are yon. going West. North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thon.-and miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SA.HST ZFLRYYYTOTSOO,
Sacramento. Ugden, Salt Lake Cijy, t heyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Blufls. Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winoi a, St. Paul,Duluth, Marquette. <.reen Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other
This popular r> u e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b-i lasted and perfect track of ste> I rails. Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couriers, the celebrated Pullman Palace sleeping<’ars, the perfect telegraph system of moving tiains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arran. ement for rutining through cars from Chicago to all points W<st, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modem railway. r .veling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.
Marvin Rugbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Supiriutendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent.
192	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Errand Antral
SOUTH BEND, IND. NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS’IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS
For Meals, Oysters,
ICE OTLH3A.LT, TIES, ETC.
MEAJLS A.T	HOURS.
FBANK MAYU,
KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENGRAVING-~A SPECIALTY Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner, 69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOUTH ZBEEUTZD.
LUCIUS G-. TONG, JLTTOTLISriiEH-AT-LAW, and;notary public,
KO. 9 041 FellOWS’ BIOCK SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
SAMUEL ENGEL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Michigan. Street, SOUTH ZBZEHSrZD, IJSTZDIA-TsTA-Will dispose of his
G-OOES A.T A-TTOTIOTU Until January 1, 1876.
SUITS MADE TO ORDER AT THE LOWEST PRICES.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
■	lt-vijstg-stott,
60 Washington St.,
Thue Doors W of Blom’s Cig ar Store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
tS~Keeps on 'hand a large Jstock^of Hats,’.Caps, Clothing and .Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, (Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOR ALL STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special Attention Given to Depositions.
A. 0. SHIRE,
WHQL ESA LE
Dealer in Havana Cigars, 1O1 Main Street,
Two Boors South of EL Gillen’s,	south bend, Indiana
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING, SHAMPOOING, ETC.
ZETZEJSTZEL’Y’ SPETH, Corner NVasliiii{gton and Nricliigan Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store)
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and'Dealers in Fine
BOOKS AND STATIONERY, *
117 AND 119 STATE STHEET,
CHICAGO, ILLITSTOTS.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,	!
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, Hats, Caps, etc., 109 NLicliigan St.,
SOTTTTT ZBZEZNLD, ITsTZDUX.1T JA.
Ue Uoud
A. McKay, Prop.,	j
ZTILK3S, JMTOETTG-JYTT-	I
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House	'J
The Students’Office,' HENHY SHLTTIsZE, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc	|
No. 5<1 VV a sir in "’ton St.,	I
SOUTTZEZ EEJSTID, ITTD.	|
4
