Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vic turns; vivo quasi eras mnrltnrna.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 12, 1878.	Number 6.
Our Mother. .
A SONNBT.
On a far distant shore, by golden sands,
Safe from the raging storm, the endless strife, The billowy surge of this wild ocean-life, Mary, our Mother and our guardian, stands.
The waves of passion roll unto her feet, But break in foam, for she is all unstained,— With praise of happy millions who have gained
That blissful haven, all the air is sweet!
But o’er the waters comes a troubled moan, A cry from children by the tempest tossed, Midst sin’s rude whirlwind, and in darkness, lost,— And she has heard them—she, their hope alone, Shall guide them till they stand among the blest, Safe in the harbor of eternal rest.
. E. J. M.
St. Joseph’s College, N. B.
Confucius.
In the lives of the prominent men who have preceded us we find the principles of philosophy illustrated in action, 1 -;	its spirit realized in actual life. The moral economy of
=	the universe, and all the virtuous energies of human life,
are continually renewed in the lives of its heroes. Per-X sons generally are found to act in personal matters as the Commonalty do in public. Therefore it is of the greatest 7 importance how society is conducted, for as the multitude act, so generally does its separate members. Coleridge has beatifully and with great significance remarked “ that it is 5 only from celestial observation that we can form terrestrial \ \ charts scientifically.” We have only to view the moral standing of society and we have a sure criterion of our advancement. In this constellation there is for each and every one some star more brilliant than all others, and this should be his guiding star. Such was Confucius for legisla-. tors a man who, in the language of a distinguished modern writer, “six centuries before Christ, considered the ex-. ternal economy of an empire a far more worthier object of f	study than all hidden and abstracted lore, who prized the
.J'	maxims of life and conduct more than all the speculations
• of their divinity, and who bad anticipated some of the < ; most modern propositions respecting the governor and the governed. His acts had not been limited to one, two, or three centuries, but have left an indelible impression on a nation down to this day. Now, after two thousand • years, his name is sacred to the mandarins and Emperors of
China.”
J	Kong-foo-ste, or as modern writers have it, Confucius,
was born in the year 551 B. C., at Shang-Ping, in the Kingdom of Loo. We may observe from the date that he must have been contemporary with Pythagoras. His father was a mandarin, and thus had ample opportunity of educating his son. Confucius from very early years showed a natural genius for philosophy, and had a peculiar trait of his own in endeavoring to find some practical example for each theory he had studied. Many curious traits are told of his early life, which go to show his practical wisdom even in his younger days. One day while conversing with a very learned man concerning some books of the ancieuts, his friend remarked that they were of no use for studv. Upon this,Confucius said: “The books which you despise are full of profound knowledge, and their obscurity is a sure guarantee of their utility.”
Confucius married very young, a custom quite common among the Chinese. He had two sons, one of whom died while quite young. Confucius seems in his later days to have become quite misogynistic, but it is supposed he wished to give more time to his books than to family matters. The death of his mother when he was in his 23d year caused him to have quite a melancholy aspect for a long time. It was a general thing on the death of a parent for the child to resign the public office he held at the time, and he having a great veneration for the customs of antiquity complied with this one. He celebrated the obsequies of his mother with the greatest magnificence and decorum, and thus gave an example to his fellow-men that they should have the greatest respect for the dead, and even at this day it is surprising with what care the Chinese bury their dead. It is said that if one of them dies in a settlement outside their own Empire they will bring the corpse to their native town, no matter how far away it may be. Confucius, however, was not completely satisfied with the respect paid to the dead on the interment of the corpse, for he moreover inculcated the necessity of the repetition of those acts of homage and respect, either at the grave or in some place especially consecrated for that purpose. Hence arose the “Halls of Ancestors,” and aniversary feasts of the dead, which distinguish China now as a nation even after the lapse of twenty-five hundred years. But, unfortunately, the Confucian testimonials have degenerated into downright idolatry. After this, Confucius gave himself to the study of philosophy and renounced all honors to which his birth entitled him. His whole thoughts were constantly concentrated on the eternal laws of morality, which each and every man should act up to indiscriminately, and therefore he resolved to devote his life to the instruction of his countrymen, and thought of no better commencement than by giving the first example himself. He wished to bring the ancient rights and customs back to the former standing, in
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
observance of which he believed all political happiness to be located.. He did not wish to make bis precepts ephemeral, but he formed the design of forming a school, and from this he was to send disciples to promulgate and disseminate his doctrines to all countries and ages. He also formed the design of composing a series of books in which his doctrines might be preserved pure and inviolate for all coming time.
The most distinguished of his contemporaries in this school of philosophy was Laou-tze, born in the year 604 B. G., who enjoyed a great reputation as a practical philosopher. He was the promulgator of a certain doctrine called Taou, a word which, according to some, signifies Reason, and according to others Knowledge. This word bears quite a resemblance to the Logos of the Platonic schools. Confucius was now determined to supersede the dreams of the Mystics and Solitaries by a practical system of morals. He made an extensive tour in all the sections of the empire to perfect himself in several branches and to observe the customs of the different peoples, that he might have a better idea of what kind of a basis he was to form his system of morals on. Having returned from his tour, he gathered his little band of disciples and began his teachings. He divided them into four classes: to the first he taught morals; to the second, rhetoric; to the third, politics, to the fourth, the perfection of style in writing composition. A little reflection on the division of his disciples will show us what great wisdom he possessed. He thought that the first and most necessary thing was to have a solid foundation in morals, for what can a person write which will be of any benefit to society if he has not a good foundation in morals. As the tiller first goes over his ground and pulls the noxious weeds which may choke his sowings, so likewise did Confucius first take those noxious principles from the heart and replace them by moral maxims. Hehad been appointed to the position of an inferior magistrate, which, on account of a change of officers who were all of low morals, he resigned in a short while.
The reputation of Confucius was now spread to every end of the wide-spread Empire, and the king of Loo no longer offered him an inferior magistracy but proffered him one of the first positions in his realm, that of governor of the people in the capital. It is said that in the space of a few months the morals of the people seemed to have undergone a complete reformation. It is related that one of the chief magistrates being accused of some heinous crime, the king, having a great sympathy for him, was in the act of absolving him from punishment when Confucius stood up and emphatically declared that the culprit must suffer his punishment as he deliberately committed the offence. All the other magistrates were surprised to see a subject stand up and oppose his king with such courageous opposition However, it is said the king had to yield to the persuasive arguments of Confucius, and the culprit, receiving his just' punishment, was afterwards exposed to the public view as a warning to all others. It is said that the crime for which this man was punished is seldom commited in that country even at the present day. Confucius made a-trial among many different nations in order to make a reformation in their morals, but he had the mishap to live in times of anarchy and demoralization, when people could not be diverted from their vicious ways by mild entreaties and moral maxims; nevertheless he had made a vast number of proselytes, and some of those from the most noted families of the empire. When he was about seventy years of age
he consoled himself with the hope which he had in one of his disciples whom he relied on for the propagation of his maxims after his death. But his hopes were blighted; his beloved disciple was taken sick and died very suddenly. -This was an inconsolable loss to him, and in his hours of melancholy he continually exclaimed: “ Heaven has destroyed me! Heaven has destroyed me! ” In his 73d year, a few days before his death, he repeatedly exclaimed as he sighed :
“The mountain is crumbling, The strong beam is yielding, The sage is withering like a plant.”
When life had departed from the body, three of his chosen disciples closed the eyes and put three grains of rice on his tongue, a common superstition among the . Chinese, and then raised it on a catafalque in all the pomp worthy of such a man. He was interred in a small plot of ground secured for the purpose. Over the tomb three mounds were made and a tree planted in each of them, which it it is said exist at the present day. The latter part of his life was chiefly occupied in transcribing many books of great antiquit}', and thus to him are we indebted for many valuable works.
It is a well known fact that the Grecian philosophers had two methods of teaching: one public, and the other private; one for the initiated, and one for the uninitiated. Confucius, however, seems not to have followed this manner, for he plainly said he had no esoterical manner of teaching his doctrine. It would be too great a task to relate the most striking of his maxims in order to give the reader some idea of them, for one is perplexed which to choose, they are all so striking and applicable to everyday actions of life. I will, however, take one of his maxims on honesty. “ Honors and riches,” says the philosopher, “ are objects of human desire; if they cannot be obtained by honest and right means they-must be renounced. Poverty and an humble or vile condition are the objects of human hatred and contempt; if you cannot escape therefrom by honest and right means, you must remain in them.” From this short and simple maxim we can form a pretty fair idea of the moral tendency of the teachings of Confucius. But besides being a great moralist he was likewise a great politician. As a politician his beau ideal was that of an Uto-topian government, if he could only attain to that perfection. If his government did not stand the rigid test of what may be called a true government, viz.: to be tested by the effects it produces, still in this case the fault is not to be imputed to Confucius. His life only permitted him to lay the foundation, it was for the following generations to complete the edifice. He indeed performed his part nobly, but his successors failed. We feel not in the-least abashed to corroborate Pope in the high position he has given to the Chinese philosopher, in the well known lines where he assigns to him that high niche in the pinnacle of fame:
“Superior and alone Confucius stood,
Who taught that noble science—to be good.”
L. E.
—Musical Catechism.—What is a slur?—A remark made by one singer about another. What is a rest?—The . going out of the choir for refreshments. What is a brace ? Two singers steadying each other when they come back. What is symphathic‘'music?—Flirting with the soprano singer. What is a shake ?—Torture inflicted upon the hello ws-boy who does npt pumpTagt enough.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
, The Enchanted Hostelry; or, The Seven J	Travellers.
ACT II.
Scene III.
In the Woods near the Hostelry.
Aub.—Now, my Aloysius, * we have seen enough.
By magic art our friends are made the sport Of monsters in the human shape—of ghouls Whose horrid feasts they’re fattening to be.
Aloys.—Oh! horrible! Were these but earthly foes My blood would boil to smite them. As it is, It shrinks back to my heart for very horror.
* -	Aub.—Be but obedient, and nerve thyself;
Nothing can touch thee, so thou do but keep Thy vowed obedience.
Aloys.—	I renew my vow.
Yet leave me not, I pray thee!
Aub.—	• What! a coward!
Thou didst come here to help me, not to hinder. If thy heart fails thee, then go home at once.
'	I will alone—
Aloys.—	Nay! pardon me, dear friend.
’Twas but a moment’s faintness. Thickest thou I would desert thee in thine hour of need ?
Aub.—There spoke my brave Aloysius! Be it so! Reach me that wallet hither! It contains A garment fit for penance and for prayer; The habit of St. Francis and the cord.
(Takes religious habit out of wallet, and prepares to put it on.)
' -	This is my armor ’gainst the infernal foe.
|	Ungird my sword, and lay aside these plumes,
(	Cloak, bat and doublet, take thou them in charge,
I	While this religious habit I put on,
|	This cord about my loins I gird, and take
For only arms this knotted discipline. . Against myself must this be turned, till strength Is given me against the fiend; and then I’ll rout him from his fortress. Meanwhile thou, Remaining here, must constant watch and pray Till I return.
.	Aloys.—	I will, my lord, I will.
Aub.—Take up my sword, and look upon the hilt! It bears the semblance of the saving cross. Whene’er the demon spreads temptation near, ' And seeks to draw thee into specious snares, ’ Keep fixed thine eyes on this.
Aloys'.—	I will, my lord.
Aub.—By this you shall be safe; but have a care.
The fiend can easily assume a shape Which may thy unsuspecting eyes delude And turn them from their duty. Be assured, Not all temptations come in vicious form;
..	Some take the guise of angels from above,
h	And these are the most subtle!
F Aloys.—	I will trust
In Heaven’s aid, my lord, and dare the trial.
g,	Aub.—Remember, then, that whatsoe’er befal,
n	Whatever tempt thee, or whatever threaten,
H	Thou stir not from this spot till I return;
No: not one footstep. t Aloys—	So may Heaven help,
•	I will not stir.
Aub.—	Farewell! I’ll soon return (Exit).
"	Aloys.—And thus alone I stand in this wild wood,
This most unholy, ghoul-infested spot! Keep still, my coward heart! Why flutter so ? The cause is just, and Heaven protects the right!
(Mysticus appears, waving wand.) Music: Schottische.
Enter First Tempation: Two Sylphs, dancing, offer fruit and flowers.
Music: Varsovienne. •
. Enter Second Temptation: Two Gnomes, dancing, offer "	gold and silver.
Music: Polka. Stage darkened.
Enter Third Temptation.: Six Fiends, dancing, threaten —	with daggers.
'	* Pronounce in three syllables A-loy-sius, not Aloe-easy-us.
Music: Waltz. Stage light.
Enter Fourth Temptation: Two Spirits, as Parasites, dancing and fawning, offer a Royal Crown.
As Aloysius repels each temptation in turn, Mysticus angrily drives out the Spirits with their offerings.
Stage darkened. Storm of thunder, lightning and rain.
Aloys.—And now, I think, the enemy hath fled.
I’ve passed, unscathed, temptation’s dread ordeal.
Aye, thunder on! I fear no natural storm
' Since storms like these have passed and left me safe. Mysticus (Behind the scenes)—Help! help!
Aloys.—What cry is that? Some traveller in the dark,
Perhaps, has lost the road. (Shouting) This way, my friend!
It is a dreadful night to be abroad.
Mysticus—Help—help! I’ve broke my leg! I cannot move!
Come, gentle friend, and help me.
Aloys.—	Who art thou
That criest thus for help ?
Mysticus—	A traveller, sir;—
- A traveller in distress. Oh! help me—help I
Aloys. (Aside)—Lord Aubrey told me not to leave this spot;
But can I thus neglect a cry for help!
Turn a deaf ear to mercy? And, besides, The fiends have left the place.
Mysticus —	Help L
Aloys.—	Friend, I come!
(He drops the sword, and runs in the direction of the voice.
• Mysticus seizes him.)
Mysticus—Thou’rt mine, at length, proud youth!
(Aloysius shrieks. Mysticus carries him off.) (Enter Lord Aubrey.) Aub.—	Alas! too late!
My poor Aloysius! thy too generous heart
Forgot the subtlety I warned thee of—
Forgot that fiends could many shapes assume— Forgot obedience, the antidote
To all their poisonous snares. Alas, that thus It should be ever with vainglorious man, . Presuming on his strength; for all are frail, Though some have frailties nobler than the rest. But ’tis the time for action! Though alone, I’ll do mv best to free not only him But also Peter and the others from This diabolical conspiracy.
My sword is here I see: my doublet too;
And all that in Aloysius’ charge I left;
Only himself he lost! I’ll now resume
• My usual garments and to work begin.
(Curtain falls, while he is changing clothes.) ■
ACT IH.
Scene in the Hostelry. Large barrel visible at back. The Landlord and Melancardios.
Landlord. And so the upshot of this great undertak. ing of Aubrey’s is that we have secured another prisoner-
Melancardios. Yes: and hard work it was to get him, too! However, after our success, I do not despair of catching Aubrey himself. He is very cautious, and is armed with supernatural weapons, but still there are enchantments that will avail against him.
Landlord. But let us see your new prisoner. Have you taught him the .Tews’-harp already, like the rest?
Melancardios. No ; he is made of finer stuff; and even enchantment has not deprived him altogether of his intellect. He is oppressed with a deep and gloomy melancholy. The crime of disobedience is ever before his eyes, painted in the most terrible colors. Meantime, his only solace is in the music of the guitar, with which he accompanies his voice. See where he comes.	.
(Enter Aloysius, playing the guitar, and singing.)
Air: “TwilightDews.”
The shades of death are closing fast: A frightful doom for me.
The dream of life has quickly passed;	.
In vain from death I flee.
Oh! who will save me from the tomb That yawns beneath my feet ?
I shrink to meet the dreadful doom,	,
For life to me is sweet.	"
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Landlord. If you let him get so melancholy he will never grow fat.	•
Melancardios. Yes; but what can we do? We cannot reduce him to the same state as the others; we have tried by every means. See him now! He is wandering off to make his lamentation somewhere else. He pays no attention to our presence, nor to anything but the gloomy despair which is consuming him. {Exit Aloysius.)
Landlord. Well, we have supplies enough to keep our larder full for a long time. See: I have prepared a large barrel of brine to salt them down in.
Melancardios. Very good ! but we must now think of securing Lord Aubrey. So powerful an enemy at large is a source of anxiety to me which I cannot conceal.
Landlord. Invoke the aid of your familiar spirit.
Melancardios. Mysticus, I fear, has exhausted his subtleties in the capture of Aloysius.
Landlord. But some of the same kind might be of avail against Aubrey, holy as he thinks himself. The most sanctimonious have been known to yield to very slight temptations.
Melan cardios. Tru e!
Landlord. Then why not summon Mysticus, and see what can be done?
Melancardios. Thou art no longer fearful of the sight ?
Landlord. Let him but come alone, and I can bear it; but let no ghosts or dancing be introduced.
Melancardios. Just as thou wilt. I was willing to show thee his power, when thou didst appear too familiar on a former occasion; but we have no time now for jokes. Lord Aubrey must be caught. Mysticus, Spirit of Unreality, descend, appear!
(Mysticus descends. chained hand and foot.)
Melancardios. Why! who hath fettered thee ? Speak! By the allegiance thou owest me, speak!
Mysticus. Alas!
Melancardios. Spirit of power! what means that feeble cry ?
Mysticus. I ain forbid!
Melancardios. Forbid? By whom? Art thou not sworn my slave ?
Mysticus. There be masters mightier than thou!
Melancardios. Name them! Say, is it Lord Aubrey ? Mysticus. I am forbid to tell.
Landlord. At least tell us what we are to do.
Mysticus. Despair and die.
Landlord. What sayest thou ? Thou sayest that we are lost?
Mysticus. All is lost! lost! lost! {Disappears through floor.)
Landlord. Ah! Melancardios, all is lost! {Weeps.)
Melancardios. Cease thy whining, fool! A plague on thy unwieldy carcass!	'
Landlord. Oh, Melancardios! good Melancardios! save me. {Kneels.)
Melancardios {Kicking him). Get up. thou porpoise, and defend thyself. Lord Aubrey and his soldiers will soon be upon us.	,
Landlord. Canst thou not invoke some other spirit, more powerful than Mysticus, who may defimdus?
Melancardios. Perdition seize thee! Knowest thou not the nature of such lying spirits? They are well enough to assist one in working evil, with their illusions and hallucinations, but that is the extent of their service. Protect thee! Why, it is their aim to plunge thee into hell; and they delay thy destruction only to make thee an accomplice to lead others to the fatal abyss. But if thou art a man worthy of the name, arm thyself now, and prepare to resist. See here! {Throws off his robe, wig, and beard; and appears as a warrior.)
Landlord. Oh! do not kill me!
Melancardios. Kill thee! Why should I take thy contemptible life? unless, indeed, I bad time to feed upon thine overgrown carcass—thou hog! But be a man, and lake up the sword! Follow me to meet the foe. {Exit.)
Landlord. Oh, what shall I do?—what shall I do? Lord Aubrey will kill me! Kill me, perhaps, with tortures, for'a ghoul and a cannibal. Oh, no: I am not—I never didfit! It was only Melancardios! I never did it, and I never will do it again! Oh, let me off this time, and I never will do it again! But they are not here yet; an
perhaps I can hide myself somewhere before they come. {Euns about excitedly, and finally jumps headforemost into the hogshead. Enter Lord Aubrey with his sword drawn.)
Aub.—Where are the miscreants ? Am I, then, too late ? And have they fled,—with all their captives, too ? Alas for poor Aloysius!—poor Peter, And all that throng of honest working men! They must not fall a prey to cannibals; I’ll follow to the death. But what is that?
I ought to know the voice!
(Aloysius heard singing outside.)
(Air : “ Her Bright Smile Haunts Me Still.”)
' ’Tis years since I was free, •	Or, at least, it seems as long!
But will no one rescue me?
Must I perish in the wrong ?
(Aloysius enters, still singing.)
Mu«t I meet a frightful fate ?
Must I dwell with furies still?
From this earthly home of hate	-
To the home of souls they kill?
For ’tis years since I was free, Or, at least, it seems as long!
And no one will rescue me:	„	•
I must perish in the wrong!
Aub —’Tis my poor page! But I have now the power To rescue him from thraldom! What! Aloysius!
{Touches him with the hilt of his sword.)
Aloys.—My lord!
Aub.—	What, art thou doing here, my boy ?
Aloys.—It seems to me I’ve had a painful dream—
Ah! yes: I recollect! Pardon, my lord {kneels);
I disobeyed your strict command.	.
Aub.—	I know!
And thou hast suffered for it. Then arise!
All is forgiven; and I need thy aid. Thou hadst a weanon ?
Aloys.—	, Yes: before my dream;—
And this guitar; I know not how it changed!
Aub.—Tt was no dream, Aloysius! But, no matter!
We’ll find a weapon ere thou needest it.
•The wretched men are hiding; blit their fate Is sealed! What.’s this?
{Sees Landlord’s legs sticking out of barrel.)
.	Ha, ha! The foolish man
Hath hidden like the ostrich from the chase: The frightened bird concealeth in the sand
. Her silly head, no longer sees her foes, And fondly thinks she’s safe. But let us make
’ The villain show his face. Vile brute, come forth! Aloys.—He doth not stir; he cannot move, I think. Aub.—Let’s drag him from the cask. {They pull.) Aloys —	He’s very heavy;
And fi i s in tight. (They pull him out.)
Aub.—	I think he breathes no more.
The villain’s fate was self-inflicted! Drowned In brine prepared for human flesh and blood, He meets the retribution of his crimes!	.
And salteth down his own iniquity!
Aloys.—But maketh his last deed an act of fraud; Defrauding justice of her legal dues!
Aub —	He doth,
But let him lie and rot! Touch not the corpse Lest it defile thee. But whom have we here? {Enter Melancardios, with his sword drawn.) Melan.—One who will put thy valor to the test!
Defend thyself, proud lord. {AttacksLord Aubrey.) {They fence until Aubrey kills him.)
Aub.—	There, miscreant, die!
Die by a nobler death than thou shouldst find If the law took its course! And now, Aloysius, We have but one more duty to perform— To liberate the wretched prisoners These cannibals were keeping.
Aloys.—	•	Here they come! '
{Enter the Seven Travellers, with umbrellas up, playing on ,	Jews'-harps)
Oh ludicrous, yet melancholy sight;
Here one might laugh, were there not cause to weep!
Aub.—(Touching Peter with the hilt of his sword.) ■ Come, Peter, come!’ what fantasy is this?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
89
Peter—This must be—must be some'wild dream, I think! My good Lord Aubrey! I but parted from thee To start upon my way!—and then—and then!
Aub.—And then neglected my advice; however, I’ll not reproach thee; thou hast just escaped Imminent danger. Look at thy companions! Thou wert as they are; but ’tis time, I think, To loose the spell that binds them.
{Touches each with his sword: They rub their eyes.}
Jack. Why, what’s the matter, lads? Have we been dreaming? Methought I was a prisoner in the haunted inn.
Tom. I believe we fell asleep by the roadside, and got cold. I feel all numb and stiff. My service to you, Lord Aubrey! {All bow.)
Joe. Yes: ’tis my lord himself! .Well, all is right since 116 is here
Bill. What! Who’s to fight? Did anybody talk about fighting? Why, my lord, I did not expect to meet your lordship in this deserted place. If a blacksmith’s arm can do you any service, it is most loyally at your disposal. .
Jim. Boys! A light breaks in upon my mind! We have all been bewitched; and Lord Aubrey has delivered us.
Teddy. Then long live Lord Aubrey! He is ever the poor man’s friend! {Sings.) “ Oh! ain’t I glad to get out of the wilderness,” etc.
Aub.—Rejoice, good neighbors, for your foes are dead, And they that sought your ruin are destroyed. Thank Providence, and bless His Holy Name ! Our foes are dead; and these, you see, are friends Sitting before us. They will not, I’m sure, _ Belie the title; but, with all good will, Give friendly approbation to our play.
- But come, Aloysius, speak the epilogue.
EPILOGUE.
{Spoken by Aloysius.)
What need of an epilogue to-night ? Our audience have applauded.
They understand our play aright, And therefore warmly laud it.
We teach a lesson hard to learn :
“ Obey your lawful master ”;
And one of not so grave a turn, Which p’rhaps is learned the faster: Put not your trust in wicked elves, Nor men with double faces ;
And never rashly seat yourselves To rest in dangerous places ;
But travel by the narrow road Straightforward on to glory;
Assist your neighbor with his load; And this is all our story.
{Curtain falls.) ■
The Legend, of Blessed. Egidius.
BT THE AUTHOR OF “CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS AND SCHOLARS.”
The lamp was burning long and late Within the student’s tower, '
And still its flickering ray was seen Far past the midnight hour.
It'glimmered from the casement
Of the Spanish stranger’s cell,	.
And there was something strange and sad In the radiance as it fell.	’
None saw it dimmed, and men had grown
’ To watch for it with awe,
Saying an Ave every time
The star-like gleam they saw;
And there were whispers dark and strange
And words of evil lame,
, Which made them shudder as they heard
Egidius’ blighted name.
The shadow of some mystery
■ Around the stranger lay,	•
Men gazed in wonder on his brow ' And turned aside to pray.	’
The lines were there of lofty thought And more than mortal skill,
The light of genius blended there
With the majesty of will. .
Yet its beauty was not beautiful—
Its glory was not bright—
Something upon the lustre hung And darkened it to night.
Though from his eye the spirit flashed ’ In wild and dazzling rays,
A something in the lightning gleamed Which mode you fear to gaze.
And now with stern and thoughtful looks He sits and ponders o’er his books:	.
Strange words and characters are there; He reads nor psalmody nor prayer, The sacred sign has scarce been traced O’er pages by those lines defaced;
For holy things can bear no part	■
In the dark rites of magic art.
Silent the night, and dark the room,
The lamp scarce pierced the midnight gloom, Dimly and wan its lustre burned, As leaf by leaf the master turned, And save the rustle as they stirred, No echo through the night was heard.
Why leaps with strange and sudden glare
The flame within the lamp ?
What sound is that upon the stair ?
’Tis an armed horseman’s tramp I Nearer it comes, with solemn tread, And it sounds on the turret floor, And with a harsh and sudden crash, Bursts wide the chamber door.
Egidius raised his head, and turned, A giant form was there
With lance and shield and plumfid helm, ■ As men in tourney wear.
A coal-black steed the phantom rode
Of vast and awful size,	.
And through the visor bars therejgleamed] .
The flash of angry eyes. '
He shook the lance above his head, He called the student’s name,
And a trembling as of palsy shook
The master’s iron frame.	•
They rang into his very heart
Those accents of the grave;
“Change, change thy life!” The echoing vaults A hollow answer gave,
And the eyeballs of that helmed head Shot forth a fearful ray ;
Then passed the vision from his sight, And the echoes died away.
But human hearts are strangely hard, And his was used of old
To sights which seen by other men • Would turn their life-blood cold.
For seven years he had lived a life It were not good to tell,
And his eyes were used to fiendish forms
His ears to the sounds of hell;
So when the vision passed, he turned Back to his books again, Mastering the pulses of his heart With a grasp of fierce disdain.
Eight days had passed—the night was come,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And he was musing there,
And once again that trampling sound
Was heard upon the stair;
Already twice those clattering feet Have sounded at the door,
Now ring they louder, and their tread Shakes the old turret floor.
A blow, as from an iron hand,
Strikes the panels with hideous din; Hinges and fast’nings have given way,
And the horseman gallops in:
One bound has cleared the portal wide;
The next, he’s by Egidius’ side: Curbing his war-hoise as it rears, He thunders in those trembling ears— “Change, change thy life, unhappy one!
Thy crimes are full, thy race is run” ; Then o’er his prostrate form they dash, Rider and steed, with one fell crash.
The hours of that fearful night
Were rolling sadly by,
He rose from out his deadly swoon— The dawn was in the sky;
The lamp was broken on the ground, The mystic books lay scattered round; They caught his glance—with hasty hands He casts them on the smouldering brands, And fans them to a flame.
Wildly it leapt, and licked the air, While sank with every record there
Egidius’ magic fame.
He staggered to the window,
The breeze blew freshly in,	'
But oh! he felt within his heart
The gnawing sense of sin.
The clear light of the-dawning Fell full upon his brow,
It touched the flood-gates of his heart— Oh! where was his manhood now ?
The world lay all in worship,	.
Steeped in the morning rays,
And the birds sang loud on every branch Their matin-song of praise;
He could not bear that calm, clear light, Nor the touch of the gentle breeze,
And the first ray of the risen sun Has found him on his knees.
Among the hills of Spain, there stands
A fabric reared by holy hands;
True sons of Dominic were they, Who left the world to watch and pray;
And there—the white wool on his breast— Egidius sought for peace and rest.
He bore a weary penance, For no ray of comfort fell
To soothe his days, or scare away The visitants of hell. '
They stirred not from his side, they stood Beside him in his prayer;
Prostrate before the altar steps— They gibbered round him there.
They told him of a bloody bond Which his own right hand had given, And mocked him when he strove to raise
THs weary eyes to heaven.
’Tis night within the convent church: The moonbeams gently shine,
Bilv’ring the pavement where he kneels Before our Lady’s shrine.
There was the scene of his nightly watch, His only resting-place;
And he looked up like a tired child Into a mother’s face.
“ 0 Star of Hope,” he whispers low,
. “ Turn here those loving eyes,
Whose hue is of the gentle blue
That glows in southern skies;
Say, what more can I give ? My blood And the fall of countless tears
Have flowed in ceaseless torrents
O’er those sins of bygone years.
Yet still these demons haunt my path, And claim me for their own ;
With bitter gibe and jest they mock
Each deep repentant moan:
They mind me of the written bond Which signed my soul away;
Oh ! would that at thy blessed feet The bloody paper lay!
Sweet Mother! let the cause be thine, Then surely were it won;
And let one ray of comfort gleam On the soul of thy guilty son! ”
With childlike sobs Egidius lay Upon the marble ground, His heart was full of voiceless prayer, When there came an awful sound;
’Twas the cry of baffled malice, And it rang through the vaulted aisles, And the hideous echo seemed to rock
The convent’s massive piles.
“ There, take thy cursed bond,” it cried, “ Which never had I given Hadst thou not won her mighty aid
Whom thou callest Queen of Heaven.” He saw it falling through the air, He knew the ruddy token, Once more he grasped it in his hand, And the chains of his life were broken, He looked—a dusky demon form
Fled howling from the light;
He raised his eyes to his Mother’s face, But the big tears dimmed his sight!
Yet through their veiling mist he gazed, And the dull, cold marble smiled, And an aureole of glory played
Round the brow of the Royal Child. The light was piercing to his heart;
But who may his rapture paint ? That hour broke the bonds of hell, And gave the Church a Saint
Scientific Notes.
—We regret to announce the death of Mr. Charles Seager, M. A., of Worcester College, Oxford, and Professor of Hebrew at the Catholic University College, Kensington. Mr. Seager was in Florence attending the Congress of Orientalists, and he died in that city on Wednesday, after two days’ illness.
—A new reversing thermometer has been discovered, by means of which it is possible to ascertain the temperature of any given layer of water, making no note of any intermediate layers between the one designated and the surface. The want of such an instrument was seriously felt in the Challenger expedition.
—Dr. Van der Horck is about commencing an exploration, the results of which will doubtless be extremely interesting to American anthropologists. The object is to determine the relationships between the inhabitants of the two sides
THE NOTRE LAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the Pacific Ocean, and to investigate the question as to the colonization of either continent from the other. The work will continue for several j ears.
—The oldest specimens of wrought iron known to ethnologists are believed to be certain sickles found by Belzoni under the base of the Sphinx at Carnac, in Thebes. Another fragment found by Capt. Wise in the great Pyramid, and the piece of a saw dug up by Layard at Nim-roud, all of which are now in the British Museum, prove taht iron and the art of forging were known much earlier than has been supposed, and that the secret of manipulation appears to have been held very closely for many years before it came into general use.
—The remains of a Roman house were discovered about a year ago near Arras (Pas-de-Calais). The excavations, which had been suspended, have lately been resumed and have brought to light a suite of dwelling-rooms and some mortuary chambers. A large number of amphoite and other ^objects have been found in the latter; and in other parts vases, columns, portions of statues, and coins. The destruction of the edifice appears to date from the year A. D. 260, the time of the invasion by the barbarians, or thereabouts. No doubt fire was employed, as among the ruins of mural decorations and uninjured pavements is a quantity of melted metal.
—Scientifically speaking, buzzing is the faculty of insects to produce two sounds at an octave. M. Jousset de Bel-lesme, who has recently been investigating the phenomena connected with buzzing, has arrived at some conclusions which, if established, will upset all the preconceived theories on that subject. He asserts that there are two simultaneous sounds, one produced by the vibration of the wings and the other by the thoracic vibration, the latter twice as rapid as the former, and, therefore, an octave. This is why in flight only a single grave sound is heard. When the thorax moves alone a sharp sound is produced. This, M. de Bellesme believes, is the only explanation that can be given of the mode of production of the two sounds which constitute buzzing.
—Baron Visconti sends to the Ossenatore Romano the text of the inscription on the base of the bronze statue found at Ponte Sisto, and precisely near the foundations of the building called the Cento Preti. The inscription is as follows:—
IMP. CAESARI D.N.
FL. VALENTINIANO P. F. VICTORI AC TRIVMFATORI SEMPER AVG.
S. P. Q. R.
OB PROVIDENTIAM QUAE ILLI SEMPER
CVM INCLYTO PATRE C0MMVNIS EST
INSTITVTI EX VTILITATE VRBIS AETERNAE VALENTINIANI PONTIS ATQ. PERFECTI DEDICANDI OPERIS HONORE DELATO IVDICIO PRINCIP. MAXIMOR.
L. AVR. AVIANO SYMMACHO EX PRAEFECTIS VRBIS.
By this inscription we learn that the statue was erected by the Senate and people of Rome in honor of the Emperor Valentinian I, and in gratitude for the benefits conferred by that Emperor and his brother Valens upon the city of Rome. The bridge, it appears, bore the name of Valentinian, after having been called after the name of Probus. According to Ammianus Marcellinus, the works were carried on at the instance of Lucius Aurelius Avianus Sym-machus, Prefect of Rome (annis 364-365), the father of Quintus Aurelius Symmachus, who was Prefect some twenty years later, and to whom the deeds of his father were erroneously ascribed. The Ponte Sisto and not the Ponte Cestio was alluded to by Marcellinus. The Ponte Cestio was also restored under Valentinian I, Valens and Gratian, and changed its ancient name and was called Ponte Graziano.	*
Artj Music and Literature.
—Macmillan & Co. announce a complete edition of Matthew Arnold’s poems for the American market.
—The Latin poems of Leo XIII are to be published in Spain with translations into Spanish of Signor Bonghi’s “Leo XIA and Italy.”
—Van Laun’s history of France from the great Revolution to the end of the Second Empire is promised by Cassell, Petter & Galpin for this season.
—Wagner is at present engaged in re-writing one of his earliest works—a symphony, composed in 1832, and performed at Prague and Leipzig in 1833.
—The fourth part of Mr. George Grove’s “Dictionary of Music and Musicians ” will be ready at Macmillan & Co.’s in a month. Mr. Grove is now in this country with Dean Stanley.	■
—A Chinese child’s magazine, containing sixteen pages and published monthly, has been started in Shanghali. It contains a variety of amusing and instructive matter, with well-executed illustrations, and the subscription is 15 cents a year.
—Tennyson has written, or at least is writing, a new idyl, “ The Daughter of Dervarghal,” founded on a roman- -tic passage in Irish history, and having its scenery and incident wholly in Ireland. It was to study the ground that the laureate recently visited the green island.
—Dramatic authors in Hungary seem to be of a mediocre sort. The Hungarian Academy offered a prize for the best tragedy in the national tongue not long ago, and thirteen men competed for it. The committee, after laborious efforts, finally made the award to the “ least bad.”
—The Bishops who are founders of the Catholic University of Lyons will meet on Nov. 14th, under the presidency of Cardinal Caverot, Archbishop of Lyons, when four faculties will be solemnly opened. Mgr. Mermillod will preach a retreat beginning on the 18th. The Faculty of Theology is organized; professors are appointed from various dioceses and from various Religious Orders.
—Ben-Perley Poor has prepared a “Political Register and Congressional Directory,” which will comprise a statistical record of federal officials from 1776 to 1876, giving a register of the names of members of the successive Congresses, of the several administrations, of the Supreme Court of the United States, besides statistical sketches of all persons named except members of the Supreme Court.
—Les Mondes, of Paris, says there is a terrestrial globe in the Jesuit Library of the Lyons Lyceum which is 170 years old, containing in great detail the curious system of African lakes and rivers, which the English and American travellers have lately rediscovered. The globe is six feet in diameter, and an inscription, near the North Pole, states that it was made in the year 1701, by FF. Bonaventure and Gregoire, brothers of the Third Order of St. Francis. It has created a great sensation among geographical savants and amateurs.
—The Tripartite is the longest and most detailed of the ancient Lives of St. Patrick which have come down to us. Its composition is referred to the sixth century. In the year 1645 Father Colgan published a Latin translation of it. After this, the manuscripts which he used appear to have been lost. In 1849, the late Professor O’Curry discovered an Irish manuscript of it in the British Museum one hundred and sixty-eight years older than the date of Colgan’s publication. A few years ago, Mr. Hennessy translated this document into English, and Miss Cusack (Sister M. Frances Clare) published it in her Life of St. Patrick.
—The Neio York Evening Post says that the Bryant-Duyckinck Shakspeare, a work on which these two eminent scholars spent the best part of their later years, will not be published for some time to come. Their purpose was to furnish “ the most perfect and at the same time the most superbly made popular edition of Shakspeare which has ever been published, and to that end both money and labor have been spent upon it without stint.” The text is founded upon that of the folio of 1623, which has been followed very closely, except in those cases where the readings in the later folios and quartos are manifestly improvements. The illustrations are to be the best of which modern art is capable. The costumes and architecture of the times and countries in which the plays and poems are placed are to be accurately reproduced; and everything that can be done to make the letter-press attractive and faultless is to be provided for before the work is begun.
92
THE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Uame, October 13, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and. others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it. ’
Terms, S1.5O Ter Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAMS SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Edward’s Day.
The Feast of St. Edward (to-morrow) is a great day at Notre Dame. Each year this feast has been celebrated here with great ceremony and display. Entertainments of a literary and dramatic character have been given on the eve, and during the day outdoor sports of all kinds, as boating, ball, foot-races, etc., have been indulged in by the students. This year our Entertainment will be given in Washington Hall this evening; to-morrow, being Sunday, the out-door sports will be postponed, but the ceremonies of the Mass will be carried out with the greatest splendor possible.
It might be asked by those little acquainted with Notre Dame why this Feast of Sl Ed ward is so grandly celebrated here ? Why is it above all other feasts, excepting those of our Lord and the Blessed Virgin, looked forward to by all here with such joy and anxiety ? It is because it is the feast-day of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame, for a long time its President, and now the SuperiorGeneral of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The history of Notre Dame is inseparably united with the life of Very Rev. Father Sorin. Thirty-six years ago, on a bleak November day, he first put foot on the soil where Notre Dame now stands. Amid poverty and trials incidental to very few even of the new settlements in the then wild West, he worked nobly on in his endeavors and with the blessing of God he triumphed over all obstacles. He now lives, at a ripe and honorable old age, to see all his efforts crowned with success. He lives to see Notre Dame, what with its college, church, manual-labor schools, etc., quite a large village, and occupying the acres then covered by dense forests. It is because it is his festal day that all at Notre Dame rejoice and are glad; and it is the devout wish of all that he whose feast-day is then celebrated may live to receive the yearly congratulations of students and professors for years to come.
As in all former years, the priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross will at 8 o’clock to-morrow call upon the venerable Superior-General and offer their congratulations. At nine o’clock the members of the faculty will tender j their good wishes, and in the afternoon the members of the ; community in the various houses at Notre Dame and vicinity will call upon him. The students will greet him this evening in Washington Hall, when appropriate addresses will be read by representatives chosen for that purpose, and Cardinal Wiseman’s beautiful drama entitled “ The Hidden Gem ” will be rendered by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
We venture to predict that St. Edward’s Day will this year be celebrated with, if possible, even greater warmth of feeling than that which has so distinctively marked its observance in years gone by, and we feel sure that not only everyone at Notre Dame, but all the old students and those who have had any acquaintance with Very Rev. Father Sorin, will unite with us in wishing him many happy returns of this his feast-day.
Filling Up.
Not un frequently some J well-disposed souls favor us with pieces of reprint with the remark that probably we might like to have something of the kind to “fill up” our col umns when short of matter. We appreciate the goodness of heart of the donors, but almost invariably decline the proffered matter for the reason that we never print anything just in order to “fill up” our columns. When we receive an original article that we think worthy of publication we print it; when we deem it unworthy, we reject it. With regard to reprint, we are even more particular than as to original articles. It is not every kind of an article that can appear in our columns, and when the article is from another paper it must be of more than usual excellence before we use it.
We believe that any article printed just in order to “fill up ” the columns of a paper is not worthy of publication, and when in looking over our exchanges we find a paper of unusual dullness we are always tempted to believe that the editor of the paper took his articles just in order to “ fill up ” the columns. When we come across long editorials that we feel would be much better did they occupy one half the space, we feel that the editor is not writing for the instruction of his readers, but simply in order to “ fill up” his columns. When we take up paper after paper and discover that the editors have with wonderful unanimity printed the same long speech or sermon, we cannot but believe that it was because of a desire to “fill up” the columns of the paper, and we are almost tempted to say with the editor of a certain paper: “If Father Burke were to die, what a loss it'would be to Catholic journalism 1 ”
We may perhaps publish articles which in the judgment of others may not be just the thing; in our own selected articles perhaps our judgment may not be as critical and true as that of some advisers. If such is the-case we are sorry for it. We have made it a rule to try and study the wants of our readers, and supply them. If we have failed, it was because we could do no better. That others might be more successful we never for a moment doubted, and among this number of able caterers to the public taste may be many who have furnished us with selected pieces to fill up our columns. Still we have our doubts about
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
93
the matter, and prefer to run this paper according to our own ideas so long as we have charge of it. Once for all, as far as selected articles go, we would wish all our kind advisers to understand that we never print anything just for the purpose of “filling up.”
Personal.
—Ed. W. Robinson (Commercial, of '78) is in business at Millview, Florida.
—Prof. A. J. Stace was elected County Surveyor at the election on Tuesday.
—Revs. P. P. Cooney, Richard Meagher and P. Francis-cus returned to Notre Dame this last week.
—Prof. T. E. Howard was elected Clerk of St. Joseph’s County at the election held last Tuesday. He was elected by about three hundred majority.
—James Bell (Commercial, of ’77,) is becoming the champion amateur shoe at Terre Haute, Ind. He was one of the Nimrods while at Notre Dame.
—Of the young men who in June, 1859, took part in the drama entitled “The Hidden Gem” John Collins, who took the part of “ Euphemianus,” is dead; James B. Runnion is editor of the Chicago Tribune, Daniel M. Collins (Bibulus), is a lawyer in Philadelphia; he w’ho took the part of “ Carinus ” has charge of this paper. The other characters in the play were taken by students whose names we cannot now remember.	.
—We learn with regret that Mr. William Louis Kelly has severed his connection as editor with the Northwestern Chronicle. Mr. Kelly certainly was a good editor, possessing those requisites which are necessary in order to make a paper readable and entertaining. In the last number of the Chronicle he writes: “But one living regret at leaving the ranks of Catholic journalism—we will miss that ‘Turkey Carving’ with our Notre Dame Scholastic friends. It was always our luck to go hungry. But Mauiy will cat . our share as well as his own.”
\ —We were shown a programme of an Entertainment given on the 13lh of October, 1863.' It was printed on an old hand-press by Messrs. Williams and Richardson, students, who worked at it for three days. At the Entertainment D. J. Spillard read a Latin address. Father Spillard is now in Austin, Texas. P. Lauth lead a German address. Father Lauth is now in South Bend. E. M. Brown, M. Baa-sen, Thos. Ewing, Jamis Davis and Jasper Dille read addresses. Of these, Brown is now an attorney in Cleveland, Baasen is living in Milwaukee, and Ewing resides at Lancaster, Ohio. We do not know of the whereabouts of Davis and Dille. On the same occasion “ The Hidden Gem ” was played. The characters were as follows: “Euphemianus,” E. M. Brown; “ Alexius,” D. J. Spillard; “Carinus,” T. Ewing; “Proculus,” T. K. Jacobs; “Eusebius,” M. Garrity; “Bibulus,” J. Healey ; “Davus,” L. C. Menard; “Ur-sulus,”P-W.Talbot; “Verna,”J.Moffitt; "Gannio,”M.T. Corby; “Imperial Chamberlain,” W.T. Knapp; and “Of ficer,” A. S. Fletcher. Of these, Fletcher is living near Logansport, Ind., Corby is in Chicago, Moffitt in St. Louis, and Talbot in South Bend. Messrs. Garrity, Healy, and Menard are dead. Of the whereabouts of Knapp and Ja-. cobs we are not aware.
> —The following are the names of the clergymen who attended the retreat preached here the past week: Rt. Rev. J. Dwenger, D. D., Fort Wayne; Revs. J. Rademacher, Fort Wayne; E. Koenig, Fort Wayne; A. Oechtering, Mishawaka; M. O’Reilly, Valparaiso; E. P. Walters, Logansport; H. Koebne, Logansport; M. E. Campion, La-layette; M. Hallinan, D. D., Lafayette; G. Zurwellen, Plymouth; J. Oechtering, Laporte; T. O'Sullivan, Laporte; C. Wardy, Chesterton; J. Becks, Michigan City; A. Heitmann, St. John’s; H. Meisner, Peiu; J. Grogan, Lagro; F. Wiecbmanu, Wabash ; T. Wilkens, Arcola; D. Duhmig, Avilla; J. H. Quinlan, Union City; M. F. Noll, Elkhart; A. Messmaun, Kentland; F. X. Baumgartner, Turkey Creek; W. Schmidt, Muncie; B. Lordemann, Kokomo; M. F. Kelly, Marion ; T. M. Cahill, Fulton; T. Heubelen, Fort Wayne; J. Dempsey, St. Bridget’s; F.
Koerdt, Sheldon; C. Steurer, Fort Wayne; M. Zumbulte, Rensellaer; J. Crowley, Anderson; J. F. Lang, Oxford; A. Young, Auburn ; J. Bleckman, Delphi; B. Hartmann, Lafayette; J. M. Hartnett, Fort Wayne; C. Maujay, Besan^on ; J. H. Barte, Clarsville; W. Berg, Cedar Lake ; H. Boeckelmann, Goshen; J. R. Dinnen, Crawfordsville; F. X. Egge, Girardot; J. Flady, Dyer; F. W. Geers, Huntington; A. H. Hellhake, Columbia; F. G. Lentz, Tipton; L. Moencb, Fort Wayne; B. Widau, New Haven; W. Woeste, Roanoke; and Rev.F. Nussbaum, 8. J., who preached the retreat.
-J	Obituary.
We have this week a melancholy duty to perform in announcing the death oLMr. George W. Sampson, who had just entered on his third year as a student at Notre Dame. His death was caused by the accidental discharge of a fowling piece while he was absent with a hunting party. Mr. Sampson w’as passionately fond of this amusement, and on Monday last, the first extra holiday of the year, he left the College in high spirits with a few other young men to enjoy a day’s shooting in the country and at the same time to try a magnificent new breech-loader which had been presented to him during vacation by his father. While on his way back he met his untimely end. Rev. Father O’Sullivan of Laporte, who was on the opposite bank of the St. Joseph’s River at the time the accident occurred, immediately plunged in and swam across—though risking his own life thereby—and was present to soothe the unfortunate young man’s last moments with the consolations of religion. Mr. Sampson’s parents, who reside at Trenton, New Jersey, were at once informed of the sad event, and his father arrived at Notre Dame in time for the funeral services, which took place on Wednesday morning. After the first Gospel, the celebrant, Very Rev. President Corby, preached a short but afi’ecting sermon, in which after feelingly alluding to the many amiable qualities of the deceased and the gloom which his sudden death had thrown over everyone at Notre Dame, he extended words of sympathy and consolation to his bereaved friends. Altogether, the incident is one of the saddest ever chronicled in the annals of Notre Dame. A young man of bright promise and of the happiest disposition, gentle and amiable towards all,—to know young Sampson was to be his friend, and we have every reason to hope that'the favorable judgment which all who knew him on earth were so ready to pronounce on him has been ratified above. May he rest in peace!
Resolutions of Sympathy.
At the fourth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, held Oct. 9th, 1878, the following resolutions were passed:
Whereas it has pleased cur Almighty Father to remove from us our dear friend and fellow member, Georrb V. Sampson, be it
Resolved, That in him we have lost a companion whose amiable and manly disposition, whose intelligence and uprightness of character, made his friendship most precious to our hearts and his example most valuable to every member of our Society. It is with a melancholy pleasure that we now recall to mind his never-failing attention to duty, his active interest, in all the exercises of our Society, his exemplary conduct and', devotion in church and in all religious exercises; in a word, the unifol m excellence of his life as a Christian student.
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved relatives and friends, from whom an all-merciful Providerce has seen fit to withdraw the fast-maturing promise
of a wise and virtuous manhood. They have lost him, but Heaven has won him. So bright a spirit was not destined to have the lustre of its pinions soiled by contact with the dust and toil of this earth. In the death ol the young there is this consolation in all our sorrow, that they go untainted back to the hands of their Maker ; and this must be the sweet solace of
the parents and near friends of our young companion.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Society, and that a copy be sent to the relatives of the deceased, and also to The Scholastic and the Trenton papers
for publication.
C. K. De Vries, R. E. Keenan, G. F. Sugg, B. J. Claggett,
- Committee.
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—The nights are beginning to get cold.
—The Philopatrians are doing splendidly.
—Promenades are quite popular with certain students.
—The Campus has a lively appearance on recreation days.
—There was a storm of unusual severity last Tuesday, night
—Baseball this fall has not been so popular as in former years here.
—Mr. Bonney was out one day the last week taking photographs.
—The lecture course will begin next Thursday evening in Phelan Hall.
—There are any number of velocipedes in the Minim department this year.
—The St. Cecilians will give their Entertainment this evening at 7 o’clock.	.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, gave recreation last Monday.
—Last Tuesday was election day. Everything at Notre Dame passed off quietly.	.
—The Juniors have a large number of names on their roll of honor this year.	■	.
—Most of the clergymen attending the retreat left for their homes this morning.
—The Entertainment in Washington Hall will begin t promptly at seven o clock.
< —The dress-room in Washington Hall has been neatly
arranged by Bro. Wilfrid.
—There is a
iu. ryiiiAAU.	.	;	~	w	.—w
large number of subscribers to the Lemon-. /minutes’mstruction at the meeting of the ^chconfraternity ''rt thA R V M Inct Nnnnau PVAnino1 It woa hio-hlv oru
nier Circulating Libraiy.
—The St Cecilians have lost no time in preparing for the Entertainment to-night.
—To-night will be the thirty-fifth celebration of St. Edward’s Day at Notre Dame.
—All the societies are now fully organized, and the members of all are working well.
—Solemn Pontifical High Mass was sung by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger on Friday.
—Everyone, should take the little book of hymns with him when going to low Mass.
—There will be addresses in English, German, French, Latin and Greek this evening.
—Since the cool weather has begun there is not so much pleasure in rowing on the lake.
—All the preparatory classes in the Junior department have been thoroughly visited.
—The ushers will see to the seating of all who attend ’ the Entertainment this evening.	v
—The St. Cecilians have been rehearsing the past week for this evening’s Entertainment.
—The readers in the Junior refectory are engaged on .
Excelsior,” by Prof. T. E. Howard. .	> >
—We would be much obliged to anyone furnishing us with items for our personal column.
—Do not rest satisfied with subscribing for The Scholastic. Get your friends to swell our list
—Hymn-books have been distributed among the stu-. dents. We hope that all will use them.	‘ ‘
—The St. Cecilians have decorated Washington Hall nicely for this evening’s Entertainment
—Quite a number of games of foot-ball were played this last week among the Juniors and Minims.	'
—Nearly all the priests of the diocese were here this week attending the exercises of the retreat.
—There is very little sickness at Notre Dame this year. What little there is is not at all dangerous.
—We were pleased to see many familiar faces among the clergy atttending the bi-annual retreat here.
—There is plenty of work going on in the shops at the Manual Labor School. All hands are kept busy.
—The Elocution classes this year are very large. The students already show marked signs of improvement.
—The invitations sent off by the St. Cecilians for their Entertainment were the handsomest ever gotten up here.
—Large numbers of visitors from South Bend and other places are constantly visiting the College to see the sights.
/ —The old orchard between the College building and the ' ■flake has been pretty well stripped of apples by the students.
—Vespers to-morrow are from the Common of the B. V. M. In the morning the Hitsa Regia will be sung at the High Mass.	.
—The St. Cecilians are a crowd of excellently behaved young men. We have never witnessed more orderly rehearsals than theirs.
—As to-morrow is Sunday, the annual out-door sports which take place on the 13th will be postponed this year until some other day.
—We have not heard of the time for the annual retreat of the Catholic students, but suppose that it will take place sometime about the first of November.
I Some twenty-four hands are employed in the tailor-shop 'here at Notre Dame. Suits of all kinds are neatly made.
The cutter’s department is well presided over.	‘
—The meetings of the Archconfraternities are as interesting as those of last year. The singing, the papers read, and the short instruction give variety and interest to them.
—We understand that the new church is to be consecrated some time during the coming year. We did not learn the time set for the ceremony, but suppose it will be in the spring.
. —Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, gave the ten-
of the B. V. M. last Sunday evening. It was highly ap-
preciated by the members.
—A large and finely assorted stock of pictures, etc., has lately been received at the store opposite the post-office. People in the neighborhood wishing articles of this kind may easily be accommodated.
—It was intended to reorganize the Academia earlier in the year, but it was found very inconvenient to do so. It will however be reorganized next Wednesday morning. For 9 o’clock the meeting is called.
—After a thorough visit to all the preparatory classes in the Junior department, the Rev. Director of Studies declares that in his opinion the Preparatory Department was never on a more satisfactory footing.
—We wish that the secretaries of the different societies wou’d be prompt in handing in their reports of meetings. The members of the societies should see to it that it be done. Let us know what is going on at the meetings.
—At a meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M., at the Manual School, held Wednesday evening, Very Rev. Father Granger gave the ten-minutes’ instruction. Papers were read by F. Byer, C. Brehmer and E. Hughson.
—There will be an Entertainment in honor of Very Rev. , Father Sorin at St. Mary’s Academy on Monday after-‘ noon at 4 o'clock. The exercises will consist of music, addresses, tableaux, etc., and will without doubt be very enjoyable.
—The secular priests of the diocese of Fort Wayne have been attending their bi-annual spiritual retreat the past week at Notre Dame. The exercises were conducted by • the eloquent Father Nussbaum, S. J. The retreat was concluded this morning.
—The tailoring and boot-making departments at the t Manual Labor School are well conducted. Clothing, boots :-\aud shoes are as well made here as in large city establishments. All the conveniences of modern invention are
used in these shops.
—On account of the many things on the programme there will be no declamations, etc., at the Entertainment ibis evening. The St Cecilians will have a private celebration of St. Cecilia’s Feast in the College parlor, when essays, speeches, declamations, songs, etc., will be given.
■3
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
I
ir
I
—The Juniors have a new foot-ball, made to order, and it is of the pattern of the English foot-ball. The maker says , he will warrant it to last a year. It must be an exceed-/ ingly good ball if it lasts the Juniors a year, as it will re-V ceive many hard knocks before the end of the June of ’79 comes to us.
—The Rev. Director of Studies visited the classes in the Preparatory Course during the week and seemed well pleased with the progress made by the students attending those classes. The teacher of the 3d Arithmetic Class offered a prize to the one in his class that would stand the best examination. E. B. Piekenbrock, of Dubuque, Iowa, worked all the problems given and was awarded the prize. /
—On Wednesday morning the following young men received minor orders: Messrs. T. Collins, D. Hagerty, J. / Rogers, J. Scherer, P. Kollop, and P. Hurth. On Thursday, ■J Messrs. T. Collins, P. Johannes, N. Stoffel and P. Fallize were ordained subdeacons. On Friday, Messrs. P. Johannes, N. Stoffel and P. Fallize were made deacons, and on Saturday the two first named gentlemen were ordained priests. The Right Rev. Dr. D wenger ordained them. We wish them all happiness and joy.
—The College Message says: “The Notre Dame Scholastic was the first among our college exchanges to put in an appearance. We found it to be as interesting as of yore. If it continues to be in the future what it has been in the past, Notre Dame may well f< el proud of its exponent. They are trying the plan of collecting subscriptions in advance. We do not think, however, that they can suc-' ceed in this, and at the same time keep a large subscription list.” Can’t they? They have been following this plan of collecting subscriptions in advance for the four years past, and have now quite a large subscription list. In fact our subscribers prefer paying in advance. They do not find it anymore difficult to pay $1.50 in September than they do in June. And then how contentedly they read a paper they know they have paid for!
—On Sunday evening, Oct. the 6th, the first regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held, Rev. Father Walsh presiding. It is a pleasure to see the Catholic students this year so enthusiastic in all that relates to their religious duties. Many distinguished personages favored the meeting with their presence, among whom was Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne. The Right Rev. Bishop was requested on the occasion to say a few words to the Society, which he did, to the great gratification of all present. He exhorted the members to be ever punctual in their duties towards God, and to ever have great confidence in His Holy Mother as the most potent intercessor at the throne of grace. He related a very striking incident exemplifying this power. After the Right Rev. Bishop had finished, the questions given out at the last meeting were read. They were: “Tae Veneration of the Blessed Virgin Mary,” by Mr. L. Evers; the “Scapular,” by Mr A. Hertzog; and the “Rosary,” by Mr. J. P. Quinn, which, the Rt. Rev. Bishop said, were very finely composed. No other business being before the meeting, it then adjourned.
—We have heard it lately remarked, by persons connected with a prominent periodical, that among the letters received by them were many from former students of the Commercial Department at Notre Dame, and that they all more or less bore characteristic features that called particular attention to them among all others. These were, chiefly, a fine business hand, free from angularity and redundant flourishing, invariably written in a style approximating in regularity and outline to the Spencerian style of penmanship, etc. We think we can scarcely be called egotistical when we say that the above statement is not founded in ideality—that there is truth in it; for we have ourselves often noticed with pleasure the peculiarity to which our informant refers. Yes, the Commercial Department of the University of Notre Dame can boast that, with equal talent on the part of the student, it does not allow itself to be excelled by any business college in the country in anything that goes to make a good, practical commercial education; hence it is that students bearing a diploma from our Commercial Faculty here find ready access into the service of the largest and best business houses in the country.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given this evening in Washington Hall:
Music.....................................University Band
Music................................University	Orchestra
French Address...............................J.	Castenado
Greek Address...................................L. Evers
Latin Address...................................A. Hertzog
Music ................................University Orchestra
Address from Junior Department...............F.	W. Bloom
German Address............................E. Piekenbrock
Address from Senior Department................J. J. Quinn
Song and Chorus..........................................
Address from Minim Department...................J. Coghlin
Music ...............................University	Orchestra
Prologue..................................Gustave Schnull
Music.....................................University Band
Part IL
THE HIDDEN GEM.’
A Drama in Two Acts, by the late Cardinal Wiseman.
Euphemianus........ Alexius.............
Carinus............ Proculus............
Eusebius	 Bibulus	 Davus	 Ursulas	 Verna	 Gaunio	 Imperial Chamberlain Officer	 1st Attendant...... 2d “	.......
3d “	.......
4th “	.......
5th “	.......
1st Robber......... 2d “ ..............
Other Attendants.
...Albert J. Zahm • ....Frank W. Bloom .Kickham L. Scanlan .George H. Donnelly ....M. J. Burns .. .Frank T. McGrath ....Edward Ewell ....J. Frank Mug ....John A. Gibbons William J. McCarthy ....John G. Brady ....Alexander Rietz ....Frank Pleins ....George Orr ....Frank Clarke ....Edmund Walter ....John Nelson ...Frank W. Weisert ....Roger Williams
Alexander Caren William Rietz • Frank Griever Jas. Murphy
Between the Acts the University Band will play. During the play the Senior Orchestra will furnish the music.
TABLEAU.
Prologue..........•..................George	H. Donnelly
Closing Remarks.......................................
Music...................................University Band
ItoH of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, A. J. Burger, J. B- Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Congar, G. P. Cassidy, T. Conlan, H. Connolly, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, C. E. Cavanagh, G. H. Cochrane, C. K. De Vries, J. H. Delaney, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, M. English, A. J. Hertzog, L. Horne, J. P. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, J. M. Hermann, J.Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, J. R. Kelly, A. A. Lent, M. Laughlin, W. J. Murphy, C. F. Mueller, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, J. J. McErlain, M. J. McEniry, H. Nevans, R. E. O’Brien, W. O’Brine, L. Proctor, 3. S. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, J. J. Shugrue, T. 8. Summers, R. D. Stewart, G. S. Sugg, T. W. Simms, P. Shea, J. Scheiber, J. Sleuzak, C. L. Stuckey, P. Vogle, F. Williams F. X. Wall, E. Ward, A. W. Widdicombe, C. Walsh, J. Harrison, T. Chalfant, M. H. Bannon, Thos. Machey, F. W. Cavanaugh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brink-man, F. W. Bloom, J. C. Casey, G. C. Castenado, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren. W. D. Cannon, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, E. D. Dimick, E. J. Ewell, O. C. Eigholz, J. M. Eisenhauer, R. L. French, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, J. G. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, E. G. Gallagher, F. Glade, F. Gaffney, F. Gaever, J. L. Halle, H. M. Haerly, J. Kurz, James Kennedy, E. Murphy, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, D. Reidy, J. F. Mug, A. 8. Rock, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Schneider, G. A Schnull, E. G. Sugg,
96
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. K. Schobey, C. P. Van Alourick, F. E. Weisert, R. P. Williams, E. 8. Walters, A. F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. A. McDevitt, P. F. Brady, W. L. Coghlin, J. J. Gordon, B. Crowe, W. F. Rheinhardt, J. 8. Courtney, G. Woodson, A. Hartrath, C. S. McGrath, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, H. W. Bachmann, J. 8. McGrath, H. C. McDonald, J. J. Inderrieden, A. EL Chirhart, F. A. Campau, O. Farrelly, N. P. Nelson, Thos. McGrath, C. J. Welty, J. Chaves, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, C. M. Long, J. 8. Garrity, F. T. Garrity, E. 8. Chirhart, L. J. Young, A. F. Schmuckle, F. Farrelly, W. Zimmerman, E. C. Esmer, A. Campau, E. Howard.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. Coleman, L. Evers, A. Hertzog, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, J. Sleuzak, AL J. McCue, J. A. Burger, J. P. Kinney, W. A. Widdicombe, R. Russell, C. Clarke, Geo. Sugg, G. Cassidy, A. B. Cougar, J..B. Berteling, C. K. De Vries, J. B. McGrath, T. W. Bloom, M. J. Burns.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have be°n the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—A. Hertzog, J. B. McGrath, W. A. Widdicombe, H. W. Nevans, F. Bloom; Greek—L. Evers, J. Kinney, F. Bloom, J. p. Quinn, R. Russell, EL Niles; Botany—C. Clarke, C. K. D. Vries; Physiology--------------- ; Algebra-----; Geometry—E. Murphy, M. Burns, H. Niles, R. O’Brien ; Trigonometry—F. Bloom: G- n«-ral Geometry and Calculus----; Mechanics—M. McCue, A. Burger; Geology-------------; English Composition—AL McEmry, M. H. Bannon; Rhetoric---------; English Literature-; Logic—J. P. Quinn, J. Shugrue, AL AfcCue, J. Berteling, W. Murph v; Al<>■ al Philosophy—J. J. Quinn; History—W. Alurphy, L. Evets, J. J. Shugrue, C. Clarke, H. Nevans, W. Arnold. M. .1. McCue; Physics—M. J. McCue, J. A. Burger, J. P. Kinney; Chemistry— A. B. Congar.

—Veiy Bev. Father General’s feast-day is the absorbing topic.
—The Seniors enjoyed the last general recreation walk. Apples taste best fresh from the trees, and the gain is double —rosy apples and rosy cheeks.
—We are glad to hear of the great success of the Academy at Salt Lake. The frequent demands for teachers from the Mother House show the fact
—All feel thankful to God for the restoration of health to Mrs. P. B. Ewing of Lancaster, Ohio. She will soon be able to travel, and purposes a visit to St. Mary’s shrines.
—The Seniors enjoy themselves playing croquet and other games. Among them are several who are equal to the pleasant task of enliving others, and there will be no lack of meriy evenings during the winter. ■ Such dispositions brighten and penetrate the gloom of others like sunbeams.
—The Juniors and Minims feel highly honored, as their Entertainment was graced by Very Rev. Father General and all the authorities of St. Alary’s. Gotten up by themselves, of course it was entertaining. Dialogues,—and if there was a little momentary forgetfulnss the Very Rev. Father’s evident pleasure made all smooth. We hope next time their invitations will be more general.
—ThejSociety of the Children of Alary met on the first Sunday of the month, as usual. Their Directress appointed, pro tem., Miss Sarah Aloran, President; Aliss Elizabeth Kirchner, Vice-President; Miss Ellen Galen, Secretary;
Aliss Zoe Papin, Treasurer; Aliss Marv Usselman, Librarian ; Aliss Alary Danaher, Sacristan. 5. short instruction was given on “Devotion to the Guardian Angels.”
—The following are the names of the aspirants to the Sodality of the Holy Angels who were received in the Chapel of Loreto by Rev. Father Shortis on Wednesday, the Feast of the Guardian Angels: Misses Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux, Elise Dallas, Alary Garrity, Alaude Casey, Blanche Garrity, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Sophia Papin, Alary Poquette, Jane AIcGrath, Mary Chirhart, and Elizabeth Considine.
—On Saturday night, nocturnal adoration falling on the eve of Rosary Sunday, the Catholic pupils had the happiness of spending in turn one hour before the Blessed Sacrament. Such moments of bliss are of unknown worth: to watch in prayer with Jesus, in company with the Angels of i he sanctuary. The Sodality of the Rosary went in pro-cesson loLoreto for the recitation of the full Chaplet to hon<<r their beloved Patroness.
—Afier the reading of good notes last Sunday evening we v- ere agreeably entertained by members from the Elocution Class.' The first was selected from Father Faber, and r> ad by Aliss Cavenor. ' Aliss Keenan read from “Les Martyrs,’’ livre 23, par Chateaubriand. Aliss Usselman fol-lorted with a German selection, by K. Dietz. A humorous sketch from Cranch was read by Aliss Winston, in two voices. Rev. Thos. Hayes addressed the young ladies in a happy manner on the pleasure he had received in listening to their English and foreign selections.
—Aliss Rose Devoto, a post-graduate of ’74, is residing at St. Alary’s this year. She has been teaching very successfully a large class of vocal and instrumental pupils, the last two years, at St. Mary’s of Utah, Salt Lake City. Apropos many thanks are due to her for the elegant gold ciiaiice she presented to the chapel last Christmas. Archbishop Alemany consecrated it especially for the Sisters’ private chapel. The Sisters at Logansport are also the lecipients of a handsome Brussels carpet and lace curtains. Such donations are doubly acceptable coming from the generous promptings of a grateful heart.
—Sunday, the Feast of Our Lady of the Rosary, Rev. Father Hayes gave an eloquent sermon on the subject of the form of prayer known as the Beads. Father Hayes has spent the best part of his life as a missionary among the Indians in Alexico and Colorado, and is now on his way to Rome on business connected with the spiritual wants of that vast field for apostolic labors. He finds many ’ changes here. He never ceases to recall the events of his boyhood, when a student at Notre Dame, and the lessons of faith acquired there which have sustained him in the hardships of the plains and perils from all quarters.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mrs. C. J. Warren and daughter, Portland, lonna Co. Mich.; Dr. A. P. Clarke, Baltimore, Md.; Anthony Clarke, Baltimore, Md.; Aliss Nettie Sampson, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. O’Neil, Plymouth, Ind.; Mrs. G. W. Marsh, Plymouth, Ind.; Airs. H. Staley, Plymouth, Ind.; Airs. M. G. Rollins, Almont, Mich.; Airs. Francis' Taylor, St. Joseph, Mich.; Aliss Prager, Niles; Rev. Thomas A. Hayes, Del Norte, Colorado; Aliss T. O’Connell, Plymouth, Ind.; Aliss Day, Plymouth; Miss Cora Townsend, Ann Arbor, Alich.; Aliss J. Alurphy, Cleveland, Ohio; Geo. W. Needles, Columbus, Ohio; Air. Gubbing, Stark Co., Ohio; George Gulling, Plymouth; George Reecey, Canton, Ohio; Aliss C. Reecey, Canton, Ohio; Aliss M. Sampson, Buchanan, Mich.; J. J. Staley, Plymouth, Mich.
BoH of Honor. ■
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk.
1st 8eniok Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn,Eleanor Keenan, Alary MeGrath, Anna Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney, Mary Birch.
2d 8r. Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Grace Glasser, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cavenor, Jessie Grover, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Sullivan, Alice Farrell, Marie Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Dan-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	97
aher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Angela Ewing.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Hearsey, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Alecia Done-lan, Adella Geiser, Mary Usselman, Emma Gerrish, Anna Jones, Anna McGrath.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary English, Julia Kingsbury, Ina Capelie, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary Tam, Mary Feehan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Anna Herman, Linda Fox.
Junior Prep.—Misses Annie Orr, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Elise Dallas, Mary Garrity, Sophia Papin, Mary McFadden, Ellen L'oyd.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavois.
TRENCH
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Birch.
3d Class—Miss Genevieve Winston.
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher.
FRENCH CONVERSATION.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Sil-verthorn, Annie McGrath, Hope Russell.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Cavenor, Theresa Walters, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Henrietta Hearsey, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Laura French, Julia Butts.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Re becea Neteler, Theresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Annie Herman^Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh.
3d Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Nainee, Mary l am.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Alice Donelan, M-ry Fitzgerald, Margaret McNamara, Jennie Sunderland, Mary Z m-mermann, Julia Butts.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Krchner, Minerva Spier, Theresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Ro»-ing.	_	•
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell. Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Sullivan, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath..
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Catharine Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Henrietta Hearsey, Emma Gerrish, Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Annie Cavenor.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Sarah Purdy, Marie Platten-burg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Lulu Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury. Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Elise Dallas, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Tam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.
9ru Class—Misses Minna Fisk, Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Martha Zimmerman, Manuelita Chaves.
Harp—Miss Galen.
Organ— Miss Criep.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Theresa Walters.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Leota Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Hackett, Clara Silverthorn, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Anna Woodin, Aurelia Mul-hall.
5th Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Hearsey, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Annie Jones, Mary English, Mary Birch, Charlotte Van Namee, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Zoe Papin, Leota Buck.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Hope Russell, Elizabeth Schwass, Laura French, Jessie Grover, Marie Dallas, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts, Angela Dillon, Ellena Thomas, Aurelia Mulhall, Minna Loeber, Catharine Campbell, Sophie Papin, Maud Casey, Julia Kingsbury.
PAINTING IN "WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Rebecca Neteler.
3n Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plat-teuburg.
OIL PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Sarah Moran.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Mi=ses Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Anna Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Zoe Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Cordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Ebzabeth Walsh. Alice Farrell, Marie Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Agues Brown, Annie Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sulliva”, Philomena Wolford, Jessie Grover, Theresa Walters, Maty Usselman, Henrietta Hearsey, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Ro-ing. Adella Geiser, Margaret MeNamara, Angela Dillon Alecia Donelan, Anna Cortright. Mary Carroll, Julia Barnes,Maty Mull n, Ellena Thomas, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Tam, Alma Moe, M. Eng ish, Mary Fitzgerald, Miry Ludwig, Della McKerlie,Anna Herman, Annie Purdy, Teresa Zahm,par excellence. Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Mary McGrath, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Harriet Buck, Catharine Lloyd, Grace Glasser, Emma Gerrish, Anna Jones, Louisa Neu, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Hake, Mary Campbell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Marie Dalias, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Maud Casey, Jane McGrath, Mary Chirhart, Mary Poquette, par excellence. Misses Marv Feehan, Laura French, Blanche Garrity, Julia Butt®, Mary Garrity, Mary Lyons, Sophie Papin, Julia Cleary, Elise Papin, Elise Lavois, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esiner, Martha Zimmerman.
Lessons in Music.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South B'-nd, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Beud, Niles, Mishawaka and the ser-rounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. O. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rey. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, will be a sufficient guarantee: .
Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.
From my own experience and that of others, 1 know' him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music acd trainer of a choir.
Ever since he ceased his connection with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oakley, 8. J.
98
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame, USTJDT^jSTAA-Founded 1842*	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and. faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will_ be mailed on application to
Very Eev. W. Corby, C. S. 0., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m.	4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation....... ......... 5	00p.m.	9	45a.m
Night Express....................  10	00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KAKSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
PBOPBIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
.	P. SHICKEY.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9,50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 (5am; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
4= 50 and 4, pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
8 20 a m.	"
4, 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40;
Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chi-caso, 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. .
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt..
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1877.
Northward Trains, r		No. 5.* Peru and Mich. City Ex.		No.'3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W.,Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis. .. “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		....	6.10 P. M 8.30 “ 9.25 “		12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “		7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Pent	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte*	 “ Michigan City...		9.30 P. M. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.				11.02 A. M. 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City .. “ La Porte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 11.47 “ 1.40 “		8.05 P. M. 8.55 A. M. 10.33 “ 12.35 “			
Lv. Peru	.'	 “ Kokomo	 “ Indianapolis....	2.00 P. M. 3.05 “ 5.25 “		12.40 A. M. 1.45 “ 4.00 “			6.10 A. M. 7.05	“ 9.35	“
Palace Sleeping Cars are attached to trains leaving Indianapolis at 6.10 p. m„ Michigan City at 8.05 p. m. Passengers may remain in the Sleeping Cars during the day.
F. P. Wade,	v. t. Malott,
G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis. Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
IS FORMATION WASTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years. Was a Minim in 1864 aid 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St. Louis, Mo.
Please address,	“ The Scholastic.”
Look to Your Health.

Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CL ark ST., offlosite asnnan House,
Chicago, Illinois.
1	' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
99
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.	_
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.	.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5: Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address,
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. catholic joubhal
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LATE HOL? FATHER PIUS II, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO UH
And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.

Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,	.
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author oe “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howb, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS:
One Year................................................$ 2 50
Five Years........................................•.....10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each).........20 00
A-specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and
. County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. 0 pedal attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARril LJ Ft J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE C A.TIIOE TO COETJNEBIAJN’. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, |2 per annum.
D. A. Clabkb, or ’70.
THE A. Vjuj M A.Ft IA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip ion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
THE BOND HOTTjSE, a. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I?. FL x jn jN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QfS CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0 CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN A HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJNNTUNG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
TOHN E. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office •J 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE*DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61)
Attorney at. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’y° at. Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. 3. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
VTTILLIA M J. CL A RKE (of 74). Attorney at Law, V V Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbas. O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY—of ’69,—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collecttons promptly attended to
J Oil IN I>. MoCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Pnblic, Lancaster, Ohio.
Daniel b. hibbard, Jr., (ofto), circuit*
Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan.	sep 14-ly
100
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
■ AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Time Table-Noy 11,1877.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	-Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago.... “ Mich. City.. “ Niles . “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit ..	7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 31 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48; “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 0 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 2li “ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
					
	’Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago. .	7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 29 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.1 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6'50 p nf 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 *• 4 15 “ 6 45 ‘
iViles and South 15end Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 pm. “ N. Dame— 8F2 •	6 38 “ Ar. Nih-s— 9 25	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 n.tn “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
'Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen'l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its	■
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA. LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central ?»Iinnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. ~ ItB
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS -are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket - " agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast. Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		4.45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,		7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.				
	fro. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,		8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.20 “	2.4S “	
Crestline	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,		2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 P.M.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City. Philadelphia and. New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for'sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, S775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 8500
CITY OF PARIS, 8080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the
Atlantic.	'
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB AVILE,
Foreign Exchange and P aesage Agent, oct5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.