Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disco ^iasi semper 'victiims; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 15, 1881.
Number 6.
The Bells’ Message.
SONNET.
The day is spent, and all is still. Above
The silvery stars do shine with kindly light From out the firmament, and through the night Bear messages to men of God’s great love.
A solemn hush lulls nature to repose;
“He giveth His beloved sleep ” ; the kiss
Of peace doth fall on weary eyes—the bliss Of rest. But list! a knell that louder grows
’Tis sorrow’s voice on summer breezes blown From East to West, the sound of passing bells, Now faint, now low. Ah! night’s tranquility Is waken’d. Lo! the tocsin’s tearful tone !
The startled sleepers know the tale it tells— A soul is severed from mortality!
H. W. I. G., in Catholic Telegraph.
..-» — I----------
Harmony in Nature.
BY JOHN M. GEARIN.
Is it true that “harmony is the soul of the beautiful”? Is it true that in those chef-d’ceuvres of painting, those dreamy landscapes of Lorraine; those wild and majestic creations of Salvator Rosa; those breathing, beautiful, fascinating figures of Raphael,—’tis harmony of design and execution that clothes' the thought of the great artist with that garb of beauty and attraction which the mind loves to dwell upon in the Villa Ufadama, the Transfiguration, or the Attilus Regulus ? Is it true that in beautiful scenery, beautiful music, or beautiful painting, our senses are entranced not so much by the perfection of each part as by the harmony of the whole? Is it true that even poetry leads captive the feelings and imagination less by isolated, though striking and wonderful gems of thought, than by a harmonious collection of less splendid images? ’Tis needless to answer these questions, experience changes them from interrogations to affirmations; and, even without the aid of experiment, we instinctively feel that beauty without harmony is a myth, a monstrous conception, a libel on the finest feelings of our nature, a thing inconsistent with itself and revolting to the warmest impulses of the soul. Who shall say, then, that nature is not supremely beautiful? Who, possessed of a soul,.and susceptible to the influences of beauty, can look around him, and, viewing the external world as it is, say that he does not find beauty at every glance? Truly is nature beautiful; for everywhere, from a crystal of granite or spar
to the brilliantly carved sapphire or diamond; from the lowest specimen of cryptogams to the most perfect representative of the flowery creation; from a protozoan, almost without shape, to man the type of animal structure and perfection, harmony reigns supreme, and nature challenges our criticism and commands our admiration. In this, as in all else, nature is man’s guide, and displays an ideal perfection which he, even in his loftiest aspirations, can never equal. We speak of harmony in music, and proudly mention the names of the old masters who have earned immortal fame by their transcendent genius and have left behind them models almost inimitable and a science almost perfect. But is nature excelled ? The lark, rising and pouring forth her matinal hymn of joy to her Creator, could have taught Mozart; and Hayden might have found in the rich, entrancing song of the nightingale a degree of harmony that his creation has, indeed, imitated but not equalled, and none can ever excell. In our galleries of art and conservatories we display models of sculpture, and wonder exceedingly at the minute perfection of the work of the artist. We gaze with rapture on a Venus de Medicis and almost speak to it as to a living creature. A shapeless mass of stone has been chiselled into a form apparently perfect; a piece broken off from a block of marble has almost assumed vitality at the command of the sculptor, and the blood appears to course through thpse blue veins which seem as natural as these on our own arm. What more would we ask, do you say ? Is not this perfect harmony? That the work is admirable, we grant you, that the skill of the artist was wonderfully perfect, we will allow, but nature is not equalled. Take a gnat, the most insignificant insect one can imagine. See those wings that move with such rapidity as to be scarcely perceptible, vibrating, as they do, 15,000 times in a second. They are not simple, but compound, and the muscular exertion which keeps them in motion is of the most complex order, but they never interfere with each other; an insect never loses his balance, the movement is harmonious throughout. And the eyes! what harmony is not to be found in them ? One would think that they were composed of single lenses, but they are not. We see, as we imagine, two eyes only; but each of these is but a combination of many lenses,—many eyes, in fact, yet all formed with such harmony and perfection as to move in union with each other and instantaneously concentrate light on a common focus. What strange mechanism and what wonderful sculpturing has achieved this result? Can man produce its equal? Can human genius conceive of harmony equal to this ? Michael Angelo, with all his greatness, could never carve those eyes and wings; and Phidias, the grand master of his art, would have produced but the caricature of a gnat. In painting, too, is not nature our guide, our master? Claude Lorraine
72
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
could paint an Italian sunset, and throw on canvas that gorgeous flood of light, that melting beauty, that diffused splendor, that evanescent halo of glory that crowns the departing day, yet in all his sublime creations, not one can satisfy us for the original, not one can overpower and entrance the soul like that which he meant to portray. We feel that there is something wanting—the harmony is not there. Rosa Bonheur, with a delicate imagination and a lively play of fancy, passionately loved rural scenery and ' admirably delineated it, yet there is a sweet harmony of color, a merging of light into shade, a grouping of tints, and a chastening influence of variety which she could never paint, which she could never conceive; and in this nature has surpassed her. Pluck a rose and examine its shading; think you, could the greatest artist have painted it as it is ? Never! ’Tis the work of nature, and nature alone could have done it. And what wonderfu 1 harmony we find depicted in some of the wild flowers of the forest : A delicate heather-bell, blushing with beauty and drooping ’neath the shade of surrounding foliage, is dyed and executed far more exquisitely than Meissonier or Poussin could have done it. Indeed, the vegetable world is full of examples exhibiting to man the most perfect types of ideal harmony. Not only are flowers colored and tinted with harmonious perfection, but even in the formation of these, as in every other plant we can discover, that the most perfect harmony exists.
But how are we to study this new kind of harmony—this new species of beauty? The study is a science in itself, and, from the very subjects of which it treats, the most attractive of the natural sciences. A natural curiosity and admiration for nature would seem to have prompted men to study this science. Drop a seed in the ground. It appears dead, and unendowed with even the slightest vitality; but in a few months the plantlet may be seen springing fresh from the soil and mounting rapidly upwards, soon to spread out in luxuriant and richly-varigated foliage and tower aloft with its wealth of drooping branches and waving blossoms. Another seed planted in the same soil would develop into a tender flower, and nestle under the protecting foliage of its more sturdy neighbor, shedding • grace and beauty on the spot which gave it birth. How do these different actions take place ? By what law does the seed of a pine develop into an immense forest tree, while that of the lily reproduces its parent, a fragile, beautiful creature, coming to maturity ere the pine has scarcely made its appearance, and drooping and passing away ere the latter has dropped its first leaves ? Here is a study for the intellect, and well has man grappled with it; nobly has he sought out the solution of this problem of creation, and all honor to those who have devoted their lives to the difficult task. We said difficult,—perhaps we should have used another word. That it required years of patient labor and untiring research to gain the end they had in view, is true, no doubt; but they worked in a glorious field of labor; and among the briers and dreary wastes that environed their path, beautiful flowers and delightfully limpid streams were placed, and science crowned the brows of her votaries with laurel and roses plucked from among nature’s own treasures. How charming is the contemplation of the vegetable creation! How the soul loves to drink in the beauty of a sunny landscape, with its drooping and luxuriant foliage, its embroidery of rich and ever-changing vegetation wrapped in its royal mantle of verdure and studded over and around with flowers of
surpassing beauty and loveliness! God manifests Himself to man in a thousand ways. The sun, the moon, the silvery stars, revolving through space for endless years, and at an infinite distance from us, proclaim in terms unmistakable and undeniable, the great Creator who placed them in their orbits, who gave the first grand impulse of movement that has remained with them, and will impel them onward till the end of time. So, also, does the vegetable world manifest the workings of its God. The Invisible cause speaks through the visible effect; the image of the Creator is seen amid the clustering beauties of the thing created; the Infinite is revealed in the finite; man is addressed by his God. When we read: “ See the lilies of the field: Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed as one of these,” we feel it to be true; we feel that those beautiful flowers are clad in a mantle of purity and sanctity, and by their very innocence and attractiveness are a standing satire on crime and irreligion. What more fitting emblem of the living God than a flower, a lily ? What can be purer than it in its virginal sweetness ? Untouched, untarnished, with the breath of its Creator still fresh upon its expanding glories, is it not the type of purity and virtue ? It calls back to us what we were once, and may be again; and we see pictured in its folded sweetness the gentleness and purity of that other lily of Juda,—the lily of the Christian world—our lovely Queen, Mary.
Art, Music, and Litertaure.
—Charles Lamb remarked of one of his critics: “ The/ more I think of him, the less I think of him.”
—Prof. Paley has no belief in a historical Troy or a historical Homer, and considers the Iliad to have been compiled at Athens, from several Cyclic poems, about the time of the great Attic tragedians.
—Reginald Grazzini, of Florence, has carried off the prize offered by the Royal Musical Institute of that city for the best six-part setting of the psalm, Benedicam Bominum in ommi tempore.—American Art Journal.
—It is a noteworthy fact that a house which may be kept closed at noon, in the midst of the blistering heat of summer, is invariably open from top to bottom when the girl of the family pipes up in the evening. It probably makes the dear creature perspire to sing with closed windows, and so the neighborhood listens to the ravishing strains of
“ Ooo do not wa-a-ake me, doughnut wake me, Le-he-he-het me dree-heem again.”
O the bitter sarcasm of asking people not to wake her when she is keeping the whole neighborhood from its natural sleep.
—The charming writer H. H. is led astray a little in her last Atlantic essay. The copy of Frithjof’s Saga, which , she bought a Christiania, was not the original. The work was written by Archbishop Esaias Tegnar, in Swedish;
the Norwegian edition is only a translation, and a very poor one at that. The Norsemen jealously claim the hero and heroine, brave Frithjof and beauteous Ingeborg, both are theirs; but the glory of the immortal verse is the proud portion of the Swedes. The landsmen of the good old Archbishop know his poem by heart. Many a time and oft we have listened with delight, while some poor, illiterate Scandinavian sailor, in a sort of chanted monotone recited the loves of the ill-fated pair, to the accompaniment of the wash of the wild waves.—Catholic Telegraph.
Adown the crowded street I stray, Nor heed the jostling throng, For through my dreaming brain to-day There flits the ghost of song— When comes a rude, stentorian voice, Half bellow and half screech:	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
73
“ Here’s Goldsmith, Byron. Moore—your choice For half a dollar each! ”
So such is fame, for which we strive Through long and weary years, And keep our fainting hopes alive With mingled prayers and tears.
Yet happy he whose work is crowned— Who this blest goal may reach—
To take his place with those renowned, At “ half a dollar each.”
Eliot Ryder.
—“It is not generally known that Cardinal Newman, early in life, had some thoughts of devoting himself to a journalistic career. When he was a young man at Oxford, in anything but affluent circumstances, he made such an impression upon the directors of the Times, by some letters on education, which he contributed to that journal, under the nom de plume ‘ Catbolicus,’ that he was offered an engagement on their staff at a very handsome salary. £1,800 per annum is the figure that report says was mentioned. ‘ Shall I be free,’ asked the young man to whom this tempting offer was made, ‘to say what I think ? ’ The reply may be imagined, and Newman declined the proposal, although at the moment the income offered would have been very welcome. How different might have been the course of recent English history if Newman had yielded to the temptation, or the Times had promised him the liberty ‘ to say what he thought ? ’ ” —Ex.
—Miss Kellogg found many female American musical students in Italy in a sorry plight, and shrinking from letting their disappointment and difficulty be known at home. In regard to the matter of sending young women to Italy to study music, she says: “ I would say to mothers whose young daughters are leaving home with delusive dreams of sunny days in Italy and an easy path to success: Keep your daughter at home unless you can give her protection in watchful friends and an independent income. I say to you mothers, that you are sending your daughters into temptation that you do not appreciate. They will be tried and tempted as you cannot imagine. My investigations in Italy have led me to believe your daughters need not go abroad, that we have good masters here. I think it entirely unnecessary for their ordinary musical education. When that is finished, send them to Italy for a short period to receive the finishing touches and to learn certain roles, and then to return. Do not think that average merit will open the stage door of Italian opera-houses. It will not. And I say this to you on the word of more than one, of more than fifty American girls, whom I saw there,—as many of whom as I could I sent to their homes in America.”—American Art Journal.
—The history of music may be said to commence with the foundation of the first music school ever established, that of Pope Sylvester, in Rome, a. d. 330. In 374 St. Ambrose arranged the first series of music scales, which were four in number, and which have since been known as the Authentic Mode. About twenty years later, St. Gregory added four more scales, retaining those of his predecessor, and the entire Gregorian system of scales were made use of by the most enlightened nations of that early period. About the middle of the 7th century the organ was introduced in churches by Pope Vital-ianus; and a system of harmony was invented (by Huck-bald, a Flemish monk, whose theories were afterwards, in the lltb century, dveloped and in a measure perfected by Guido. In the year 1200, Franco introduced a defined method of musical rhythm by forms of notes; and a few years later there are evidences of musical develope-ment in England, when, in 1235, Odington, an ecclesiastic, wrote a treatise on music, and a famous English composition, “ Sumer is a Cumen in,” also appeared. From 1320 to 1500, masses, motets, and compositions in fugal style, were written by various authors; and in 1550 orata-rios first appeared, originating with St. Philip de Neri. —Boston Home Journal.	’
The third Christmas-card prize competition of L. Prang & Co. will be held in November. There will be two sets of four prizes each, amounting in all to $4,000,
Scientific Notes.
—Cocoa trees produce nothing for ten or twelve years, and then bear fruit annually for fifty years.
—The poison of a bee sting may be forced out by pressing the barrel of a small key firmly for a minute over the wound. No wound or swelling will result.
—An ingenious clock set up at Brussels needs no winding and attains the maximum of regularity by a simple mechanism. It is kept in motion by a current of air.
—The subterranean telegraph, which connects 221 German cities and country-places, has been completed. The entire length of the subterranean wire is 5,500,000 kilometers, or about 3,415,500 miles.
—It is affirmed by medical psychologists that indigo dyers become melancholy, and those who dye scarlet, choleric. Our phrase, “the’blue devils,” may, therefore, derive its existence from a scientific fact.
—The hot earth in the vicinity of Linkville, Oregon, is a great curiosity. Through this earth is constantly ascending a hot vapor, and both, earth and vapor, are strongly impregnated with remarkable curative properties.
—The first who discovered the salt springs of Salina, N. Y., was the Jesuit Father le Moyne, in 1654, and the first who worked the copper of Lake Superior was the Jesuit lay-brother, Giles Mazier, about 1675, who also made a monstrance of native silver.
—Experiments by German scientists in ascertaining the peculiarities of the electric light, establish the fact that it is not only healthier than other methods of illumination in leaving’the air purer, but that it increases the power of eye-vision in some respects, especially in distinguishing colors.
—The unicorn is said to exist still in the enterior of Thibet. It is there called the one-horned tso-po. Its hoofs are divided; it is about twelve or thirteen hands high; it is extremely wild and fierce, yet associating in large herds. Its tail is shaped like that of a boar, and its horn, which is curved, grows out of its forehead. It is seldom caught alive, but the Tartars frequently shoot it, and use its flesh for food.	,
—The equatorial diameter of the earth is greater than the polar by some thirty-four miles. While the centre of gravity remains as now, the polar and equatorial regions will remain substantially the same; but if from any cause the polar shall preponderate, then a change in polarity will ensue. Such, without doubt, was the case when the tropical elephants were encased in the icebergs of Nova Zembla and Spitbzergen.	.
—The paintings of the ancient Egyptians show that we cannot mix paint, as well as they. In manufacturing metals they were our superiors. They made a sword so exquisitely that it could be put in a sheath coiled up like a snake, without breaking. They had the steamboat and canal 5,000 years ago, and they had the art of moving immense masses of rock, weighing 1,000 tons each. The pyramid, built 1,500 years B. C., employed 360,000 men for twenty years. Twelve billions, seven hundred and sixty millions pounds of granite were used in its construction, and in dimensions it was 460 feet high.
—Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, believes that the dust of our cities is a serious source of disease. “ When we reflect,” he says, “ that this is the dried and pulverized dirt and filth of our streets, derived from all kinds of refuse matter, the dangerous qualities may be suspected, if they are not clearly obvious. Conveyed by the winds, it is diffused everywhere, and settles upon, and adheres to everything. We inhale it, drink it, and eat it with our food. A speck of mud on our bread excites disgust, but who minds the same thing when it is nothing but a little dust ? If our food, just brought from the market or provision store, is examined with a microscope, it is found to teem with particles of dust, consisting of fine sand, bits of hay, straw, filaments of cotton from old paper and rags, wood fiber, hair and scurf scales of man and beast, starch grains, spores, etc. Recent investigations render it probable that dust contains the germs of decomposition, gangrene and contagious diseases,”	'
74
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
College Gossip.
—President Garfield was a Trustee and warm supporter of Williams College, and it is a sorrowful fact, as President Carter has remarked, that two pistol shots have taken away two of Williams’s Trustees this summer, referring to President Garfield and Judge Colt of Pittsfield.
—The editor of the New Brunswick, New Jersey, Times, printed something which the students of Rutgers’ College considered disparaging of the late Paesident, and they bespattered his office with ink. How lawlessness begets lawlessness! Guteau’s crime aroused a sentiment that justifies Mason’s crime and the students’ misdemeanor.—Ex.
—Dr. Frederick L. Ritter, of Vassar College, is completing a new work on the “ Historical Development of Music in America from the Landing of the Pilgrims to our Present Time,” which he intends to bring out in the winter. The thought is a happy one, and the work could hardly be in better hands. Dr. Ritter’s “History of Music from the Christian Era to the Present Time” has already reached a third edition.
—The Rev. F. F. Larkin called on King Kalakaua. The reverend gentleman was for a brief period a resident of Honolulu, and acted a leading part in establishing a college in that city. Though not a Catholic, the King is a man of enlarged and liberal views, and received the project with favor, and lent it his cordial co-operation. The college now has about 300 pupils, and four of his Majesty’s nephews have been educated within its walls.— Catholic Review.
—At a recent examination in a girls’ school the question was put to a class of little ones, “ Who makes the laws of our Government?” “Congress,” was the ready reply. “How is Congress divided?” was the next question. A little girl in the class raised her hand. “Well,” said the examiner, “ Miss Sally, what do you say the answer is?” Instantly, with an air of confidence as well as triumph, the answer came: “ Civilized, half-civilized, and savage.”—Ex.
—The Boston Home Journal says: “The female pupils of the Paris Conservatoire have been so extravagant of late in the matter of dress, at the examinations, that the director, Ambroise Thomas, has decided that in future all candidates for examination shall appear in muslin dresses. The same rule applied to the members of our own high schools, colleges, conservatories, etc., would have a beneficial effect.” We would inform the Journal that this rule has been for some time insisted upon at St. Mary’s Academy, an institution for young ladies, about a mile distant, and so rigidly is it enforced that any infraction of the same loses all honors, diplomas, etc., even for graduates.—[Ed. Scholastic.]
—One of the solid men of Boston died a few days since whose life has some very useful hints for our wealthy men. The late Henry F. Durant commenced his career as a lawyer, and he rose to a high position at the Bar, achieving both fame and fortune. Twenty years ago he abandoned his chosen profession and entered upon a mercantile career, in which he took an equally high position and added still more to his fortune. Some time after he commenced business, he was converted to religion and entered upon the work of an evangelist, in which he was also eminently successful, the late Vice-President, Henry Wilson, being among his converts. It was during this period that he conceived the idea of building Wellesley College as a memorial to his daughter. In this work he was aided by his large-hearted wife, and the result of their joint efforts is one of the finest institutions for young women in the land—a memorial not only of his daughter’s worth but of his own generosity. Though Matthew Vassar has been dead many years, his name is still affectionately remembered, in connection with the institution he founded, and Wellesley College will equally recall the name of Mr. Durant in years to come. The splendid monuments which these two men have erected ought to suggest to • our wealthy men other similar enterprises which they might establish in their lifetime, which they might live to see in a flourishing condition, and which they might leave as proud monuments to their memory.—Chicago Tribune,
—We hear a great deal about rings, nowadays, and noth ing very good of them, either. I heard of a ring, the other day, that told a story—in fact its own story. The ring glistened on the finger of a washer-woman through the suds in a tub, and thus betrayed a secret. The lady of a certain house in this city had advertised for a laundress to come to her house on certain days. The advertisement was responded to by a neat, rather refined-looking woman. When the laundress had begun her work the lady saw shining, on a shapely hand, a pretty and peculiar ring. She requested the privilege of looking at it; the woman hesitated a moment and then, nervously, held out her hand. “ That is a class-ring,” said the lady. “It is,” was the response of the laundress, as she turned her face away. “ Where did you get it ?” asked the lady, emboldened, perhaps, by the manner of the wearer of the ring. “ It is my husband’s.” “At what college did he graduate?” “At Yale.” “ In what class ?” “ The class of ’75.” That ended the interview for the time, as the lady could by no means get from the washer-woman the name of her husband. The lady had been thus unlady-like, perhaps, and curious, because her son wore a class-ring exactly like the one in question, and was a graduate in the class of ’75, at Yale. She told him the story, and one night he followed the laundress to her rooms in Michigan Avenue, where he found an old class-mate and college-chum, pouring over some second-hand law-books. He works in the day time and so does his trump of a wife. One day he will be admitted to the bar, he will work hard, she will help him, and when they are rich they can afford to smile at the story of the ring—which is strictly true.—Chicago Letter.
Exchanges.
—As will be seen by referring to their advertisement, Messrs. Rowell and Hickox, publishers of The American Shorthand Writer, have removed from Vineland, N. J., to Boston, Mass., and have opened the most complete school of Phonography in the United States, at 409 Washington Street, in the latter city. Messrs. R. & H. offer young people of both sexes a rare chance to learn Phonography, Practical reporters themselves, they have given during the past year a carefully prepared and elaborate series of lessons in Pitman phonography in their little magazine, The American Shorthand Writer, for $1.50 a year, and corrected gratis, by mail, all the exercises sent them by subscribers. For §1.50, they still offer the past year’s numbers of the Writer, with the same privilege, and the offer holds good until Jan. 1st, when the price of subscription is to be advanced to $2 50. When the fact is known that a full course of instruction taken at their School in Boston costs $75, the rare chance afforded by this exraordinary offer may be realized. Shorthand clerks, not expert, command a salary of $75 a month and upwards, while the standard prices paid for law reporting is $10 a day. Why not get up a Class in Phonography here to learn through this medium? We will head the list ourselves, and receive and forward subscriptions for the Shorthand Writer.
When we said “ our readers of both sexes,” we did not of course, mean to say, or suggest, that our lady friends would need stenography for reporting purposes, although several young women have succeeded remarkably well in that line, but they will find stenography a very useful accomplishment in their reading, correspondence, etc. It is said of the celebrated Madame Swetchine that she left ten volumes of valuable notes upon books she had read in va rious languages, but if she understood stenography or phonetic shorthand writing she could have reduced the ten volumes to three and saved herself five-sixths of the labor of writing. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
T5
—The following, extract which we find in the exchange notes of The Kentucky Military Institute News, explains itself:
“The Notre Dame Scholastic, of Notre Dame, Ind., in its issue for Sept. 17, 13S1, ventures two assertions as sufficient reasons for its conclusions against College Secret Fraternities, when, in a critical attitude, it ventures to glance at our articles on this subject, The first assertion is that College Secret Fraternity means ‘ exclusive clanship, bound by an oath.’ The second assertion isthat College Secret Fraternity is a ‘ servile tie that binds the freeman and makes of him a slave,’ or1 The bond of nature’s nobleman is his word, and he who would exact of him an oatb, in ordinary social intercourse, is unworthy of his friendship.’ The language of ‘poor white trash,’ though used in reference to precisely the same object, has quite a different meaning when used by a master from what it has when used by a slave. In order to get at the weakness in our critic’s assertions the reader must inquire into his environment. His associations tell him that the oath means slavery to authority, because the oath, in his experience in such matters, is administered by authority foreign to and disconnected with the taker of the oath. Not so is it with the free born American citizen who owes no fealty other than to his God, his country, his family and to himself. When the individual becomes by the oath a part of the authority, administering the oath, he cannot become a slave except an oath of eternal fealty to principle and honor characterizes the slave. In College Secret Fraternities it is not, usually, an oath to any authority, but an obligation to principle—to certain principles as eternal as the foundations of the eternal throne of Jehovah. Outside of this obligation to principle there is a fit obligation to secure secrecy in certain forms which are useful alone in the recognition of others as obligated to the same high purpose. The entire ignorance of our critic on this point is wholly pardonable since his experience tells him that a secret oath is to some interest or individual and not to principle. Here, clanship is not the fact, however it may be at other colleges. On the other hand, as a general fact, the members of our secret fraternities are well known to associate freely with all, for the very good reason that their principles require them to do so. If at any college the contrary is the tendency, it must be due to other influences than the secret fraternities. Again, only about one-fourth of the whole number here were members last year and about one-half of the exemplary pupils were in these societies.”
A careful perusal of the K M. l.'s defense (?) of secret societies in college will make it evident that he has been so badly stunned by the truth of our remarks that he cannot find his way,—he is groping in darkness. He says our criticism “ ventures two assertions,” and he proceeds to stale what he supposes those assertions to be. With all respect to him we now inform him that neither of his suppositions are correct (we call them suppositions; they are nothing more). When we speak, we have something to say, ami we say that something in a manner and words that cannot easily or honestly be mistaken. Two other college papers, The Cornell Era, and The Oberlin Review, in commenting upon our criticism had their eyes open and saw things as we put them. The exchange editor of The Oberlin Review says:
“Fairness and appreciation are necessary elements of an exchange editor, and these the Scholastic man possesses in a marked degree. He makes a square hit, when he says, in a criticism of the Kentucky News, that ‘ We fail to see any benefit accruing from Secret Fraternities that cannot as well be had in open societies.’ The truth is that Fraternities, like the mediaeval customs of hazing and fagging, have no proper place in modern institutions of learning, and must sooner or later go.”
So far the Review. Anyone who will read our item in full, as The Cornell Era gives it, and as the K. M. I. News should, in due fairness, have given it, will see how far the latter has gone wide of the mark, in his gropings. We said:
“We would not attend a small college in which secret societies are tolerated. In larger colleges, like the University of Michigan, the evil would not be so great, because an honorable, high-principled young gentleman who did not wish to join a secret society, or half a dozen secret societies, could find meet companionship amongst those who, like himself, disliked the principle of exclusive clanship bound by an oath. We fail to see any benefit accruing from secret fraternities that cannot as well be had in open societies. These may be as exclusively exclusive as the most fastidious may wish, and thus secure all the advantages of secret fraternities, without the servile tie that
binds the freeman and makes of him a slave. The bond of nature’s nobleman is his word, and he who would exact of him an oath, in ordinary social intercourse, is unworthy of his friendship.”
Now, although the K. M. 1. is a small college, and has been hit by our assertion, we did not intend it for that institution alone. Anyone who is not wilfully blind can hardly fail to see that what we meant was, that no benefit could accrue from secretfraternities in college that could hot as well be had in open societies. TheKM. /.exchange editor understands us very well, but is unable to defend his position. This is evident from the manner in which he dodges the question at issue, secret societies in college, and attempts to gull his readers by slanderous assertions against us, and by bringing in matters that are irrelevant. The allusion to our religious belief in the concluding paragraph is uncalled-for and unmanly. He says our associations tell us that the oath means slavery to authority, because the oath, in our experience in such matters, is “ administered by authority foreign to and disconnected with the taker of the oath.” Has the K. M. I. man been gulled by somebody, or is he lying out of the whole cloth ? We tell him flatly that, as free-born American citizens, who owe no fealty other than to our God, our country, our families and ourselves, we, as Catholics, take no secret oath to any interest, individual, or principle. In the Catholic Church, everything is open and above-board, and who will can ascertain for himself the truth of our assertion. Therefore, the gerrymandering of the K. M. I. man will avail him nothing. He may plead ignorance, but ignorance, in this case, can hardly be excused, inasmuch as he had at hand ample means of learning the truth.
Stories about Liszt have become very prolific of late. Here is one from a recent Paris Figaro: At an early date in his career, before he was worshipped by the whole world as the greatest living artist, he once announced a concert in a small Bavarian town. The audience numbered seventeen persons, all told. Instead of returning the money, however, Liszt invited them all to dine with him. “ But,” they replied, “ we came here to hear some music.” “You will have that by and by,” said Liszt. Bo they accepted the invitation, and after dinner Liszt played for them until 2 a. m.
It is a curious fact that great orators seldom fail to be nervous with apprehension when about to make' an important speech. Mr. Gough confesses that he is always in a tremor in coming before an audience. Many of the leaders of the House of Commons, in England, have given similar testimony. Canning said that he could always tell in advance when he was about to make one of the best speeches, by a chill running through him, caused by a fear of failure. Lord Derby, the father of the present Earl, when a young man, was one of the most impressive speakers in Parliament. He was known sa the “Prince Rupert of Debate,” and seemed so self-possessed as to be incapable of embarrassment. But he said: “When I am going to speak, my throat and lips are as dry as those of a man who is going to be hanged.” Tierney, whom Lord MaCauley calls one of the most fluent debaters ever known, said he never rose in Parliament without feeling his knees knock together. It is one of the compensations of nature, that the nervous temperament; which occasions the trembling, is also one of the causes of orator’ ial success,
76
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre X>ame, October 15, 1S81.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—As each succeeding year rolls around, and in its cycle shows its various feasts and holidays to the Christian] world, we turn with hearts prayerful and full of gratitude to the great Giver of all good and offer gifts of praise andl thanksgiving “to Him who doeth all things well”; non mortal.and perishable gifts, but heart-offerings; offerings which spring spontaneously from the soul of man to the Divine Author of all being.
Among the many holidays, however, which we hail with joy and thanksgiving, outside of those directly devoted to the honor and worship of our Divine Master and His dear Mother, there is none which brings to the students and Faculty of Notre Dame a greater feeling of pleasure and thankfulness than the feast of that glorious Patron, St. Edward. It seems indeed fitting that this feast should fall in this particular season, so emblematic of the life of this great saint. All nature is now at its best. Even as the rich, ripe harvest of grain and fruit have been gathered into their homes, so was the soul of the great King, rich and ripe in all works, pleasing to his great Master, called to its reward, its everlasting rest. Many years he labored to accomplish the will of Him that sent him, and with a life full of richness in the accomplished work of the Master he passed to his reward.
This festal day, the patronal of the well-beloved and highly-esteemed founder of Notre Dame, Very Rev. Fa
ther Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, brings with it each recurring year memories that can never die while a student shall be left to enter or remember the halls and traditions of our beloved Alma Hater.
Forty years ago the ground on which our University now stands was a forest wilderness the home of the red man, the refuge of nought but the wild beast and the free sons of the forest; and to-day, what a change! where the lofty oak and pine then reared their sombre and stately heads, now rises and points to heaven with significant import the towers of holy places of worship and the dome of a grand University; where once was heard the war-cry and the wail of suffering, now is heard the swelling anthem of praise to God and the earnest prayer of grateful hearts. Where the council of the red man once held sway, now is heard the voice of the earnest student; where all was once confusion and disorder, all is now peace and harmony. Whence came this wonderful change ?
A little band of missionaries in the flush and fire of their early manhood, headed by our beloved Father Sorin, left their native shores of France to bring to the new country “tidings of great joy,” to spread Christianity and the light of the Gospel among a wild and barbarous people. It is needless to say that their lives were not idly nor uselessly spent; the University of Notre Dame,as it now. stands, together with the many other missions since built up are a living witness of the great efforts and willing sacrifices made by this devoted band of missionaries; truly their work has been a noble one. Some of them have long since passed to their eternal reward, but we have still left among us a few of the sturdy spirits who faced hunger and cold and danger in every form in the great work of the King of kings. Among them is Very Rev. Father Sorin, and it is a remark made by many that each succeeding feast of his saintly Patron finds him looking as fresh and
1 active as ever.
His singing of the Solemn High Mass on the 13th was indeed grand; his clear, sweet voice filling every corner of the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. He preached a very touching sermon, paying an eloquent tribute to the virtues of the glorious King and Confessor. It is our earnest hope and prayer that Very Rev. Father Sorin may.be spared for many years to come, till he shall have accomplished one of the dearest wishes of his heart, the completion of a University and such a system of education and training as shall find no equal or at least no superior on either Continent.
—Although the vicious reading that has for many years teemed from the press has been a subject for comment by leading minds in the educational world, but little, if any, reformation has as yet been effected. It would almost seem that the greater the effort made to remedy the evil of bad or trashy reading, the greater appears to be the zest of the rising generation to drink deeply of the poisonous spring, and the more earnest the efforts of misguided genius and misdirected talents to answer the popular craving for what is either positively bad, or false and imaginary, rather than what is good, or true and wholesome.
Almost all of our large cities can boast of societies for prevention of cruelty to animals or cruelty to children; the for the suppression of crime, etc., and yet we never hear
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
77
of a society for the promotion of good and proper reading or for the prevention of that class of reading which is fast tending to render the youth of the present day, of both sexes, incapable of properly appreciating aught that is good, or noble, or true in life. The weekly story paper, the ten-cent novel that satisfies the eager mind of the little street arab, or the more costly work of some noted novelist, such as Ouida, Mallock, and others of that ilk, are wont to write, and which are patronized by all, young and old, whose purse will permit, go far to show that something is radically wrong somewhere, and that somewhere is without doubt in the early training and education. Persons disposed to this kind of reading, who live on it, as it were, and whose minds are continually filled with the most absurd and foolish fancies drawn from this fountain of mental poison, are rarely, if ever, found to possess that depth and strength of character so necessary to every one who would do their duty, and their whole duty, both to themselves and their fellow-men, and creditably fill that position in life which true and sensible persons should fill. This brings us, and necessarily so, directly in contact with the question of education; public education.
The youth naturally looks to his elders or superiors for advice in all that pertains to matters of reading and education, but with what result is too plainly apparent. Our public libraries teem with volumes of richly sentimental literature; our public schools are overrun with textbooks, especially historical works, in which the truth is most wofully distorted; and both teacher and pupil, parent and child vie with each other in their desire to .read the latest scandel or the last new novel, which perchance dwells on the murder of a too indulgent husband and the elopement of the guilty wife with some sleek villain; or, it may be a story of unfaithfulness on the part of a husband or wife; and the easy and careful manner in which the plot is woven. The nicety with which the undercurrent of evil is concealed; the easy and insinuating manner in which the worst passions are excused and apologized for; the gradual leading on of the mind, step by step, till at last we are brought to a glance of the eye, a pressure of the hand, etc., then the book becomes, to the excited mind, interesting; then the desire takes possession of one to see the denouement; when that is reached, we must have more of the same kind of mental pabulum; we have reached our level, we have found congenial companionship, and there we rest content; and all this follows from the want of proper training and education in youth.
From an article in the American Catholic Quarterly Review of January, 1877, speaking of a lecture on the School Question, by Francis E. Abbot, of Boston, we quote the following : “ But the problem of public education admitted of two solutions at least, the one negative, the other positive; that is, the one aiming at levelling down, and the other at levelling up. The infidel party ignored this latter solution, which would have really met the wants of all denominations, and clung exclusively to the former one, on the plea that their negative system suited the common needs of the country without hurting any religious opinion. The truth is, however, that the godless schools do not suit the common needs of the country, and hurt more or less sensibly all religious persuasions. The country needs to have its children brought up in religious practices, with religious principles, amid religious examples, under the influence of religious motives, that they may imbibe a salutary respect for the Divine law, and a salutary feqr of
the Divine judgment, and that they may not hereafter be the shame of their families and the scourge of their country. It is useless to reply that religious education can be secured by the Sunday-school and by domestic exertions. A sad experience has shown that the private efforts of good parents towards religious education are generally thwarted, warped, and nulified by the evil influence of the infidel schools. Let the public School System of the free religionist do its unwholesome work ten or twelve years longer, and we venture to predict that the United States of America will become a huge mass of corruption.”
Words aptly spoken, and well and strongly put. They are ably supported by Richard Grant White, in an article in the December number of the R'orth American Review for 1880. He draws a sorry picture of the results of our present system of education, and dwells at length on the wretched and corrupt state of affairs in political circles and legislative bodies. The New York liethjodist and the Philadelphia Record speak in no uncertain terms of the infidelity and corruption arising from the present system. Education without the light of faith and the guidance of religion is adapted to produce a nation of educated automatons, whose every act, unstrained by holy influence and a high and lofty aim, is governed even as the brutes— by instinct. All persons and all things are sacrificed to self, self-opinion, self-gratification—all is self, and that, too, in the broadest and lowest sense of the word. It takes but a few years, in the matter of education, either to ruin or to save a generation of children. The social evils, the rank infidelity, the general corruption in political and mercantile circles, the universal disregard of parental authority, and disrespect for the poor and the aged of our day,—all combine to tell a tale which but too plainly bears evidence against a system of education which seeks to destroy the rights of parents and guardians, and would substitute a system of State guardianship for the honest and Godgiven right of parental authority. There is a relation established by the Creator between parent and child, and when the State, as it were, usurps this relationship, it passes out of its sphere, and attacks the rights of both parent and child. In the case of the “ Commonwealth v. Armstrong, in Penn.,” Judge Lewis in his decision .says: “ The authority of the father results from his duties. He is charged with the duty of maintenance and education.... The term education is not limited to the ordinary instruction of the child in pursuits of literature; it comprehends a proper attention to the moral and religious sentiments of the child. In the discharge of this duty, it is the undoubted right of the father to designate such teachers either in morals, religion or literature, as he shall deem best calculated to give correct instruction to his child.” The State, however, fails to see its incompetency in the matter, and its inability to fulfil ’properly the duties of a parent, and the consequence is, that our present system is becoming diseased, and has within it not only the germs of disease, but the very disease itself, which sooner or later, if not checked, will prove dangerous to the family, the State, and the nation.
In our next we will give a full account of the sports on St. Edward’s day at Notre Dame and also of the excellent entertainment given by the pupils of St. Mary’s Academy. For the present we will simply say that they not only maintained their usual reputation for energy and ability, but surprised many who were not aware of the high standard of excellence attained by the classes of that Institution, -
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—H. Rose, ’81, is studying dentistry.
—J. D. O’Hara (Commercial), *75, is touring the State of Ohio, with Vincent’s Combination troupe.
—J. D. McIntyre (Prep.) ’76, is secretary of a piano manufacturing Co., at Grand Rapids, Mich.
—A.. M. Owen, M. D., ’67, President of the Evansville Medical College, has promised Rev. Father Neyron a set of skeletons for the Anatomy class.
—James Deehan, ’67, still resides in the “ City of Brotherly Love.” James, we understand, is married, and doing remarkably well as a contractor.
—George Nester (Commercial), ’81, accompanied by his sister, spent Monday and Tuesday in visiting John and Frank Nester, of the Minim Department.
—Mr. Hugh Rodgers, ’72, is sojourning in Santa Fe, New Mexico. The family is represented among the students at Notre Dame this year, by his younger brother, of Muskegon, Mich.
- —Edward Munce (Prep.), ’80, is Assistant Librarian in the Philadelphia Public Library, Broad and Christian Streets. This library is said to contain 70,000 books. The library building is of stone, and is a model specimen of Grecian architecture.
—Albert Rohrback (Commercial), ’81, is clerking in the large wholesale clothing house of Strouse, Loeb, & Co., 49 north 3d Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Albert says he applies himself to business with a closeness he did not think himself capable of. He intends to be here for Commencement.
—During a late visit to Washington, D. C., we met our old friend, Mr. Joseph Fleury, ’72. Joe has a good position in the Government Printing-Office and is also a member of the Carroll Institute, one of the oldest and strongest societies of its kind in the country. The Scholastic is to be found on its file of weekly papers.
—Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C., has been named Assistant Provincial and Visitor of the Province of Indiana. He will soon enter upon the discharge of his important and onerous duties. The Rev. gentleman expects to leave here for Ireland early in the spring, about April 1st. He will be accompanied in his travels by Mr. Muldoon, of Indianapolis.
—J. W. Weldon, ’69, and his brother M. Weldon, ’71, are doing an extensive hardware business at Covington, Ky., and Coal Creek, Ind. We were favored by a call from the first-named gentleman on Tuesday last. He expressed himself as both surprised and pleased at the notable changes which have taken place in the buildings since his departure from his Alma Mater.
—It is not improbable that in case any changes are made in the cabinet, that Congressman Calkins, of this district, will have a position. He is a great personal friend of President Arthur, and as representing the Arthur element in the republican party, he came within the noted “ ten minutes ” of being Garfield’s secretary of the navy, instead of Hunt. Our district would, indeed, feel honored, were such a “possible probability” to come to pass.—South-Bend Tribune.
All who have the pleasure of knowing Congressman Calkins would rejoice at his receiving the promotion.
Local Items.
—Who is the Juke?
—Who stole the cuffs!	'
—Who is Joe Peach?
—Mr. Burns, of’79, is back.
—“ Pete ” speaks in figures.
—Bro. Albert is with us again.
—The old hall is still in good use.
—Ask “ G. Edmond ” about the statue.
—Do you smell the roses? Ask Geo. about them.
—Where was the 4th Latin Class last Wednesday ?
—The Seniors’ football is not just precisely a success.
—“Reg,” and “Mac” had better stop their evening walks.
“Tige” says if a man is worth it, you have an action “ agin ” him.
—The long looked-for Electric Light arrived on Thursday afternoon.
—The new football attracts the attention of all the Preps., especially Billy.
—The would-be “fat man*’ wishes to know something about the Electric Sports.
—The Senior study-hall smells like a flower-garden since the arrival of the tube-roses.
—The dining-halls were elegantly and tastefully decorated on Thursday, the 13th insh
—We will neither receive nor print articles to which the author’s real name is not signed.
—The “ big men ” won’t be so anxious to pick up money after the affair of last Tuesday night.
—Recreation day at St. Mary’s Academy has been changed from Thursday to Wednesday.
—Neal Ewing was awarded the best Bulletin for the month of September. Ed. Fishel 2d best.
—The Minims received several handso me prizes for the winners in the different games on the 13th. *
—Messrs. Orrick, Zahm, Kuhn, and O’Neill were on the committee for Rev. Father Zahm’s lecture.
—The gray horse is dead, and a boy now takes his place in the buggy of-----you know who, Mike.
—Lost—A medal was lost by A. C. Schiml. The finder will confer a favor by leaving it at this office.
—The various departments called on Very Rev. Father Sorin, to offer their congratulations, last Thursday.
—In honor of Very Rev. Father General’s feast, all the Minims names appear on the Roll of Honor, this week.
—The addresses on Wednesday evening were generally well rendered, but the Minims were decidedly the best.
—Thanks to Bro. William, the Senior study-hall looks well, especially the little altar, all covered with flowers.
—Rev Father Cooney paid a glowing and richly deserved tribute to Very Rev. Father Sorin on Thursday, the 13th.
—The Rev Professor of Physical Sciences favored us with an exhibition of the new electric light, on Thursday night last.
—A full account of the Minims’ sports will appear in next week’s Scholastic. Want of space excludes it from this number.
—Hereafter, all accounts of Society meetings must be handed in by Wednesday noon; otherwise, they will lie over for a week.
—G. S. Way lately received a large box of tube-roses from Poughkeepsie, N. Y. This looks rather suspicious and an explanation is requested.
—A. Anson, of ’68, Captain of the Chicago Baseball Club, leads the League in batting and fielding for the season, closing September 30 th.
—The beautiful flowers that decorated the statue of St. Edward on his feast-day, were the gift of Mrs. Clement Studebaker of South Bend, Ind.
—We wish it to be distinctly understood, that in future no article will find its way into these columns unless it bears the real name of the author.
—The students of the Minim department were on St. Edward’s day organized by Col. Otis into a Military Company called “ The Sorin Cadets.”
—The students’ High Mass will be at 8 o’clock to-morrow, on account of the annual pilgrimage from Mishawaka, the Mass of which will take place at 10.30.
—Crowds of visitors, together with several members of the Faculty visited the Minims’ play-ground to witness their interesting games on the Feast of St. Edward.
—Joe Kelly, of ’69, who won first prize in the “ Go-as you-please” race on Field day of ’68, won a five mile race
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
79
Free for all,” in St. Louis, last week. Time, thirty-eight minutes.
—The celebration on St. Edward’s day was a grand affair, it must be a great pleasure to the many persons who exerted themselves for the Feast to know that their efforts were so successful.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin made some very pleasing and appropriate remarks in the Senior refectory last Thursday. They were hailed with immense satisfaction and applause.
—“James Gordon Bennett,” “ Mark Anthony,” “ Oliver Wendell Holmes,” “ John Boyle O’Reilly,” “ Aaron Jones,” “Schuyler Colfax,” and “ Charley Ross,” are in attendance this session.	•
—The account of the games on last Thursday and the names of the participants therein did not reach us until Friday and as we go to press on that day we are obliged to let the same lie over till next week.
—The Minims have sustained their reputation for being the first at the field sports on St. Edward’s day. The wheelbarrow, three-legged race and sack-race were the most amusing of all.
—The Cadets drilled before the Rev. President Walsh, last Monday; though very creditable, they have often done better. They are becoming greatly attached to their esteemed friend, Col. E. A. Otis.
—Though last Thursday was cloudy and misty it did not prevent the various departments from enjoying themselves with unusal zest as they always do on the palronal feast of Very Rev. Father General.	.
—Thursday the 13th, was enthusiastically observed as usual at St. Mary’s Academy. They gave a most excellent and pleasing entertainment. A full account of the same will appear in our next issue.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Mr. John A. Burrichtcr, of Galena, 111., for the donation of a large and valuable collection of specimens from the celebrated lead and zinc mines of Ill. and Wis.
—The other day the “fat man,” from Boston, was seen to glide cautiously from the study-hall to the Scholabtic box, and, after looking about him, drop something in. He must have had an idea. We wonder what it was.
—A little more soldierly bearing is needed in some of the members of the second Senior squad. Childishness is all very well in children, but in those claiming to be young gentlemen it is indicative of a disposition deserving of anything but a complimentary allusion.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Messrs. Thos. B. Hughlett and Michael Dingel, of Galena, Ill., for valuable contributions to the Cabinet of Mineralogy; he also specially thanks Mr. F. X. Ortcheid and Anton Kirsch-baum, of the same place, for specimens and other favors.
—The second regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held last Sunday evening, Oct. 9th. The following were appointed to prepare papers for the next meeting: George E. Clarke, on the history of the Archconfraternity and the benefits derived therefrom; F. E. Kuhn, on Confession, and E. Orrick, on the Bible. This society is for the benefit of the Catholic students of the house, and aU should consider it their duty to attend.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary Association was held on Tuesday, October 4th. A. Schiml and F. Wheatley were admitted to membership. The question: “ Should we Organize a Temperance Society ? ” was- debated. Affirmative, J. B. Zettler, E. J. Taggart,, and J. F. Browne; negative, J. M. Falvey, F. E. Kuhn, and J. Marlett. Owing to the lateness of the hour, the judges postponed their decision till the next meeting.
—The National Capitol of the H. S. is becoming well represented at Notre Dame. Two more arrivals from Washington, D. C., in the Minim department, Joseph A. and Aloysius Kelly. The latter-named young gentleman brought with him a football which affords no end of enjoyment both to himself and his young companions during the recreations. Their worthy Prefect says it arrived in the nick of time, as their old one had just given out.
—Master L. Florman, while at his home in the Black jHills, spent a portion of his vacation in visiting the mines
and collecting specimens of minerals and fossils for the Museum of his Alma Jfater. On his return to college, he gladdened the heart of Rev. Father Zahm, by bringing with him a fine collection of gold and silver ores for the Museum. If all our young friends, especially those living in mining districts, were to follow the example of Master Florman, the loss occasioned to the Museum by fire would soon be repaired.
—We quote, from the “ Catholic Citizen ” of Milwaukee, the following complimentary notice of Father Cooney’s appointment: “His many friends in this and adjoining States will be glad to learn that Father Cooney, C. S. C., has been appointed Visitor and Assistant-Provincial of all the Houses of his Order in the United States. A “ Visitor is an officer of a religious Order, whose duty it is to examine the religious status of each house and report it to the head Superior of the Order. Notre Dame Province includes all the United States of America.” ’
—The 3d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Sunday, the 9th. Rev. Father Walsh presiding. Essays were read by Masters Francis I. Otis, and Donn Piatt. Master J. H. Dwenger delivered a declamation. Compositions were assigned to Masters D. McCawley, D. O’Connor, J. J. McGrath, C. Metz, P. Campau, and B. Powell for the next meeting. C. Campau, J. A. Kelly and A. Kelly were elected to membership. Rev. President Walsh made a speech in his usual happy manner after which the meeting adjourned.
—The students of the various departments were very pleasantly entertained on Saturday evening last, by Mr. Milller, of New York, who imitated, with surprising accuracy, the songs and calls of various birds, and the sounds of different animals. He has spent a great part of his life, both in Europe and America, in training birds and has become so conversant with the notes and songs of the different species that he can imitate them with great accuracy. He also had with him a large sheet of heavy brown paper, folded fan-fashion, which he could turn in almost any conceivable size or shape, except a steam-engine or a mosquito. .
—The postponed game of football between the “ Blues ” and “Reds” was played off last week, and resulted in favor of the “ Reds,” after a struggle of an hour and a half. The first bout was won by the “ Reds,” in twenty minutes, Felix Orsinger kicking the ball within the goal; the second bout was won by the “Blues,” the members forcing the ball within the goal; the last and winning bout was won by the “Reds,” A. Gall getting credit for the winning kick. Among those who distinguished themselves for good playing might be mentioned the captains of both teams, Frank Cavanagh, and Dick French; also W- Cogh-lin, color bearer of the “Reds,” David Thomas, F. Orsinger, McCarthy, Rogers, C. Murdock. Dolan, Kelly, Browne, Kipper, Hurley and Ayers. L. Gibert, color bearer of the “Blues,” Ruppe, M. Coghlin, Cassell, Saviers, Guthrie, Muhlke, Zeigler, Keenan, Devota and McGrath.
—Programme of Field Sports, which took place on St. Edward’s day, Oct. 13th. The programmes of the different departments was substantially the same; in order to save space, therefore, we simply give the precise order of exercises as observed by Seniors, Juniors and Minims:
1st. Foot Race....*...........................(Free	to all)
2d. “ “ .................. 1st. Hurdle Race.......... 2d. “ “ ..................................................
1st. Three Legged Race.................................... 2d. “ “ 	 1st. Obstruction Race	 24	« « .
Burden Race...................................(Free	to all)
Sack Race........................................'........
Fat Man’s Sack Race.......................... Fat Man’s Running Race....................... Throwing Sledge.............................. Blindfold Race............................... One Mile Race.................................(Go	as you please)
Five Mile Race............................ “ “	“
Longest Throw of Base Ball................... Longest Standing Jump....................................
“ “ Running Jump........................................
“ “ Hop Step and Jump........................... Climbing Greased Pole........................... Catching greased Pig..............................
I
80
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The names of participants and winners, in the above games, will appear in our next issue.
—The play of “ The Expiation,” as rendered by the members of the Euglossian Association, was a decided success, and the members, individually, arq to be congratulated for the earnest and able manner in which each one performed his part. We have never witnessed, at Notre Dame, a more decided success than was the play, as rendered by the Euglossians, on Wednesday evening last. Of course, all the parts were not sustained with that warmth and understanding of the parts shown by the more professional actor; and, in some cases, indeed, a little too much stiffness was shown both in the gestures and movements of the body. Yet, as a whole, the entire performance was so entirely satisfactory that we feel constrained to forego all criticism, and urge the members of this Association to continue as they have begun, i. e.: to work earnestly in whatever they undertake, and to put their heart into their work on all future occasions as they did on last Wednesday evening. Mr. C. A. Tinley, as “ Count Flavny ”; Mr. J. P. O'Neill, as “Rinaldi”; Mr. M. Healy, as “Gerard,” and W. J. McCarthy, as “ Loridan,” are worthy of special mention for the able and understanding manner in which they fulfilled their different parts. Mr. E. C. Orrick made a most favorable impression in his impersonation of the faithful “Beppo.” Mr. E. McGorrisk is likewise deserving of praise for his masterly impersonation of the treacherous inn-keeper, “ Prompale.” Mr. F. H. Grever, as “ Le Phantasme, the Ghost,” was a decided success. Master C. C. Echlin, a new fledged Junior, was well appreciated in his earnest fulfilment of the part of “Robert of, Lu-signy, the Boy Captive.” Messrs. J. Solon, T. Healy, H. Morse, G. J. Rhodius, and G. L. Castanedo filled their several roles in a most satisfactory manner. “ There is nothing for success, like success,” and the efforts of this occasion, having proved so satisfactory, it should be an incentive to even more earnest exertions in the future; not for the Euglossians alone, but also for the other Societies, which will doubtless favor us with a specimen of their abilities during the present scholastic year.
—On Wednesday, the 5th inst., the members of St. Joseph’s Novitiate enjoyed a rare treat, the occasion being the first visit of Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger to that sacred nursery of so many good religious. At about 10, a. m., it was announced to the Master of Novices that the Bishop had arrived at the college and intended to pay him a visit in the afternoon. Preparations were immediately begun to give him a worthy and fitting reception. The building, exterior and interior, was made to present an appearance both beautiful and impressive. Situated as it is, on one of the most secluded, healthy and beautiful spots in the country, art and good taste, on this day, rendered it still more inviting. Festoons and garlands of evergreen adorned the walls and entrance; vases of fragrant flowers were tastefully arranged along the walks; hanging baskets, of various designs, were suspended at suitable distances through the corridors; while two beautiful mottoes, artistically surrounded by evergreens, were placed, tho one, over the front entrance, bearing the Bishop’s arms with the inscription: In fide vivo, the other over the entrance to the hall with the inscription Ecce nunc diemju-bili! and Vivat Josephus! Even old Sol, who, during the early part of the day, had remained hidden behind dark and ominous clouds, came out before noon as if he wished to lend his .powerful aid in rendering the occasion more bright and cheerful. At the appointed time the Bishop, attended by Rev. Father Walsh, President of Notre Dame, arrived and was cordially received at the entrance by Rev. Father Franciscus, Master of Novices. All were first led to the chapel, and after breathing forth fervent prayers to the Throne of Mercy for the good Bishop, they repaired to the recreation-hall where addresses were read in Greek, Latin, English, French and German, by different members of the Novitiate. After kindly welcoming him to their quiet and retired home, expressing their appreciation of his firm stand against the infidelity of the day, and of the great good he has done and still is effecting, they expressed a desire of being often favored with his visits. The Bishop gracefully acknowledged these tokens of filiibl esteem and affection, thanked them for their kindly reception and still kindlier feelings, and after a few more
words of encouragement and advice retired, fully convinced that this was the reception, par excellence, of his whole life. The booming of the cannon at the close of the addresses and also while the good Bishop was retiring carried the news of joy for miles up and down St. Joseph’s Valley. Thus passed pleasantly this festal day, bringing joy to all, for which thanks are due not only to the worthy Bishop but also to the amiable Master of Novices, whose efforts to render those under his charge good, useful and happy, are untiring.
—The Thirty-eighth Annual Celebration of the Feast of St. Edward, Patronal Festival of Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame University, was honored with the usual observances on Wednesday and Thursday. At six o’clock, p. m., on Wednesday evening, Oct. 12,1881, a Musical and Dramatic Entertainment was given by the Euglossian Association. The following is the programme of the occasion:
PART FIRST.
Opening March—Turkish Patrol—(Michaeli)N. D. U. C. Band Greek Address......................................A.	Zahm
Latin Address..................
German Address.................
French Address................
The Soldier’s Praise—(Boieldieu)
Address from Minim Department....
Address from Junior Department...
Address from Senior Department...
Overture—Light Cavalry—(Suppe).... part second.
.......F. A. Quinn .......F. Kengel .......G. Castanedo .......Vocal Class
(J. J.McGrath .....-( L. P. Graham (P .E. Campau .....George Rhodius .....\V H. Arnold University Orchestra
THE EXPIATION.
A Drama in Three Acts. Translated from the French and arranged for the occasion by members of the Euglossian Association.
Dramatis Person^}.
Count Flavny...................................C. A. Tinley
Rinaldi (his attendant)........................J. P. O’Neill
Beppo (captain of the guards and warder).E. C. Orrick Loridan )...........................................W.	J. McCarthy
Gerard J Two Knights ...................................................M.	Healy
Prompale (inn keeper)..........................E. McGorrisk
Robert of Lusigny (a boy captive of Flavny)....C. C. Echlin Le Phantasme (ghost)...........................F. H. Grever
Theobald (attendant).....................................J.	Solon
Aubrey (attendant).......................................T.	Healy
Guerin (attendant).......................................H.	Morse
Pierre (attendant).............................G. J. Rhodius
Frederique (attendant)......................G.	L. Castanedo
Servants, assassins, knights, guards, and peasants.
TABLEAU.
Epilogue.........
Closing remarks... March for retiring.
A. Zahm.
,N. D. U. C. B.
Committee-or Arrangements
Geo. E. Clarke, W. B. McGorrisk, A. Zahm, J. O’Neill,
F. Kuhn. Ushers.
E. W. McGorrisk, W.J. McCarthy, J. Solon, E C. Orrick,
C. A. Tinley, F. Clarke, W. Arnold, F. Grever,
G. J. Rhodius, M. Healy, D. Danahey, Geo. Tracey,
8 o’clock, a. m,
9.30 10 11
12 m.
1.30
3. / 6./ 7X30
p. m
E. A. Otis.
ORDER OF EXERCISES.
Thursday, October, 13.
.........Solemn	High Mass ...............................Reunion of Faculty. ...............................Regatta ...............................Field Sports in.Minim Department ...............................  Dinner ...............................Field Sports in Junior Department ...............................Field Sports in Senior Department ...............................Supper ................................Calisthenic Exhibition in Rotunda.
< —One of the most brilliant—if not the most brilliant— experimental lectures we have ever had the pleasure of attending, was the one given in Phelan Hall, on the evening
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
81
of the 11th inst., by the Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. 8. C., Director of the Scientific Department. We had noticed that the Rev. gentleman was busily engaged for some days previous - in putting up, adjusting and testing some large and new electrical apparatus, and were accordingly prepared for an experimental treat; nor were we, nor the large audience, which packed the hall, disappointed. All the experiments were interesting, and many of them the most striking and beautiful in the whole range of electricity and magnetism. The subject of the evening’s lecture was “ The Electric Light.” The Rev. professor introduced his subject by alluding to the great interest everywhere manifested in electricity as a source of illumination and of the general and increasing use, especially within the last few years, of the electric light, in every part of the civilized world. He then gave a brief sketch of the history of electric lighting, from the time of Sir Humphery Davy, who first obtained a light from the electric current by a large battery of two thousand cells, belonging to the Royal Institution of Great Britain, and spoke of the many inventions and improvements that were subsequently made in order that the electric light might be more conveniently and economically produced than was possible by any form of battery. He briefly reviewed the labors and discoveries of Faraday, Pixii, Clarke, Nollet, Holmes, Wilde, Siemens, Wheatstone, Gramme, Edison, and others, especially American scientists and inventors, who have more recently distinguished themselves by their researches and inventions in magno-elcctricity and electro-magnetism. As occasion required, he illustrated what he said by appropriate apparatus and experiments.
The Rev. lecturer next called attention to a large galvanic battery on the stage, and after briefly describing the modus operandi showed its power in the production of the electric light, and gave several interesting experimental illustrations of the heating, chemical, and magnetic effects of the current. He stated that the battery was still occasionally used for the production of the electric light, especially in laboratories, and lectures, where a current is required for only a short time; but said that for purposes of general illumination, where a cheap, powerful, constant, and durable light is needed, it is now entirely superseded by the modern dynamo-electric machine—an apparatus in which the energy of a steam engine, or of any other motor of sufficient power, is converted into electricity.
The machine and lamp used during the lecture were furnished by Mr. A. B. Fisher, who controls the patents of Mr. L. G. Wooley, a prominent electrician and inventor, of Union City, Ind. The lamp, a beautiful piece of mechanism, gives a light, when the engine is running at normal speed, equal to twenty-five hundred candles. The light is so intense as to be almost blinding, and gives to kerosene and gas-light a dark and murky appearance in comparison.
On the evening of the lecture, the electric generator was operated by the steam engine in the printing-office, distant from Phelan Hall nearly five hundred feet. Yet as soon as the wires leading from the machine to the lamp were connected, a dazzling white light, resembliug that of a miniature sun, filled the room. But probably the most brilliant and novel experiment of the evening was the production of the electric light under water. A large glass globe was filled with water, and when the carbon points, which had been previously fitted into the sides of the globe, were brought in contact, the electric arc was formed, with almost as much power as it possessed before in the open air. After a number of other interesting experiments, illustrative of the peculiar and wonderful properties of the electric current, the Rev. lecturer concluded the evening’s entertainment by thanking his audience for their kind attention during his discourse, and all retired, pleased and instructed with what they had seen and heard.
We trust Rev. Father Zahm will soon favor us with another of his interesting lectures. For the students, especially those who have not the time to take up the studies of the Scientific Course, they are of special value. They are thus enabled, in a few short lectures, to get a good idea of the most important facts and principles of natural and physical science, information that will not only excite their interest for the moment, but may be of the greatest practical use to them in after-life.
—Among the visitors at the University during the past week we notice the following: Mrs.Ellen Kavanagh, Miss Katie and Thos. Kavanagh, of North Java, N.Y.; Thos. Kavanagh and wife, of Elkhart, Ind.; Miss Annie Healy, Lansing, Iowa; D. S. Scott, Ligonier, Ind.; J. E. Putman, Rochester, N. Y.; C. W. Cheney, Rockford, Ill.; C. C. Western, South Bend, Ind.; T. K. Western, Cherryville, Pa.; Oscar R. Graham, Philadelphia, Pa.; S. F. Allen, South Bend, Ind.; W. W. Updegraff and wife, Waterloo, Ind.; J. N. Updegraff and wife, Schoolcraft, Mich.; M. J. Updegraff, South Bend, Ind.; John W. Teel, Mary S. W. M. and Susie Teel, of South Bend, Ind.; Sarah C. Cross, Newburyport, Mass.; J. E. Fishburn, G. W. Fishburn, Joliet, Ill.; Rose and Ellen Fishburn, Webb. C. Mo.; and Maggie Fishburn, Joliet, Hl.; J. W. Weldon, Covington, Ind.; Mr. P. Stoney, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. H. B. Bruser, Miss Lizzie Bruser, Vicksburg, Miss.; David Milde, Sr. La Porte, Ind.; Dr. Cassidy and P. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. G. Rhodius and Niece, Indianapolis, Ind.
R.oH of Honor.
- [The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, W. Arnold, F. M. Barron, W. H. Bailey, E. J. Bryant, F. Baker, J. F. Browne, W. B. Berry, J. M. Boose, F. M. Bell, W. 8. Bolton, R. Becerra, T. E. Bourbonia, J. Barry, M. T. Burns, 8. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, W. A. Connor, J. C. Concannon, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, F. Dever J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahey, B. Eaton, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburn, H. A. Gramling, F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, M. T. Golonski, F. Grever, H. A. Hagan, T. D. Healy, M. F. Healy, A. Jones, A T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindel, A. Huntsman, M. Livingston, H. Letier-hos, J. R. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, A Myer, F. X. Murphy, W. McCarthy, G. Metz, P. McGinnis, J. Millett, C. J. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, J. F. Martin, W. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, J. Nash, H. Noble, B. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neil], W. J. O’Connor, F. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A. Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. 8. Perley, L. Proctor, F. A. Quinn, P. Rasche,W. E. Ruger, A P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, B. S. Schofield, J. Solon, A C. Schiml, H. Steis, C. A. Tinley, E. J. Taggart, W. M. Thompson, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, S. B. Terry, C. B. Van Dusen, F. Wheatley, F. Ward, F. 8. Weber, J. A White, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A. F. Zahm. ’
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. A. Ayers, P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. J. Byrne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, G. L. Castanedo, F. X. Campau, G. Cassell, J. 8. Courtney, A. M. Coghlin, A. J. Campau, W. L. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, J. A Devine, G. L. Deschamps, M. Dolan, H. F. Devitt, C. Devoto, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, E. F. Fenlon, Ed. Fishel, Fred Fishel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, F. C. Felix, J. Friedman, J. M. Flynn, H. Fisher, L.. F. Florman, G. L. Gibert, W. M. Graham, M. S. Gooley, J. G. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, J. M. Guthrie,* E. F. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, H. H. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, G. J. Haslam, W. F. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kollars, O. Kempf, W. D. Keenan, F. H. Kengel, H. A Kitz, 8. Katz, 8. Lipman, J. Livingston, J. T. McGoraon, H. M. Metz, G. A. Molander, J. S. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock, 8. T. Murdock, W. H. McCarthy, C. J. Messenger, M. E. Murphy, W. P. Mahon, N. J. Nelson, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, F. Orsinger, W. P. Pinkstaff, J. M. Powell, H. P. Porter, C. J. Porter, D. G. Paul, F. Ryan, T. E. Ryan, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, H. C. Snee, G. H. Schaefer, H. G. Sells, E. J. Schmitt ,D. G. Taylor, A. T. Taggart T. Williams, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, P. J. Yrisarri, J. Gallagher, J. E. Zaehnle.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
H. J. Ackerman, W. T. Berthelet, J. Beall, M. T. Byrne, C. D. Brandom, J. 8. Chaves, P. E. Campau, C. E. Campau, E. 3. Chirhart, J. F. Coad, J. H. Dwenger, O. P. Dillon, M. E. Devitt, H. C. Dirksmeyer, W. P. Devine, T. Ellis, J. A Frain, L. P. Graham, G. V. Gibson, P. S. Gibson, H. Hynes, P. Johnson, J. Kelly, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, W. J. Miller, C. Metz, C. 8. Milburn, C. H. McGordon, E. McGrath, D. L. McCawly, F.
Ir
.	i
82	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	:
Norfolk, E. Nash, J. F. Nester, D. OConnor F. I. Otis, A. J. Otis, B. Powell, R. V. Papin, G. Price, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, D. Pi§.tt, 0. Quinlan, F. Scott, J. A. Ruppe, J. L. Rose, A. P. Roberts, J. Tong, W. Welsh, L. J. Young, C. Young, F. P. Nester, A. Kelly,
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
W. Barron, W. Coghlin, 0. Echlin, J. Fendrick, W. Hess, E. Gall, J. L. Heffernanj T. Hurley, C. Kolars. N. Nelson, H. Sells. C. Zeigler, E. Bryant, J. Concannon, E. Eager, M. Falvey, C. Fishburne, A. Hagan, A. T. Jackson, J. Kindle, J. Millet, G. McErlain, P. Rasch, J. B. Zettler, J. M. Boose, T. Bourbonia, J. Conway, N. H. Connors, M. B. Eaton, J. J. Flynn, A. Schiml, W. Thompson, F. Ward, E. Yrisari.
List of Excellence.
■[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Directer of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—J. Courtney, R. French, C. Porter, G. Deschamps, J.F. Grever, E. Eager, A. Hagan; Grammar—E. Yrisarri, H. Morse, J. Conway; Geography and History—J. Conway, C. L. Fishburne, A. Hagan ; Arithmetic—C. Murdock, W. Coghlin, T. Hurley, C. Zeigler, H. Sells, F. McPhillips, A. Schiml, E. McErlain, W. Connor, C. Fishburne; Book-keeping -----'i Penmanship—W. Ruger, F. Fischel
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for hoys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -A-TSTID JEWELBY. All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Ab extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tire Short TJne to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Worth and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minim? districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn st., near cor. of Adams, Chicago.