Bwirted ta tee interests nf tee students*
“LABOR OMNIA. VINCIT.”
Volume III.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 11, 1870.
Number 20.
[For the Notre Dame Scholastic.]
Polite Maxims.
WHICH NOBODY NEED LEARN, AS EVERY ONE KNOWS THEM.
Whan you knock at the door of a solitary man, do not wait for permission to enter his room; dash in so quickly that you will have had time to introduce yourself, before the sound of the knock has time to reach the ears of the occupant.
If the principle of self-defense should compell a man to lock his door, don’t be deterred by that, but keep thumping and bawling at the door until you either get in or succeed in drawing a crowd around.	.
If, at your entree, the occupant be writing a letter, look carefully over his shoulder to see what he is writing ; and when you read it, you can say that this little familiarity, is a manifestation of your undying friendship. If he be reading a book or a paper, snatch it out of his hand, and put in the plea of justification last aforesaid.
Whenever you see two persons conversing, "cock jour ears,” get right in between them, put a hand confidentially on a shoulder of each, and familiarly insist on knowing the subject of their conversation.
If you invite a person to accept your hospitality, and he may see fit to decline, get angry and don’t speak to him for ninety days. No one has any business to refuse your request.	'
When you visit a friend, never leave before midnight. Don’t mind ill-concealed yawns, or other gentle hints. Put one or two chairs hors du combat by an exhibition of artistic wriggling, and leave the impress of your boots in the carpet. Crack what you consider jokes, and then laugh at them with all your might. Vary the monotony of your visit by going at least twenty times to the door, with as many declarations: “ Well, I guess Pm going.” Don’t go, however. Keep the door half-open, to the annoyance of everyone else, for several minutes, and then come back. When you conclude to go, at midnight, stop at the door, and keep the folk engaged until one o’clock in the morning in trying to get you off. When, at last, you are outside the gate, turn back; ring the bell, and say you forgot to tell them you’ll call soon again.
Always take for granted that whatever amuses yourself must necessarily amuse every one else, and set down everyone who differs from you as a disagreeable, unsocial person. If it be to your taste to spend a day “ at a party ” in the woods, or in some other place, making a show of yourself, and saying maudlin saws, insist upon all your acquaintances doing the same thing. They must be rude and uncivil in the last degree, if they think or feel in opposition to you.
Find fault, with whatever anyone else says or doss, but never suggest an improvement.
When you meet an acquaintance going any place, ask him where he is going and what his business is. Insist upon going with him. Be has no right to have any secrets from you, nor to refuse your company whether he wants you or not. That’s for you to determine.
If anyone of your friends should happen to have on a new article of apparel, gaze at him in wonder, and then roar out in astonishment at his impudence. Go through the same operation if his clothing gives some token of wear. Call attention to his appearance: if he be well dressed, he must be a fop; and if poorly dressed, he must be a beggar. His mistake lay in not taking your style as a model.
If you call at the room of a solitary individual, and he happen to be out, just walk in; sit down and amuse yourself by reading his letters, upsetting his books, and smoking his cigars. Make yourself at home generally. When he returns, give him an inquisitive scowl,- to intimate that he has violated the rules of good breeding in coming into his own room without knocking when you are there.
Your object in going to church is to chew tobacco, talk to your neighbor, and snicker at what the preacher says. If you yourself be a preacher, it will add immensely to your popularity if you join in with a crowd of boys in sneering at the sermon of your ecclesiastical brother. By this means you will have an opportunity of showing off your liberality and your self-conceit
To those of my fellow-creatures who rejoice in the female persuasion, I would say that if any of them has a vocation to go about begging for chnrch-fairs, or other charitable institutions, she has fine advantages to “prospect” ante-nnptially. If a youth can’t afford to give her five dollars at least,- let her have nothing to do with him, for he’ll never make a respectable divorce-goose. Nothing to pluck there! As a “ breach of promise” speculation he would be ruinous, for whatever “damages” an intelligent jury might give her, it’s clear to me he couldn’t give her any, except she’d get out what the lawyers call a capias ad satisfaciendum, which everybody knows won’t mend a broken heart. That is all I have to say now.
A Unfortunate Wictul
Four Right Rev. Bishops have promised to be present at the Annual Commencement. They are Right Rev. Bishop Luers, of Fort Wayne; Right Rev. Bishop Rosecrans, of Columbus; Right Rev. Bishop Foley, ofChicago; RightRev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit. Except the great 31st of May, 18G6, no festival day has brought here so many illustrious members of the Church as will the approaching Annual Commencement.
A large attendance of the Alumni is expected on June 21st. Circular-letters have been sent to all the Alumni, inviting them to be present at the meeting.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
THE FIRST CRUSADE.
PROMOTED BY POPE URBAN II—PREACHED BY PETER THE HERMIT.	-
A Drama.
ACT V.—Scene H.
[By the cave of a solitary. Tancred, Mostafa, Hafid, Hugo and *	two other Turks.]
Mustafa.—(To Tancred, defying him).
Hold, fellow! Whence art thou ?
Tancred.—Just from the camp.
Mustafa.—	Why here?
Tancred.—Because it is my will.
Mustafa.—So;—Hoi surrender, dog! or die I Tancred.—When worsted in the fight.
Mustafa.—(Laughing.) Hold! There are five of us.
Will fight us all?	[be fair,
Tancred.—Come to the plain, so that the field.
And I am ready.
[Exit Tancred and Mustafa, r.u. e.] -Hafid.—By the Prophet’s beard!—
A tall one; well worth fighting. Hugo, come!
Hugo.—(Laughing?) We’ll stretch this fellow by his comrade, Hugo;
It was their great Archbishop we just killed. . [Exit alL Enter Hermit, creeping from the cave.]
Hermit.—(Looking cautiously around?)
St. George protect Lord Tancred. Where is he ? Here is his doak, and footprints in the sand. The Mussulmans have found him. I will fly To call the other knights. But where are they ? I know not; and Lord Tancred! I must search;
[Searches.] They must be near! Hark, was not that the sound Of sabres clashing? (Searches.) Yes, I see them now. Lord Tancred compassed by five lusty Turks! But he is master! Lo! they fall and die!
Two are stretched lifeless! now he fights the third! The fourth and fifth areflying! Queen of Heaven, This knight must be your own! The last one falls! Hl go and greet and cheer him. [Exit.] [After a littlepause, re-enter Tancred and Hermit.]
Her urr.—	Come, my lord, .
Take a fresh draught of water, (Tancred drinks from ground?).	Well, my son,
This grand exploit is worthy of your race.
But sit you down: you need rest, my son.
Tancred.—Speak not of this, good hermit; on the ground
Near where I fought, our great Archbishop lies; The Musselmans have slain him, and' at thought Of this fresh sacrilege my arm grew strong!
I only wait to honor his remains, -Then haste to Bethlehem.
Hermit.—Heaven rest his soul!
Scene HL
[The body of Aldemar, shrouded for the grave.]
Tancred.—(Standing beside him.)
The great Crusader dead! gone to the land

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We know so little of—we hope so much!
His pure soul sprang to heaven; in heaven’s own cause
And his warm prayers shall consummate our hope. Ah! holy Father, rest thy soul in peace. A little longer and this heart whose woes So oft unburdened at thy sacred feet—	•
Hath felt thy power, an angel’s power on earth— Will join thee, ne’er to part. So fare thee well! Thou who so oft comforted the weak, Hath quelled temptation and made virtue strong; Thou who hast spoken peace, peace rest on thee / Here sad, bereft, I clasp thy sacred hope, Of hearts united when this life is o’er.
Farewell! I mourn thee not; farewell, bravefriend.
Scene IV.
[Army of Crusaders. Peter the Hermit] [Flourish of trumpets]
Peter.—Ye men of Europe;—warriors of the Cross!—
Sons of proud chivalry, why are ye here ?
To consummate your rows I In your fair homes, As honest men ye saw two powers at war, Vice and oppression striving to secure The mastery of earth. The Turk is armed ’Gainst innocence and truth: the Christian vowed, As champion of the helpless and oppressed. To-day upon the ramparts ye have seen The Cross profaned and spit upon by Turks! Thus they insult the God who died thereon! Your triumph of to-day will see far spread Faith’s heavenly banner over innocence. Fight for the pure and holy—for the loved! Fight for your children’s children; fight forthose Wlio, should you lose this day, would lose their souls In distant generations! Wield your sword To crush Mahomet's power forever! then The Cross shall sway the empires of the world! Kush to the battle girded with the strength Of conscious knowledge, that your good right arm Is sacred, unto justice—unto God !
[Partial music. Banners leave. Clarions sound. ■ The stage is cleared]
Scene V.
[The Christian Camp outside Jerusalem. Peter the Hermit and others. Enter Tancred.]
Tancred.—Long live Duke Godfrey! Victory ours at last!
(A long, enthusiastic cry of triumph] Peter.—The foe is vanquished! The Holy Cross forever!
Give tidings of the contest. Speak, my lord, What skill hath closed so soon a strife so fierce ?
Tancred.—That of Duke Godfrey! Men, the Turks have fled,
And streets and fields are paved with Saracens! So marvelous a captain ne’er before Has honored Christian warfare. Happy day! You heard the trumpets sound the battle call At daybreak yester-mom ? Godfrey since then Has fought, nor paused one instant. By assault The outer walls he carried. At a word Ballistas, patererows, battering rams, He mustered to the onset. Now the Duke Drew up the rolling castles. With a force Of earthquakes, instinct with superior life, These towers assailed the bulwarks. Missiles flew Like thunderbolts of vengeance. Every charge From Godfrey’s castle drove the affrighted foe As straws are driven before the hurricane!
Our valiant knights fought like avenging angels! ’Twas Godfrey’s courage cheered them. ’Twas enough.
Like great St. Michael sternly dealing death To enemies of God, this hero stood
While yollies hailed around him thick and fast! TTia saintly prowess thrilled the Christian ranks With superhuman vigor. Now there came
Magicians on the walls, that they might cast Enchantments on our army; but they fell— All at one sweep struck dead by Godfrey’s missiles. The tide was still against us. But behold!
The undaunted Godfrey saw on Olivet
A knight who waved his shield to bid him come And take the waiting city! ’Twas St. George,— And Aldemar was there, and dead Crusaders,— Those murdered in the siege,—they came to fight i The cry went round, and like the rising sun The inspiring view spread help along the lines! Once more Duke Godfrey’s tower assailed the walls And as a storm of fire, his active arm Shot burning darts against the barricades!
They kindled, roared, and trembled! Now the winds
Drove the keen flames upon the scattering foe! Duke Godfrey fearlessly sprang upon the walls; One deafening cry, “ God wills it,” rent the air! [All Cry, “We heard! We heard !”J Tancbed, continues.—Eustace and Leopold, And many Lords, at Godfrey’s order rushed To close the breach! The arduous task was done! The banner of the Cross triumphant waves Above the Holy City ! !
Peter.—	Let us go!
Come, comrades, we will hasten!
Tancred.—	Nay, not yet. .
What honor shall befit our glorious chief? Shall we forget his services’ Never, men! We should deserve abandonment of God For such ingratitude. But, come with me. He who hath conquered, he deserves the crown ! To-morrow we shall gather and elect Jerusalem a king. Who shall it be ?
[Add cry, “Duke Godfrey! None but Godfrey!”] Tancred, continues.—Come then, victorious pilgrims, we will go
To crown the monarch of Jerusalem!
Ail cry.—Duke Godfrey! None but Godfrey! God wills he shall be king!
God save the king!!	.
[Concluded—Curtain Drops.]
/
'< Letter from Mrs. Sherman.
We expected to be honored at the Annual Commencement by the presence of General Sherman and Mrs. Sherman. We are now in receipt of letters which bid us forego this pleasure. We hope we do not transgress by publishing the following ki^d letter from Mrs. General Sherman.
Washington, D. C., May 8th, 1870.
Rev. W. Corby, S. S. C.:
Dear Rev. Friend:—I thank you sincerely for your ever kind letter of invitation to attend the Exhibition at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s There is nothing in the world I would enjoy more, and I would cheerfully take the long journey for the sake of enjoying that pleasure were it consistent with my duty at present to do so. You occasion me a disappointment, and afford an opportunity of self-denial and mortification, by suggesting to my mind what I am compelled to forego but would enjoy so much. I wish it were in my power to show a due appreciation of the compliment conveyed in your invitation, and the kindness of your expressions towards the children. The sacred memory of two of my children hallow that lovely spot and make it to my heart the dearest of earthly sanctuaries. Towards you, dear Father, and your Rev. co-laborers, I shall ever cherish the highest respect and most tender regard.
Begging your prayers for us all, I am very sincerely and truly your friend in our Lord, J
Ellen B. E. Sherman.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
The Discovery of America.
The sails are spread, the vessels anchor weigh, And plunge into the ocean's foamy spray, Fast fades from view the snnny hills of Spain, As launch they onward through the trackless main Oh 1 with what soul doth proud Columbus stand, Gazing on Andalusia's crowded strand, Glancing on Palos' dim receding spires,	’
Their cross-crowned summits gilt with morning fires. His manly breast, unconscious heaved a sigh, Th’ unbidden tear suffused Lis steadfast eye, ' As the last misty view dissolved away From Mount Morino's shadowy ranges grey.
Yet vast designs, and schemes of bold emprize, His mind's capacious powers monopolize; Projects gigantic, nursed, unseen, untold, The young adventurer's intellect unfold.
He sees the idle surge foaming rido lu silvery spray upon the vessel's side; He sees beyond the furrowed sea its wako As pressing on it doth the east forsake, But who, its future track can scan from far, No guide save heaven's coruscant polar star! Around him heaving ocean's boundless space, Like a now deluge on Creation's face, Not e'en the dove of old might footing find, Nor pluck her olive-branch to cheer mankind! Seven weeks have swelled their broad expansive sails To winds of August and September gales, Night after night, and day by day, in vain With telescopic eye they scan the main: Nought save the ethereal firmament's expanse And broad Atlantic, meet the mariner's glance; Nought save the starry skies, and seas of blue And emerald waters heaving, greet their view. Hopeless of finding to those deeps a bound Orsign prognostic of approaching ground, Mutinous and sad the listless sailors grow Reluctant further on their search to go.
Rut bold Columbus, of the Pinta's helm, The dark-eye'd son of proud Italia's realm, With soul indomitable, yet prevails, Persistent, westward still his squadron sails. His courage high the crew desponding cheers, Confronting danger, and defying fears, But now October's eleventh dawn doth rise Flushed with the glory of autumnal skies; The fluctuating sea of molten gold Beneath the crimson sky of morning rolled; Some birds, of plumage various and bright, In numerous flocks remotely hove in sight, And tender branch of flowering thorn and vine Came lightly floating on the heaving brine;	•
Leaves newly cut, of growth and fashion strange Came now within the excited shallop's range;
* And omens in the colored clouds of eve Strong omens, unillusive, gave.
The sailors dropped their sounding leads once more, Deeper, deeper fathoming to explore, Each trial new fresh attestation brings From shell and sea-weed to the line that clings. Columbus now commands the anchor cast, The sails hauled in aud tightened to the mast; The ships expectant 'till the morn to lie, As vigil strict he keeps as night rolls by. Anxious and wakeful rocked them on the deep, No eye was closed, no spirit sealed in sleep, Upon the lone forecastle lost in thought The admiral's straining oye the distance sought; Ac last os midnight slowly wended on, The moon unseen, the star-light faint and wan, Remote,as moving, gleaming torch he spies;
“ Land! Land!” in transport the discoverer cries; u Land! Land!'* the vessels echo o'er the deep,, Andjar the swelling sounds responding sweep. They now prepared t'approach the longed-for shore. Their anchors weigh, their sails unfurl once more. Banners of Arragou and fair Castile The golden Cross of Christian Spain reveal. St. James' pennon from the top-mast floats, , While drum and clarion wake their martial notes :
One moment more, they pressed Columbia's soil, Their chief the first to tread West India's Isle. Bending, he kissed in tears the sacred sod, Venting his grateful soul in thanks to God, Loud hymns upon the silent forest rose Waking the breath ess solitude's repose; The Cross is planted, and with joy unfurled Spain's royal ensigns hail the Western World. J. K.
An Irishman consulting Dr. Johnsom about the use of the words “shall” and “will,” the doctor recommended him whenever he felt inclined to. use the former word to substitute the latter in its place, and vice versa.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.**
A Banquet.
Being both “on us” “new comers” at Notre Dame University, my brother lolo and I rose betimes on Tuesday, Slay the 17th (memorable date!)
To sea what see we haply could,
In lofty hall or lowly cot or eke in tangled wood ;
and soon descried a voluminous smoke rising from the kitchen chimney.. A happy omen, thought I!
Reflecting* upon the well-known fact that where there is smoke there is generally fire, and that on a genial Summer’s day fires blaze for culinary purposes, I determined upon a closer inspection of the premises. Passing by the hospitable door “per accident” my olfactories were regaled by the agreeable odor of—well, time will tell!
Later in the day, looking, also “per accident,” through the polished windows of the Junior’s refectory, my sight was gladdened by long rows of tables' bending beneath the weight of “good things” in general, and seeing that a few stray Cecilians whom I chanced to meet, wore genial smiles, together with their “ Sunday go-to-meetins’ ” I sagely concluded that “something was up ” and that it behooved me to be in hailing distance in case my valuable services might be required in quelling a riot, making a speech, or taking a hand in the old-fashioned game of playing at knife and fork, or—but here comes Prof. Lyons, smiling like a politician; he bows—(to me!)—speaks; in my tremor I distinguish the words “happy,” “company,” “invited,” and “banquet,”—hurrah! the smoke did not deceive me!
As your curiosity must be by this time considerably excited, I will have pity, and tell you what really was up. The President’s annual banquet to the members of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was on the tapis—table I mean,—and I skillfully managed to be among the fortunate few who were invited to do justice to it; a call to which you may believe I did not prove deaf, dumb, or blind!
The Commissary-General having lawfully captured a brace of luscious native corn-fed young porkers, immediately handed them over to the tender mercies of Mein Herr Butcher, who quickly transferred them, minus livers and lights, to Mons. Chevallier, the French cook, and he, dans son tour, soon laid them before us Amer, icans on the table, nicely roasted, done brown in fact, and flanked by other eatables, fish, flesh, fowl and vegetable, too numerous to mention. How lovely they did look, to be sure, each with a big lemon in his mouth, aud two or three exquisite little kinks in his tail!
The banquet itself was far beyond my poor powers of description; but if you bear in mind that it was given by the President—to the Cecilians—engineered by Prof. Lyons, prepared by Mons. Chevallier, aided by his numerous aides-de cuisine, and partaken of by ME, you can perhaps ijnagine what it must have been!
Ascetics may inveigh against, and philosophers reason and wrangle as intemperately as they please upon, the “ animality ” Of eating and drinking, and the foolishness of feasts in general,—all right; but “we are no orator as Antony is,” own to a natural weakness for such animal enjoyment,—and have moreover a lurking suspicion that some slight tinge of the original clay might be found in the composition of even their spiritualized bodies! But enough of philosophy ; if you wish to take the wrinkles out of a man’s face, and put smiles in. their place, give him a good, hearty dinner. Who could by any possibility listen to a good speech, or harder still, make one
himself on an empty stomach ? So we thought, and in consequence the verb “edere ” was conjugated through nearly all its modes and tenses. Nor must you suppose that because I speak of eating only, no drinking was done on the occasion; by no means: I,—we, and they—sipped cider, tasted lemonade, and drank brimming goblets of pure, crystal water!
Well! the feast went on, slow but sure, and merrily as a marriage bell; the solids disposed of, then followed in due course the confectionery, icecream, “ wegetables,” etc., together with the liquids—cider, lemonade and water—the last being the weakest, and the first the strongest indulged in—the majority of the assembled company being mild “ teetotalers,” and the minority stern “aquarians."	,
Many toasts were proposed, and happily responded to; among others, by
Rev. W. Corby, President of the University ;
Rev. A. Lemonnier, Vice President;
Rev. N. H. Gillespie, Assistant Provincial;
Rev. D. J. Spillnrd, Prefect of Discipline;
Rev. Patrick D’Arcy, San Jose;
Rev. A. Oechtering, Pastor ofSt. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka;
Professors T. E. Howard, A. J. Stace and P. J. Foote, of Notre Dame.
The “ orations ” were all very short, and as according to the adage “ brevity-is the soul of wit,” it is needless to say that they were “Attic” in that respect—that they were also truthful, pointed and congratulatory to the noble Cecilians, by whom they were justly appreciated, the hearty round of applause which followed sufficiently testified.
In accordance with an ancient custom, a gold ring was concealed in a huge cake that was passed around among the young Philomatheans; the happy finder of the magic circle was to be honored as the “Prince of May,” the “monarch of all he surveyed,” and his will, for the time being, law. Fortune’s favorite on the occasion chanced to be Mr. P. Cochrane, who at once asserted his royal prerogative and power by proclaiming “recreation.” As his authority was short-lived, expiring at sun-down, this coup d'etat proved him equal if not superior, in tactics to the strategist of the age-^-Napoleon.
As I saw the long files of young Cecilians swiftly advance into the ball at the beginning of the banquet, and slowly retreat at the end thereof, I could not help feeling the truth of a remark made by an honored guest at my elbow, “ that Prof. Lyons has reason to be proud of his young proteges, and they of him, their Guide and “ Mentor”—to which I added in an audible whisper, long may they both flourish!
lolo whispers that it would be both ungrateful and ungracious to omit mentioning that the fragrant bouquets which bloomed upon the tables, adding new charms to the otherwise charming scene, show that botany is domesticated, and the sweet language of flowers understood, if not spoken, at N. D. University. As this would be a sweet morsel for a debating society, I leave it an open question for the genius of some logic-chopping, hair splitting disciple of Aristotle.
For the most of the foregoing items I am indebted to the kindness and short-hand notes of an obliging member of the Phonographic Class, who will please accept my hearty thanks. If the fasts prove asagreeableatNotreDameas the feasts, I think I may safely affirm that brother lolo and I will stay. .	Angelo.
Liquid Measure.—Two pints make one quart; two quarts make one dead drunk; one dead drunk makes a complete ass.
Correspondence of the “Notre Dame Scholastic.**
Two-Penny Club.
Editors Scholastic: This being the last issue of the Scholastic for this session, the Two-Penny Club would respectfully solicit a place in your columns.
Though working silently, the members of this association have been working industriously during the past year, producing every week their little paper—the Two-Penny Gazette—and laboring incessantly to accomplish their purpose, and provide a source of instruction and amusement for their friends, the members of the Philodemic Association. The Club may, indeed, be regarded as forming a part of the Philodemic, as all its members are “ Philos,” and it is at the meetings of this Association that the Two-Penny Gazette is read, every Tuesday evening.
Of all the Societies at Notre Dame, there is certainly not one whose actions are more misconstrued, whose object is less understood, and whose “doings” present less cause for complaint. We have been accused, time and again, of having no other object than unmanly criticism and unwarranted interference in things outside of our proper province. This charge, though repeated, and tacitly believed by many, could have originated only in the minds of some one totally ignorant of our proceedings or wilfully bent on misrepresenting them. Nothing, indeed, could be farther from the real end we have in view than the one just mentioned. Our object, as expressed in the Preamble to our Constitution, is the cultivation of “ a correct style, accurate judgment, fluency and elegance of expression, and complete mastery of our mother-tongue.” These, as expressed in the same place, we regard “As qualities indispensi-ble to a literary or scientific man.” We sincerely pity that class of students, quite large nowadays, who leave their Alma Maters, rejoicing in the possession of a “sheepskin,” and who, though they may be conversant with the classics and sciences, could not, for their lives, write a respectable article for a second-class newspaper.
The acquisition of the qualities mentioned above as included in the Preamble, we regard as the first business of the student on entering college. Believing with the poet, that “True elegance of writing comes from Art, not chance,’’ we have taken the means which, to us, seemed most conducive towards the acquirement of that “ elegance of writing,”—viz., practice. “ Write Frequently to Compose Well”—the motto which heads our Gazette—expresses in a word our true object and the means we have taken to accomplish it This, irrespective of what interested or unfriendly critics may say, is the sole object of the Two Penny Club.	•
The Club includes among its members some of the best students of the Philodemic Association, or of the whole University. If theqnotation, “By their fruits so shall ye know them,” is worthy of consideration, the Two-Penny Club, though small in numbers, can claim a degree of importance equal to any society in the University. "Since its foundation it has sent out more graduates, in comparison to the number of its members, than any Society of Notre Dame. It has had among its members some of the best students of which Notre Dame can boast,—men who have since, both at home and wherever they have been, proved an honor to their friends and Alma Mater, and have shown clearly that the time was not misspent which they employed in writing for the TwoPenny Gazette.	John M. Gearin, •
Scribe of the Two-Penny Club. ------1 » >-------
“I dont like back-biting,” as the fellow said when the dog caught him by the coat-tail.
156
NOTRE
SCHOLASTIC.
SOTRE
PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY
AT NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY
TERMS:
One year..............................
Five months.... CInbs of five, in the University, one year. Single copies .........................
... $2 oo ... 1 oo ... 1 oo 5 cents.
The Notre Dame Scholastic can be obtained at the Students’ office.
St. Cecilia Piiiloinatlican Banquet.
The Cecilians, whose dramatic performance so lately elicited the applause of all, and proved that the old spirit of the association was still in full vigor, assembled in the Junior refectory at halfpast three in the afternoon of Tuesday, the 17th . ult., for the purpose of partaking of a sumptuous banquet, kindly provided for them by Rev. Father Superior, assisted by their own ever active and enthusiastic President, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M, to whose zeal and vigilance the present prosperity of the association is mainly due. The young gentlemen did full justice to the viands set before them, upon which all the skill of Mr. Chevallier’s cuisine had been brought to bear—rampant porkers roasted whole forming a prominent feature, with lemons in their mouths and their tails more fantastically twisted"than the poor piggies— (I should perhaps rather say the/at piggies)—ever contemplated during the brief space of their existence.
Many distinguished guests were present, Rev. Father Superior doing the honors in person. We noticedRev. Father Oechtering, pastorof thebeau-tiful neighboring sequestered village of Mishawaka ; Rev. Father Gillespie, a former director and always a generous patron of the Society; Rev. Father Lemonnier, Vice President of the University, flanked by his ever devoted aides-de-camp, ■ Profs. Foote and Stace, Rev. Fathers Spillard and D’Arcy, Profs. Howard and Von Weller, Brother Camillus, with our kind and faithful steward, Bro. Francis de Sales, to whose efficient cooperation much of the success of the banquet was due ; not forgetting our good friend Mr. Edwards, one of the earliest members of the Association. The absence of many others was sincerely regretted, particularly that of Rev. M. B. Brown, a former president of the Association. On the cutting of the cake, Prof Lyons made the momentous announcement, that while yet in the chaotic state of . dough, ere the hands of our French cook had moulded it into that entrancing shape under which it now appeared to their fascinated gaze, a ring of value had been consigned to its abysses, the aforesaid value of which was to be enhanced by the dignity which its happy possession would confer upon the finder thereof—a dignity which in the neighboring Amazonian halls of St. Mary’s Academy was known and respected as that of “ Queen of May,” but which a difference of gender would grammatically necessitate to manifest itself here under a more masculine compellation the exact terms and syllabication of which he referred to Rev. Father Superior. On the subsequent evolution of the annular chrysodactylion (18 carats) under the trituration of the dental activities of Mr. Philip Cochrane, Reverend Father Superior decided that he should be known as the “ Prince of Phil-o’May-theans,” a title which would at .once euphoniously combine his own with those of the Society over which he was to rule and the month during which his sway was to extend. The young prince" bore his honors
meekly, and moderately confined the exercise of his new-found powers to the beneficent down-"pouring of recreation for the remainder of the evening on the upturned countenances of his delighted subjects. Many were the speeches that interlarded the banquet, partaking in general of the humorous character befitting the occasion. Perfectly serious, however, was the cordial invitation of the Rev. Pastor of Mishawaka, extended to all present, to partake of the hospitalities of his thriving though retired.parochial instatement The St Cecilians have confidently asserted that they mean to avail themselves of it, and thus secure one more oasis in the sands of time and the neighborhood. We hope that many such banquets may grace the future archives of our enterprising and intelligent young friends, the St. Cecilia Philomatheans.
Local Items.
The standing committee of the Asociated Alumni of Notre Dame held several meetings during the past two weeks.
The committee on the Alumni badge made its report, which was accepted by the standing committee. However, as no action could be taken in regard to the badge outside of the general assembly of the Alumni, the badge question will be submitted to the members at their meeting, June 21st, inst.
The Examination.—This important exercise, by which the college session is closed, will begin on the 13th inst. The Written Examination will last two days—Monday 13th, and Tuesday 14th. aud Friday, 17th Saturday and Monday following will be devoted to the Oral Examination.
The graduates’ Examination will be held on Monday 13th inst.
The Boards of examiners for the Oral Examination will be composed as they were at the Semiannual Examination.
The Competitions written by the students will, as in former years, be subjected to the examination of visitors at the Annual Commencement They have been prepared with great care, and in general are a fair exhibition of the ability of the students.
The competition prizes this year will be somewhat different in shape and size from those of preceding years, and will certainly surpass them in value. Still, however great be their material value, it is small in comparison with the moral value which the Faculty and the worthy recipient attach to these marks of merit.	•
Railroad Arrangement for the Annual Commencement.—The time table of the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, published on our last column, vrill give all necessary information concerning the departure of trains from South Bend, with the following change, however, which should be expressly noticed:
By the kindness of the officers of the L. S. & M. S., the train leaving South Bend, at 4:34 P. M., going west, will be delayed one hour, and will leave at 5:34 on Wednesday 22d inst., giving ample time to the students and parents to reach the depot after the exhibition, which will end at 2o’clock P. M.
All the baggage of the students will be checked at the college by persons appointed for that-object, and much trouble will be avoided thereby
Right Rev.- Bishop Luers afrived at Notre Dame, Tuesday, the 7th inst., and administered the sacrament of Confirmation to some forty-six students on the following day.
The Thespians Exhibition, which will come off Tuesday, 21st inst., will be well attended, if we judge from previous years. We even anticipate a crowded hall,—we might say over-crowded, —for such is generally the case, owing particularly to the large influx of uninvited persons who in sonic way or other succeed in getting into the hall.
It may be well to state, however, in order to prevent disappointments, that letters or cards of invitation will be the only recognized passports-giving right of admittance at the public exercises of the Commencement.	• .	-
On the morning of Wednesday, at 8J4 o’clock, the St. Cecilia Philomatheans, will perform their part of the programme, published in our columns. Parents and Visitors who have once before witnessed the Cecilian Exhibition will not fail to be present at the appointed time in Washington Hall-	’
The arrival of their second boat was hailed with the greatest pleasure by the members of the Boat Club. The new boat is similar in shape and size (25x4.) to the other one, received at the beginning of May.
The two .boats are respectively named after Columbus’ ships, the Santa Maria, and the Pinta. A staff boat, the Milla, will be added to our little navy in September.
The two crews are composed of strong and enthusiastic young men, eager to distinguish themselves and vie for the prize which we understand has been offered to the winning crew for the 21st of June.
The following students compose at present the crews of each boat:
Santa Maria.—J. R. Boyd, captain; L. B. Logan, D. Hibbard, John Mulhall; W. Roberts, coxswain.	■
Pinta.—M. Roe, captain; R. Finley, J. Finley A Riopelle; Jos. Mulhall, coxswain.
a
A Very Sad Accident occurred Saturday, the 4th inst A young apprentice, Peter Moran, of the Manual Labor School, while bathing with his classmates in St Joseph’s Lake, was seized with cramps, and drowned in spite of all the efforts made by those present to rescue him. The report of the accident was soon spread through the College, and the Senior Students, Prefects and Professors, as well as the officers, hastened to the shore of the lake. The best divers searched for hours the spot where the young man had disappeared. Boats and all appliances for dragging were made use of, but in vain. It was only the following morning that the body of the unfortunate youth was discovered lying in some fifteen feet of water. The coroner’s jury returned a verdict of accidental drowning. Peter Moran was happily prepared to meet his unexpected death, by confession the very morning of that day. He intended to receive Holy Communion on Whit Sunday. His behavior as an apprentice was always excellent; and, however sad may be his departure from this life, the consoling thought that he had lived well, and was well prepared to meet his Creator, consoles to-day those who mourn him. The greatest praise is due to Messrs James Dickinson, C. Chester, R. K. Brush, C. McCollister, G. Rannie, and others for their conduct on this occasion.
A Grand Musical Soiree was'given in the College parlor, Sunday, 12th inst., by the Vocal Class of M. T. Corby; the Orchestra led by Prof C. Von Weller; the Brass Band, led by Pro£ Boyne, and the choral singers in the rehearsal of the Grand Cantata, directed by Father MOhlber-ger. We have seldom attended a more pleasing musical feast.	•


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
COLLEGE BULLETIN.
Arrival of Students.
Herman Kreuger, Otho G. Angle, Francis A. Huck, David Rouleau, Bayard T. Templeton, Fred. W. Whitney, Frank W. Whitney, James F. Murphy,
Chicago, Ill.
Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Chicago, Ill.
Rouleau City, Neb.
Harmony, Ill Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati, Ohio. New York, N. Y.
Tables of Honor.	'
Senior Department.
May 6th—John Mulhall, F. Troutman, W. K. Roy, T. Dillon, H. Goddard, D. A. Clarke, D. Harding, J. Eisenman, J. M. Gearin, A. Riopelle-
May 13th—E. B. Gambee, J. McGionity, Dennis Tighe, H. Barlow, J. McCarty, J. A. Fox, F. B. Shephard, R. Finley, J. Sutherland, T. Stratton.
May 20—J. E. Garrity, J. Shannahan, C. Con-norton, J. McGlynn, J. Dickinson, F. Kaiser, R. Finnegan, R. Powers, P. O’Connell, John Zahm.
May 27th—J. R. Boyd, W. Roberts, T. Grier, H. P. Morancy, T. Armstrong, T. Dunden, A. W. Arrington, J. Duffy, L. B. Logan, A. Mooney.
June 3d—R. Crenshaw, J. Finley, N. Mitchell, J. M. Gearin, J. Eisenman, C. Marantette, H. Goddard, D. Fitzgerald, P. Coakley, D. A. Clarke.
Junior Department.
May 13th—M. Mahony, F. Randal, J. Christy, F. Dwyer, H. Ackhoff, E. Shea, M. Moriarty, W. Myers, J. Rumely, S. LeGault, S. Ashton.
May 20th—J. Antoine, J. Wilstach, J. Nash, L. Roth, J. McGuire, C. Vinson, H. Kinkead, G. Breunig, J. Taylor, G. Green, C. Ortmayer.
May 27th—T. Foley, W. Clarke, M. Nolan, J. ■Kilcoin, P. Cochrane, M. McCormic, C. Morgan, B. Roberts, D. Brown, J. Ward, E. Meussel.
June 3d—V. McKinnon, P.Reilly, M.Melancon, L. McOskar, A. Berber, J. Kendrick, H. Potter, J. Cassella, B. Luhn, J. Dougherty, J. Thompson.
Minim Department.
May 27th—H, Quan, E. Haydel, H. Trentman, G. Berry, F. Hunt, J. McCormack.
Surveying and Navigation—J. M. Gearin, H. P. Morancy, L. B. Logan.
Honorable Mention.
Astronomy—H. P. Morancy, D. A. Clarke.
Chemistry—A. Arrington, D. A. Clarke, Wm.
Waldo.	.
Physics—A. Arrington, D. A. Clarke, W. Waldo, H. P. Morancy.
Calculus—John Gearin, D. A. Clarke, H. P. Morancy.	/
Conic Sections—John Zahm, J. A. Dickinson.
Trigonometry—J. A. Dickinson, John Zahm.
Third Algebra—H. Goddard, H. B. Shephard, S. LeGault, W. Lang, J. Walsh, W. K. Roy, C Swenk, L. McLaughlin.
Second French—J. Antoine, A. Riopelle, Chas. Breunig, W. Clarke, E. Campeau, L. Hayes, Ed. Haydel, H. O’Neil.
Third German, Sr.—H. Goddard, J. Leunig, W. K. Roy, L. Gibson, J. E. Shannahan. ’
Second German, Jr.—C. Berdell, J. Ward, H. Kreuger,’G. Schaeffer.	_
Third German, Jr.—S. LeGault, W. Clarke, J. Walsh, H. Ackhoff, H. Potter.
Fourth German, Jr.—‘R. Fahey, L. J. Marshall, C. Peterson, R. Lange, L. Roth, J. B. Goodhue, J. W. Murphy, J. B. Taylor, J. McFarland, Ed. Meussel.
First Geometry—F. Kaiser, J. Fox, N. Mitchell, H. Barlow,
Second Geometry—D. Harding, C. Peterson, J. Sutherland, J. Brush, J. McCarthy.
First Algebra—F. Kaiser, L. B. Logan.
Second Algebra—J. Fox, J. Sutherland, T. Grier N. Mitchell, H. Barlow.
First German, Sr.—F. Kaiser, L. Wilson, James McGuire, J. Coffey, C. Duffy, N. Mitchell, P. Cochrane, J. Sutherland.
Second .German, Sr.—T. Dillon, D. Egan, T. Grier, J. Fox, J, R. Boyd, C. Hutchings.
First German, Jr.—A. Hoerber, C. Vinson, Jos. Rumely, J. Vogt, J. Buehler, W. Meyer, C. Ortmayer, W. Wilstach, F. Lauer.
First French—J. Gearin, F. Dwyer.
Second French—J. R. Boyd, J. Garrity, D. Tighe, W. Wilstach.
First Phonography—S. Thiel, T. Stratton, F. Bish, D. Hibbard, H. Kinkead.
Second Phonography—P. Davis, T. Dillon, W.
K. Roy, L. Wilson. ■
CELEBRATION'S
ON OCCASION OF THE
TWENTY-SIXTH
—OP THE—
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, Jane 21 and 22, 1870, -------------CONSISTING OP-
Poems, Orations, and Dramatic Representations,
—BY THE—	•
Thespian and St. Cecilia Societies.
THE GRAND CANTATA OF THE LAST SILVER JUBILEE, OVERTURES AND SYMPHONIES BY THE NOTRE DAME ORCHESTRA, AND MARCHES, ETC., BY THE NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY
CORNET BAND.	'
PROG-R AM ME:
TUESDAY—Forenoon.
Solemn High Mass..............6:00 o’clock, A. M.
Celebrant.........Very Rev. E. Sorin, S. S. C. Deacon............Rev.	W. Corby, S. S. C.
Subdeacon.........Rev. A Lemonnieb, S. S. C. Master of Ceremonies, Rev. D. J. Spillard.S.S.C. Italian Mass of Generale... .Notre Dame Choir
Breakfast..........................7:30,	A M.
Reception of Alumni, business meeting, 9:00, A M.
Afternoon and Evening.
Banquet of the Alumni.............1:00,P.M.
Regatta on Lake St. Joseph........3:30, P. M.
Supper............................6:00, P. M.
Evening entertainment.............7:00, P. M.
PART FIRST.
Grand Entrance March......N. D. U. Brass Band
O.verture-“Dffniino Nbir"-Auber N. D.U. Orchestra Grand Cantata of the last Silver Jubilee.Vocalists of Notre Dame.
Greek Speech—“ Oratory ”—M. Mahony of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society.
Latin Address.........................W.	Waldo
of the St Aloysius’ Philodemic Society.
Quartette....................Brass	Instruments
Address from Scientific Dep’t......D. A Clarke of St. Edward’s Literary Society.
Address from Commercial Dep’t_J. C. Eisenman of St. Edward’s Literary Society.
Music.................   N.	D. U. Brass Band
PART SECOND.
Overture—“ William Tell,”... .N. D. U. Orchestra
WILLIAM TELL.
A. Tragedy In Tlireo ALCtH.
Presented by the Members of the Thespian Association, Under the Direction of Pro£ M. T. Derby, A. M.
Dramatis Personae.
Gessler, -	--	--	-	-	- L.B. Logan
Samern, -------- john Xulhall Rudolph ------- W. H. Murphy Lutold, -	-	-	-	-	- E.E. Gainbee
WILLIAM TELL, ------ J. R. BOYD Albert, -	•	-	-	- J. Sutherland
Melctal, ------ 'Mr Marcus Emi, -	-	- . -	-	- J-R-Fox
Furst,	John Tin fly
Verner -	-	-	. ‘	. D. B. Hibbard
Michael, -	-	- _	-	- H. P. Morancy
Theodore, -	-	-	-	- T.DiHoa
Pierre, ' -	-	-	-	-	- F. Kaiser
Hermann, -	-	-	-	- L. F. Wilson
Officers, Archers, Soldiers, Villagers, Citizens, etc.
Music after first and second acts by the X. D. U. Brass Band
TAUT THIRD,
Overture—Tancred.........N. D. U. Orchestra
THE BENEFIT OF HAN.GING. . A Comedy in One Act. Presented by the Thespian Association.
Dramatis	Person®.
Old Screw,	D. B. Hibbard
Old Nail,	John Mulhall
Goliath Spiderlimb,	J. A. Fox
Captain Darling,	Lawrence Willson
Giles Sowthistle,	H. P. Morancy
Theodore Button,	James Sutherland
Old Gammon,	F. Kaiser
Old Spinage,	T. Dillon
Music	D. V- Brass Band
■WEDNESDAY—Forenoon.

PART FIRST.
Breakfast..........................7	o’clock
Commencement Exercises   —  8:30 o’clock Grand Entrance March....N. D. U. Brass Band
O verture—“ Domine Noir”—Atiber.... Orchestra Address from Law Dep’t....J. A O’Reilly, A B.
Duett—“I would that my love”—Mendelssohn—
........Messrs.	A Riopelle, John Mulhall
“Hail Columbia’ “The Columbian’
Song—“ Semiramide’
.....N. D. U. Brass Band L. Hayes, St. Cecilia Society R. Staley J. Rumely ..... C. Hutchings
■ T. Foley E. Hutchings
PART SECOND.
Overture—“William Tell"... -N.D.U. Orchestra
“THE UPSTAET.”
A Comedy in Three Acta.
Translated from Moliere, and Arranged for the St. Cecilia Philo* mathean Society, of the Junior Collegiate Depart* meat, by a me’mber of the Faculty.
Prologue.......................Scott	Ashton
Dramatis Persona;.
Mr. Jordan, the Upstart, Old Mr. Jordan, his Father,
158
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .

Cleon, in love with Mr. Jordan's daughter, Covieile, & Valet to Cleon, Dorauto, a Count, Dorimenes, a Marquis, Signore Profundo, Professor of Philosophy, Signore Bassilio, Music Teacher, Fiorello, his Pupil. Figaro, Dancing Master, Jeronimo, Fencing Master, Nicholas, a privileged servant of Mr. Jordan's, Ali Bey, the Mufti, Signore Crispino, a Tailor,
Giacomo, Paolo, B^ppo, Pedro,
Tradesmen.
Baptista. 1st Footman, Carlo, 2d Footman, pAsquela,	1
Rigoletto,	I Musicians.
Filippo,	J
Poliuto,	J
Prestolo, Alvina, Rigolo, Francesco
Buuin, Fenail, Robert, Bncbis&id, Kamyl. Faud Bob, Baronn, Selim. Abdelkish, Alraschid Pompey. 1 Cuffey, f
Turks.,
Tba Derrises....
Cullud Pussuns,”.
J
Grand Turkish Dance Epilogue............ 3Iarch..............
T. Foley W. B. Clarke F. P. Dwyer B. Roberts
J. Nash R. Staley
J. Rumely C. Hutchings
P. Cochrane M. Mahony J. McGuire
D. Brown J. Doherty C. Forrestal J. Thomson
C. Morgan J. Kilcoiu
C. Ortmayer f D. Egan. j J. Kinkoad 1 H H. Neill (V. McKinnon
Leo McOsker S. Dum H. Gallagher L. Roth H. Ackboff H. Luhn J. Hanoaher W. Wilbtach F. C Randall J. Antoine (J. Goodhue { J. Shanks
K. Espy. J. Christy L. Hayes, E. bhea
.......by the Actors .......C.	Berdell N. D. U. Brass Band
‘0! Home, Sweet Home”—Address.
Quartette—0. Lorenz.
. ..W. Clarke
R.' Staley C. Ortmayer C. Hutchings R. Hutchings J. Rumley T. Foley
Poem of the Alumni.....Prof. A J. Stace, A 31. Grand Cantata..........Vocalists of Notre Dame Valedictory............A	W. Arrington
Music.......................N.	D. U. Brass Band
CONFEBBING OF DEGREES.
Solemn distribution of Premiums.
Awarding.of Diplomas in Commercial Department ; of Prizes in Classical, Scientific, Commercial and Preparatory Departments.
Awarding of Second Honors.
Awarding of First Honors.
Musia.................
Oration of the Day ...
Grand Retiring 3Iarch..
N. D. U. Brass Band
.N. D. U. Band
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic."
St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association.
A Summary of rrs Literary Proceedings for ire Scholastic Year 1869-70.
When we contemplate, at the close of the present scholastic year and the fruition of our hopes and designs for the same, the veil of comparative silence that will in a few days be drawn over the scene of many a hard hour’s study—silence reigning where now the joyous laughter of the student resounds;—when we contemplate these things, it is with regret that we are obliged to bid our fellow-students a reluctant farewell. 3Iany of them will now begin life’s journey—will go forth into the busy world, and will, we hope, give evidence of the knowledge that has been so lavishly bestowed on them while amid the sacred shadesofNotre Dame. Few young men, it must be acknowledged, launch upon the glittering ocean of life with fairer indications of a prosperous voyage; yet the bright anticipations of the future are not unmingled with regret: the joyful welcome of parents and friends is tinged with grief at parting from college friends and associates.
For the benefit of parents whose sons have been members of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association, and for the interest of the kind Fathers, Brothers, and Professors of the Faculty, who have by precept and example impressed upon us salutary lessons of wisdom and virtue, we have
thought proper to bring before the public an annual report of the Association, to show thereby that we have, to the best of our ability, profited by the advantages which the Society so well affords. The following is a synopsis of the proceedings since September 16th, 1869, to April
26th, 1870:
Number of questions debated and decided....
“	Lectures.........................
“	Public Literary	Entertainments...
"	Declamations.....................
16
2
1
21
Instead of Essays, a periodical called the Two-Penny Gazette has been regularly compiled and edited. The size of the Gazette is sixteen pages of foolscap, and is written for, edited weekly, and conducted by six members of the Association. It is read at the regular meetings of the same, having been previously examined by the President. Prof. A. J. Stace, A. 31., who has filled this position during the past year, is fully qualified, as those who have the pleasure of his acquaintance are aware, to do justice to such an important undertaking, and deserves the thanks of the Club for the kind interest he has invariably manifested in all its proceedings. The object in submitting all to bis criticism is to prohibit any article being inserted the character of which might be such as to hurt the feelings of any, even the most sensitive We are happy to say that during the past year there has been no occasion to enforce a prohibition.
The number of volumes, magazines, pamphlets,
etc., possessed by the Society is as follows: Standard works............................
3Iagazines and Reviews.................... Pamphlets................................. Newspapers................................
250
140
60
570
The library contains a great many valuable works, among which may be enumerated—
Lingard’s “ History of England,” thirteen volumes; Slacauley’s “History of England;” Bancroft’s and Frost’s Histories of America; a complete set of the “American Cyclopaedia” up to 1869, sixteen volumes; De Quincy’s complete works, sixteen volumes; Niebuhr’s “History of Rome,” three volumes; "Wordsworth’s complete works; 3Iacauley’s Essays; Talfourd’s Essays, Biographies, etc.; five volumes of the “ Spectator;” three different Histories of Ireland; the Speeches of Clay, Calhoun, Jefferson, Hamilton, and others; Alexander H. Stephens’ “ Constitutional History of the Causes which led to the late Civil War;” Chambers’ “ Cyclopaedia of English Literature;” Headley’s “Great Rebellion;” Rollin’s “Ancient History;” Shakspeare’s works; Stilton’s complete works; the poetical works of Longfellow, Whittier, Goldsmith, Tasso, Tennyson, Burns, Lord Derby, and others quite as popular but too numerous to mention here.
It may therefore be readily perceived that the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association not only maintains its old standing, but is making rapid strides towards perfection, and can claim the credit of being one of the leading literary societies of the University of Notre Dame.
Marcus J. Moriarty, Cor. Sec.
Mr. J. Bonney has been very busy for the past three weeks taking the photographs of the clubs, societies and classes of the University. 3Ir. Bonney does his work to the satisfaction of all, and his popularity among the students is due not only to his artistic success, but also to his readiness to please those who employ his talent We do not think Air. Bonney surpassed by any artist in Northern Indiana.
The new fridge of the Peninsular Road it completed, and-the work between South Bend and Niles is being actively pushed on.
The Scientific Association.
This energetic little Society has passed through a year of unusual trials and tribulations, and can nevertheless congratulate itself in coming out “ right side up with care." The inexcusable defection of some of its “ heads ”—the loss of many valuable members through unavoidable absence— the manifold changes, even of the constitution itself, consequent on their adversities—a long time seemed to threaten the very existence of the organization,'but it weathered the storm after knocking its three departments into one, and dropping $ the term “United ” from its name.
A scientific lecture on the “Origin of Ideas” was delivered before the Association, on the evening of the 8th of Slay, by the Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C., President of the Society. The Rev. lecturer was listened to with.the most marked attention and pleasure by everyone present.
An exploration party was formed by a select committee of nine on Wednesday, Slay 25th, for the purpose of scientific discoveries and mutual enjoyment. The main theatre of operations was the embouchure of Cottin’s creek. The navigation of the river is here intensely difficult and well-nigh impossible. It was effected, however, by the persevering efforts of the more muscular portion of the society. Slusele, however, might not have succeeded were it not for the happy genius of one of the party, whose fertile mind and philanthropic inclinations suggested and put into execution a project which succeeded admirably, and relieved the party of all apprehensions of failure. The new railroad, which traverses this fertile region, was also interviewed by a standing committee and found satisfactory as to progress. Several important discoveries were made, including the finding, by Rev. J. C. Carrier, of a very choice specimen of Tourmalins, which may be seen in the College 3Iuseum. Other discoveries of less importance, in the shape of snapping-turtles, &a, were made by the members of more inquisitive tendencies. After a day spent in unalloyed enjoyment • (with the exception of a slight scare occasioned by the inexplicable conduct of an erratic individual of the party), the excursionists returned to the University, well pleased with their trip and looking forward to the repetition of the same at an early day.
John 31. Gearin, Cor. Sea
St. Edward’s Literary Association.
3Iessrs. Editors: Knowing the interest you have manifested for all the societies connected with the University, and feeling assured that a brief synopsis of the labors of the society, gleaned from the official reports, would be agreeable to our many friends, we will not apologize for this intrusion on your columns. The first meeting of the scholastic year, held on September 14th, 1869, was attended by ten members. During the year we admitted eight additional members. The total-number of literary sessions held during the year amounted to twenty-three. There were read before the society forty-seven original essays; the average length of each essay was six pages of cap paper, which would make a folio volume of 282 pages of solid miscellaneous matter. Questions to the number of ten were discussed; some of these were of such a character as to demand pretty accurate knowledge of the history of particular ages and countries; but many of the questions were the real living issues of the day, in which all are interested. We were also favored with fifteen speeches and twelve extempore addresses," not including recitations from the poets, which were only required in case the regular exercises did not
(
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
159
occupy the whole of the evening. We must not neglect to mention the two lectures delivered before the society—the first by Rev. Father O’Reilly, of St. Louis, 3Io., on the present “Public School System,” and the second by llev. 31. B. Brown, S. S. C., on the so-called “ 3Iiddle Ages.” Our feeble praise of either of these reverend gentlemen would add nothing to their established reputation as thinkers and scholars, but the recollection of t-heir addresses will always insure them the grateful remembrance of the society.
Nor is it necessary to note the part the society took towards the rendering of the literary entertainments given in the college parlor a success.
We learn from the report of the treasurer that the receipts of the society amounted to §40,—not a very colossal sum, but amply sufficient to meet all the wants of the society. The librarian reports one hundred and ten volumes in the library, which is an increase of twelve volumes over last year. Prominent among the works possessed by the association are sixteen volumes of the American Cyclopedia, together with the six Annuals that have since been issued; Lingard’sEngland, thirteen volumes; Gibbon’s Rome, six volumes; Irving’s Washington, five volumes; Rollin’s Ancient History, two volumes. We may say if the library of a society is an index of its taste we have no reason to feel ashamed of the most fastidious crtii-cism. Now, 3Iessrs. Editor, you will at once perceive that we have not been idle during the eight mouths in which we were in active operation. Although we cannot boast of as many members as some of our sister societies, yet the perfect unanimity which existed among the members more than compensated for larger numbers with less harmony.
We take the present occasion to return our thanks to Rev. Father 3Iaher, Brother Camillus and Prof. J. A. Lyons, for favors conferred on the society. Our communication would be incomplete did we neglect to acknowledge the many courtesies received from the Editors of the Scholastic. We sincerely hope that it will continue in future what it has been in the past, the students’ paper.
John 31. Duffy, Secretary.
Moot Court.

Tho case of J. C. Dougherty vs. the N. Y. Central R. R. is being carried on by the members of the St. Cecilia Society, under the direction of Prof. Foote. The names of those engaged in the trial are as follows:
Plaintiff’s Attorneys—Michael Mahony and F-P. Dwyer.
Defendant’s Attorneys—W. B. Clarke and Scott Ashton.	■
Clerk of the Court—C. Berdell. •
Sheriff—C. Hutchings.
Conductor of the train—P. Cochrane.
Physicians for the Plaintiff—J. Ward and C. Ortmayer.
Physicians on the side of the defendant—R.
Staley and J. Thompson.
Witnesses for the Plaintiff—C. Forrestal
T. Foley. ’
Witnesses for the Defendant—R. Staley
and
and
S. Dum.
President N. Y. Central R. R.—L. Hayes.
General Superintendent—B. F. Roberts.
Engineer—J. Kinkade.
Reporter of the Utica Morning Press—J. W.
Wilstach.
Brakesman—J. Goodhue.
Ticket Agent—J. Christy.
The one who found and cared for Plaintiff—J. Kilcoin.
Passenger from St. Louis in the same car from which Plaintiff was thrown—H. O’Neil.
Passenger from Chicago in the same car from which Plaintiff was thrown—F. C. Randall.
Passenger from Milwaukee in thesame'car from which Plaintiff was thrown—J. Shanks.
Passenger from Philadelphia in the same car frm which Plaintiff was thrown—L. Roth.
Passenger from Cincinnati in the same car from which Plaintiff was thrown—H. Luhn.
Foreman of the Jury—John Nash.
Jury—D. Brown, L. McOsker, J. Rumely, C. Morgan, H. Ackhoff, H. Gallagher, D.-Egan, J. Antoine, J. McGuire, E Shea, and J. Hannaher.
The trial has been going on for three weeks, and probably will last until the 12th of June. So far the attorneys have displayed a great deal of forensic ability, and the others engaged in the trial take the utmost interest in it.
>A INT
Correspondence of tho “Notre Dame Scholastic.**
St. Mary’s Academy, 3Iay, 15,1870.
3Iay 15th: 31. Walter, 31. Bucklin, A. 3Iont-gomery, L. Quaily, L. Hoyte, C. and F. Sharp, R. and F. Fox, L. 3IcFarlane, L. Chamberlain, A Holman, L. Sutherland.
3Iay 22d: 3Iisses L. Bates, M. Edwards, M. Tuberty, 31. Sherland, A. Rhinehart, K. Bell, J. and V. Leoni, 31. Landgraff, M. Stocker, J. Wilder, and L. Beaupre.
3Iisses Young, Gardner, Foote, Curran, McCall. Calahan, Hoyne, 3Iast, Hurst, Nelson, Ryan.
A, Locke, K. Young, N. 3Ioriarty, E. Webber, J. Brown, 31. Shanks, 31. Edwards, A. Rhinehart, M. Willard.
2d Senior: 3Iisses Dillon, 3Iarshall, Henry, Sherland, Hoyne, Kellogg, Hurst, Parks, Murphy, Gardner, O’Brien, Forbes, Thompson.
3d Senior: 3Iisses Bell, Robinson, Doty, Jennings, Lange, Randal, Eason, E. and L. Conaty, Borup, Bahm.
1st Preparatory; V. and J. Leoni, Carver, Smith, Dooly, Shea, Spencer.
2d Preparatory: 3Iisses Landgraff, Letourneau, Wicker, Price, 3IcBreen, Wilder, Hays, Lacy, M. Walker, Bishop, 3IcCall.
3d Preparatory: 31isses Cofley,Hoerber,Beaupre, Curran, Woods. '
St. Mary’s Academy, May 22, 1870.
May 22d: Misses A. Mulhall, A and E. Ewing, A Cunnea, J. Arrington, A Carmody, C. Bertrand, M. Cook, E. Kirwan, C. Davenport, M. Walton.
1st Senior Class: Misses E. Linsday, K. Carpenter, C. Foote, H. Niel, F. Messmore, M. Kirwan, B. O’Neill, A. Locke, K. Young, N. Moriarty, J. Brown, 31. Shanks, L. Chamberlain, A Willard, Second Senior: Misses M. Dillon, L. Marshall, E. Henry, J. Hoyne, L. Ramsdill, M. Kellogg, A Hurst, K. Parks, M. Murphy, B. Gardner, S. O’Brien J. Forbes, N. Thompson, A Clarke, E. Webber.
3d Senior Class: Misses A. Mast, M. Cochrane, M. O’Toole, K. Robinson, J. Kinsella, J. Walker. A. Jennings, M. Lange, G. Hurst, M. Bucklin, B. Randal, C. Eason, E. and L. Conaty, A. Borup, M. Bahm.
1st Preparatory: Misses A. Montgomery, S. Carver, J. Smith, F. and'C. Sharp, M. Edwards, L. Dooly, A Holman, A Woods, M. Ford, E. Shea, J. Spencer.
2d Preparatory: Misses M. Letourneau, M. Carpenter, L. McFarland, F. and R. Fox, L. Sutherland, J. Falvey, M. McBreen, A Hays, L. Pierce, 31. Walker, L. Bishop, M. McCall, 31. Calahan.
3d Preparatory: Misses 31. Coffey, J. Hoerber L. Curran, C. Woods.
1st German Class: K. Zell.
2d Class: Slisses A Rhinehart, A. Clarke J. Arrington.
Instrumental Music—1st Class: M. Sherland, O. Davenport, A 3IulbalI, C. Foote.
2d Div.: 3IissesA Montgomery, J. Walker, M. McKinnon.
2d Class: 31. Walton, J. Arrington, A. Borup, J. Brown, J. Spencer.	'
2d Div.: E. Ewing, S. O’Brien, A. Carmody, 31. Foote, 3L Kelly, K. Carpenter, K. Parks, A Clarke.
3d Class: 31. Lesson, A Hurst.
5d Div.: J. D’Arcy, B. O’Neil, A Locke.
4th Class: J. Forrestal, E. Linsday, B. Gardner, 2d Div.: L. Thompson, A Rhinehart.
5th Class: L. Ramsdill, K. Robinson, J. Forbes, C. Eason, M. Webber, 31. Kirwan.
2d Div.: B. Cable, F. Smith, 3L Corcoran.
6th Class: E. Conaty, A Jennings.
2d Div.: R. Leoni, M. Walker.
7th Class: Misses 31. 3IcCall, R. Nelson, E. Price, V. Leoni, A Hayes, L. Vogt
8thClass: A McKinnon, F. Taylor, K. Hunt,
9th Class: R. Canoil, E. Calahan, E. Boyce, M. Reynolds, R. Healy, B. Quan, B. Henry.
Harp—C. Davenport, M. Sherland.
Guitar—Miss Bates.
First Class: Misses Linsday, Carpenter, Foote, 3Iessmore, O’Neil, Locke,3Ioriarty, Brown, Shanks Chamberlain, Rhinehart, Bates, Kirwan.
Second Class: 3Iisses Dillon, Marshall, Henry, Tuberty, Sherland, Hoyne, Kellogg, Parks, Murphy, O’Brien, Forbes, Thompson.	.
Third Class: 3Iisses Mast, Bell, O’Toole, Robinson, Doty, Quaily, Walker, Jennings, Hurst, 31. Bucklin, Randal, E. and L. Conaty, Borup, Bahm.
First Preparatory: Misses V. and J. Leoni, 3Iontgomery, Carver, Smith, F. and C. Sharp, Dooly, Stocker, Shea, Spencer.
Second Preparatory: Misses Landgraff, McFarlane, F. and R. Fox, Price, McBreen, -Wilder, Hays, Lacy, Pierce, Walker, Bishop, Sammom.
Third Prepaartory: Misses Coffey, Hoerber, Woods.
Graduating Class: 3Iisses Slulhall, A and E. Ewing, Cunnea, Arrington, Carmody, Bertrand, Cook, Kirwan, Davenport Walton.
St. 3Iary’s Academy, 3Iay 29,1870.
The 31st of 3Iay was celebrated with great animation. The closing of the exercises of the 3Ionth of May, which had been performed with great devotion, the feast of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart and the feast of St. Angela, all combined to render the day one of religious joy, loving congratulations and innocent recreation.
Very Rev. Father General celebrated High Mass. AIL the Catholic pupils approached Holy Communion in thanksgiving for the blessings received during the sweet 3IonthofOurLadyofthe Sacred Heart, and also to ask for all graces and blessings for our dear 3Iother Angela, whose patronal feast they celebrated.
At eight A M. the pupils assembled in the study-hall to present their congratulations to her. Their addresses were read,—one from the Senior -Department, by Miss B. Gardner, supported by 3Iisses J. Forbes and N. Thompson; one from the Children of 3Iary, by 3Iiss E. Kirwan, supported by Miss A Cunnea and B. O’Neil. A Junior address, with a 3Iinim echo, was recited by little ■ Ada Byrnes and C. Henry.
Kind words and loving congratulations ware interchanged between Mother Angela and the	|(|
pupils; recreation for the day was announced, '	Al
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and then all was merriment and preparation for the evening entertainment which was the closing event of the happy day.
After a sumptuous banquet the guests and pupils were invited to seats in front of the Academy. Thegrounds and building had been illumin ated and the beautiful portico was fitted up as a stage on which several tableaux were represented, the interval between each being filled up with vocal and instrumental music. Before nine P: M. all was over, and everyone seemed satisfied with her share of the day’s enjoyment.
On Whitsunday six little girls were admitted for the first time to the Holy Table; their names are K. Hutchinson, M. Clarke, V. and J. Leoni, A. Garrity and J.Haney. The ceremony was, as is ever the case, exceedingly touching and beautiful.
TABLE OF HONOR SR. DEP’T.
June 5th—Misses Sturgis, Lasson, Letourneau, Hurst, Wicker, Radin, McMahon, Cochrane, Bishop Sutherland. Forrestal, O’Marra,
HONORABLE MENTION, SR. DEP’T.
Graduating Class: Miss M. Cook, A Mulhall, A. and E. Ewing E. Kirwan, C. Bertrand, J. Arrington, C. Davenport, A Cunnea.
1st Senior Class: Misses E. Linsday. K. Carpenter, C. Foote, B. Bryan, T. Messmore, L. O’Neil.
AXAUAL COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES,
June 22 and 23, .1870.
PART FIRST.
Musical Exercises
Concerto, Opus 25—G. Noll—Mendelssohn, Polonaise, Opus 56—No. 2—Chopin, Fantasia, Somnambula, Thalberg, Cavatina, Borneo and Juliet, Gounod, Song, Aria, with variations, Rhode, Song, Sicilian Vespers, Verdi Harp, Il Trovatore, Oberthur
Miss H Lilly Miss F. Arrington
E Longsdorf M Woob-
_.	, .	C Davenport
Quartet. Rossini—Misses Wood, Foote, Arrington, and Kirwin
Fantasia, Lucretia Borgia, Goria
Semiramide, Ascher
Transcription, Charite, Liszt
Song, Wanderer, Schubert
Fantasia, Lucia di Lammermoor, Prudent
Song, from Judas Nachabeus, Handel
Silver Spring, Mason
Song, Barbier di Seviglia, Rossini Belisaria, Goria
Song, Bravura, Arditi Harp, La Traviata, Oberthur Vocal Duet, Mendelssohn Souvenir du Bal, Rossellen Song, “ Sing, Sweet Harp,” Centemeri* Last Idea of Weber, Cramer Song of Spring, Mendelssohn La Favorita, Ascher Song, Bravura Waltz, Arditi Cnjus Animam, Kuhe Chorus, Rossini Paraphrase de Concert, Ascher Song from lone, Petrelli Fantasia on Norma. Leybach Song, Voise de Concert, Merry Invltalion a la Voice, Weber Chorus, from Nassa/dello, Auber Huguenots, Meyerbeer Mon Sejour, Schubert Concert Polka, Wallace Bravura Song, Seiber Sans Souci, Ascher Etude Mazurka. Talexy
. Fairies' Carnival, Lange
Misses A and E Ewing
Ballad, “ Rose of Castile,” Balfo
Tarantelle, Heller
Fantasia de Concert, Wallace
Alboni Waltz, Schuloff
‘Judith, Concone
Chorus, from Trovatore. Verdi
Fanfare Militaire, Ascher	.
Fantasia, Barber of Seville, Bossini Bravura song.
Alpine Horn, Schiruer
“Thou art so Near, and yet so Far,” Ascher Perle du Nord, Wyman
A Mulhall
C Foote A Mulhall C Davenport L Chamberlain M Shetland E Longsdorf M Kirwin C Davenport A Montgomery F Messmore M Shetland
J Walker C Foote
A Ewing G Arrington
M Walton K McMahon G Arrington Vocal Class
A Borup A Montgomery L Chamberlain
B Randal) N Thompson
Vocal Class J Brown
A Carmody E. Messmore
K. Parks K Carpenter
B Bryan K Parks
M Tuberty M Kellog
-—E Ewing 8 O’Brien
F Sharp Fol] Vocal Class
A Carmody M Edwards
C Shanks J Spencer -----,H Niel
L Bates
PART SECOND.
Commencing 10 o’clock, A. M., June 23, 1870.
A Mulhall
Etrance March, (from Afhelie)—Mendelssohn.
• G Arrington AandE Ewing M Kirwan M Walton
Harps,
A Montgomery N Thompson C Davenport, M Shetland
Recitative and Aria (from Oratorio of Jephte) Handel—L Smythe
DisiRiBundx op Premiums in the Junior and Preparatory Departments.
Quintet and Chorus (Flotow)	Fall Vocal Chorus
Essay, “Knights of St. John,” composed and read by E Ewing Essay, “Father,” composed and read by	A Ewing
Cavatina, with variations (Pixis)	M Woods
Essay, “Journey of Life,” composed and road by A Cunnea Essay, “The Hand,'” composed and read by	A Mulhall
“ Lost Birdling,” song, with variations (Centenmeri) M Walton Essay, “ Peace,” composed and read by	C Bertrand
Essay, “The Starry Heavens.” composed and read by E Kirwan Di Quai Suave, song, (Donizzetti)	C Davenport
Distribution of Premiums in the Graduating Class.
Fantasia, from.Faust, (Oberthur), Harp duet..{ ^M^SherUnd
Essay “ Homeward Bound,” Composed by N Moriarty, read by
A Rhinehart, of the Senior Department.
Quartet, “The Lord is my Shepherd,” (Schubert)
E Linsday C Davenport
M Walton
C Foote
Distribution op Premiums in the Senior Department.
Laila, or The Lost Ohild.
An Operetta.
Prologue	CHARACTERS.	Miss A. Sturgis
Laila Queen of the Fairies		M Walton A Mulhall
Maude	Mountain Maidens: M Doty | Margaretta	C Foote
Hertha	K McMahon 1 Bertha	F sharp
Winifred	C Sharp | Sisbeth	M Tuberty
Aileen	A Montonieryg	
Fairie s:
Gossamer	B Randall	Silver-wing	K Parks
Butter-fly	F Messmore	Lightening-bug	E Etving
Sun-beam	A Ewing	Moon-beam	A Hurst
Slay-belle	G Hurst	Golden Shower	G Arrington
Parker	M Edwards	Dew-drop	B Bryan
Fanchetto	L Bates	Light foot M McNamara	
Pansy	M Kerney	Daisy	J Kerney
Rose-bud Blue-belle	A Woods A Robinson	San-drop	L McMara
The Joyfuls and the Dolefuls.
A Melodrama.
[Br the Juniors.] Prologue	‘
CHARACTERS-.
Miss Ben Evolentia
Joe-Colee
Hie-Larity	-
Little Miss-Chief	o
Joc-Elarity Ris»Ebility	—
Joc-Cundity
Com-Ecality
Anne Thropy	W
Lac-Rhymoso	&
Indigo-Blue	2*
Porc-Epine	«*
Sally Jane Sbriosa	I
Polly Ann Seriosa	|
Hannah Keziah seriosa Serious family Deborah Seriosa	I	.
Dorothy beriosa	j
Overture to William Tell (Rossini)
Miss Gross
A Clarke A Robinson . L Neal L Harrison A Garrity E Forrestal
M Ewing
L McNamara A Byrnes G Darling M Walker 15 Hutchinson I N Hutchinson
, J Kerney | R Leoni | B Qaann ( C Foote MSherland (, J Walker
Conferring of the Graduating Honors.
Valedictory	Miss G Arrington
Duet, Guarda Branca Luna, (Campana) L Smyth, C Davenport Awarding of Honors in the Senior and Junior Departments. Hymn of Praise (Mendelssohn)	Full Vocal Class
Closing Address Finale from L’Opera—Solonelle—(F. Ries).
(L Chamberlain, J Walker, M Kellog,
Pianos.............4	J Spencer, M Edwards,
.	( K Parks, A Borup, H Niel.
■rr-m	JM Shetland
Barp ....................................IC Davenport
LAW DEPARTMENT
—OF THE-
University of JSTotre Dame.
—:o:—	'
THE COURSE OF STUDIES embraces Ethics, Constitutional and International Law, Common Law, Law of Contracts, Equity, Criminal Law, Evidence Pleading and Practice. The entire course is two years or four terms, corresponding with those of the other departments of tie University.
QUALIFICATIONS.—Every applicant for admission to the Law Department, must. Have at least a good English education. and a fair knowledge of the sciences Graduates of classcial institutions are preferred During the course, bow* ever, the law-student, having the necessary qua'ideations for admission, shall be afforded every facility for acquiring a knowledge of the classics.	*
ST. JARLATH’S COLLEGE, TEAM, Ireland.
New JBirilxlliigs.
The daily increase in the number of students at St. Jarlath's Coll ge, renders it a duty on the part of the superiors—a duty sanctioned by the encouraging approbation of the Archbishop— to enlarge the extent of the buildings, in order to afford befitting accommodation, and to have the present edifice in keeping with the architectural elegance of the religious institutions by which it is surrounded.
The proposed enlargement, by means of additional wings to the new buildings, so as to double the number of rooms, is, on account of the connection of the College wilh the cause and principles of Catholic education, of more than local interest.
Diocesan colleges are the "seminaria" or nurseries of learning and virtue out of which, in each diecese, bishops who are the constituted guardians and teachers of religion and morals, select choice trees fragrant with the flowers of virtue, or laden with the fruit of matured knowledge and spiritual ripeness to be, to the flocks on the fields of the mission, fresh sources of spiritual shelter and support.
St. Alphonsos Liguori, when bishop of St. Agatha of the Goths in Italy, declared that he depended taost on the seminary in order to cultivate morality to reign throughout the diocese entrusted to his watchful care; and he added:—u It is on the seminary L found all my hopes of sanctifying the diocese.”—Life Of Alphonso Liguori, vol. Hi,p. 348.
A college in which learning and virtue are duly cultivated is, therefore, the greatest boon that can be, for the people and pastors of any province, in the present period.
On account of the altered relations of the state towards the cause of Catholic education, as exemplified in Maynooth; and on account of changes still more important very likely soon to arise, diocesan colleges desene''to receive the fullest measure of fostering attention from priests and people. The fact is, colleges of this class have been hitherto in the bands of the vast majority of the Catholics of Ireland, the only substitute for a University, which a Catholic people, as we are, ought loug ago to have had, and which we should have if we were ruled by a government really and fully enlightened.
Of those cherished institutions,—symbols at once and signs of nascent freedom,—St. Jarlath's College has not been the least useful, nor the least Cahtolic and national in tone and in language.
Reader, you are now asked to help to enlarge its sphere of usefulness. Will you do sot
The appeal is made chiefly to all those of the Tuam diocese who have always felt a practical interest in the efficiency and success of the College.
The amount is left to the option of each who feels disposed to bestow aid.
No authority, now or at any past time, has, either directly or indirectly, been given to any itinerant collector to ask donations in the name of the College. I£ however, persons of position or mind, kindly disposed to do a good deed, ask their own circle of friends and acquaintances to contribute a little in support of the work now actually commenced, and transmit the amount to the President, St Jarlath's College, Tuam, they will largely enhance the value of their contribution.
All moneys received will be publicly acknowledged; and the accounts shall be submitted to a Committee and audited.
Mon ey Orders to be made payable to the Rev. Click J. Bourke Tuam.	•
The President assures the readers of this paper that the Holy Sacrifice of the Moss will be offered one hundred times, for the spiritual and temporal welfare of all who help him to perfect the work now commenced.
St. Jarlath's College, Tuam,
Eeast of the Ascension of our Divine Lord.
May 26tli, 1870.
TERMS.	.
For Boarders (lay or cleric) £24 per annum in advance.
For Ecclesiastical Students, £20 ditto.
43“ Eorfurther particulars apply to the President.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Spring Arrangement.
fJVRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 11.32 a. m. “	“	2 33 p. m.
M	“	9.05 p m.
“ u 12 37 a. m.
Accommodation 7.43 p. m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.10 a. m “	«	4.10 a	m
«	“	150p.	m
“	«	5 30 p. m
Arrive at Elkhart 12.10 p-m
GOING
Leave South Bend 136 p. m. «	“	3 06	a m.
"	“	4.20	a.m.
“	“	4 34	p. m.
WEST. -
Arrive at Chicago 4 20 p. m “	“	6 50 a. m
“	“	7.20 a. m
“	“	810p.	m
,	“	“ • 10.30 a. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
4®* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Toledo.
C. P. Leland, General Passenger Agent, Toledo. Hirak Brown, Agent, South Bend.
CBOSSING.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30 p.m.
Freight. 4:05 p. m.
Going South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m„ and 6:20 p. m« Freight, 4:50 a. di.