Notre Dame Scholastic.
Bisec quasi semper victurus; vivc Quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 13, 1878.
Number 33.
[Written for the Notre Dame Scholastic.]
The Things of God.
BY ELEANOB C. DONNELLY.
I.
Hearken to the King of kings:
“ Wouldst thou do no wrong,
Render unto God the things
That to God belong,
Globy, Judgment and Revenge, These to Me belong!
ii.
‘ ‘ Glory ? Naught of pride should lurk
In thy flow’ring ways ;
Naught of self or creatures lurk
In thy fruitful days.
Unto man, the willing work, Unto God, the praise.
in.
“Judgment? Who are thou, indeed, Judging free and foul ?
Only One alone can read Secrets of the soul.
To the Judge, the judgment cede, He will right the whole.
IV.
“Vengeance ?” Saith the Lord: “’Tis Mine, My behests obey;
Unto Me thy cause resign, Kneel, forgive and pray.
Globy, Judgment and Revenge, These are Mine for aye I”
The American Constitution.
JOHN G. EWING.
Amongst the American people there has always been a double tendency, one to throw the power into the hands of States, making our National Government but an agent, the other to consider the States as having received all power from our National Government. The one is the accomplishment of disunion, the other that of centralization.
No sooner had the men of the Revolution left the scenes of public life, than the question of the real constitution of our Government was mooted, and ever since has it been the attempt of wise and far-seeing men to keep in check the National Government.
From 1825, the tendency of our people was in favor of the first opinion laid down. Our nation then endeavored to explain our Government as founded on a personal democracy, and tended to the opinion that all power is personal
and inherent in the individual. The feeling and craving in man to be free and independent of all things is a natural and universal one. He wishes to do whatever he will, to go wherever he may please, and to have none his master. He would call power and liberty one and the same. He would call the individual the source of power. When put in practice, this theory gives the despotic monarch, the aristocracy, or the personal democracy, when confined to a few or extended to all. This was the olden democracy of Jefferson, the democracy of egotism. Government, according to it, is founded on a compact of individuals, who prior to its formation were equal and sovereign. Into Convention do these sovereigns go, and form the nation. Hence as a corollary, whenever they will the individuals may revolt, and the propounders of this theory held by the right of revolution.
The States, said the Jeffersonian, went into the Convention free and equal sovereigns. They established as an agent a National Government, which they endowed with certain powers, and then came from the Convention still free and equal, with the right at any time to revoke the powers delegated. Such was the doctrine of the Constitution as propounded by Calhoun. Webster, his great opponent, attempted to answer him. His noble argument is. well known, and while correct in his explanation of how our fathers interpreted the Constitution, he was logically wrong and faulty. He never attempted to deny that the States when they entered the Convention were free and independent sovereigns, but he contended they founded a National Government to which they ceded their powers, and to this Government they were obliged to yield obedience. They went in free and equal sovereigns, and they came out with their sovereignty shorn, so said Daniel Webster. Calhoun, with his great and logical mind, showed most clearly that Webster was wrong, and that if they went in sov-. ereigns, as he contended, and Webster allowed they did, they must have come out sovereign. The sovereign States could not form a sovereign Shite unless by merging their sovereignty into it; and this they cannot do by compact, for the moment the States cease to be sovereign, then the compact is void, as is a contract on the death of the contracting parties. They cannot cede to nothing, for that is not to cede. No State sovereignty can be formed by compact, for an agreement or a compact supposes the parties agreeing or contracting to retain their power. The sovereign States of America, said Calhoun, could therefore, since they went into Convention equal and sovereign, have made but an agreement, and must have come out still sovereign. Hence is our Union but a Confederation, a mere rope of sand. Calhoun conquered in logic, but the instincts of the people were against him. The stern arbitration of war was needed, and in the crushing defeat of the late Rebellion we
514
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
had a lasting blow dealt to the doctrine of State Rights. It can no longer be considered a doctrine before the people. It has passed away.
But a new danger has arisen, that of Centralization. Starting in the Abolitionist, it would destroy the States and overlook the rights of individuals.' Back of all territorial bounds, and of individuals, does the Abolitionist look, and there profess to see humanity governing individuals, states, governments and laws. When Humanity, that great uncertainty, calls, he holds he can trample on all. He heralds the democracy of pantheism, of humanity, the socialism of our New World. He destroys the powers of the State and merges them into the Union. He would eliminate all inequality whatever. Starting from negro freedom, he went to negro suffrage; to-day he calls for woman-rights, to-morrow for equality of all property and wealth, and then for the abolition of all rank and station. He would lose man in mankind. As applying his theory to our nation, he encroaches on the rights of the States, and would call them but agents of our General Government. The tendency of a portion of our people has been such, as witness the disregard of the rights of Southern States by President Grant. Many specious and crafty reasons are brought forward for its defense, as the requisitions of unity of action and plan. One of the latest phases of this tendency is the wish to place the control of the education of our people in the hands of Congress, thus concentrating in the National Government a great and mighty power.
Such have been the two tendencies of our nation. Let us but look at its Constitution in its reality. Was Webster right in his assertion that the States went in equal and sovereign to the Convention? If so, Secession was true. Is the power of the States derived from the General Government ? If so, Centralization is true. These are questions of fact, and should be examined as such. If in fact the people of the States were one, in right they were one also, and the doctrine of secession was wrong. In the Declaration of Independence they declared themselves free and independent States, but not severally independent. They fought as united, and they were recognized by all powers as United States. Severally they had never exercised the powers of sovereign States. They fought for and won their independence united, and have since existed as the United States, that is as States sovereign in their union, but not in their separation. In the Articles of Confederation the States are called United, and the people, though divided into separate States, were known and recognized as but one. The Constitution more emphatically reads, “ We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union,” etc. The sovereignty was in the people, as organized into United States. All power is in the people collective, not the people individual. So all sovereignty is in the States united, not separated. The Convention as representing the people organized into States framed a Constitution and formed two Governments, one general, the other particular. The united people and the United States existed before the Constitution. They are prior to the National and State Government. The being existed before its expression. The powers of the National and State Government came from the people organized into States yet forming but one nation. Such is the true theory and interpretation of our Government. It prevents Secession while destroying Centralization. We form a Union, not a Confederation. One nation, but a united one. We can have no States without the Union,
and no Union without the States. The doctrines of State Secession and of National Centralization are both wrong. The first is founded on individual right to power, and is barbarous in its inception. The second is founded on humanity as possessing all rights, and the individual as being naught but a slave of the State, and is but the other pole of barbarism. The collective not the individual people are the rulers in our land, and that people is one but organized into States. The grand perfection of our Constitution is placed in the distinction of State and National powers, and the derivation of both, under God, from the one people of the United States.
We must distinguish between the United States and the Government of the United States. The last is formed, the first was not. The United States are supreme, but the Government is limited. Take our Constitution, and read its first clause—“We, the people of the United States,” not “ We, the States,” nor “ We, the peopld.” They are one people united, but organized into States. Take the Articles called of Confederation, and yet there we read, not of Confederate, but of United States. The States are not States without the Union, and their sovereignty dies the moment they leave it. The United States were before the Constitution, for they framed and gave powers not to the United States, but to the Government of the United States. The powers conferred by the Convention of ’89 were granted to two Governments, one grand and the other particular: or rather to two sets of agents. This division of the powers of Government is our guard against Roman Centralization and feudal Disintegration. Disintegration had its day in Secession, and Centralization can succeed no better. Our system is not founded on antagonism of classes or estates, and is no system of checks and balances as is that of England. It divides the powers of Government and yet secures unity of action. The general relations and interests are under the control of the General Government, and the particular under the care of the State. Each is supreme in its sphere. They are co-ordinate, and, standing on the same level, receive all powers from the same source. Each is supreme and independent as regards the other, and is subject but to the Convention of the one united people of the United States.
The Song of the Spittoon.
Morphin.—Je revais des plaisirs celestes. J’dtais en haut de 1’Olympe, avec Jupiter et les autres. Je brillais d’une splen-deur divine. Je buvais du nectar. J'etais heureux! Oh ciel! Mais tout s’en est passe. Ce n’etait que mon songe.
Argan.—Ah! oui! vraiment! C’etait mensonge.
.	—Le dieveur Malgre Lui.
[In the following lyric poem, the ordinary Italian musical terms are used to give an idea of the style of performance which has been found most effective for each stanza. The Aria to which it is most readily adaptable is that which three summers ago came into vogue with the popular song entitled “Perhaps she’s on the Railway.’’]
Chorus (Spirituoso) to be sung after each verse :
Perhaps it was by accident, p’rhaps ’twas by design, . But whether which or t’other it is no concern of mine;
For no matter how it started we appreciate the boon
Conferred by great Minerva, in inventing (sforzando) the Spittoon !	_
-	I.—Andante Grazioso.
Once, as old Homer tells us, the Olympic Gods came down .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	515
To sojourn with the Ethiops, then blameless* in renown; And the latter in their gratitude, or else to have a joke, . Taught their celestial visitants tobacco for to smoke.
II.—Con fuoco.
The gods were all delighted; no nectar pleased like this, And e’en the gentle goddesses were fain to share the bliss;
From the dewy hours of morning to the glimpses of the moon, Old Olympus had a redolence like that of a saloon.
III.—Moderate. ■
Juno, of course, in public, to smoke would not be seen,
But she slipped down to the kitchen, and she smoked behind a screen;
And Ceres, though for Proserpine she could not weep enough, Yet found a consolation in the intervening puff.
IV.—Scltenando.
Diana tried to stint herself to three cigars a day; But Venus found it easier to cast restraint away, And people for a season were exempt from amorous heats, For she kept the infant Cupid twisting up her cigarrites.
V.—TTnpoco piu piano.
Vesta, you know, had always smoked from distant days of yore, And she wondered how the others had not found it out before; The Furies smoked like fury, and the Fates did not forfend, While the Muses and the Graces in the general movement blend.
VI.—Adagio.
But tlie azure-eyed Minerva with severely virtuous scorn, Viewed the shocking bad example set to millions yet unborn ; She sniffed the smoky atmosphere with much offended nose, And when they spit upon the floor how high her choler rose !
VII.—Sostenuto.
Now the floor of heaven is brass below and overlaid with gold, Inwrought with many a jewel, as by poets we are told; t No wonder that Minerva then should murmur and repine, To see it soiled with spittle, though the spittle were divine.
[The usual chorus is replaced at the end of this verse by a grand staccato movement from the orchestra expressive of the feelings of Minerva.]
VIII.—Largo.	.
To remonstrate would be useless, as she couldn’t help but feel, So she sought to find a remedy the gross ab’use to heal;
And after mighty pondering she solved the problem soon From her depths of in ward consciousness, evolving the Spittoon’ [Solemn and metaphysical chorus.]
IX.—Allegro Vivace.
The invention was successful, and they recognized its use, ’Twas calculated to instruct as well as to amuse;
They all agreed Minerva for her skill had won the belt,
And that a want had been supplied that long time had been felt.
X.—Maestoso.
Now Jove was feeling jovial, as he often does, they say, He beckoned unto Mercury and bid him speed away— Speed away and fetch Apollo, from Olympus long exiled— “ Go bring him back now, Mercurv,—no longer are we riled.”
XI.—Dolce far niente.
The winged-footed Mercury not sorry felt to go,
He sought Admetus’ pasture, where Apollo was, you know ;
‘Now, Poll, old boy, good news for you—the gov’nor wants you back,
So leave your flocks and wing with me again the upward track.”
*Iliad, Book I, vv. 423-424.
f Ho uranos ehalcus esti ta exo. Hyperbanti de cae epi tu notu genomeno phos te lamproteron phsenette, ere helios catha-roteros, cae astra diaugestera, ere chrysun to dapedon. Excuse Roman characters. We spell according to precedent afforded by proper names, etc.
[Solo on the lyre, expressive of Apollo’s delight] XU.—Prestissimo.
Apollo gladly tuned his lyre, and sang “I’m going home,” And then with Mercury set out to reach Olympus’ dome;
And while they sped their heavenward way, he learned the fashion new
To smoke the fragrant meerschaum, just as you or I would do. XIII.—C antabile.
That afternoon, Apollo, his adventures bid to tell, Was smoking with the rest of them and spitting too as well; But though he’d learned from Mercury to smoke—alas! too soon!
He had not learned from Mercury the use of the Spittoon.
XIV.—Tempo di Marcia. Con Brio. Giuocosissimo.
Minerva poked it over, but he didn’t seem to see Just what it was intended for. “ Minerva dear,” said he, “That’s quite a pretty vessel, but it grieves me much to state, If you don’t remove it further, I shall spit in’t, sure as fate! ”
Curtain.
.Azotta Zell.
The Resting-Place of Two Noted Catholic Divines.
[We transfer from the Cincinnati Enquirer the following, which is of interest to all at Notre Dame, since it was Fattier Badin who first purchased Notre Dame and gave it to the Congregation of the Holy Cross.]
Of the many thousands who daily pass the Cathedral, and gaze with varied emotions of pride or reverence or admiration upon the massive structure, very few are probably aware that beneath its walls there rest the ashes of two of America’s earliest and most noted Catholic divines, to whose memory the holy fathers and devout parishioners pay frequent tribute.
Deep down in the basement of the great building, hidden in the shadows of its massive walls and screened by the sacred altar, in two crypts prepared expressly for this purpose, lie the ashes of Right Rev. Edward Fenwick, the first Bishop of Cincinnati, and Very Reverend Theodore Badin, the Proto-Priest of the United States. A marble slab in the sanctuary of the Cathedral commemorates the name and virtues of the saintly Fenwick. “A Bishop,” to use the words of the first pastoral letter of his venerable successor, “ of distinguished piety, of profound humility, of primitive simplicity, of rare gentleness of manners and of unblemished integrity,’he was noted for a devotion to duty and a love for his flock.”
The crypts are located in the rear portion of the basement, near the entrance from the residence of the Archbishop, one on each side of the broad entrance. There were prepared when the foundation of the building was laid, in 1839, niches in the solid walls into which could be inserted stone slabs for the resting-places of the illustrious dead who might be deemed worthy this honor, the outer portion to be afterward inclosed by walls of stone or brick. Of these niches there are six, three on either side, and, as stated above, two have already been made sacred as the receptacles of the remains of those for whom they were provided. They are the lowest of the three niches on either side, and in appearance are merely a carefully constructed tomb, raised some ten feet from the ground and covered with a heavy stone slab, while of their contents and the virtues of the deceased the slabs in the Cathedral above eloquently tell. Of the niches one is reserved for the resting-place of the loved Archbishop when he shall be called
516	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
from liis labors, and the others for such as time and their services may point out for this honor.
Of Bishop Fenwick, the first Bishop of Cincinnati, it can be said that he died in harness, like a brave soldier on the battle-field. While engaged in visiting his Diocese, which comprised the two States of Ohio and Michigan, the greater part of which at that time were trackless forests, he was stricken on September 26,1832, with cholera, which covered with its deadly wings in that year the whole country.
On the day preceding his sudden and fatal illness, Bishop Fenwick had visited the small Catholic congregation of Canton, of which Rev. Mr. Henni (now Archbishop of Milwaukee) had charge. He administered Confirmation, and, though unwell, continued bis Episcopal journey. He rapidly grew worse, and was compelled after a few hours to stop at Wooster, Wayne county, where he was carried in an exhausted state to his death-bed.
Shortly after his death his remains were conveyed to his Episcopal city and buried in the vault of the old Cathedral, which stood on the ground which the Church of St. Xavier now covers. When the present Cathedral of Cincinnati was consecrated (1844) the sacred ashes which the old Cathedral bad guarded were delivered to its keeping. At the rear of the Cathedral, below the floor, are the tombs of Bishop Fenwick and the venerable Father Badin. They lie on opposite sides of an arched passage leading from the rear to the basement chapel. On the right rests the first Bishop of the diocese; on the left the first Priest ordained in the United States.
Father Badin was elevated to the Catholic Priesthood in 1795 by the first Catholic Bishop in this country, Right Rev. John Carroll, of Baltimore, the cousin of Charles Carroll of Carrollton. There is no need to speak of the life of this venerable priest, who passed away equally regretted by Protestants and Catholics. In the beginning of this century, when Cincinnati was only a collection of rude huts, Father Badin was preaching the Gospel in the wilds of Kentucky. The greater part of the Northwest was at one time his parish.
There were giants in those days, tall sons of Anak; and not the least among them was he who prepared the ground for the spiritual ministrations of both Bishop Flaget of Louisville and Bishop Fenwick of Cincinnati, the great Father Badin. He lived years after the career of both was ended. Bowed with age, yet clear of mind, this protopriest lingered amid the scenes of his labor until 1853. Ona wild, stormy night of 1853 Father Badin sank to his rest in the Episcopal residence of this city, and was buried with all th.e honor which his life deserved. His remains were placed in the vault looking toward the north wall of the Cathedral. Years glide swiftly by. Few are now living who were acquainted with Bishop Fenwick. Soon to the grave will follow all who gazed upon the storm-beaten face of the proto-priest of the United -States, but their names will live in the monuments of the religion of which they laid the foundations.
—Friendship is the union of two souls for good.— Ozanam.
—It is sweet for friends to bear their burdens mutually, and to be able to say to one another, Give me what is wanting to me, and I will give you in return what you require; when I am weak, you will give me a helping hand; and when I see you ready to fall, I will hold out mine to you. —Charles Saivie-Foi
The Palace of Ice.
[Translated from the German.]
In the winter of the year 1740, the Empress Ann of Russia prepared and finished a work which although it had only a short duration the like of it had never been seen before. It was the celebrated ice palace, which was constructed from the plans of Alexis Danilowitch, of St. Petersburg. It was made of the clearest and most transparent ice, cut in large blocks from the frozen streams and lakes, and by means of cranes and other powerful machinery brought to the site of the building. The single blocks were worked to the closest, and the enterprise was superintended by the best architects and machinists of the time. As soon as two blocks were finished, one of them was placed in position; and water being poured over that, the next one above is immediately placed in position. The water freezing between the blocks, they were cemented together, and the whole building seemed as if cut out of a solid mass of ice. The bluish glitter of the transparent ice gave it the appearance of one of those constructions from a single precious stone that we read of in the old fables and legends.
This wonderful house was forty-six feet long, eighteen feet wide, twenty-one feet high, and the front was divided by columns and pillars into rooms. In each of the apartments was a window, the frames of which were painted green; the panes were of ice, and as clear and transparent as glass.
At night the palace was generally lit up within, which transformed the whole building into a pearly glitter. The middle apartment had the appearance of an entrance gateway, and was very richly decorated. But the principal entrances were on the hindmost side; these consisted of two massive openings, and were decorated with flowers and trees, on which strange birds were perched—all made from ice. The entrances were also frescoed with most beautiful colors.
The roof was flat, and surrounded with a gallery on which pillars and statues were-placed. Around the house ran a beautifully constructed fence, also of ice. Between it and the house was a wide promenade. In front of the entrance stood six cannon, with their carriages and all complete; they stood three on each side. They were of the size of three-pounders, but being made of ice they could contain no more than one-fourth of a pound of powder. The balls were made of pounded tow, and the cannon at sixty paces would shoot through a two-inch board without danger of explosion. On each side of the building were two dolphins, which at night threw streams of burning naphtha high in the air, giving the appearance of two large fountains of fire.
At both ends of the rows of cannon before the entrance stood two pyramids, with one window running the entire " distance around, and on each of tHe four sides sun-dials were drawn. The pyramids were hollow, and were at night lit up by large paper lanterns. At the left of the building stood an elephant of natural size; on his back sat a man with a battle-axe, and in front of the elephant stood two keepers in Persian costume. The elephant was hollow ; during the day water was thrown from his trunk, and at night a stream of burning naphtha twenty-four feet high was emitted. To the right there were erected the celebrated Russian baths, constructed from round pieces of ice, which made a very majestic looking bath-house. The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	517
inner part of the house was only divided into three parts— one spacious hall, and two other apartments. One of the latter was arranged as a sleeping-room; this contained a table, which was supported by two figures; on it were nearly all kinds and species of perfumed boxes and bottles, a pair of candlesticks, which were dipped in naphtha and used to light the room at night, without melting. On the wall hung a mirror and a small clock. The bed was cov ered with the finest of covers, and was very richly ornamented ; it was the only article in the whole palace which was not formed of ice. Near another of the walls was to be found a beautifully laid out fireplace; it was filled with coals of ice saturated with naphtha, and served as light at night. The other room might be called the diningroom.
On the wall hung a beautiful clock, which had a transparent front, and through which could be seen the whole wheel-work necessary to construct the clock. On every side of this room could be seen sofas and arm-chairs, and in the coners statues; transparent cupboards stood against the walls, in which could be seen eating and drinking utensils, and all sorts imaginable of pictured dishes. Everything in this room was made of ice.
This wonderful work, which could only be finished by expending a large amount of money, and employing thousands of laborers, stood from the beginning of January until the middle of the month of March, when the mild March winds undermined and slowly brought the magnificent structure to the ground.	A. S. G.
Landscape Along the Missouri.
It is a well known fact that America holds the first place among the countries of the globe for the beauty of her natural landscapes. Some, no doubt, will deny this, but I only ask these to make comparisons. With what admiration the artist beholds our Western landscapes! With awe and reverence he gazes upon them, and for the life of him he cannot help exclaiming: “Oh, that I were a ' Cowper or a Thomson, that I might do honor to the
Author of these beautiful landscapes! ”
It was a delightful morning in July of the year---that I and my companion seated ourselves in the boat that was waiting for us to descend the lovely Missouri River. The prairies bordering the river were decked with innumerable flowers. The islands on which we occasionally halted presented the appearance of beautiful parks. The trees were often covered with clambering grapevines in full bloom, which perfumed the air. Between groves of stately trees were grassy lawns and glades, studded with flowers or interspersed with rosebushes in full bloom. The islands were the resort of the buffalo, the elk and the antelope, who had made innumerable paths among the trees and the thickets, which had the effect of the mazy walks or the alleys of parks and shrubberies. Sometimes, where the river passed between the high banks and bluffs, the roads made by the tramp of the buffalo for many ages along the face of the heights looked like so many well-travelled highways. In other places the banks exhibited great veins of iron ore laid bare by the flowing of the waters. At one place the course of the river was nearly in a straight line for ten miles. The banks sloped gently to the margin, without a single tree, but bordered with grass and herbage of a vivid green. Along the bank, for the whole ten miles, extended a strip of about one hundred yards
in breadth of a deep rusty brown, indicating an inexhaustible bed of iron. This country extends for some days’ journey along the river, and consists of vast prairies, here and there diversified by swelling hills and cut up by ravines, the channels of turbid streams in the rainy seasons, but almost destitute of water during the heats of summer. Here and there bn the sides of the hills, or along the alluvial borders and bottoms of the ravines, are groves and skirts of forest, but for the most part the country presents a boundless waste, covered over with herbage. As the day was drawing to a close we betook ourselves to the shore, there to contemplate the beauty of the scene. In the distance the sun was sinking, and far out on the prairies could be seen buffalo scampering to and fro; and with the cooing of the dove and the songs of the birds that issued forth from the adjacent groves the scene before us became quite interesting.
Such is the country along the Missouri, and I am confident the far West presents scenes far more interesting than can be found along the Missouri. The West aa a whole will present more of interest to the traveller than can be found upon the cold Alpine mountains of Switzerland or the sunny plains of Italy or France. Why Americans should ignore the beauties of their own glorious country to seek out those of a foreign land I cannot see-The time will come when travellers will flock to America instead of other countries. The Alps are quite as well known by those that never saw them as those who spent thousands of dollars to do so, whereas the western part of this country is known to very few; but the time is fast approaching when the West will be crowded with admiring travellers.	V.
Scientific Notes. ,
—A hippopotamus, which has been in the Zoological Gardens of London since 1850, died a few days ago.
—Since 1866, measures have been in operation in Switzerland for the preservation of boulders that are scattered over the country. In France, a similar effort is being inaugurated ; and the geologists of Scotland are interesting themselves in the same matter.
—Wild chickens, numbered by thousands, are hunted as wild game in Comanche county, Texas. A few years ago a large number of domestic chickens were deserted for some reason by their owner, when they took to the brush, and the woods are now full of wild chickens.
—A National Entomological Exhibition has been successfully organized at the Royal Aquarium, Westminster. About 250 exhibitors have displayed 800 or 900 cases, averaging 300 insects each. With few exceptions the specimens shown have been collected by amateurs.
—In the optical institute of S. Mercz, in Munich, Bavaria, a telescope with an object-glass 18 inches in interior diameter has lately been finished. It is the largest glass hitherto made upon the European Continent, and belongs to the large refractor of the new observatory at Strasburg.
—Mr. Cotterell, who was the companion of Capt. Elton in his late journeys from Lake Nyassa to Ugogo, has arrived in England. Capt. Elton died of sunstroke in Ugogo. He was the English Consul in Portuguese East Africa, and had done much good work in the cause of Science.
—Signor d’ Albertis, the Italian traveller, has made another ascent of the Fly River, in New Guinea. He was frequently attacked by the natives along the route, and was greatly harassed with dissensions among his crew; yet reached Thursday Island, in Torres Straits, in safety, Jan. 4th last. The details of the expedition have not yet been published.
—M. Tisseraud, Superintendent of the Toulouse Observa
518
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tory, has been, elected a member of the French Academy of Sciences, in place of the great astronomer, Leverrier. He is but 32 years of age, but has accomplished more in astronomical researches than many scientists of twice his age. He became notable in 1874, while on the mission under Janssen for the observation in Japan of the transit of Venus.
—It is now nearly seventy years since the herring disappeared from the coast of Sweden, but late reports state that great shoals have once more appeared as in the olden time. The Government has appointed Profs. Sais and Smitt to investigate the subject of their departure and return. The herring seem to have betaken themselves to the coast of Norway in 1808, but have now again deserted that shore in favor of the Swedish coast.
—In the monograph on the Beetles of St. Helena, by T. Vernon Wollaston, 230 species are recorded, fifty-seven of which have probably been conveyed thither by various means. Seventeen of the remaining species are regarded as of doubtful origin, but the other 129 species are considered to be unquestionably endemic. No representatives of the Hydradephaga and Philhydrida, the aquatic Carnivora and Herbivoia, and of Longicornia, occur in the island.	_
—Mt. Tongariro, a volcano rising to the height of 6,500 feet in the centre of North Island, New Zealand, has lately been explored for the first time. The Maoris regard the mountain as sacred, and have heretofore prevented access to it; but Mr. P. F. Conelly, an Englishman, was able, by the assistance of friendly chiefs, to overcome all opposition, and not only explore the crater, but make sketches and photographs of the locality, and determine the position of the most important peaks.
—Mr. Francis Darwin has been conducting some interesting experiments with insect-eating plants. He cultivates them in a soup-plate filled with moss. Separating the plants and placing a gauze over a part of them to exclude insects, he fed to the unprotected ones some small pieces of roast meat regularly. The effect was to increase the brightness and vigor of those so fed. The ones left to themselves did not grow so well, nor produce seeds one-third as large as those fed with meat.
—The large female anaconda (Eunectes murinus) now in the Zoological Society’s reptile house, London, purchased on the loth of February, 1877, has invariably declined the most tempting offers of food until the other day, when she killed and swallowed a duck. It is impossible to say how long she may have been without food previous to her arrival at the gardens. One thing is certain, however, that she could not have taken food while in the box in which she arrived from South America, as she was so closely packed as to be barely able to move.
—The British Royal Society is gravely investigating the changes of temperature that occur in the human brain. Delicate experiments with thermo-electric apparatus performed on six persons who have offered themselves for the purpose demonstrate, we are told, that mental work causes an increase of heat; even to attract a person’s attention raises the temperature. To assist these investigations a chart has been laid out of the head, dividing it into sections; and it is asserted that in a normal state different parts of the head exhibit different degrees of heat.
—The Russian division in the Paris Exposition will contain a most interesting anthropological collection, the material for which is now being gathered by a commission in Moscow. Among the more prominent features are an enormous cranial collection from the various parts of the empire and a model of a Russian barrow. The latter is being executed by the sculptor, Ssewojugin, in natural size, and will offer a perfect imitation of the skeletons, ornaments, weapons, etc., as usually found in these ancient remains. The Russian education system will be likewise very fully represented, as was the case in 1876.
—An extensive exploration of Russian Lapland is being conducted by Lieut. Sandeberg, of Sweden. It was begun in 1876, and will continue until 1880. The country is being carefully surveyed, and the fauna of land and sea investigated. Large collections in natural history have already been gathered, and these include seventy-eight species of birds in the Kolu Peninsula, one of which, at
least, is new to science. Au ancient manufactory of stone implements has been discovered near Golotizk, on the east coast of the White Sea. The collections will be divided between the State Museums of Russia, Sweden, and Norway,—the three countries uniting in defraying the expenses of the expedition.
—Mr. T. M. Brewer notes in Forest and Stream the occurrence in New England of a specimen of Pyranga Ludoviciana,—Louisiana tanager. During a violent storm of wind and snow, on the 20th of January, the bird approached the window of a house in Lynn, Mass., where a number of caged birds were kept. A cage with food was set out for it, into which it immediately entered. It was an adult female, evidently a wild bird, and, although famishing, was not emaciated. It is supposed by Mr. Brewer that the bird was caught in the vortex of the storm, which started from the Mexican Pacific coast, and was borne by it to the shores of the Atlantic. The habitat of the bird in summer is in the regions <vest of the Great Plains, and in winter in Mexico and Central America.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A ladies’ Decorative-Art Society has been formed at Saratoga, which is to be an auxilliary of the New York Society.
—Thomas Kelly has ready “A Catechism of the History of Ireland, Ancient, Medieval, and Modern,” by Rev. James I. Brennan.
—The Rev. J. P. Mahaffy, author of “ Social Life in Greece,” will soon publish “A Short History of Greek Classical History.”
—The series of short lives of “ English Men of Letters,” edited by John Morley, will be published in America by Messrs. Harper & Bros.
—Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace will soon bring out from the press of Messrs. Macmillan & Co. a volume entitled “ Tropical Nature, and Other Essays.”
—Messrs. Sheldon & Co. have in press a treatise on “ Our Indian Population; or, How Shall We Treat the Red Man? ” by Lieut.-Col. E. S. Otis, IT. S. A.
—Mr. Thomas Arnold has upwards of 500 works on Tobacco,—its Uses, Cultivation, Manufacture, etc.,—and is preparing a catalogue of them for publication.
—Cassell Petter & Galpin will publish in a few days the “ Great Thirst-Land,” by Parker Gillmore,—a description of a journey through Natal, Orange Free State, Transvaal, and Kalahari.
—Mme. Alphonse de Rothschild has lately bought for §70,000 two exquisite works in bronze attributed to Michael Angelo which were found in an old house in Venice. They will be exhibited at Paris.
—The Catholic Library at Warsaw, consisting of 50,000 volumes, is to be removed to the Catholic Seminary at St. Petersburg. The collection embraces many works in the Polish language of inestimable value.
—The University of Caracas possesses the first music book printed in America. It is dated 1604, and the music is printed on a stave of five red lines in the ordinary Gregorian notation. The volume is a small folio.
—Rossini’s widow died on March 22 at Passy, France, aged 78. The large fortune bequeathed by her illustrious husband she leaves, subject to small legacies, to poor relatives, to found a charity for superannuated singers.
—Wagner, applied to by the directors of the Berlin operahouse for permission to perform the “ Walkure,” has refused unless the complete trilogy be mounted. The Berlin director has replied that the game is hardly worth the candle.
—Mr. Henry Probasco has offered to give to Cincinnati his art collection, valued at §200,000, provided a fire-proof building be erected to accommodate it. A few years ago the same gentleman presented the same city with a bronze fountain.
—George Cruikshank left behind him at his house in Hampstead Road, London, a considerable collection of his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
519
works—books and prints and water-color drawings. Among them are the original designs for the famous illustrations to “ Oliver Twist.” The entire collection will be sold in London this month and next.
—The remainder of the celebrated Novar collection of Turner’s drawings and paintings will be sold this season. Although many choice works were sold from the collection last year, it still contains twenty or thirty water-colors belonging to Turner’s best period, and six select pictures painted by him at various intervals in his career.
—Mme. Llanos, the only surviving sister of John Keats, has written to her friends in England expressing strong disapproval of the publication of her brother’s love letters. Mme. Llanos, who has long lived in Madrid, is old, and an invalid, and has been reduced to poverty by unexpected misfortunes. It is proposed by The Athenaeum that she should receive a pension from the British civil list.
—A necropolis has been laid open on the estate of the Spinelli family, near Cancello, Italy, which is supposed to belong to the ancient Suessula,—a town in Samnium, on the southern slope of Mt. Tafita. Five tombs have been uncovered, and a large collection of objects—comprising vases, cups, coins, articles of gold and silver, unguentarii, necklaces of glass, and fragments of human bones—have been found.
—A peasant named Vang, who had exhibited remarkable literary gifts, died in Norway the other day in his 83d year. He never rose beyond a humble office in the village school, but he published several important collections of folk music and folk songs, and in 1871 brought out a remarkable volume of local legends. He lived entirely among the people and supported himself partly by teaching and partly by breaking stones.
—United States Commissioner McCormick and Consul General Torbert at Paris, have accepted three pieces by „	Mr. Rudolph Aronson, to be performed at the Salle du
8	Trocadero during the coming Exposition. The three
pieces are “ March Triomphale,” orchestra or military band; “ A Village Fete Fantasie,” orchestra in four numbers ; “ La Fayette Marche,” orchestra or military band. The last has been written expressly for the Exposition and is dedicated to the French nation. Mr. Aronson will attend rehearsals in person, sailing from New York, May 18.
—Hickey & Co., of the Catholic Review, have begun the publication, under the title of “The Vatican Library,” of a series of cheap Catholic stories by standard authors. Their first issue is Cardinal Wiseman’s well known “ Fabiola.” It is in paper covers, and the shape is bad; but, for all, the effort to popularize a pure liturature and so counteract the poison with which the country is deluged, should be encouraged. To Messrs. Hickey and Co. great thanks are due; for no matter how many may follow in their track, they are the originators of the idea
—Kelly, Piet & Co. have lately issued “Saint Francis de Sales Depicted by his Contemporaries in Thirty-one Considera'ions upon the Virtues peculiar to this Amiable Saint and Doctor of the Church.” “A Hymnal and Ves-peral for the Seasons and principal Festivals of the Ecclesiastical Year,” published with the Approbation of Arch-&	bishop Gibbons. The same with Music. “A Book of
the Novenas for the whole Year.” They have just put to press, “A Visit to Bois d’Haine, the Home of Louise La-teau,” by Frances Howe.
—The Amer ican Art Journal points to the objects often introduced by great painters into their work long before the period in which such objects existed. Thus Raphael introduces a hewn stone-step into the expulsion from Paradise, and a book bound in the neatest manner into the picture of Elymas struck blind. Albert Durer introduces a tent bedstead, a cooking range, and China candlesticks into his “ Birth of the Virgin.” In one of Vandyke’s pictures the Apostles wear sea-boots, and Paul Veronese depicts Italian peasants in felt hats and plumes contemplating the “ Adoration of the Magi.” A Spanish artist represents Abraham about to shoot Isaac with a pistol.
—It is decided that the tetralogy of Wagner shall be performed at the Theatre Royal, Munich, some time during the present year. The composer, the most exacting of '	men in respect to the manner in which his works shall be
produced, has yielded in this instance to the solicitations of
the young King of Bavaria, who has always been his enthusiastic admirer. The manager of the theatre, besides engaging artists of the first rank to personate the chief character in the several operas, has secured an auxiliary scarcely less important to the success of the enterprise in the shape of a steam engine of ten-horse power, not, as the wags have it, to re-enforce the orchestra, but to produce the clouds and marvellous mists amid which the dramatie personae disappear from view.
—Mr. Theodore Jacoby is the possessor of one of the “ Wagner” or “ tenor” altos recently invented by Herr Hermann Ritter, and made in Wurzburg. This instrument is intended to displace, in due season, the common alto, which, as used by the common violinist, is altogether inadequate to holding the ground which ought to be taken by the viola between the violin and the ’cello. The difference between the old and the new viola lies merely in the increased size of Herr Ritter’s invention. The “ tenor alto,” however, is of beautiful proportions, and its tone is of exceeding impressiveness, richness, and power. The instrument was first heard at the Bayreurh festival. In a recent concert in the Brooklyn Athenaeum, Mr. Jacoby, who has obtained a thorough command of its bow and keyboard, employed it in the performance of a solo with marked effect.
—The Athenaeum says of the exhibition of drawings by Turner, owned by Ruskin, which is now open at the rooms of the London Society of Fine Arts: “A more than ordinary interest—an interest of almost touching personal solicitude —is attached to this exhibition, now that its gifted owner lies stricken with sickness so sore that at one time his life hung trembling in the balance. How great would have been our loss is shown by the anxiety with which the bulletins of his health were looked for by the public; it is with a corresponding feeling of relief that we permit ourselves to hope the crisis is past, and that he may be spared again to hurl sarcasm and scorn at utilitarianism, to dazzle us with paradoxes, and delight us with word-pictures rendered in that exquisitely limpid style in which word follows word like the soft dropping of April rain, until the whole is mirrored forth in a scene of pure loveliness. . . . The public, knowing that the works of the master here exhibited have been collected by the disciple, and that no want of means has hindered collection, naturally expect to see Turner at his full strength as a water-color painter, and they will not be disappointed. All his various periods are adequately represented, in most instances by the choicest examples, numerous enough to give a clear conception of his life’s work, and not fatiguing from the superabundance of vagaries and inchoate productions which render the National-Gallery collection a weariness to the native, and a source of whimsical perplexity to the foreigner.”
Books and Periodicals.
—The Popular Science Monthly and Popular Science Monthly Supplement contain the usual amount of interesting reading matter as will be seen from the following tables of contents. The Popular Science Monthly for April contains: I,Evolution of Ceremonial Government; II,The Eucalyptus in the Future; III, Introduction and Succession of Vertebrate Life in America; IV, The Wicked Weasel; V, The Dissipation of Energy; VI, Illustrations of the Logic of Science; VII, On Edison’s Talking Machine; VIII,The Marpingen Miracles; IX, The Sources of Muscular Power; X, Living Corals; XI, Poisons of the Intelligence,—Chloroform; XII, Sketch of Prof. Secchi; XIII, Correspondence; XIV, Editor’s Table: Literacy Notices, Popular Miscellany, Notes. The Popular Science Monthly Supplement is an eclectic magazine, and gives monthly the most select scientific articles published in foreign periodicals. The scientific articles of the above two journals we always read with interest, but there seems a constant disposition to dabble in religion and theology, concerning which the writers of articles on this subject display an ignorance that is really pitiable. Scientists complain that theologians are wont to discuss scientific questions without having previously given them the study they demand—have not theologians a greater cause of complaint?
520
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, ApriI 13, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Palm Sunday.
To-morrow, Palm Sunday, the Church commemorates the triumphal entry of our Lord into Jerusalem, and makes her office expressive both of joy and sorrow; of joy by reechoing the hozannas of the people of the city of David; and of sorrow by compassionating the Passion of her Divine Spouse, which we might say began on that day when He wept over the blindness of the Holy City.
The glorious entry of our Lord into Jerusalem, which was a figure of His Resurrection and return to His Heavenly Kingdom, is a subject often represented upon ancient Christian monuments, but especially on the sarcophagi or stone coffins, which were sculptured and decorated in front with bass-relief, and which were much used in the early days of the Church by the faithful, who found in this passage of the life of the Redeemer a consoling pledge that they also, having died in His peace, should “ Triumph crowned forever, winning the reward of undefiled conflicts.” (Wisd., iv, 2.)
The Church, therefore, in the ceremonies of this day not only commemorates the literal entry of her Spouse into the city of David, but recalls to the minds of her children, who being His members participate in His sufferings and rewards, that they are only pilgrims on this earth—“For here we have no permanent city: but we seek one to come” (Heb., xiii, 14) and that their true home is not this world, but “that Jerusalem which is above.” (Galat. iv, 26.)
The custom is very old of blessing and distributing palms and carrying them in procession on this day. It began in the East, and probably at Jerusalem itself. Saint Cyril, . Bishop of that place in the fourth century, informs us that the very tree which gave its branches to some of the jubilant people when Christ entered, was still standing by the brook of Cedron, an object of great veneration to the faithful. From the life of Saint Euthymius, an abbot
who lived in the next century, we see that this festival was celebrated with extraordinary pomp in the religious houses of Egypt and Syria; for although when Lent was opened many of the more rigid monks could obtain permission to retire a little further into the desert to practice penances not suitable for a whole community, they were obliged to return to their monasteries to keep Palm Sunday with their brethren.
When the northern barbarians had been converted to Christianity they showed their zeal in giving all the splendor possible to the venerable rites and ceremonies of the Church; but although the branches of other kinds of trees had to be substituted for those of Palestine, nothing was allowed to be changed in the prayers that accompany the blessing, not alone an account of their antiquity, but because they refer to the mystical sense attached to the palm and the olive of Scripture, for “the branches of palms signify triumphs over the prince of death; but the sprigs of olive proclaim, in a manner, the outpouring of spiritual unction.” (Fourth prayer of the blessings.)
When the head of the procession returns to the church, the door is found closed, and is only opened when the subdeacon knocks with the foot of the cross, to teach us that the gate of Heaven was shut to man by sin, but is opened to him again by the Passion and death of Christ.
The beautiful hymn which is sung at the door of the church has a very touching interest attached to its origin, and also shows us the melting influence of religion in the Ages of Faith, even on the heart of a soldier and despotic sovereign. Theodulphus, Bishop of Orleans, being of Italian origin, was unjustly accused of having taken part in the conspiracy of the King of Lombardy against his cousin the Emperor Louis, and was thrown into prison at Angers in the year 817. As he was a very learned and pious prelate, he composed a hymn during Lent; and on Palm Sunday, while the Emperor, with an immense concourse of the clergy and people, was passing beside the tower in which he was confined, a melodious voice suddenly broke out high above, chaunting in strong but sad accents:
“ Gloria, laus, et honor, tibi sit, Rex Christe Redemptor: cui puerile decus prompsit Hosanna pium.”
The whole procession stopped as of one accord until the hymn was ended, the Emperor and many others being moved to tears by the charm of the words, the sweetness of the sentiments, and the melancholy sight of a Bishop whom Charlemagne had loved so well, now showing his emaciated, venerable figure behind the grated window of a prison, when he was immediately released and reinstated in his diocese.
Palm Sunday has a particular interest for Catholics in the United States, because it was on this day, called by the Spaniards Pascua Florida, or Easter in bloom, that the intrepid Ponce de Leon landed some miles north of the present city of St. Augustine, on April 8,1513, and gave the name of Florida to that vast region on the Gulf of Mexico which is now retained only by the southernmost State of the Union. Protestant writers, from ignorance of Catholic festivals, and, perhaps, not always sufficiently attentive to the fact that the pious Spaniards almost invariably gave some religious name to their discoveries, often ascribe the origin of this name to the flowery appearance of the country, rich in magnolia groves and other fair trees.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
521.
Even those who approach nearer to the truth mistake the day on which it was discovered for Easter Sunday.
Personal.
—	Gregory Campau, of ’49, is living in Detroit, Mich.
—	J. A. Wilstach (Commercial), of ’71, resides at Lafayette, Ind.
—	R. Stevens (Commercial), of ’70, is in business with his father at Joliet, III.
—	Richard M. Dooley (Commercial), of’71, is with Wells, Fargo & Co., Chicago, Ill.
—	Joseph Winterbotham (Commercial), of ’69, is in business at Michigan City, Ind.
—	Edgar Watts Milner (Commercial), of ’70, is teaching school at Corvallis, Oregon.
—	Mrs. Charles Walsh and daughter, of Chicago, were among our visitors last week.
—	Rev. Wm. Sidley, of ’61, is pastor of one of the Catholic churches at Springfield, Ohio.
—	John Davlin (Commercial), of ’60, is connected with the Glen Flora Spring, Waukegan, Ill.
—	Thomas J. Cochrane (Commercial), of ’74, is in the cigar and tobacco business, Chicago, Ill.
—	William Farnam (Commercial), of ’67, is in the wholesale house of Keith Brothers, Chicago, Ill.
—	Rev. Martin Noll, of Elkhart, and Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, Ind., were among our late visitors.
—	C. C. Connelly, of the firm of Durands & Co., Chicago, paid us a short visit last week. He is ever a welcome visitor.
—	Constantine Gallagher (Commercial), of’67, is living at Omaha. He was some time ago clerk of the County "Court.
—	Hon. John M. Gearin, of ’71, delivered the oration before the Irish societies of Portland, Oregon, on the 17th of March.
—	E. S. Spitter (Commercial) of’72, is in business at Lincoln. He is succeeding very well in life, and commands a large and increasing trade.
—	William T. Ball, of’77, is the first Vice-President of the Addison Literary Society of Chicago, Ill. The Society’s interests will be carefully looked after.
—	Rev. Thomas B. Murphy, of ’64, died suddenly from a stroke of apoplexy on the 10th at Joliet, Ill. His funeral services took place on Friday, Rt. Rev. Bishop Foley officiating.
—	Hon. John Gibbons, of ’68, is doing a fine law business at Keokuk, Iowa. He has been successful lately in throwing the Protection Life Insurance Company of Chicago into bankruptcy.
—	Thomas Moffitt (Commercial), of ’65, is living at Nauvoo, Ill. He is doing well. His brother, John Moffitt, of ’60, is now practicing law in St. Louis, Mo., and, so we learn, has a large and lucrative practice.
—J. W. Bell (Commercial), of ’77, writing from his home in Terre Haute, wishes to be remembered to all his friends here and in particular to the nimrods. He says he “recently shot 32 (thirty-two) snipe in one afternoon.” He can do it.
—William Meyers (Commercial), of ’75, stopped over at Notre Dame on his way from Portsmouth, Ohio, to Virginia City. Notre Dame is out of his way, but Billy could not resist the temptation of visiting his old friends. He is in the best of health.
—Bv the Catholic Review we learn of the death of Rev. Algernon A. Brown, C. S. P., who was well known at Notre Dame, he having spent a year here, and afterwards paid us an occasional visit. Father Brown had gone to Europe last summer for his health, but it seems the trip was unavailing. He passed to his reward on Monday, April the 8th, in the twenty-ninth year of his age. This talented young priest it was who commenced the publication of the excellent “ Five Minute Sermons ” that have appeared in the Review for some years past. Requiescat in pace.
—We had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Lambert A. Barnes and daughter, of Ypsilanti, Mich., last week. Mr. Barnes is President of the old and favorably known Peninsular Paper Manufacturing Company of that city, and was on a visit to his daughter at the Academy. In these dull times it was a pleasure to hear him say that the Company had all they could do in the manufacture of choice book papers, for which they are so celebrated. They have solicited no orders for the last seven years, being kept steadily employed night and day by a run of old customers. Mr. Barnes is always a welcome visitor at Notre Dame, and the latch-string of our sanctum is always out for such genial visitors as he.
Local Items.
—To-morrow Holy Week begins.
—An umpire for a game of baseball is not an enviable position.
—The students seem to enjoy the evening recreation more than any other.
—Jones, of Columbus, O., made a three-base hit in a game of baseball last Wednesday.
—The St. Cecilians will plant their tree at Rev. Patrick Dillon’s grave on Easter Monday.	*
—A few copies of the revised edition of the Scholastic Almanac are still on hand. Price, 25 cts.
—Vespers to-morrow, Palm Sunday, are the Common Vespers of Sunday, page 32 of the Vesperal.
—On account of the procession and singing of the Passion there will be no sermon to-morrow at Mass.
—Parents will please remember that there is no Easter vacation, but classes will continue the coming week.
—The members of the Junior Department should remember that there will be a premium for politeness given this year.
—The premium for the best in Catechism will be given in the refectory next Tuesday evening. The competition will take place on Monday.
—On Saturday afternoon, at half-past four, Matins and Lauds of Easter will be chaunted. Only such students as desire will attend this service.
—The Mandatum, or Washing of the feet, will take place on Thursday afternoon at 2 o’clock. Only such students as desire will attend this beautiful office.
—Everyone should call at the students’ office and procure Holy Week books. It is expected that these books will be returned when Holy Week is past.
—There will be a meeting of the resident Alumni this afternoon, in the rooms of Very Rev. President Corby, at 4 o’clock. All the members are expected to attend.
—The nimrods went to St. Joseph’s Farm last Wednesday and bad a good time. The good people at the farm treated them magnificently, for which they return their best thanks.
—The parts in the various exercises to be given in public by the Philopatrians have been given out by the Director. The Entertainment will be given some time after Easter.
—The prize promised for the student in the Junior Department having the best bulletin for the month of March was awarded to J. A. Burger, Reading, Pa., of the Scientific Department.
—We extend our sympathy to Mr. Manly Tello, the able editor of the Catholic Universe, on the death of his son, a bright and promising child, at Mt. Gallitzin Seminary, Ebensburgh, Pa.
—Services will begin on Thursday and Friday mornings at 10 o’clock. On Saturday they will begin at 8 o’clock, but the students on that day will attend only the Mass, which will begin at 10 o’clock.
—Jno. O’Donnell and Judah Halle favored the audience with songs through the telephone on Wednesday last. The first named sang in English, and the latter in Bohemian. Both were highly appreciated.
—The Vice-President, Rev. T. E. Walsh, made his regular
522
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
monthly visit to the Minim Department on Friday. He examined in Arithmetic, and expressed himself well pleased with the progress made during the month.
—The Office of Tenebrce will be chaunted on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday evenings of the coming week, beginning at a quarter past seven. The first Lamentation each evening will be sung by four even voices.
—At a meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M. Mr. Stoffel, 0. S. 0., made the ten-minutes’ remarks. Mr. Boulger read a “ Life of St. Boniface ”; F. Byer gave an explanation of the “Agnus Dei"; and J. Ward, of “ Purgatory.”
—Br. Hippolytus lately received from Storrs, Harrison & Co., Painesville, Ohio, a large number of fine plants, and they were on their arrival in such good condition that he has no hesitation in recommending the firm to the public at large.
—The students began last Monday evening to take out door recreation after supper. It has been remarked by the older students that the Juniors always play “ Crack the whip ” the first evening they have “ rec.” This year was not an exception to the general rule.
—You may talk of binding oats down hill with your gallows’ buttons off, as a test to try a' man’s temper, but when an umpire is charged with selling a game of baseball for a piece of pie, then it takes a man with the patience of Job to keep cool,—so says our friend John.
—The 26th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 9th. Declamations were given by K. Scanlan, W. J. McCarthy, A. Rietz, J. P. Hafner, J. Byrne, A. Burger, C. McKinnon, F. E. Weisert, J. McNellis, J. A. Gibbons, Frank Clarke, F. T. Pleins, and F. Lang.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, held on the 7th, the ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Mr. Stoffel, C- S. C. Mr. George Cochrane gave a “Description of the Tenebros ”; Mr. Van Mourick of the “ Mandatum," or washing of feet on Maundy Thursday; and Mr. Burns a “Sketch of the Life of St. Boniface, Apostle of Germany.”
—The 29th regular meeting of the H. G. A. S. Society was held Sunday, April 7th. Master G. Rhodius spoke of the “ Fall of our First Parents and its Effects ”; Master McDevitt explained “What is Sin,” and Master A. Coghlin gave an account of the “ Origin of the Scapular.” Hereafter the meet ings are to commence and end with the singing of a hymn. A feast is to be given to the Society some day this week.
—The crews of the two boats have at last been chosen. They are as follows: the Minnehaha—John J. Coleman, captain and stroke; H. Murphy, 2d; E. Dempsey, 3J; W. L. Dechant, 4th; P. J. Hagan, 5th; W. Ohlman, bow; J. P. Kinney, coxswain. The Hiawatha—John J. McEniry, captain and stroke; H. W. Nevans, 2d; P. W. Mattimore, 3d; M. J. McCue, 4th; J. J. Houck, 5th; E. Maley, bow; John G. Ewing, coxswain.
—The 26th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on the 7th. A well-written essay on the “Badger State” was read by M. Bannon. Declamations were given by P. J. Dougherty, F. Fischel, John R. Lambin, and A. B. Congar. Prof. A. J. Stace by invitation gave a select reading, for which he received the thanks of the members of the Club. The “ Alarm Bell ” was then declaimed in concert.
—We are sorry to learn that the health of Rev. President Rice, C. M., of the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels, Niagara Falls, N. Y., is quite poor. The reverend gentleman has lately left for Europe, and we trust that he will return completely cured. Father Rice, from what we hear, is a most estimable man, and he certainly is a learned and energetic man, one well fitted to conduct the good work begun at Niagara by Most Rev. Archbishop Lynch.
—The 27th and 28th regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held respectively on the 6th and 9th. The following members read essays: Geo. Sugg, a well written essay on “Commencement-Day”; A W. Widdicombe, “Letters”; J. Berteling, “A Rolling Stone gathers no moss”; C. Clarke, “Riches”; G. Crawford, “Shakespeare”; and Frank Carroll, “Memories.” Declamations were delivered by Messrs. R. P. Mayer, J. Baker, Frank Cavanaugh, E. J. Pennington and Charles Hagan.
—McGees Illustrated Weekly is in every way worthy of the patronage of the public in general and of the Catholic public in particular. The number now before us, for which we are indebted to Prof. Lyons, will compare favorably with any illustrated paper seen by us. The designs are original and executed with artistic care, and the reading matter is both interesting and instructive. The illustrations representing the funeral, etc., of onr late Holy Father, Pius IX, are of great interest, and will without doubt command for it an extensive sale. Our young readers will find it far superior to the flashy periodicals sent out by Eastern houses.	,
—Thanks to Mr. John G. Ewing, a telephone was constructed last Wednesday, connecting the printing office with the College building. Songs, solos on the piano, violin, flute, guitar, etc., were heard at both ends of the line and afforded much pleasure to the great number of	j
listeners. Messrs. George Walters, Joseph P. McHugh,	|
B. Claggett, George Cochrane, Luke Evers, and others, furnished the music, which was very fine. The editor of the Scholastic returns his thanks to these young gentlemen, to Mr. Ewing and to Messrs. Dechant and Anderson for assistance rendered in putting up the instrument. In the afternoon the telephone was put up between the College and the music hall, and music was listened to with great delight by large crowds.	,
—On Thursday of last week Mr. F. G. Brown, of the	'
Western Union Telegraph Company, South Bend, made	’
telephonic connections between that city and Notre Dame.	|
The afternoon of that day, music sung at either place was heard at the other and large numbers of people assembled at the College and in the city to witness the wonderful results of modern science. Several songs were sung by ladies from St. Mary’s Academy and listened to by an audience in South Bend. On Friday evening, April 6th, arrangements were made between Mr. Brown and parties at the College, and a programme was made our, which was	<
followed as closely as could be expected. The Senior Orchestra gave several selections. Duets on violins were	|
given by Messrs. G. Walters and A. K. Schmidt; cornet solos	I
were played by Messrs. L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, and others;
guitar solos were played by Mr. B. Claggett; a flute solo by Mr. A. Kirsch; an organ solo by Mr. A. K. Schmidt; a violin solo by G. Walters; and a duet on the cornets by Messrs. L. Evers and J. P. Quinn. Songs were sung by Messrs. E. J. McMahon, A. K. Schmidt, John Lambin, J. Courtney, W. Dechant, and others. The instrument worked admirably, and the music was listened to by a large audience, chiefly ladies. In return some gentleman of South Bend, whose name we did not learn, gave a solo on the cornet, and songs were sung by Messrs. Duey, Frank Mur-	<
phy, Turner, and others. Musical and other compliments were passed back and forth between Notre Dame and South Bend during the several days the telephone was in the offices. Mr. F. G. Brown has the thanks of every one at Notre Dame for the pleasure afforded them through his kindness.	■
—The following exchanges come to us regularly: The Ave Maria, American Catholic Quarterly Review, Catholic World, Catholic Record, Our Young Folk s Magazine, Pilot, Weekly Visitor, Connecticut Catholic, St. Jean Baptiste,	"
Freeman's Journal, N. K Tablet, Catholic Review, Irish-American, Weekly Union, Irish World, American Art Journal, Jersey City Herald, Catholic Standard, Catholic Mirror, Catholic Visitor (Richmond, Va.), Catholic Union, Lake Shore Visitor, Catholic Visitor (Lockport, N. Y.), Catholic Universe, Catholic Columbian. Catholic Tdegraph, Catholic Advocate, Western Home Journal, Western Citizen, Western Watchman, Irish Tribune, Northwestern Chronicle, Monitor, Georgetown College Journal, Niagara Index, Spectator, College Message, Salesianum, Archangel, True Witness, St. John Herald, Moniteur Acadien, Katholisches Wochenblatt, Amer-ika, Ohio Waisenfreund, Katholische Volkszeitung, Herold des Glaubens, Luxemburger Gazette, Michigan Volkszeitung, Catholic Youth's Companion, South Bend Herald, South Bend Register, South Bend Tribune, Niles Democrat, Barnes' Educational Monthly, Salt Lake Tribune, Pomeroy's Democrat, Democratic Dispatch, Penman's Journal, Catholic Messenger, I. 0. B. U. Journal, Catholic Book News, and Volksfreund.
There are some other exchanges on our list, but as the	i
numbers do not come to us with regularity we have not
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
523
given them in the above list. Those mentioned in our list are all well edited and deserve the support of readers. More especially do we call the attention of our subscribers to the Catholic papers, and urge them to subscribe to one or more of them. Any one of our readers wishing the address of these papers will be furnished it on application. We do not wish to lose any subscribers to the Scholastic, but we would at the same time like to have our readers take one or more Catholic papers, feeling that by so doing they will both benefit themselves and help to sustain Catholic journalism.
Roll of Honor.
F	-----
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
!	E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, E. Barry, M. W. Bannon, T. Bar-
l	rett, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, A. Congar, E. Calkins, W. L.
I	Dechant, E. C. Davenport, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. Dee-
han, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. J. Fitzgerald, E. Gramling, A. J. Hertzog, P. J. Hagan, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan, J. 8. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, A. W. Johnson, J. P Kinney, F. Keller, Jas. Kelly, B. Kratzer, J. J. Kotz, J. R. Lambin, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, O. 8. Mitchell, L. Maren-i	tetle, V. F. McKinnon, H. C. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue,
J. J. McEniry, C. Marentette, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, O. McKone, E. J. McMahon, C. Nodler, H. W. Kevans, T. F. O’Grady, Wm. Ohlman, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, J. Rabbitt, J. Rogers, A. K. Schmidt, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shu-grue, 8. T. Spalding, J. S. Smith, J. S. Sheridan, F. Williams, F. J. Walter, T. Fischel.
’	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, J. G. Baker, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman, H. E.
।	Canoll, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, C. E. Cavanagh, G. P. Cas-
R	sidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, D. S. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, W. P.
Doyle, R. French, L. H. Garceau, J. A. Gibbons, J. L. Healey, G.
J A. fleitkam, C. L. Hagan, J. L. Halle, W. J. Jones, J. R. Kelly, J. A. Lumley, J. L. Lemarie, J. R. Lawton, W. J. McCarthy, C. A. McKinnon, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, 8. Moselor, P. P. Nelson, F. T. Pleins, 8. 8. Perley, J. L. Perea, E. J. Pennington, K. W. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. K. Schoby, G. E. Sugg, F. J. Singler, W. Stang, C. Van Mour-ick, W. A. Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, W. Coghlin, A Coghlin, W. McDevitt, O. Farrelly, F. Gaffney, N. Nelson, J. A. Seeger, G. Rhodius, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, C. Garrick, Jno. Inderrieden, W. Rheinhadrt, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, J. Devine, H. Snee, H. Kitz, E. Esmer, T. O’Neill, C. Welty, J. Crowe, P. Fitzgerald, F. Farrelly, T. Barrett, 0. Herzog, L. Young, C. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, J. J. Coleman, J. McEniry, W. L. Deehant, A. Hertzog, L. Evers, H. Maguire, M. J. McCue, J. P, Kinney, J. A Burger, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, J. D. Montgomery, P. W. Mattimore, P. F. McCullough, J. J. Shugrue, F. W. Bloom, W. A. Widdicombe, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, J. Berteling.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. Farrelly, A. Coghlin, W. Coolbaugh, N. Nelson, W. Cogh-lin, C. Crennen, Jos. Courtney, Jas. Courtney, C. McGrath, C. Crowe, W. McDevitt, J. Boose, A. Hartrath, G. Lambin, R. Costello, F. Gaffney, J. Inderrieden, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, H. Snee, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, T. O’Neill, T. Barrett, J. McGrath, J. Devine, E. Esmer, E. Herzog, C. Long, P. Fitzgerald, I. McGrath, F. Farrelly, H. Kitz, J. Inderrieden.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, H. Maguire, J. P. Quinn, F. W. Bloom, J. A. Burger, W. A. Widdicombe, J. J. McEniry,
M. J. McCue, J.Fitzgerald; Greek—J. P. McHugh, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, J. P. Quinn, F. W. Bloom, J. P. Kinney, J. Healy; Essays and Criticism—L. J. Evers, A J. Hertzog, A K. Schmidt; English Literature—F. W. Bloom, L. J. Evers; Rhetoric—A B. Congar; English Composition—P. J. Dougherty, F. J. Hoffman, 3. T. Spalding; Algebra—J. D. Montgomery; Geometry—G. P. Cassidy, M. J. Regan, F. Keller; Trigonometry—J. J. Houck; Surveying—J. D. Montgomery; Calculus—J. J. Coleman, J. J. McEniry; Analytical Mechanics—J. J. McEniry; Engineering— J. J. Coleman ; History—J. J. Quinn, V. F. McKinnon, W. J. Murphy, W. H. Arnold, A. Keenan, J. P. Quinn, J. P. McHugh, P. Hagan, E. F. Arnold, A. J. Hertzog, 8. T. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, P. W. Mattimore; Physics—J. Coleman; Chemistry—J. A Burger, M. McCue; Mineralogy-------; Botany------; Zoology -------------------------------------------------; Physiology-; Ethics—J. G.Ewing, J.P. McHugh; Metaphysics—J. J. Quinn ; Logic—S. T. Spalding, M. Bannon, P. J. Dougherty, W. Ohlman.
The name of E. W. Robinson was accidentally omitted from the List of Excellence last week.

—On Tuesday evening Mother Superior met the young ladies in the Study Hall, and after some impressive preliminary remarks upon simplicity of manner and dress, as indicative of good breeding, read some published letters written by a young girl from Boston, at a convent school in France, descriptive of the character of the little Princess Merceida while at school, illustrative of her filial devotedness and of her beautiful spirit of obedience.
—Last Wednesday was the Feast of St. Richard, the patronal festival of Rev. Father Shortis, C. S. 0., Chaplain of the Academy. The Graduating Class took the occasion to manifest their gratitude by preparing a pleasing programme for the evening as given below. The beautiful address were composed as well as delivered by Miss Mary O'Conner.
PROGRAMME.
Overture to Euryanthe......................(Von Weber)
Misses Elizabeth O’Neill and Minerva Spier.
Address.............................Miss	Mary O’Connor
Vocal Duett........Misses	Elizabeth and Adelaide Kirchner
Reading—'1 San Sisto .................(George H. Miles)
Miss Mary Luce.
“Dream Wanderings ”...............Miss Clara Sil verthorn
Recitation—“ St. Rose of Lima”........Miss Minerve Spier
Song—“ Kathaleen Mavourneen ”..............Miss Foote
Recitation—“Mater Misercordire ”..(Eleanor C. Donnelly)
Miss Bridget Wilson.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Mjsses Beatrice Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Elizabeth O’Neill, Amelia Harris, Minerva Spier, Genevieve Cooney, Mary O’Conner, Anastasia Henneberry.
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Sarah F. Russell, Bridget Wilson, Emma Lange, Ida Fisk.
3d Senior Class—Misses Elizabeth Keena, Mary Way, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanore Keenan, Sallie Hambleton, Anna Woodin, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Ellen King, Blanche Thomson, Charline Davis, Zoe Papin, Mary Birch, Catharine Barrett, Anna Maloney.
3d Senior Class—Misses Julia Burgert, Ellen Galen, Lola Otto, Thecla Pleins, Anna Cavenor, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Hackett, Genevieve Winston, Mary Sullivan, Emma Shaw, Agnes Brown, Martha Wagoner, Mary Brown, Marie Platten-burg, Florence Cregier, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Leota Buck, Mary Winston, Catharine Lloyd, Adelaide Kirchner, Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott, Margaret Hayes, Minerva Loeber, Sophia Rheinboldt, Henrietta Hearsey, Adelie Geiser, Anna McGrath, Lucia Chilton.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Ellen Thomas, Imogene Richardson, Ellen Kelly, Alice Williams, Mary Mullen, Matilda Whiteside, Alice Barnes, Emilia Miller, Julia Barnes, Mary White, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Louise Wood,
524
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ellen Hackett, Lorena Ellis, Frances Sunderland, Mary Lyons.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd.
2d Jr. Class—Misses Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Margaret Ivers.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss Genevieve Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Maria Plattenburg, Mary Luce.
FRENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses JEleanore Keenan, Bridget Wilson, Mary McGrath, Amelia Harris, Clara Silverthorn, Hope Russell.
2d Div.—Misses Mary O’Connor, Beatrice Reynolds, Genevieve Cooney, Julia Burgert, Anna McGrath.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adelaide Geiser.
3d Class—Misses Angela Ewing, Zod Papin, Mary Wagoner, Mary Brown, Mary Birch, Mary Winston, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Butts.
2d Drv.—Misses Mary Danaher, Mary Casey, Emma Shaw, Lucia Chilton, Mary Mulligan, Linda Fox, Laura French.
4th Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Agnes Brown, Henrietta Hearsey, Genevieve Winston, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellen Wright, Louise Wood.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser.
2d Div.—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt, Elizabeth Walsh.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth O’Neill, Annie Reising, Anastasia Henneberry, Catharine Barrett, Florence Cregier. .
3d Class—Misses Mary Way, Sallie Hambleton, Cecilia Boyce, Emilie Miller.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen King, Minerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Blanche Parrott, Imogene Richardson.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Bridget Wilson and Thecla Pleins.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Addie Geiser.
2d Class—Misses Minerva Spier, Elizabeth O’Neill, Ellen Galen, Eleanore Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Mary Usselman, Leota Buck, Frances Kingfield, Delia Cavenor, Anastasia Henneberry.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Julia Burgert, Matilda Whiteside. L.
2d-Div.—Misses Alice Farrell, Caroline Ortmeyer, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Lange, Mary Brown, Elizabeth Walsh, Anna McGrath, Mary McGrath.
4th Class—Misses Alice Morgan, Annie Reising, Genevieve Cooney, Pauline Gaynor, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Ellen King, Caroline Gall.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Winston, Mary Way, Mary Mullen, Imogene Richardson.
5th Class—Misses Mary White, Catharine O’Riordan, Genevieve Winston, Mary Danaher, -Annk'Cavenor, Anna Woodin, Florence Cregier, Catharine Barrett, Zo6 Papin, Emma Shaw, Matilda Wagoner.	•
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Blanche Thomson, Lola Otto, Ellen Hackett, Mary Cleary, Louise Wood, Marie Plattenburg, Cecilia Boyce, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Hersey, Elizabeth Miller.
6th Class—Misses Ida Fisk, Sophia Rheinboldt, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Brown, Mary Mulligan, Ellena Tbomas, Mary Ewing, Mary Lambin, Marcia Peak, Mary Casey, Minerva Loeber, Linda Fox.
2d Div.—Misses Blanche Parrott, Marv Birch, Mary Hake, Ellen Wright, Lucy Chilton, Ellen Kelly, Ellen Mulligan.
7th Class—Misses Agnes McKinnis, J ulia Kingsbury, Lorena Ellis, Sallie Hambleton, Mary Cox, Alice Barnes.
8th Class—Miss Mary McFadden.
9th Class—Miss Alice King.
Harf—2d Class—Miss Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Lucy Chilton.
Organ—Miss Blanche Thomson.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Delia Cavenor and Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Lola Otto, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Hackett, Catharine O’Riordan.
2d Div.—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Imogene Richardson, Sophia Rheinboldt.
4th Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Anna Woodin, .Julia Burgert, Mary Winston, Alice Farrell, Anna Cavenor, Mary Casey.
5th Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Matilda Whiteside, Annie McGrath, Mary Mulligan, Mary McGrath, Eleanore Keenan, Henrietta Hersey, Mary White, Mary Hake, Elizabeth Schwass, Angela Ewing, Marcia Peak.
General Class—Misses Julia Butts, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French, Linda Fox.
ART DEPARTMENT.
drawing.	'
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Misses Beatrice Reynolds, Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange, Pauline Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses Delia Cavenor, Julia Burgert, Leota Buck, Marie Plattenburg, Alice Farrell, Sallie Hambleton, Adelaide' Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses Julia Butts, Elena Thomas, Laura French, Ellen Mulligan.
Promoted to the 4th Class—Miss Lola Otto.
5th Class—Misses Mary Way, Hope Russel), Emelia Miller, Anna Reising, Lucy Chilton, Minerva Loeber, Florence Cregier, Elizabeth Schwass.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ellen Hackett, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Frances Kingfield, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin, Louise Wood, Angela Ewing.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Charline Davis, Beatrice Reynolds, Mary O’Conner, Minerva Spier, Emma Lange, Pauline Gaynor.
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside.	’
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Beatrice Reynolds, Pauline Gaynor, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Charline Davis, Delia Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary O’Conner.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Hope Russell, Cecilia Boyce, Blanche Thomson, Sophia Rheinboldt, Catharine Barrett.
2d Class—Misses Mary Brown, Agnes Brown, Marie Plattenburg, Lola Otto, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen King, Mary Danaher, Mary Wagoner, Catharine Hackett, Leota Buck, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Luce.
3d Class—Misses Margaret Hayes, Emma Shaw, Ellen Wright, LouisaNeu, Mary White, Imogene Richardson, Blanche Parrott.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Beatrice Reynolds, Genevieve Cooney, Anastasia Hendeberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Conner, Anna Reising, Sarah F. Russell, Mary Ewing, Sarah Moran, Emma Lange, Cecilia Boyce, Bridget Wilson, Clara Silverthorn, Mary Way, Eleanore Keenan, Mary Casey, Elizabeth Kirchner, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Luce, Sallie Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Ellen King, Zo<5 Papin, Anna Maloney, Catharine O’Riordan, Mary Halligan, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Leota Buck, Thecla Pleins, Maria Plattenburg, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Mary and Genevieve Winston, Delia and Anna Cavenor, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott. Minerva Loeber, Henrietta Hersey, Emelia Miller, Ellena Thomas, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Allie Williams, 100 par excellence. Misses Amelia Harris, Pauline Gaynor, Ida Fisk. Mary McGrath, Charline Davis, Mary Birch, Catharine Barrett, Mary Wagoner, Florence Cregier, Elizabeth Walsh, Julia Burgert, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Mary White, Matilda Whiteside.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Frances Kingfield, Lucy Chilton, Annie McGrath, Mary Hake, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Ivers, Bridget and Teresa Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, Addie Geiser, Julia Kingsbury," Mary Lambin, Ellen Hackett, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis.
By an oversight the name of Miss Thecla Pleins was omitted in the list for the Tablet of Honor last week.
4
—Friendship is a virtuous attachment between two persons. I say it is virtuous, or else it is unworthy of that name. Friendship has esteem for its foundation; it is a mixture of affection and respect.—Laurentie.
—St. Gregory of Nazianzen and St. Basil loved each other, because they esteemed and respected each other mutally. There was, besides, in them an admirable conformity of tastes and an equal ardor for the acquisition of virtue and science. In all their actions they only sought the glory of God: towards that they directed all their labors, their studies, their watchings, their fasts, and the employment of all the faculties of their soul.—Giry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
525
—St. Gregory of Nazianzen and St. Basil, when young students, excited each other mutually to do good works, and by a holy emulation forced themselves to try and excel each other in the practice of different exercises of piety.—Giry.
—Cottle, in his “ Life of Coleridge,” relates the following amusing incident:—“ I led my horse to the stable, where a sad perplexity arose. I removed the harness without difficulty, but after many strenuous attempts I could not remove the collar. In despair I called for assistance, when Mr. Wordsworth brought his ingenuity into exercise, but after several unsuccessful efforts he relinquished the achievement as a thing altogether impracticable. Mr. Coleridge now tried his hand, but after twisting the poor horse’s neck almost to strangulation and the great danger of his eyes, he gave up the useless task, pronouncing that the horse’s head must have grow since the collar was put on; for, he said, ‘ it was impossibility for such a huge osfrontis to pass through so narrow an aperture.’ Just at this instant a servant girl came near, and understanding the cause of our consternation, ‘Ha! master,’ said she, ‘you don’t go about it the right way. You should do like this. When turning the collar upside down she slipped it off in a moment to our great consternation and wonderment.”
—A plant possessing natural electrical power is said to have been discovered in Nicaragua, and a short description of it is given in a Belgian horticultural journal. It is a species of “Phytolaces,” aud has been christened “P. etectricca," in consequence of its curious properties, which are so strong as to cause sensible shocks, as from a galvanic battery, to the hands of any person attempting to gather a branch. The needle of the compass is affected by proximity to the plant. There is a curious shrub, called the “ compass plant,” which has long been known to exist in the prairie land of the Western States of North America, and which takes its name from the peculiarity that the edges of the leaves are invariably turned north and south, while its surfaces face east and west. This curious property enables travellers, by simply feeling the leaves, to ascertain their direction in the darkest night, the plant itself having, it is said, a perceptible general inclination toward the pole. The causes of this flexity of position in the leaves has never been discovered; some authorities attributing it to the effect of light on the varying sensitiveness of the two sides of the leaves, while others seek for the reason in electricity. The latter hypothesis has not been generally accepted, but if the alleged discovery of the electrical plant in Nicaragua is authentic, the probability of such an influence being at work in the compass plant is greatly increased.
—Those Jesuits, of whom some of our neighbors have such a holy horror, are very remarkable men, and generally very remarkable scholars. In the recent death of one among them the world has lost the most learned and successful astronomer that this or any other age could boast of. That astronomer was the Jesuit Priest, Padre Pietro Angelo Secchi, who, on February 26 concluded his profound researches among the starry heavens, to contemplate, as we hope forever, the face of Him of whose wonderful works he had been while on earth so devoted a student. Father Secchi was an Italian, born at Reggio in Emilia, in 1853, and was professor of physics in the College of Loretto from 1841 to 1843. In 1844 he commenced the study of theology in the Roman College, and completed it in 1849 in Georgetown College, D. C., where he taught natural philosophy and mathematics till 1859, when he was recalled to Rome"'- There he was appointed director of the observatory belonging to the Roman College, reconstructed it on a new site and plan, ihvented and perfected a system of meteorological observations, published a monthly bulletin continued till 1873, and constructed a ■ meteorograph much admired at the Paris exhibition of 1867. He was commissioned by Pius IX. to complete the trigonometrical survey of the Papal States begun by Bos-covitch in 1751. As an observer of solar phenomena Father Secchi’s labors have been highly appreciated everywhere. And no astronomer of the present age has done so much as this humble priest to make the world familiar with the nature, condition, and laws of that wonderful orb whence it derives life, light and heat.—Lake Shore Visitor.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into t he regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOUHITAL
quoted fa the ^onor of the ^fessed
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PHIS IX., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS:
One Year................................$ 2 50
Five Years......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each).20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
.Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman Hanse,
Chicago, Illinois.
526
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
BROWN & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL, [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa. .
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	-
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and
Randolph sts., Chicago, DI.
JOHN E. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm. W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty- Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.	_
-rrriET^TA M J. CL A.BK.E (of ’74). Attorney at Law, W Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES _A_. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.	.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦MaD	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. « Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ « 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	S IS p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 co “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 *•	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N.Dame— 8F2 “	6 38 Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 "	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
milE CATHOLIC COETJMBIA.N, pub’ished _L weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HER ALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Bhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
TIHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. - All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FL x NN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Cl pt CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZltJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
-	Mishawaka, Ind.
Qt CENTS will obtain you a.Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
_	■	Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. Borneans of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species nnmher. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will he found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men. *'
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the priccipal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
VH-
Number or Specimens	25 inbox	50 . inbox	IM 100 inbox 100	200	300 $~3 25 50 1 OO 3 CO
Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger	 Amateur’s size,2*4 in. x 1J4-... High School or Acad, size,2^x3 College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf sp	$ 50 1 50 £in.sh< ecimens	$1 3 ilf epee 		$1 50 I $ 1 6	1	5 	1 10 imens | 25 	 | 500|	$ 2 10 25 50 100	
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.					
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Scie-encee and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New Fork.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
727
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 OS a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 a m; Cleveland, 7 Kam; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and4 pm, Way Freight.
-	GOING WEST.
3	4L3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4	, 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
S 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses,	•
Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,	.
A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,
J. A. LYONS, Notro Danie, Ind.; or, Company, Notre Dame, Ind,
The Scholastic Printing
PATBylCK SIHZICKZE'Z",
1
TROPBIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mtuy's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. 8 EiLCK-u x •
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KA^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES. .
Union Depo*, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7 30 am	9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................3 40 pm	9 00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and'Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation....................9 20 am	5 00 pm
J. 0. McMullin, Gen. Supt.	J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces nnder one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska/Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park,. Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALA.CE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street, Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	- Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
(Hr,Mo.
TYPE FOUNDERS, CHICAGO,
Have the largest and moat complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of oetaL Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly.1 Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	jan 5-3m
1
528
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are ran to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m. 3 45p.m
Peraaccommodation................. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m
Night Express.....................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	• General Superintendent.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOGBAPHTH,, Comer Michigan and. Washington Sts., SOUTH BEJSTD, TITJDTA.JSrA_.
Pittsburgh, FLWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 p.sr.	9.00 A.sr.	1.50 P.sr.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester .		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	745 “
Alliance,..............		310 a.m.	12 50 p.sr.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,				4.46 “	230 “	7.12 “	
'ManRltelri.		-				7.00 “	440 “	920 “	311 “
Crestline,’....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	.... Leave	7.50 A.sr.	5.40 p.sr.	9.55 p.sr.	
Forest			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,...			10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 A.sr.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.30 p.sr.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plv month						3.45 “	2 46 A.sr.	4.55 “	
Chicago,. L..		7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmonth. « ..		2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,............		655 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,						8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest					10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,		..Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		...Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,				12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,			2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,				4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rochester			6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p m,
Pittsburgh,....		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “ ’
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs xhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. HTEBS, G. P. & T. A
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
' Time Table, December 36, ISV?-
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	NO. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		4.35 P. sr 7.10 “ 8.10 “	12.25 P. sr. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. sr. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. sr. 1.14 p. sr. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. AV., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		5.30 p. sr. 2.55 “ 1.50 “	4.10 a. sr. 1.50 “ 12.38 “	9.10 A. sr. 6.33	“ 5.37	“
Lv. Peru		 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	■ 1.27 P. sr. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. sr.	12.33 A. sr. 10.25 p. sr. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
A NEW SYSTEM
OF
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. TOSTET,
52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, ana 204 Vine Street, CiKCMATL
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction,, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844*
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
. The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind. • *