The Scholastic
I '	’
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF "THE pTUDENTS. .	',	'
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”	• -
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 5, 1873.	Number 30.

Canadian Coires^ondcncs.
Editor Sholastic :—We have been trying to imitate our more civilized brethren of the Sta’es in our celebrations during the past month. On Washington’s Birthday the St. Patrick’s Literary Society held a Seance in the large salle of the College. The drama was “St. Louis in Chains,” and the principal parts were as well sustained as they could possibly be in our oldest Colleges. Mr. Daniel Sullivan, of Jefferson City, Mo., delivered the eulogy on Washington,' and we-, have seldom heard a more eloquent iff irt. The Stars and Stripes .waved proudly in the breeze on that day—and the enthusiasm of the young Americans perhaps was more demonstrative than if they had been in their native Yankeedotn. On the Sih iust. the Rev. E lou ird ElLee Labbe and Rev. Paul Larochelle were ordained priests of the Holy Cross in the Bishop’s church, Montreal; and at. 2 o’clock p. m. on the same day they received addresses of congratulation in French and English, spoken by members of the St. Patrick’s,' S\ Jean Baptiste, St. Richard’s, St. C cilia’s and St. Philip de Neri Sureties.
. On Sunday, the 16 h, the grand drama of “Robert Emmet ” was represented. Mr.Wm. Meenan, of Providence, R. I., as “Emmet,” was superb. “ O’Leary,” by Mr. James Coyle, was well sustained—and “Larry O'Gaff.” by Mr. John B trke, was n ndered in true Irish style. Both those gentlemen are also from Providence. Mr. Michael O’Hara of the same fortunate city, delivered a soul-stirring speech on the “Irish Brigade under Meagher,”—and Mr. James Coyle spoke eloquently for more than an hour on Ireland and her glorious Apostle. It was no trite, cut and dry oration—but original.—a composition worthy the occasion, and an. honor to the orator. The festivity of St. Patrick was celebrated religiously, as well as socially—all the students of Irish descent approached the Holy Table in the morning, and after breakfast attended solemn High Mass,—Rev. F. -Shonis officiating as celebrant, Rev. Mr. Kennealy, of Boston, deacon, and Mr. Thomas Walsh, C. S. C;, subdeacon. Rev. Mr. Kennealy, in Deacon’s Orders, preached his maiden sermon, which could not be surpassed by many of our most popular preachers.
After lunch, the St- Patrick’s Society had a grand sleighride to Montreal, and at 7 o’clock p. m. the grand banquet commenced. I should trespass on your valuable space were I to attempt to describe this truly splendid affair. A - .mere enumeration of the toasts and sentiments, the speeches made in Response, the songs, the wit, and music, would fill many pages. Suffice it to say that the toasts were judic-ciously.selected, the sentiments brilliantly conceived, and the responses spiritedly and appropriately, given. The Canadian officers and the students were as enthusiastic in
the celebraton as the Patricians. All did justice to the viands, wines, and sweetmeats.
Everything passed oft’ delightfully—and-the students of St. Laurent may well feel proud of the success of their celebration of the:r national Saint.
On the 18th the Academic of St. Philip de Neri gave a grand Seance—c uni-dies, songs and declamations varied the Entertainment. Many young gentlemen distinguished themselves. St. Joseph’s Day was solemnized as a Festival of the First Class—and all have now settled, down, calmly awaiting the sombre solemnities of Holy Week.
.	Spectator.
St. Joseph’s Day at Ciaoinnati.
St. Joseph's Academy, 269 & 271 Eighth St., . Cincinnati, Ohio, March 22,1873.
Editor Scholastic :—The Feast of St. Joseph was celebrated here with great solemnity. At 7 o’clock Rev. Father. Lauth read M iss, at wh ch nearly one hundred of the pupils received Holy Communion. Nine o’clock being the hour at which the Pontifical Mass was to commence, the pupils, their parent*, and a number of invited guests, began to assemble at an early hour, in order to secure seats. A little before the appointed time, His. Grace the Archbishop, in company with his Chancellor, Rsv. Father Halley, entered the parlor, where they were received by several of the Rev. Clergy who had already arrived.
After a short time, which was principally occupied by the guefts in paying their respects to the venerable Archbishop, the company left the parlor and proceeded to the chapel The altar was decorated in a manner befitting the Feast and th: im-iresiivc ceremonies that were to take place. Not least among the ornaments were two Munich statues, one of Sc Joseph and the other of our Blessed Mother, both tbegifi of John Gerke, Esq., County Treasurer.	■
The Archbishop being vested in his pontifical robes, the Mass commenced. The following is. a list of those who officiated on the occasion: Celebrant—Most Rev. J. B. Purcell, D D. ,• Assistant Priest—Rev. W. J. Halley, of St. Peter’s Cathedral; Deacons of Honor—Rev. Ubaldus Webersinke, O S. F., of St. Francis’ Church, and Rev. A. Schweniger, of St. Ludwig’s Church; Deacons of the Mass—Bev. W. Menke, D. D, of Holy Trinity Church, and Rev. Jacob F. Lauth, C. S. C., Chaplain of the Academy; Master of Ceremonies—Mr. M. Mahoney, C. S. C., Teacher in the Academy.	• -
Besides the above named Clergymen we observed the following priests in .the Sanctuary : Rev. J. C. Albrink, of Holy Trinity Church; ReyLucrs Gottbehoede, 0. S. F., of
234
SCHOLASTIC
Hamilton; Rev. Herm. Ferneding, of St. Paiil’s Church; arid Rev. Father JVmdhorst, of St. Augustine’s Church..
Haydn’s First Mass in B-flat was sung by members of .the several Choirs, from the Cathedral, All Saints’, and St. Ludwig’s Churches. It is needless to say .that when the highest musical talent of the three leading choirs of the city was united, the effect was as sublime as the most devoted lover of the art divine could desire. • Indeed as we listened to the rich swelling voices of the singers we were forcibly reminded of the words of a great writer, who said, “ Song has come to us from the angels, and’ symptiony has its sound in Heaven,” and we fully realized the-saying that “Song is the daughter of prayer, and prayer is the com panion of religion.”	"
After Mass, His Grace preached a short but impressive sermon on the virtues and glorious privileges of St. Joseph. Without attempting to give extracts which would only mar its beauty, we will merely remark that the discourse was listened to with that marked attention which His Grace always commands. Alter the sermon he proceeded to bless the statues, and when this ceremony was concluded Rev. A. Schweniger preached a sermon in German which fully sustained his reputation as the first German pulpit orator in the city.	•
The impressive ceremonies lasted nearly three hours; at their conclusion the Rev. Fathers and invited guests returned to the parlor, where they were entertained with some choice music, both vocal and instrumental, by the pupils and professors.	-	'	■
The members of St. Joseph’s Sodality, dressed in full regalia, entered the parlor, and one of their number, Master Leo Merlirig, read an address to the a?embled guests, which received the applause of the audience and elicited the praise of the Archbishop.
Dinner being announced, all promptly responded to the call, and did ample justice to the good things prepared under the personal supervision of the Superior of the Academy Bro. Arsene, C. S. C. .
■ After dinner the company separated, edified with the solemn cermonies of the morning, pleased with the whole-souled hospitality of the Brothers, and profuse in their expressions of sincere wishes for the future well-being of the Academy. All of which* feelings were entertained by
.	A Visitor.
The following lines from the (London) Hornet written at the time of the strike of the coal miners, seem to embody the sentiments of some of our utilitarian friends:
..	. .	. Oh, woodman fell that tree I
Spare not a single bough !
t - •	In youth it sheltered me,	■
But I must burn it now.
’Twas my forefather’s hand
’	- . That placed it in this spot;	_
Then, woodman, fell that tree, '
'	’Twill do to boil the pot!
. A bright little boy hearing his father say that a man ought to “ stick to his business,” emptied a bottle of mucilage in the old gentleman’s office chair. The old man says he has not been stuck so badly sincel857, and rewarded his offspring by taking him on a whaling trip to the back cellar.
“ There is one thing,” said a gentleman at a race, “ that nobody can beat, and that is time.”' ‘ “ Fudge!” exclaimed a bystander, “ every drummer in the land beatstiihe!”
To a Boss from Ireland.
O faded leaf, O faded rose, Ye bear ine back again	~
Where purling stream in music flows Through Ormond’s flow’ry plain, And.the mellow blue, of Erin’s skies
Meets my upturned gaze. And I am with the hearts I prize
And live the old, old days!
O faded leaf, O faded rose, What magic power ye hold, To wake again within my heart
The feelings as of old I
I see the paths my childhood’s feet Once pressed in playful glee
And all the sunny hours of youth Bright memory wings to me.
Ye bear me to a ruined fane Round which the ivy clings Which held oft many a royal train And where sleep bur Irish kings;
And oft beneath its chancelled arch ’ When the harvest moon was high
How proudly throbbed my heart to hear Of its glorious days gone by.
Of those glorious days ere Erin knew The foeman’s wily smile,	.
When ’round the Cross the shamrock grew And peace possessed our isle. ■
Those happy days when Science reared Her temples ’mid each grove,
And hearts that never cringed to fear Were tamed and ruled by love.
Yes, ye bear me to a hallowed mound Beneath far Ormond’s skies,	■
Where ’neath the shamrocks often wet By tears from, loving eyes, .
In quiet sleep a noble heart To-night is'still and cold, " To throb no more with purpose high As in the days of old.
Thus, faded leaf and faded rose, As my tears may not restore
The bloom which-’neath my native skies Your lovely petals wore,	'
E’en so no tears of ours may bring ’ ' ’ The light and life fond memories hold
To the eyes and lips we loved In the hallowed days of old.
St. Mary’s, Indiana.
“ Insects Fiddling.—The chirping and singing of the cricket and grasshopper are frequently spoken of: but they do not sing—they fiddle. By rubbing wings and legs together—each in a manner peculiar to its species—these insects produce the grounds which characterize thein. Perhaps opr best insect instrumental performer is the ‘ katydid.’ Each wing contains a little tamborine,‘and by the opening and shutting of the wings these are rubbed against each other, and produce the sounds of ‘ katy-did-she-did,’ which can be heard at a long distance, and gives the insect its name. These sounds are supposed to be useful in enabling insects to find their mates; or they may indulge in them for their own gratification, and to add to the general harmony of nature?’'	■ ■	-................
SCHOLASTIC.
235
Fly-Catches.
The Hunters it appears have quit their gameless sport and are in search of something more pleasurable. They report no game.
The Orchestra ought to keep pace with the Band; it does not lack either members or talent. It ought to be one of the musical features of Notre Dame this year. Of course Brother Basil takes interest in it, and we are always glad to hear it.
The Brass Band.—There is no doubt but the Brass Band, under the direction of Mr. J. Gillespie, is the finest ever heard at Notre Dame, and compares favorably with any other band within many miles of Notre Dame. It could not be much otherwise, as many of the members are promising young artists familiar with a number of instruments.
Weather.—At present each day of the week presents : different kind of weather, and each hour in the day a different species; so it'is easier to say what we haven’t had than what we have had. The fact is we haven’t had Jine and pleasant weather yet by any means, but April is here, and we begin to expect something^more settled and agreeable’.
Recreation Days are still frequently spent, as during mid-winter, in the recreation-hall. Walks around the lake are sometimes pleasant and sometimes quite the reverse. Taking things ail in all, there is not yet much life outside of the play-hall, and of course this is very limited; but fine weather, which we have been so long anticipating, will cause all these things to expand, and Notre Dame will present a scene as in days of yore.
Ball-Alley.—Again we see the alley in use, especially the Juniors, which, it will be remembered, has a plank floor, and hence is always in perfect running oifler when . the weather will permit the lovers of the game to appear without the walls of the recreation hall. We have noticed much excitement here of late. The Seniors’ alley, though somewhat soft yet, is frequently sufficiently dry, and has been the scene of several games already.
Base-Bale is still to a great extent a thing of the imagination; for although all are ready for the field, none have been able to take it and hold it. Yet the imagination does not extend to the bats—for it -would indeed be very difficult for the imagination to conceive bats turned with such exquisite ’touches as those which are offered to the base ball world at Notre Dame. Indeed the. turner must be a master mechanic, for who else could think of introducing upon the surface of one bat the varied form of .the surface of the earth, with its rivers, mountains, valleys and seas.
. Chit Chat.—The ice has entirely forsaken the lower lake ; still it has some claim upon the upper, the edges of which have been for some time thawed, though there is remaining in the middle a large cake which seems to retain its maximum thickness and hardness; a few days of pleasant, warm weather, however, makes perceptible changes in it..' The highway across the lake is blockaded at both ends by insurmountable barriers, and hence pedestrians have to resort to the summer walks around the head of the lake. The little house in the Botanical Garden, it appears does not reach its completion very fast.
The Garden has-commenced to undergo its changes. The large tree—the king of the garden,—which stood near the summer-house, has been removed, and not even a stump is left to tell the. tale of its many prosperous years. It has beheld the shrubbery grow up around it, and is now laid low by the woodman’s axe. Some of the large evergreens, too, it appears, are to suffer a similar fate; though their lives are to be spared, yet they must live the remainder of their days in exile. One has thus been banished from the front of the College to the yard in front of the Exhibition Hall.. Yet, no doubt, all these changes are in accordance with good taste and utility,—the latter at least with regard to the evergreens, for more room is wanted between the College steps and the garden fence.
An Excellent Pen.—We have been favored with a sample card of the celebrated Spencerian Steel Pens, and after trying them quite thoroughly are convinced of their superior merit. These pens are comprised in fifteen numbers, each differing in flexibility and fineness of point, so that the most fastidious penman cannot fail to find among the fifteen just such a pen as suits him. The Spencerian. Pens are famous for their elasticity‘of movement, smoothness of point and great durability, and are a nearer approximation to the real S wan Quill Pen than any thing hitherto made. They are manufactured in England under the supervision of the original inventor of Steel Pens, the venerable Josiah Mason, and Joseph Gillott—the latter making a few of the numbers after the models of the late P. R. Spencer, the famous penman. They are used very largely in the common schools of the United! States, in all the principal commercial colleges, in the Government offices at Washington, and in the banks and commercial offices throughout the country, the sale reaching an enormous quantity annually. For the convenience of those who may wish to try them, a sample card of the Spencerian Pens may be had by mail by enclosing 25 cents to Messrs. Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 138 and 140 Grand Street, N. Y., or the pens may be bought at almost any store where pens are sold.
The St. Cecilians.
The 30th and 3ist regular meetings were held March 12th and 18th respectively. At these meetings the following members read Compositions and delivered Declamations: Jno. Ewing, J. Devine, V. McKenna, W. Ball, E. Ohmer, W. Gross, O. Tong, and H. Hunt. After this, selections from “ The Standard” were read by the Editorin chief, Wm. Breen.
At the 31st meeting B. Baca presented himself for membership and was unanimously elected. A vote of thanks was unanimously tendered to Bro. Albert, C. S. C., Professor of Drawing and Painting, for many favors, especially for the beautiful tablet which he arranged for the Association.	* W. P. A. Breen, Got. Sec'y.
■---- । ---------------
A Western musical critic thus speaks of a prima Donna: “ She had; and we suppose still retains, a magnificent voice for a fog whistle. Its compass was perfectly surprising. She would shake the chandeliers with a wild whoop that made every man instinctively fed for his scalp, and followed it up with a roar that would sha«ne a bassoon.”
“ It is a very easy thing to know thyself, but who will introduce you .
236
the Scholastic.
4
Tire Sctralastiir
Published every Week during Term Time, at ■ NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:	:
One year....................................... $2 00
’ One session (5months)......;...................	1 25
Single copies (10c) of the pulilicaSion can lie obtained-at the Students’ Office.	'	••
Easter Vacation.
There appears to be an impression amongst .some of our friends that we have a vacation, or suspension of studies, during Easter time, and under this impression several write to us every year to permit their sons to visit home during Easter week. We are always ready th accede td the wishes of our friends when we can do so, and when those wishes are not based upon a misunderalanding. But in this case there evident]}’ m a misunderstanding. We have no Easter Vacation. There is no suspension of Class at this season, and absence at this time is as detrimental to the student as it would be at any other period, and a source of great inconvenience to the Faculty. We trust therefore that paients will not, without some urgent reason, call their sons home at this or at any other time while the Classes are in regular operation, and thus prevent the disadvantage which must necessarily result to them from such interruption of their studies, and the inconvenience to the Faculty consequent upon a disturbance of that equality of advancement which gives vigor to a Class, but which cannot be preserved unless all attend regularly.	Director of Studies;
A Catholic Missionary.
A few days ago we had the pleasure of -meeting a Catholic priest who for nine years has fulfilled the arduous duties of a Missionary in Oregon—the Rev. Leopold Dieleman. The name is familiar to many of the readers of The Scholastic—some of them old students of Notre Dame, who, after leaving Notre Dame to pursue their theological studies, had the pleasure of knowing Father Dieleman in the American College in Louvain. Father O’Sullivan of Laporte and Father P. Rierdon of Chicago, we know, are among the number. For the sake of his old friends; as well as to give all our readers an idea of the •missionary life of a Catholic priest, we shall put in print some of the conversation we had with him. We regret that we cannot reproduce in bur report the beautiful Simplicity, the unaffected humility, the utter forgetfulness of self and the irrepressible zeal which marked the conversation of Father Dieleman. From Father Diele-inah’s good friend, Father Capon, of Niles, we learned that Father Dieleman is a Belgian, and the son of an old soldier who served with honor under the first Napoleon, and that Father Dieleman,, who now looks every inch the soldier, had at first dreamed of a military career for himself, but'thinking better of it, determined to become a soldier of Christ He presented himself at the American College of Louvain, having resolved to devote him
self to the A merican Missions, and in the absence of Father De-Neve, the President of the College, was received by Father Capon. Having completed his theological course, he was ordained priest, and in 1864 entered upon his mission in Oregon.
We were so impressed with the Rev. Father’s description of the exlent of the mission, that we took a map to trace his route—'the map, printed some nine years ago, aboat the time Father Dieleman began bis mission, easily disposes of that part of Oregon by the word. Unexplored, running through the whole extent from north to south.
. It was through this unexplored region, scantily in habited, by Indians, and gradually receiving a few immigrants and miners, that Father Dieleman travelled afoot or. on horseback during the past p>ue years. From north to south his missionary field extended nearly five hundred miles, as it took iu*to the south, a portion of California; from east to west the field measured over four hundred miles.	’ ’	‘‘
• The general character of the country is mountainous,—• the mountains’covered wiih’snow, at times to the depth of twenty feet, while the va’leys, with fertile soil, enjoy a moderate and extremely healthy climate. Beautiful rivers water the valleys, rush through deep canons and meander x along the comparatively level country cast and south of the Blue Mountain’s. Many lakes of pure water and plenty of fish dot the country east and south of the Blue Mountains. Goose Lake, partly in Oregon and partly in California, is a body of water sixty miles-long, surrounded by a large and fertile valley or basin.
We cannot enter into details—yet they were most interesting to us, and would be to our readers could we give to our pen the charm of the Rev. Father’s conversation—but we must be content to give an outline of bis route.
In Baker City Father D.eleman built a church, which he dedicated to Sc. Francis of Sales. Here are his headquarters.. His nearest mission station, is Auburn, nine miles from Baker City; Eldoiado is forty miles away; Uniontown, forty-nine miles; La Grande, sixty miles; Summeiville, sixty -five miles. This alone in a country where there are' no railroads, and precious little of any kind of roads, would be enougli to be attended by one priest—blit'would’n. it be, after al), more than other missionary priests oqf West do,—nor as much. For be it understood that we are not making out Father Dieleman to be an extraordinary Missionary—he w’ould give us a rap over the knuckles were we to attempt to do so—but, having met him so Reentry, we t ike him and his labors as a sample of what others do; some do less, and still a great deal; others may do more, but we must confess we have not met with them.
Having set in order the portion of his flock residing in and about the places just mentioned, which we may'consider the suburbs of his headquarters, he mounts his horse for Canon City, which is one hundred and eleven miles from Baker City, the route lying across the rugged' .Blue Mountain and several treacherous streams. We are tempted to describe here two of the thrilling incidents he related to’us,—one, about his fording a river, the other; of his losing his way, and after his horse had perished, wandering for five days and nights with’nothing to eat but some huckleberries and water-cresses that he at times was so fortunate as to find. But we refrain.
Reaching Canon City after a weary ride of one hundred
4
4
THE SCHOLASTIC.	237
and eleven miles, we may presume he regts awhile, and after attending to the wants of his flock there (and who so welcomed as a Catholic priest by faithful Catholics?) he goes to Camp Logan- twenty-one miles east of Canon City, where there are usually two companies of soldiers, many of whom are Catholics.* Then he visits Fort Watson, seventy-five miles north of C inon City, •where there arc two companies. In the section of the country east of Canon City, are many miners and some farmers, whom he visits. In D’xie City there is a congregation of two hundred settlers; on Olive Creek, o ie hundred and fifty miners; on Burnt River, one thousand five hundred miners; on Willow Creek, one thousand two hundred miners and settlers. Returning to Canon City, he strikes south to Fort Harney, in Harney Valley, seventy-five miies from Caiion City, and thence to Fort Warner, one hundred and eighty miles south of Fort Harney, and fifteen miles from the California Sfa'e line, where there are always several companies, forty-four companies having at different times occupied it during the years that Father Dieleman visited it. Three com panics are stationed at Fort Harney. From Fort Warner he rides to Gocie Luke, around which there are many farmers tilling splendid farms, and thence into the State of Ca’iforma, through the beautiful country called Surprise Valley.	■
Are you tired, gentle readers, going over this long route on paper with such a gu’de as our nen? How t:red and weary must not Father Dieleman have been, many and many a time, at the close of day, going over this route on horseback—often on foot—and not always sure of a more comfortable resting-place than the ground, with h’s saddle for a pillow I Heigh-ho ! sitting here in our old armchai’*, with a not very uncomfortable bed to- bounce into when we feel like retiring, we seem to ourselves to be, in comparison lo Father Dielemin, a lazy, good-for-nothing mortal who ought to be ashamed of himself, and if we had the courage and requisite skill, we would a>k permission of Father Dieleman, on his return from Europe, to go along with him to lake care of his horse.
We have u/ed up all the space reserved for us without having given a full account of Father Dielema.Ts Mission, and must necessarily omit many things of interest, especially about the Indians in his mission. A part of bis Mission, for instance, is occupied by the Modoc Indians, whom the forces of the United' Suites have vainly endeavored to dislodge from their country and drive into some “ reservation." We would like to reproduce Father Dieleman’s remarks, full of good sense, on this subj-ct, and then send this number of The Scholastic to the President. He would get better ideas about Indians, and Indian agents and such like, than he seems to have, judging from the manner the Indians have been treated. But if we were to write down only that which Father Dieleman told us of Captain Jack, with whom he has often conversed, and
* An officer of the Regular Army once told us that more than one haff of the soldiers, and a great number of the officers of the Regular Army, are Catholics,—a fact to be noted by those who are so blatant about Catholics being opposed to American institutions. In points of danger, both as missionaries and soldiers, you will always find Catnolics. We would -not mention this here were it not for the persistent misrepresentations of men who are animated not by love of their country, but by their hatred of the faith professed by more than six millions of their fellow-countrymen.
whom he has heard “orate” “more eloquently,” quoth Father Dieleman, “ than any man I have ever listened to,” we would not have space left us to wish the Rev. Father “ bon voyage” across the ocean to his native land. May he find his good old father and all his friends in excellent health, that he may catch it from them as well as from the air of his native village; and may he, the valiant soldier of Christ, return to his Mission with increased v’gor to second his zeal for God’s glory, — we say nothing about the increase of bis zeal, for it is always great, because it is sustained by his heartfelt devotion to the Mother of God.
. A Pisa for Reformed. Winter. -	.
The first of Apri’, the “glorious day,” which is so unl-ve^sal’y celebrated by tbo;e whose patronal feast it is was appropriately ushered by Old Winter, who no doubt considered it a good joke to present his familiar, frowpmg five, thus preventing lovely Miss Spring from taking us in by a premature appearance, and from doing herself the in-jvsrice of making her debut in the guise of a chi’ly, frosty pc>ewe ma’dei. Gallant old fellow is Winter! Miss Spy ig's garments of green being si'll out of repair, after the wear and tear given them by Summer and Autumn, Old W irier shows the warm heart that thumps beneath h’s tugged wan I coat of ice by spreading over the ragged', utvepahed vesture of Miss Spring a good thick coat of beauriful snow.
Tne idea! —as we in effect remarked to a A iend of ours in Canada, -. ue idea of our Hoosier Winter putting on siyle, a id ai-empliug lo pass himself off as the simon pure W'me-'—-ike, for instance, a good Minnesota Winter that makes a dead set at nis business in November, and never waveis in iris resolution of keeping down the thermometer unri1 he iektX'.s his bold in May! Now eveiybody knows, you know, 1 bat our Hoosier W inter was foj years back an irresolute, knock-kneed, disreputable old fellow, who always failed io keep bis promises; so weak that he rarely ever got the upper hand of the thermometer, which inva-rab’y rose several degrees higher the day after Old Winter succeeded in putting it below zero. It is a well-known fact, and there's no detraction in writing it, that our Hoosier Winter was in past years like an old toper or a “ re-fo'm:ng” smoker, always swearing off and as continually relapsing. He would begin b’usierfog in November as if he meant business, pitch on to the tnermomeier, hold it down with a steady grip until he froze things, and then let up’a little, to have t’me to attend to a first-class snow storm; and all ihe o'dest inhabitants wou’d be in ecstasies at- such a fine beginning of winter, the like of which had never been seen in this region of country since the year bjfore the first log house was put up in Pia-hook! You would suppose from this that Old Wi iter hau taken a permanent lease for three months. But no, bless you! Before tbe w’eek would be over the thermometer wou’d rise to explain, the sun would come out, the snow vanish, and we wou’d enjoy tbe mud and slush, and coughs and sneezes; we wou’d talk through tbe nose, and we would cry through the nose, using up more pccket-handkerchiefs in a day than we would need for a week in other days; and when we were enjoying this weather, our Hoosier Winter would swear off and swear on, and would pounce again upon the thermometer, choke it down, freeze things again, and then thaw out things again—and he “would keep on this same
238	THESCH0LA8TIC
old tune, like a demoralized, wheezy old fellow in a dirty white coat, playing on a hand organ with only one tune in it. That is what our Hoosier Winter was. That’s the kind o’ man lie was.
The idea, then, that he should succeed in making a regular, steady, thorough-going winter of himself this year! It is encouraging; for he has achieved a decided.success. He appeared in the same character for more than a hundred consecutive days and nights,—Sundays included, and Sunday nights; too,—not even taking a resting spell for the January thaw. He took us by surprise, and not being used to that kind of thing, we were somewhat a-weary and thought him a bore for staying so long. But we opine that Winter may justly say, •with Mr. Venus’ sweetheart, that he “ does not wish to regard himself, nor yet to be regarded, in that honey light,” for he has reformed, and has proved that he can be a staid, steady winter, able to give us a supply of sleigh-riding for more than a hundred days ; and if he keeps on next year, and next, and so on, we shall gladly welcome Old Winter with his beautiful, magnificent, precious snows.
If any object that he is overdoing the thing by remaining too long, and making some half dozen “ absolutely last appearances,” we would ask, why repine? the fault is yours, you have pined so much during the cold months that you should not be surprised at Winter’s re-tar’d.
“ Touch sot a Single Bough.”
It was with pleasure I read “ Woodman, spare that tree,” in last week’s Scholastic, written as it was with such a good motive and with so much moderation; and I add “ Touch not a single Bough” not that I would object to some lopping off of branches, and stopping there, but because when the scientific woodchopper begins to trim a tree he becomes a veritable bushwhacker, and never holds off and cries enough until he has turned the tree into an exaggerated bean-pole and transformed a beautiful grove into the image of a flourishing hop-field.
I am not given to dropping a silent tear, nor am I often in a sentimental mood. Quite the contrary—especially when I see trees, planted with much care more than tw:enty years ago, taken away, root and branch, from before the College; more especially when I remember that one beautiful evening in Spring, more than twenty years ago, I saw Father General—then Father Superior, and President of the College—with spade in hand come across the old playground, now taken up by the flower garden, and having arrived at the old fence—long since taken away, but up to a few short weeks ago indicated by a row of beautiful trees—stand there surrounded by a number of students, with whom he conversed a while in his winning way. Continuing his familiar talk, he dug the hole in which to place the first tree, and having placed the tree in proper position he shovelled in the earth while one of the students held the tree upright and in line with a few humble locust trees which years ago had the good fortune to die a natural death.
When a few days ago I beheld that tree, which had grown up to be a fine one, lying prone on the ground, and the axeman looking at it in meditative mood as if stricken .with remorse, I did not feel sentimental. Quite the contrary. Could not the aesthetic be cultivated outside of the College as well as inside? Or is it?
A Suggestion.
The Railroad Station formerly known as Salem Crossing is now called Otis, but on the railroad tickets sold at South Bend—and we presume it is the. same at other stations along the L. S. &. M. S. road—the name Salem Crossing is still retained. Many travellers wishing to stop at the Crossing, hearing ‘ Otis ’ called out, and seeing Salem Crossing on their ticket, do not budge, never suspecting thatO’tis Salem Crossing, and are carried beyond, and thus they fail to make connection with the train on the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago road. Would it not be well to change the name on the ticket, or else have the brakeman to call out “ Salem Crossing,” as of yore ?
Our correspondence from Cincinnati arrived too late for publication last week.
Boll of Honor,
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week pecediug the given date.]
FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1873.
Bexiob Department.
A. Allen, C. Berdel, M. Bastarache, J. Browne, M. Browne, J. Begue, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, A. Costello, W. Campbell, E. Chalfant, B. Dorsey, F. Devoto, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, J. Drake, T. Duudon, P. Downey,- J. Egan, M. Foley, T. Fitzpatrick, M. Foote, J. Ferry, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, E. Halpin, H. Hug, J. Ireland, T. Keenan, J. Kelly, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, J. McDermott, E. Monahan, J. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, P. O’Mahony, F. Phelan, J. Rolinot, E. Spitley, G. Stack, C. Spears, F.Scrafibrd, G. Summers, J. Scherer, P. Sullivan, W. Van’t Woud, C. Vinson, T. White, C. Walter, H. Zeitler, D. Hogan.
Junior Department.
G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Blaek, P. Brosseau, H. Bennett, C. Clarke, J. Caren, B. Casey, J. Devine, J. Dore, F. Egan, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, G. Gross, W. Gross, J. Golsen, E Holt, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, R. Hutchings, A. Kleine, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie, A. Kramer, J. Lynch, F. McOsker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, E. McMahon, W.McMahon, S. Marks, J. McGrath, W. Morgan, E Milburn, J. McHugh, N. Mooney, D. McAndrews, J. Nevin, J. O’Connell, E. Ohmer, C. O'Connor, W. Pollard, J. Quill, A. Reid, W. Rumely, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, J. Shannahau, P. Tansey, S. Wise, J. Waubaugh, F. Weisenberger, F. Wittelsperger, H. Zuber.
Minim Department..
H. Faxon, J. Cooney, J. O’Meara, A. Murphy, E. Raymond, T. Hooley, W. O’Hara, R. Haley, A. Miller, H. Deehan, F. Van de Mark.
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of .the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory ; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]
FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1873.
J. F. Burnham, V. Baca, L. Burridge, M. L. Brown, M. Bannon, A. Costello, A. Chapoton, P. Downey, J. R. Ferry, M. Foley, J. Hand, A. Horne, H Hug, E. Kimm, P. Lilly,P. Mattimore,'P. McNaughton, J. A. Rofinot, F. P. Ryan, C. W. Spears, J. Scherer, L. C. Whitaker, F. Austin, G. Amann, W. Breen, L. Busch, P. Brosseau, C. Ruger, M. Blake, H. G. Bennett, C. W. Butler, C. Clarke, C. Campeau, J. Cunningham. W. Chapoton, P. Corbett, M. Casey, B. Casey, J. Casey, F. Claffey, A. Crunkilton, J. Dore, W. Dexter, J. Daly, W. Darst, H. Enneking J. Ewing. F. Ewing, H. Engledrum, W. Fletcher, W. Francis, G. Frauenknecht, G. Gross, J. Graham, J. Golsen, J. Hanley, C. Hake, W. Hake, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, R. Hutchings, J. Jepson, A. Kreiter, W. Kinzie,’ A. Kramer, J. Lynch, R. Lewis, T. McGee, W. McMahon, J. McNally," J. Marks, S. Marks,' W. Morgan, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, W. McGuirk, N. J. Mooney, A.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
239
Mitchell, L. Munn, T. McNamara, D. McAndrews, J. C, Nevin, H. Nirdlinger, C. Nirdlinger, J. Nelson, D. Nelson, D. O’Connell, W. Ohlen, C. O’Connor, W. Pollard, A. B, Reid. C. V. Reid, W. Rumely, H. Rinderer. W. Robinson, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F. Sweger, H. Shephard. H. Schaller, F. Smyth, W. SchuKhies, Schermerhorn, J. Shannahan, P. Tansey, J. Tobin, O. Tong, L. Van’t Woud, N. Vannamee, J. Wanbaugh, F. Weisenberger, J. Wilson, S. Wooley, H. Zuber.
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, April 2,1873.
On last Wednesday evening the pupils had the pleasure of listening to a lecture on the subject of “ History,” by Bev. Father O’Rourke.
On Thursday evening a very interesting Entertainment, consisting' of Vocal and Instrumental Music, Tableaux, and recitations, was given in compliment to the Prefect of Studies. The Tableaux of the Annunciation were very fine; the whole affair very creditable to the young ladies who took part in it.
On Monday our beloved Mother Superior returned home after a long absence. This event was the occasion of much joy.
The parents and guardians of the pupils are hereby informed that there is no Easter vacation given at St. Mary’s. On Easter Monday, Classes are suspended, for one day only. Those pupils who aspire for honors are expected to conform to our published rules, in which it is expressly stated that the pupils are not permitted to absent themselves from the Academy without an evident necessity.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t), March 30,1873.
Misses Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, Alice Mast, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Minnie Lange, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke, Rose Devoto, Mary brown, Rosemary Spier, Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Nellie Langdon, Mittie Ward, Annie Lloyd, Mary Prince, Ida Wilder, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, B. Grace, Lizzie Daley, Kittie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church, Julia Voorhees, Lodena Dragoo, Esther Boyce, Emily Plamondon, S. Shipley, Leila James, Julia Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Clarke. Laura Weinreicb, Jennie Noonan, A St. Clair, Addie Hambleton, Nellie Foote, Hanna McMahon, Lou Beckman, Nellie Heedy, A. Reid, M. A. Roberts, B. Wade, R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, Ettie Burney, Mary Quill, Katie Casey, R. Rosesco, Addie Roberts, Ella Quinlan, Nellie McEwen, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, Maria Pinney, S. Chenoweth, Mary White, A. Stockton, Mary Dillon, Livinia Forrester, R. Marr, R. Klar, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, L. Scheiber Fannie Snouffer, T. Heckman, E. Drake, L. Lilly, N. McMahon, M. Lyons. H. Miller, R. McKeever, M. Kane, Bell Turnbull, Corf* Lee, K. Isman, Nellie McAuliffe.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
. INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC. '
First Class—E. Plamondon, K. Young, J. Walker.
Second Division—L Black.'R. Spiers.
Second Class—A. Gollhardt, E. Quinlan, A. Todd.' '	7
Second Division—M. Lassen, -N. McEwen, M. Prince. ' Third Class—M. Ward, A. Smith, H. McMahon, A. Roberts, S. Shipley, N. Heedy, I. Wilder, N. Gross.'
Second Division—K. Zell, A. Reid, M. Koch, A. St. Clair.
Fourth Class—L. King, M. Kearney. J. Kearney.
Second Division—L. Penniman, G. Kelly, M. Cochrane.
Fifth Class—A.' T. Clarke, L. Daley, A. Mast, L. Tinsley, L. Pfeiffer, a. McKinnon, L. James, E. Hagga'rty, E. Boyce, B. Johnson, A. Stockton.
Second Division—F. Turnbull, T. Schulte, C. Walker, M; Booth, M. Faxon.	1
Sixth Class—J. Locke, C. Lee, A. Lloyd, M. Walker, A. Paulsen, M. Hildreth, M. Brown, A. Allen.	' .
Second Division—A. O’Connor, A. Walsh,. M. Walsh, B. Hassler, R. Marr, G. Hooley, A. Hambleton, E. Wade,. B. Wade, E. -Richardson, K. Kaeseberg, M. Riley, A. Noel, N.' McMahon, M.
Thompson, E. Thompson, M. E. Roberts, F. Rush, M. Roberts, L. Forrester,-J. Voorhees, C- Germain, L. Weinreicb.
Seventh Class—E. Drake. J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. Vigil, R. Klar, S. Chenoweth, L. Niel, Miss Crane, K. Casey, C. Smith, S. Smith.
Eighth Class—E. Lange, L. Walsh, B. Quan, K. Follmer, E.
Hassler, N. O’Meara.	'
Ninth Class—K. Bolton, E. Lappin, T. Cronin.
Tenth Class—K. Lloyd, M. De Long.
Harp—E. Plamondon, M. Wicker, J. Walker, M. Walker.
Guitar—S. Shipley, L. Dragoo.
Harmony—E. Plamondon? K. Young, R. Spiers, L. West, A.
Todd. *
Theoretical Classes—L. Black, M. Ward, M. Brown, A. Smith, A. Clarke, B. Grace, N. McEwen, M. Letourneau, H. McMahon, R. Devoto, L. Walsh, B. Quan, M. Hepp, L. King, F. Snouffer, N. McAuliffe, M. Carlin, L. Niel, K. Zell. M. Lassen.
Exercises and Scales—M. Heckman. M. Kearney, R. Spiers, L. Beckman, J. Noonan, D. Simonds, R. Devoto. K. Haymond, N.- McEwen, J. Walker, B. Grace, N. Foote, G- Kelly, M. Reily, L. Pfeiffer, E. Richardson, M. Kaeseberg, L. King, F. Snouffer, N. McAuliffe, C. Germain, C. Lee, J. Lucke, M. Brown.
.	VOCAL MUSIC.
First Class—Lilly West.
Second Division—M. Ward, R. Devoto, L. Black, M. Prince, E. Haggerty.	.
Second Class—M. Wicker, A. Shea, J. Noonan, N. Langdon. For marked improvement since the Examination, N. Foote is promoted to this Class.
Second Division—L. James, M. Letourneau, T. Heckman, A. Gollhardt, L. Beckman, J. Locke, S. Shipley.
Third Class—M. and J. Kearney, L. Daley, E. Quinlan, M.
McGuire, H. McMahon, R. Marr, A. Reid, M. Faxon, S. and C. Smith.	’	.
Second Division—B. Grace, M. Comer, K. Schmidt, A. Lloyd, N. McMahon, M. Kaesenerg.
DRAWING.
First Class—Misses K. Young, R. Devoto.
Second Division—L. Weinreich, J. Voorhees.
Second Class—D. Simonds, M. E. Black, N. McEwen, L. Penniman.
Second Division—Miss S. Smith.
Third Class—C. Smith, E. Orton, M. Booth.
OIL PAINTING.
First Class—L. Black, B. Reynolds, E. Wade, B. Wade.
Second Class—L.- Pfeiffer, S. Shipley, A. Keeline, R. Woolman, L. Forrester, N. McMahon.	.
WATER COLOR PAINTING. .
Misses S. Chenoweth, L. Weinreich, A. Gollhardt, N. McAuliffe.
GERMAN.	-
First .Class—L. Black, M. A. Faxon, L. Beckman, K. Zell, L. Pfeiffer, M. Comer.
Second Class—A. Scheiber, L. Weinreich, A. Gollhardt, H.
Miller, T. Schulte, N. Finley.	:
Third Class—M. Thompson, E. Thompson, K. Hector, M. Castelberger, R. Marr, A. Shea, L. Crowley.
Latin—L. King.
'	FRENCH.
First Class—M. Cochrane, N. Gross, M. Letourneau, L. West, M. Lange.
Second Class—M. Comer, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, L. Tinsley, A. Lynch, A. Roberts, A. Todd.	•
Third Class—N. Langdon, M. Brown, L. Ritchie, L. Niel, B. Reynolds, J. Voorhees.
Tablet of Honor, (Jr. Dep’t), April 1, 1873.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, K Joyce, L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, B. Quan, T. Schulte, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G- Kelly, A. Lynch, N. Vigil, E. Orton, S. Lilly, M. Carlin, M. Brown, M. Reynolds, M. Ewing, M. Hildreth, M. Walsh, J. and M. Thompson, K. Schmidt, B. Hassler, A. Noel, E. Lang, E. Lappin, C. Walker, A. Koch, M. De Long, A. Paulsen, E. Jackson, K. Hector, A. Ewing, D. Allen, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, M. Ware, M. Kaeseberg, K. Bolton, A. Green.
SEEDS, PLANTS, I REES, PREPAID BP MAIL.
IVrY new-priced descriptive Catalogue of Choice Flower and L'-L .Garden Seeds, 25 sorts of either for SI; new and choice varieties of Fruit and Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, Evergreens, Roses, Grapes, Lilies, Small Fruits, House and Border Plants and Bulbs; one-year Grafted Fruit Trees for mailing; Fruit Stocks of all kinds ; Hedge Plants, etc.; the most complete assortment in the country, will be sent gratis to any plain address, with P. 0. Box. True Cape Cod Cranberry for upland or lowland, §6 per 1,000 ; SL per 100; prepaid by mail. Trade List to dealers. Seeds on Commission!. Agents wanted.	"
B. M.-WA.TSO-N, Old Colony Nurseries and Seed Warehouse, Plymouth, Massachusetts. Established 1842.	n27t6
1
240
THE SCHOLASTIC.
W “Ave
A Catholic Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church. ■
TERMS:	'
Life subscription, §20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, §10, in advance.	'
For 2 years $5. in advance.
For 1 year, §3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs ot ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave M ria for §25, in advance.	•
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance	‘	-
To clubs of .twenty subscril>ers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Mikia lor $50. in advance.	■
The po-tage of the Ave Maru is but five cents a quarter, or twentycents a year. when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana. '
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE.
THIRTT-TWO PAGES EVSRT HIONTH. $1.00 1’JEIt ANNUM.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Site
Which will be read, through and through by every member of ■	the family, young and old.
Volume V begins wiih January. 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor, REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES i SO UTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	6.59 a m.	Arrive South Bend,	-	7 30 a.m
	9 35 a.m	..	44	-	10.15 a.m
	4.5'i p.m.	44	44	5.30 p.m
	GOING NORTH.		
Leave South Bend,	- 8.4<> a.m. 11.45 a.m.	Arrive Niles, -4»	- 9.20 a.m 12 25 p m
44	**	6 30 p.m.		7.10 p m
	SUNDAY TRAINS.		
Arrive South Bend,	- 9.30 a.m. 5.30 p.m.	Leave South Bend, • 4	44	- 10.00 a.m 6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UNimSITZ OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1841, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
• Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it Is easy of access from ail parts of the United States.
'	TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	®
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
ami Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each,	10 00
Instrumental Music, - - - - - - - - - 12 50 Use of Piano, -•‘•••"■****12”“ Use ot Violin, --------- - -	2 00
Drawin". -	---------- lo OU
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - . - -	5 00
Graduation Fee-Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	-	•	' . "	~	'	*. * , *	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First S-ssion begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on tb <lst of February.
F i.further particulars, address'	. --
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C.S.C.,
President.
L. S. & AL S RAILWAY, e------------- AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
RAINS now leave South Bend as follows
.	’ GOING
Leave South Bend 10 30 a.	nt. . ,
“	“	‘	12.25 p	ni.
“	“	9-15 p	m.
*!	.12.35 a. m.
“	“	8.2' p.	ni.
“	“	4.35 p	ni..
. .GOING Leave	South	Bend 4 53	p.	m.
“	“	2 55	a	m.
“	“	5.00	a.	in. .
“	“	6 05	p	m.
“	“	.	6.3<	a.	nt.
“	“	8.20 a. m. ;
EAST. ■	- -
Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. m “	“	4.05 a. m
“	“	135 p: ni
-	“	“	5 30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
WEST. . . Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m .	’ 6.50 a. m
.	. “	“	8.20 a. m
“	. “	9.40 p. m
“	“	10.30 a. m
“	“	12.30 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
43*" For full details, see the Company's posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
frainc are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bend time.
4. 11. DEVhKEUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. " CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland, F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	'
J W. Cahv, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. -J S.Nelms, I icket Agent, South Bend.
J, M; Tolchabd, Freight Agent South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville. :
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m. Freights. 6.33 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.	"
Going south—Express passenger, 8.58 a m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m. Freights. 1.00 a.m ; 4.4S a, m.	U. N. CANIFF, Agent. .
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
RA INS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-wp ison Street Bridge, as follows:	.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line .
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., aud Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Westeru Division) '
Joliet Accommodation.	.,
St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, anil also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m.
$9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except. Saturday. 8 Dail y. § Except Monday,,	.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train. .	'	'
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,.	3. C. McMULLIN,
Gen'l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO. ‘	CHICAGO.
PEVSSTLVAMi A CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run _■ between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
"	■ .Fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d train “	“ • 5.15 p. m “	-	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p. in “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	:
J. M. C. URElGHt’ON, Assistant Superintendent, Pittsburgh.
’ H. W. GWINNER; Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. '
F. R. MYER8. Genii Pass aud Ticket A'g’t Pittsburgh.	’
W. C..CLELLAND/Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.	.
♦ Second day. ' ” '	'	'