Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume IX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 15, 1876.	Number 33.
[Selected.]
Pastor Aeternus.
BY AUBREY DE VERE.
I scaled the hills. No murky blot, No mist obscured the diamond air:
One time, 0 God! those hills were not;
Thou spak’st—at Thy command they were!
O’er ebon lakes the ledges hung ;
More high were summits white with snow: Some peak unseen along them flung
A crowned shadow creeping slow.
For hours I watched it. Vague and vast, From ridge to ridge, the mountains o’er, That king-like Semblance forward passed:
A shepherd’s crook for staff it bore.
O Thou that leadest like a sheep Thine Israel! all the earth is Thine!
The mystic Manhood still must sweep The worlds with healing shade divine.
The airy pageant dies with day:
The hills, the worlds themselves, must die;
But Thou remainest such alway:
Thy love is from eternity.
Physiology.
It would seem that the boundless plan of the universe is not sufficiently large to satisfy the cravings of man for knowledge. We find him penetrating the bowels of the earth to bring to light its embedded secrets. He ascends to the heavens, that he may become acquainted with the celestial orbs which move above us. By his ingenuity he has tamed the lightning, weighed the air, and confined the rays of the sun; nay, he has even gone so far as to chain the whole earth with iron bars, over which he may travel from one quarter of the globe to the other. Although he can. not tell what matter is, yet he still continues so indomitable in his pursuits of knowledge that no dangers are so fear, ful that they can deter him, no bodily sufferings so acute that will make him shrink, no obstacle so insuperable that he will not endeavor to surmount, no disappointments so discouraging that will cool his ardor in the pursuit of knowledge.
Yet while men sail over oceans, wander to distant climes, explore the most remote quarters of the earth, descend into its bosom, how few there are who study their own organization, or who even know the names of the organs that enable them to perform these actions! Surely it cannot be that the noblest of the Creator’s works thinks itself un
worthy of study. There must be other causes of this almost incredible carelessness; certainly want of practical utility cannot be the cause of its neglect.
It is a very fine thing to know the boundaries of each state or country, but it would be far better to know, and be able distinctly to mark, the boundaries over which Nature will not permit us to cross with impunity. It is important to know the laws by which the physical world is governed, but it is not less important to know the laws which control disease—disease to which all men are subject,—and which laws are revealed to us in the study of anatomy and physiology.
Anatomy, from two Greek words, ana, up, and temno, to cut, is the description of the organs of the body. Physiology, from the Greek words physis, nature, and logos, discourse, is the description of the functions of .those organs. Human anatomy and physiology describe the structure and functions of the organs of man.
Life in animals, and especially in man, is manifested by two sorts of functions, namely, first, the peculiar functions of animal life, or those of relation, which include the functions of sensation and voluntary motion; those which enable us to approach and perceive our fellow-beings and objects about us, and bring us into relation with them; secondly, the functions of vegetative life, which are nutrition in its widest sense, and reproduction; those which are essential to the maintenance and perpetuation of life.
We will not go into details, but merely enumerate a few of the principal organs of nutrition first, and then of relation, and briefly note their functions, with the exception that we will give a full description of respiration. The first system of organs we meet are the digestive organs, the functions of which are to prepare food for the nourishment of the body. They are the teeth, mouth, salivary glands, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, intestines, liver, pancreas, lacteals, and thoracic duct.
The mouth receives the food; it is then divided or masticated by the teeth; the salivary glands moisten it by the secretion of the saliva from the three glands, then by a contraction of muscles it is forced into the pharynx, thence passes into the oesophagus or gullet, through which it passes by the vermicular contraction of its walls down through the cardia into the stomach. Here through the action of the gastric juice secreted by the muscular coat of the stomach and by the peristaltic motion of the stom-ach the albumen of the food is changed into albuminose, which change is called chymification—and the matter, which is changed into an entirely different substance, is ‘ called chyme. As soon as this change has taken place the pylorus of the stomach epens and the stomach evacuates itself gradually into the small intestines. In the upper part of the intestines the chyme mixes with three other
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
secretions: first, the intestinal juice; secondly, the bile secreted by the liver; and thirdly, the pancreatic juice secreted by the pancreas (commonly called sweet-bread). Here another change of the food takes place before the chyme is entirely changed into another substance by the action of these secretions,—upon the other ingredients of the food, namely starch and oleaginous substances. The change of the chyme is called chylification, and the substance obtained is termed chyle. The chyle passes on through the intestines by their peristaltic motion, till all the particles of the food are more disintegrated till at last they become a white milky fluid, namely chyle. In the intestines the ingredients of the food are absorbed by the absorbing blood-vessels and by the lacteals, the other parts of the food which are not nutritious being rejected by the body. The nourishing parts are conducted by the thoracic duct to mix with the blood in the subclavian vein, and commence here to be circulated along with the blood in order to be deposed, after having entered into the same material as the blood itself, in the different tissues of the body, to become by the function of nutrition, properly speaking, or assimilation, what those tissues are themselves, namely musculine in the muscles, osteine in the bones, chondrine in the cartilages, keratine in the hair and nails, crystalline in the transparent lens of the eyeball, etc. The different ingredients of the food are brought therefore in contact with the different tissues of the body by means of the circulatory system of the blood. The circulatory organs are the heart, the arteries, the veins and the capillaries.
The heart is a hollow muscular organ situated in the middle of the chest, of a conical form, which dilates and contracts at regular intervals independently of the will. In man the heart is divided by a vertical partition into two cavities, each of which is again divided into two compartments, one above the other. The two upper cavities are called auricles, and the two lower ventricles. The pulsation of the heart is the alternate contraction and dilatation of the two auricles and ventricles. The contraction is called systole, the dilatation diastole. Each pulsation consists of two movements, the diastole or dilatation of the ventricles, during which the auricles contract, and the systole, or contraction of the ventricles, when the auricles dilate.
Of the course of the blood, beginning with the left ventrical, by the contraction of this ventricle the blood is driven through the main arterial trunk, called the aorta, and is distributed by its branches throughout the whole body; it is then collected by the veins, carried back to the heart, and poured into the right auricle, which sends it to the right ventricle. The right ventricle propels it through another set of arteries, the pulmonary arteries, to the lungs, where it is collected by the pulmonary veins and conveyed to the left auricle, by which it is returned to the left ventricle, thus completing the circuit. The capillaries are the network of veinlets by which the blood is carried even to the smallest tisues, after which it is collected again and carried to the veins whose office it is to bring the blood back to the heart.
Respiration is the process by which we extract oxygen from the atmosphere and adapt it to requirements of our system. Oxygen is the most active agent in the operations of nature. The organic as well as the inorganic world is subject to its influence. It is continually building up and demolishing, making and unmaking. No animal can live ^without it, and it is incessantly in operation, producing its
offects in the internal organization, which effects are necessary to existence. The atmosphere is the great reservoir of oxygen, and also the source from which we draw our supply. Oxygen forms a fifth part of the atmosphere. The air, therefore, plays a very important part in our existence. Without air we should have no oxygen, without oxygen no life. The Great Author of our being, adapting the work of His hands to the circumstances in which He has placed it, provided us with organs by means of which we may appropriate as much of this life-giving substance as may be necessary for the maintenance of life. We draw	i
the air into the respiratory organs, or lungs, by breathing,	I
and immediately exhale it again to give place to a fresh	J
supply, oxygen being drawn from the air while passing R through the lungs.	I
The action by which the air is introduced into the lungs, and there made to yield a portion of its substance for the maintenance of life, is called respiration. To understand the process of respiration it is necessary to study the composition of the lungs. The lungs are two large organs of a spongy texture, situated in the chest, one on each side; these organs communicate with the air through channels or passages called the bronchial tubes, the trachea, and larynx,	f
Every little apartment of the lungs has its tube. These	|
tubes join, and form what are called the bronchial tubes; again these bronchial tubes join, and form two large tubes called “ bronchi,” one in each lung, which end in the trachea, and communicate, through the larynx, with the exterior. By this arrangement of the lungs the greatest possible amount of surface is exposed to the air, and there- . 1 fore the greatest possible amount of oxygen extracted therefrom and adapted by the lungs.
The movement of respiration is caused by the alternate contractions and expansions of the diaphragm or floor of the chest, and by the muscles between the ribs expanding and compressing the sides, thus making room in the chest	,
for the air and again pressing it cut. The immediate object of respiration is the renovation of the venous blood, -that is of blood which has parted with its oxygen. This venous blood as it returns from all parts of the body to the	'
heart is discharged by that organ in a continuous stream to	'
the lungs, where it absorbs the oxygen and is immediately changed not only in substance but in appearance, now be-	’
coming of a bright scarlet color, and returning to the heart full of health-giving properties, and thence, throughout the whole body, bestowing new strength and activity to every, • member and tissue. The blood therefore during its passage	'
through the lungs undergoes two complete changes: when entering the lungs it is of a dark-blue color; when leaving them, of a bright scarlet; when entering, it is poisonous, and contains the elements of death; when leaving, it is nu-	,
tritious and contains the elements of life. It is therefore by the process of respiration that the blood is kept renovated, and is restored to a condition necessary for the maintenance of animal life.	,
We have now seen that through respiration we draw life from the surrounding atmosphere; this is its mostim-portant function, but it ‘also removes the carbonic acid, which is formed throughout the body by the waste of tissues and is carried by the blood to the lungs, and ex. haled by them. Besides carbonic acid the exhaled breath contains also a peculiar animal vapor, produced in the interior of the body; it is this vapor which causes the dampness noticeable in the breath. From what has been said it is evident that a constant supply of fresh air is absolutely
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
515

necessaiy for health, and even for existence. If we remain shut up in a close apartment, breathing the same air over again, it loses a part of its oxygen with every respiration, and at last becomes contaminated with carbonic acid so as to render it even destructive of life. All should be careful, then, to have a constant supply of fresh air in their houses if they wish to continue in good health. This should especially be attended to during the winter months, when the cold is severe, as at this time many lose sight of the fact that by closing up every little aperture through which the cold may enter they also deprive themselves of a very necessary article in the economy of the human system, namely pure air. But when rooms are ventilating, great precaution should be taken; otherwise serious injury may result. The best means for ventilation are by properly constructed flues or an open fireplace. When a room has neither flues nor fireplace, recourse must be had to the doors or windows, but these should never be opened so that a draught of cold air will blow directly upon the inmates, nor so much that a chill is produced. This would in its consequences be even worse than foul air. When recourse is had to the windows the better way is to' open them when the inmates leave the room, closing them before they return, and leaving the door open if necessary. A person should never sleep by an open window, as the ill effects of doing so will be inevitably felt in the morning. These remarks are only in passing, and do not properly belong to the scope of this article; but we may recur more fully to this matter in an article on the hygiene of ventila-• tion.	.
Having now concluded our remarks on respiration, we will, in order not to encroach on the reader’s patience, give but a cursory glance at the second part of physiology, namely the functions of relation. The noblest of all the organs of man is undoubtedly the brain. Here it is that Reason sits enthroned in all her majesty, in all her brilliancy, governing all the movements, all the passions of man. The brain is in communication with every one of the five senses by special threads, called nerves; and also with each of the muscles, thus controlling all the movements of the body. The mind receives the impression through the sensitive nerves, and then acts upon the muscles through the motor nerves; and thus it is that the mind acts upon matter. Here is the throne of power, the empire of the the soul. From this throne emanate those actions which have caused nations at one time to weep, at another to rejoice; and here have been conceived those noble inventions which have tended to ameliorate the condition of mankind. Here are to be found the twin sisters, Reason and Philosophy, hand in hand, searching after truth, and from here ascends the worship of the creature, man, to his Maker—God.
For the promotion of health a certain amount of physical and mental work is required, but on account of the different constitutions of men no general rule can be given. We feel confident that much of the sufferings endured by man is owing to excessive brain-work. When we feel fatigued we can rest assured that it is the voice of nature mutely pleading for a cessation of labor; and if we neglect the appeal we must suffer the penalty. The student, flushed with hope and excitement, may disregard the monitions of nature when she casts a shadow over his feverish brow,—the philosopher may continue his speculations, trying to pass beyond the bounds marked out for human reason, heeding not the interior voice that bids him cease—
the divine, with haggard face, may dive deeper into the mysteries of eternity, disregarding the friendly signal—bat all, all, sooner or later, pay the penalty of this violation, which is either a premature death or a life made miserable by disease.	A. K. >
Outlawry-
In former times, in England, when a party, defendant in a suit, after having a formal and proper summons! served on him, refused to make his appearance before a court of competent jurisdiction, his contumacy was regarded as nothing else than rebellion against the realm. For this refusal he was, delcared to have forefeited the benefit and privileges of the laws of the land to which he refused to submit. He was said to have a caput lupinum (a wolfs head), and might be knocked on the head like a wolf by anyone who should meet him; for, having himself renounced or evaded the law, he was to lose its protection and be dealt with as in a state of nature, when anyone that found him might slay him. In ancient times he was also known by the name of friendlessman, because as it seems, he forfeited his friends; for should any of them offer him assitsance, he suffered the same punishment as the outlaw himself, losing like him both property and life unless spared by the king.	:
As early as the time of Braeton the inhumanity of the law had become softened, and the outlaw’s life could only be taken when he resisted capture or endeavored to escape. After his capture, his life or death rested in the hands of the king alone. At present no man is allowed to wantonly kill an outlaw, and if he does he is held as guilty of murder. A defendant, in England, is outlawed upon certain proceedings being had when he does not appear to answer to an indictment or process. In an indictment for treason or felony, an outlawry of the person indicted is equivalent to conviction. Anyone may arrest a person outlawed on such an Indictment, either on his own motion or upon a warrant, for the purpose of bringing him to execution.’ In all other cases the effect of outlawry is the forfeiture of the property of the outlaw for the benefit of the king, in whom it becomes vested for the benefit of the plaintiff in-the action in which the outlawry is had. Another consequence of outlawry is that the outlaw is unable to bring any suit or process in his own name; he is, in this respect,' deprived of the benefit of the law, and stripped of all his' civil rights. The reason for the infliction of these severer penalties is that persons sued or indicted may be forced to ’ appear and answer, instead of fleeing the kingdom. That such penalties may not be incurred without sufficient grounds and the most exact and formal proceeding, it is ‘ provided by the Magna Charta that none shall be outlawed: otherwise than according to the laws of the land. The ‘ ordinary proceeding for this purpose is to issue three : writs successively, to arrest the defendant. If he cannot' be found, the coroner is ordered, by writ, to exact or de-' mand him, in five county courts successively, and the: sheriff is ordered to make proclamation three times in the ’ most public places in the county of his residence, calling upon him to appear and answer to the suit or indictment. ' If he.fails to appear, then a judgment of outlawry is passed' upon him. If, however, there be the least informality in : the proceedings, this judgment may be reversed on error.;
All males above the age of twelve years might suffer out-' lawry, because at that age they were all sworn and en--
516
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
giving the Asperges before High Mass on Sundays, he would be met by a blunt refusal, with the assurance that he was not going to bring in any of his French innovations. Were the holy oils wanted for the Saturday of Holy Week, he would be told not to give himself any trouble, but go on, and the oil could be put in, you see, any time. In fact, every one that lived in Washington in those days knows that the old gentleman was one of the queerest and most eccentric persons in the world—yet, with all this, that Father Matthews was a model of piety. No one ever wielded a more absolute influence in Washington, because no one ever deserved it more. He was loved in life as he is reverenced in death.
A goodly array of fashion of course was attracted to the “ White House ” on the occasion of the baptism. The interest natural to the occasion and the novelty of the occurrence, brought even more than were invited to the ceremony. A very fair representation of the Corps Diplomatique, their attaches and suite, were there; numbers of Senators and members of Congress graced the scene; and in fact the great east room, celebrated the world over for its magnificence, was comfortably filled by guests who had come to witness the first and it may be the last baptism that has ever taken place in the Presidential Mansion. Father Matthews stood in surplice and stole,—he never wore a cassock; along coat served all purposes for him,—and intimated that he was ready now to baptize the child. The vast company gathered round. The sponsors were prepared to enter upon their obligations. The centre of attraction was now produced. The President, on one side, somewhat embarrassed by his new position; the godmother, on the other, while a lady’s maid held the infant. “ This child is to be called Andrew Jackson,” said the venerable priest. All assented. “ Well, Andrew Jackson? ” he continued, in the words of the Ritual, “ What dost thou ask of the Church of God ?” The President thought for a certainty that he was himself addressed, and was completely put off his guard. But at the priest’s suggestion he replied: “ Faith.” And it must be acknowledged that the President got along tolerably well with the rest of the ceremony, if we except perhaps the repeating of the Creed, which our soldier Pres? ident had considerable difficulty to remember, until it had advanced to the solemn renunciation of Satan, his works and pomps. This was almost too much to ask of him, but it must be done. Father Matthews always pronounced the word as if written “ Sattan,” so when he approached this portion of the ritual, assuming a very solemn air, and shrugging his old shoulders in real characteristic style, he demanded : “ Andrew Jackson, dost thou renounce Sattan ? ” This time the President was sure of his duty, so joining his hands and making a very profound bow he solemnly replied: “ Most undoubtedly, Father Matthews.” Of the scene that hereupon ensued it were useless to attempt a description. It was no longer the subdued titter, but one good-natured, unrestrained laugh all round—and the President’s awkward stare at the amused company, to discover the occasion of their merriment, served only to increase the hilarity of the moment. The ceremony was completed, and all rejoiced that their good President’s word was now plighted to the assertion that he had no part forever with Satan.	J. B. D.
rolled in the decennary, and were thus within the law of the land. Women were “waived,” not outlawed, because they were not thus sworn and enrolled. They could not he excluded from the benefit of the law, but were abandoned or disregarded by it.
The process of outlawry is very rare in the United States. In most of the States it is wholly unknown, while in New York it is retained in treason alone; and in Pennsylvania, in treason, robbery, burglary and perhaps one or two other cases. In these two States outlawry in civil actions has been expressly abolished. If a criminal escape from the country, the Government authorizes its officers to make application to the authorities of the country to which he flees, to surrender him, that he may be brought back and put on his trial.
Presidential Piety.
Of the truth of the following story we have the word of a clergyman who exercised his ministry for years in the city of Washington.	•
Many years ago, while General Jackson was President of the United States, there was a certain Monsieur P- duly accredited to Washington as the Minister Plenipotentiary and Ambassador Extraordinary of the French Court. Of this Mons. P------------------------------many things might be written in this little book which it were as well perhaps to leave out Yet the writer cannot omit saying at least that persons in high position should always remember to give edification by their unblemished conduct, because scandal given by individuals in high places is deleterious in proportion to their elevation. It may be that some who think themselves responsible alone for their own sins may yet find that the Great Beholder of hearts and Judge of men will demand of them at least in part an account of the present degraded state of morals in Washington society.
There existed a warm friendship between General Jackson and the French Minister’s family. In those days Baptisms occurred just as before and since, consequently we may conclude that there were sometimes new-comers making their appearance on this our stage of action. Well, Mme. P------, in due course of events, presented her liege lord with an heir. None other than the President of the Union should be the godfather, and the child should rejoice in the high-sounding name of Andrew Jackson. At this time Father Matthews, the patriarch of Catholicity in the Capital, was still able to perform some of the lighter duties of the ministry. Mons. P--- had waited on the venerable clergyman and secured his services for an appointed day. The baptism was to take place at the presidential mansion. Now these statements are correct, and if it appear strange to some of my readers that the sacred ceremony was to be performed out of the proper place, or that one not a Catholic was to be the godfather, it must be remembered that this affair took place a long time ago, before the Church discipline was as regularly established in the United States as at the present; and moreover, who would interfere with the decision of the holy old man, Father Matthews? Even in civil life, Father Matthews’ word was law. In very grave points, involving the most important consequences in state, Father Matthews would speak and the question would be considered as instantly settled. It must be owned that the old gentleman had quaint ideas about some points of discipline. For example, if Ins assistant proposed to introduce the pretty custom of
—Rev. Henry Polk, an expatriated German priest, has been appointed Superior of the German Mission in London by His Eminence Cardinal Manning.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
517
Abelard.
As the inductive method rose in Bacon, so did the logical in the mediaeval schoolmen; and Aristotle, the most comprehensive intellect of antiquity, as the one who had conceived the sublime idea of mapping the whole field of knowledge, and subjecting all things to one profound analysis, became the presiding master in their lecture-halls. It was at the end of the eleventh century that William of Champeaux founded the celebrated Abbey of St. Victor, under the shadow of St. Genevieve. ... Of this William of Champeaux, Abelard was the pupil. He had studied the dialectic art elsewhere, before he offered himself for his instruction; and in the course of two years, when as yet he had only reached the age of twenty-two, he had made such progress as to be capable of quarrelling with his master and setting up a school for himself........
Great things are done by devotion to one idea; there is one class of geniuses who would never be what they are could they grasp a second. The calm philosophical mind which contemplates parts without denying the whole, and the whole without confusing the parts, is notoriously indisposed to action; whereas single and simple views arrest the mind and hurry it on to carry them out. Thus men of one idea and nothing more, whatever their merit, must be, to a certain extent, narrow-minded, and it is not wonderful that Abelard’s devotion to the new [scholastic] philosophy made him undervalue the seven arts out of which it had grown. He felt it impossible so to honor what was now to be added, as not to dishonor what existed before. He would not suffer the arts to have their own -use, since he had found a new instrument for a new purpose; so he opposed the reading of the classics. The monks had opposed them before him; but this is little to our present purpose. It was the duty of men who abjured the gifts of this world, on the principle of mortification, to deny themselves literature, just as they would deny themselves particular friendships or figured music. The doctrine which Abelard introduced and represents was founded on a different basis. He did not recognize in the poets of antiquity any other merit than that of furnishing an assemblage of elegant phrases and figures, and accordingly he asks why they should not be banished from the city of God, since Plato banished them from his commonwealth. The animus of this language is clear when we turn to the pages of John of Salisbury and Peter of Blois, who were the champions of the ancient learning. We find them complaining that the careful “ getting up,” as we now call it, “ of books ” was growing out of fashion. Youths once studied critically the text of poets and philosophers; they got them by heart ; they analyzed their arguments; they noted down their fallacies; they were closely examined in the matters which had been brought before them in lectures; they composed. But now another teaching was coming in ; students were promised truth in a nutshell; they intended to get possession of the sum-total of philosophy in less than two or three years; and facts were appended, not in their substance and details, by means of living, and, as it were, personal documents, but in dead abstracts and tables. Such were the declamations to which the new logic gave occasion.	.
These, however, are lesser matters; we have a graver quarrel with Abelard than that of his undervaluing the classics. . . . Wisdom, says the inspired writer, is de-sursum, ispudica, is pacifica, “from above, chaste, peacea
ble.” We have already seen enough of Abelard’s careeT to understand that his wisdom, instead of being pacifica, was ambitious and contentious. An Apostle speaks of the tongue as both a blessing and a curse. It may be the beginning of a fire; he says, a “ Universitas iniquitatis and, alas! such it became in the mouth of the"gifted Abelard. His eloquence was wonderful; he dazzled his contemporaries, says Falco, “ by the brilliancy of his genius, the sweetness of his eloquence, the ready flow of his language, and the subtlety of his knowledge.” People came to him from all quarters; from Borne, in spite of mountains and robbers ; from England, in spite of the sea; from Flanders and Germany; from Normandy and the remote districts of France; from Angers and Poiters; from Navarre by the Pyrenees, and from Spain, besides the students of Paris itself; and among those who sought his instructions, now or afterwards, were the great luminaries of the schools in. the next generation. Such were Peter of Poiters, Peter Lombard, John of Salisbury, Arnold of Brescia, Ivo and Geoffrey of Auxerre. It was too much for a weak head and heart; weak in spite of intellectual power; for vanity will possess the head, and worldliness the heart, of the man, however gifted, whose wisdom is not an effluence of the Eternal Light.
True wisdom is not only pacifica, it is also pudica; chaste as well as peaceable. Alas for Abelard! a second disgrace, deeper than ambition, is his portion now. The strong man—the Sampson of the schools in the wilderness of his course, the Solomon in the fascination of his genius—shivers and falls before the temptation which overcame that mighty pair, the most excelling in body and mind.
Desire of wine and. all delicious drinks, Which many a famous warrior overturns, Thou couldst repress; nor did the dancing ruby, . Sparkling outpoured, the flavor or the smell, Or taste, that cheers the heart of gods and men, , Allure thee from the cool crystalline stream.
But what availed this temperance not complete Against another object more enticing ?
What boots it at one gate to make defence And at another to let in the foe, Effeminately vanquished ?
In a time when colleges were unknown, and the young scholar was thrown upon the dubious hospitality of a great city, Abelard might even be thought careful of his honor that he went to lodge with an old ecclesiastic, had not his host’s niece, Eloisa, lived with him. A more subtle snare was laid for him than beset the heroic champion or the allaccomplished monarch of Israel; for sensuality came upon, him under the guise of intellect, and it was the high mental endowments of Eloisa, who became his pupil, speaking in her eyes and thrilling on her tongue, which were the intoxication and delirium of Abelard..........He is judged: he is punished: but he is not reclaimed. True wisdom is not only “pacifica,”not only “pudica,” it is “desursum” too. It is a revelation from above; it knows heresy as lit. tie as it knows strife or license. But Abelard, who had run the career of earthly wisdom in two of its phases, now is destined to represent its third. It is at the famous Abbey of St. Denis that we find him languidly rising from his dream of sin, and the suffering that followed. The bad dream is cleared away; clerks come to him and the Abbot, begging him to lecture still, for love now, as for gain before. Once more his school is thronged by the curious and the studious; but at length the rumor spreads that Abelard is exploring the way to some novel view on the subject, of
518
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Most Holy Trinity. Wherefore it is hardly clear, but about the same time the monks drive him away from the place of refuge he had gained. He betakes himself to a cell, and thither his pupils follow him. “ I betook myself to a certain cell,” he says, “wishing to give myself to the schools, as was my custom. Thither so great a multitude of scholars flocked, that there was neither room to house them, nor fruits of’the earth to feed them.” Such was the enthusiasm of the student, such the attraction of the teacher, when knowledge was advertised freely, and its market opened.
Next he is in Champagne, in a delightful solitude near Nogent, in the diocese of Troyes. Here the same phenomenon presents itself which is so frequent in his history. “When the scholars knew it,” he says, “they began to crowd thither from all parts; and leaving other cities and strongholds they were content to dwell in the wilderness. For spacious houses, they framed for themselves small tabernacles, and for delicate food they put up with wild herbs. Secretly did they whisper among themselves: ‘ Behold the whole world is gone out after him I ’ When, however, my oratory could not hold even a moderate portion of them, then they were forced to enlarge it, and to build it up with wood and stone.” He called this place his “ Paraclete,” because it had been his consolation.
I do not know why I need follow his life further. I have said enough to illustrate the course of one who may be called the founder, or at least the first great name of the Parisian schools. After the events I have mentioned, he is found in Lower Brittany, then being about forty years of age, in the Abbey of St. Gildas; then with St. Genevieve again. He had to sustain the fiery eloquence of a Saint, directed against his novelties; he had to present himself before two Councils; he had to bum the book which had given offence to pious ears. His last two years were spent at Clugni, on his way to Rome. The home of the weary, the school of the erring, the tribunal of the penitent, is the city of St. Peter. He did not reach it; but he is said to have retracted what had given scandal in his writings, and to have made an edifying end. He died at the age of sixty-two, in the year of grace 1142.
In reviewing his career, the career of so great an intellect so miserably thrown away, we are reminded of the famous words of the dying scholar and jurist, which are a lesson for all: “ Heu, vitam perdidi, operostJ nihil agendo.” A happier lot be ours!
■	Dr. J. H. Newman—“ Historical Sketches.”
. Art, Music and Literature.
' —Prof. Sumner, of Yale college, is writing a political history of the United States.
• —Mrs. Terhune (“ Marion Harland”) has a new novel, “ My Little Love,” in press.
—The statue of Lord Rosse, by the late Mr. Foley, has been cast in bronze and placed in Parson’s Town, Kings County, Ireland.
—Col. T. W. Higginson is preparing a “ Young Folks’ History of American Adventure,” to match his preceding successful book.
—Rubinstein has started on his tour through Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, and .England. M. Gustav Levy is ' his managing man.
—“Le Deluge,” a biblical poem, for orchestra, solo, and chorus, by M. Camille Saint-Saens, has been produced in Paris with success.
- —Signor Passaglia, the sculptor of the Lincoln monument,
London, has been elected Professor of the Academy of Fine Arts at Florence.	;
—*Mr. Warrington Wood is executing a colossal statue | of Michael Angelo at his studio in Rome for the Walker'	I
Fine Art Gallery at Liverpool.	.	j
—Among the Cincinnati artists who will exhibit in ' Philadelphia are Gustavus Frankenstein, Victor Nehlig, j T. S. Noble and Dwight Burton.	.	j
—The Sans Souci series, to be issued this season by the | publisher of the Bric-a-Brac series, will be devoted to European history, biography, and gossip.
—Mr. Tennyson promises an annotated edition of his , works, which will, perhaps, illuminate some obscure allusions which have puzzled many readers.	<
—A suitable monument is to be erected over the grave of Robert Nicoll, the poet, at North Leith, in Scotland. j Nicoll died in 1837, when he was only twenty-three years old.
—A course of lectures on Turkish architecture has been given in Constantinople at the house of Edhem Pasha, late minister of public works, by an architect of eminence residing there.	'
—Mr. Cruseman Van Elten, of this city, the celebrated landscape painter, has been appointed by the King of Holland the Royal Commissioner to represent his native country at the Centennial.
—A monument is to be erected on the grave of Robert Schumann, at Bonn. The project is in the hands of a committee who have intrusted the work to Prof. Dundorf, in Dresden. The monument will be of Carrara marble.
—According to a telegram from Florence, the suit brought against Larkin G. Mead, the American sculptor, by a former employe, concerning the Lincoln monument, which was originally decided in favor of the defendant, and subsequently appealed, has again resulted in a complete victory for Mead.
—The two well-known Norwegian painters, Morton Muller and Adolph Tidemand, have recently undertaken together alarge picture, representing a scene in Norwegian history, Muller painting the landscape and Tidemand the figures. Both these painters have long resided in Dusseldorf, and may be said to belong to that school.
—The French journals announce the death of the historical painter, M. Charles Lariviere. He was born in Paris, and took the prize of Rome in the competition in 1824. He was awarded medals in 1831 and 1855, and the decoration of the Legion of Honor in 1836. His principal works are in the military museum at Versailles.
—The French newspapers report that an important picture has been discovered in a church in Launoy. It was rolled up for a number of years in a corner of the belfry. When it was taken out the beauty of the coloring was remarked, and after a hasty cleaning its value became apparent. One of the directors of the museum of Lille has seen it, and considers it to be by Vandyck.
—A well-known bank President of Worcester, according to the Gazette, is disgusted. He remarked on hearing of the bank robbery at Northamton: “I’msick of this rascally world. Don’t want to see or do business with anybody. I’d rather be an old farmer, living on a cross-road, I four miles from the sight of everybody, with a barrel of j cider and two hogs, than to have anything to do with banks, money, or men.”	’
—Two magnificent sphinxes have just been discovered on the site of ancient Ramses. They are covered with inscriptions, and together with two other figures discovered previously appear to form part of an avenue, which led to the court of the temple referred to by the inscriptions and papyri. These sphinxes were covered by a thick layer of earth. M. Paponet, the engineer of the navigable freshwater canal now constructing between Cairo and Suez, is having tbe excavations continued.
—There have been two great discoveries of unbounded fertility in mathematics: Descartes’ Co-ordinate Geometry, Leibnitz’s Differential Calculus; and now a third is added, also of unbounded fertility, and pregnant with surpassing beauty, namely: Gustavus Frankenstein’s Reciprocal Identity, which latter embraces in its universality of scope the
3
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
519
Lav? of Color; and the time will surely come when the art of painting will follow this law, as surely as music follows mathematics; and optics, too, will recognize its behests.—American Art Journal.	_	_
—Alma-Tadema is at work on a great picture, which Will probably be exhibited at the coming Salon. It represents a band of Christian prisoners being led guarded through the streets of Rome to the Coliseum. The populace jeer and scoff at them as they pass, especially the tipplers who are sitting in front of a wine-shop, and who look up from their cups to join in the mockery and the merriment. The details of the costumes, accessories, etc., are of the most painstaking accuracy. The artist has even taken the trouble to descend into the Catacombs, and to photograph, by means of a powerful lime-light, every sketch, outline, or scrap of representation of the primitive Christians that he could discover.	.
—The Sacred Congregation of the Index held a session on the 7th of May last, and pronounced sentence of condemnation against the following works: “Le Candle du Vatican, son Mstoire vt ses consequences politiques, et religieuses, par E. De Pressense. Paris, 1872.” A work already condemned according to Rule II of the Tridentine Index. “La Genese de Vhumanite, par Louis Jacolliot, Paris, 1875,” “ 0 Brazil mystificando na questdo religiosa" —Brazil Mistaken in the Religious Question. Rio de Janeiro, 1875. “ Der Colibatszuang und dessen .Aufhebung gew-iirdigt, von Dr. Job, Friederich von Schulte''—On Forced Celibacy and its Abrogation; a Dissertation. Bonne, 1876. A work already condemned by Rule II of the Tridentine Index. “Der Mechanismus der vatikanischen Religion"— The Mechanism of the Vatican Religion. By D. F. Friederich. Second Edition, Bonne, 1876. “Dei doveri della donna.—Pensieri di Adalgisa Costa di Milano"—On the Duties of Woman, Considerations by Adalgisa Costa of Milan. This book was. condemned by a special decree of the Holy Office, dated February 16,1876. The author of a work entitled “L'anima Santissima di Gesu Cristo monstrata nella sua vera origins e grandezza. Contemplazioni dedicate agli amanti della medesimo." By Giovanni Battista Pritoni, a Minor Observant. This work was prohibited by a decree of December 6, 1875. The author has submitted, and contemned his work.
Books and Periodicals.
Major John' Andre: An Historical Drama in Five Acts. By P. Leo Haid, 0.8. B., Director of the Senior Dramatic Association, St. Vincent’s College Westmoreland Co.. Pa. Baltimore: John Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore Street. New York: Catholic Publication Society. 1876. Pp. 68. Price 50 cts.
. This work probably has some merit, but it shows signs of hasty writing. For instance, on page 35 we read: “ Was/i.—The room is empty! The bird has flown! Oh, such base treachery! Lafayette.—Has it come to this ? My goodness, what a dreadful plot! ” Again on page 23, the author says that Van Wert one of the captors of Major Andre, may assume the German dialect. Indeed! why? Van Wert was of Dutch descent, but he spoke good English. . We would like to praise the drama but cannot conscientiously do so. Lessons in Language : An Introduction to the Study of English Grammar. By Hiram Hadley. Part I. Chicago: Hadley Brothers & Company. 1876. Pp. IOS. Price 60 cts.
This book is designed for the use of children from nine to thirteen years of age, and intended as a substitute for the ordinary Primary English Grammar. We have examined it with considerable care, and do not hesitate in giving it our warm approval. Its arrangement is excellent, and we believe that a correct use of the English language can more readily be gained by children using the work than from the more expensive publications generally put in their hands.	. ,	, .
—The April number of Brainard's Musical World is received, and the contents are even better than ever. That the World should be popular is no wonder, for the generality of its articles are very interesting to musicians; and the music which accompanies the journal are well selected. The “Musical World Letters” by X. Z. alone are worth the subscription price of $1.50. It is published by S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, Ohio. The contents of the present number are: I, Sailing—Poetry; H, Music aTorment; HI,
Music-Paper II.—Amateurs; IV, Praise Meetings; V, Frauds in the Piano Trade—The War among the Piano Makers; VI, Musical Gossip; VII, Haydn and Mozart; VIH, Jenny Lind’s Simplicity; IX, Bach; X,! Music and its Claims; XI, Correspondence—Baltimore—Boston Notes; XII, Musical World Letters, XIH, Music of the Month; XIV, Musical Notes; XV, Monthly Musical Review; XVI, Successful Piano Writers; XVII, Our Letter Box; XVIH, Music at the Centennial; XIX, Mr. Paine’s Symphony; XX, Editorial Ignorance; XXf, Offenbach; XXII, The Wagner Festival ;"XXIH, Editorial Chit-Chat.
—The 2d number of the American Catholic Quarterly has been received, and to us—and we think we may safely add to the Catholic public—it has proved a most welcome visitor. The articles in the present number cover a wider range of subjects than those in the first, and are apt, we think, to be even more interesting to general readers. The opening paper, by Rev. Father Thebaud, on “The Actual Situation of the Church,” bears the impress of the deep thought, ripe scholarship and logical acumen which characterize all the productions of its learned author. Tracing up the progress of the Church from century to century since her divine origin, he points out the blessings which in every age she has conferred upon mankind, illustrates the beneficent influence she exerted in the days when she was paramount on earth, shows all the advantages for which modern society is mainly indebted to her, and concludes with a scathing denunciation of the faithlessness, perfidy and utter contempt of right and justice displayed by her most prominent enemies in our own days. Right Rev. Bishop Becker, discussing the question “ Shall we have a University ? ” continues his vigorous assault on many salient features of the American educational system. Bishop Becker is an iconoclast of the most pronounced type whenever the image of abuse or error looms up before him. The picture which he presents of the immense and rapid progress of the Church in the United States within the past half century, in spite of the many obstacles she had to surmount, is extremely gratifying. He points out clearly enough the defects in the present educational system, which Catholics would do well to remedy, but we regret that he does not dwell at sufficient length on the means by which the very desirable results which he would like to" see attained are to be accomplished. The accurate knowledge of Church history displayed in the article on the Inquisition, as well as the initials J. G. S., by which it is accompanied, seem to point it out as the production of John Gilmary Shea. It is an excellent reply to the old stereotyped battle-cry of “ Romish intolerance,” etc., periodically shrieked forth by those frothy sectaries whose knowledge of history is in general as shallow as their bigotry is intense. Like everything else which comes from the pen of the author of , “Christian Missions” and “My Clerical Friends,” the article on “ Secular Education in England and the United States ” might be perused with interest and advantage by all classes. Moderate in tone, learned in its arguments, and pleasing in style—besides conveying the writer’s—or we should rather say the Catholic—view of education, it also affords a synopsis of what the best minds of our century have thought on the same subject. We are all fami. liar with the old adage of the bow that is always bent, and the editors of the American Catholic Quarterly seem not to have been entirely unmindful of it; consequently, after the philosophical and historical articles already referred to, General Gibbons’ breezy paper on “Rambles Among the Rocky Mountains,” serves as an admirable mental relaxation. Dr. Corcoran’s “Miraculous Powers of the True Church” is an historico-theological document in answer to the hackneyed objection of non-Catholics that the age -of miracles has ceased. Finally, the review concludes with a paper on “ Gen. Banks as a Historian.” We agree with the writer in reprobating in the strongest terms the spirit which would prompt a would-be leader of public opinion to falsify facts knowingly in order to pander to. the • -bigotry or court the applause of a non-Catholic audience— . and though we cannot follow him in all his historical de-. ductions and conclusions, still all will admit that his description of the glorious results achieved by the Church in the cause of emancipation and liberty is one which any ■ candid student of history must allow to be at once impar- •• tial and accurate.	1
520	THE NO TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid..
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s. 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Dame, -April 15, 1876.
Centennial Trees.
We notice in the papers of Michigan and some other States, appeals to the people urging every one to plant a tree during the Centennial year of American Independence. It is urged in the appeals that these trees be planted along the sidewalks and roads, as shade trees. The idea of every one planting a tree during this year is certainly a pleasing as well as a feasible one, and if it is followed out, people twenty years from now will bless those who followed it.
Would it not be a good thing if each one here, professors, students, and all, would this spring plant a tree on the Campus or such other places as are frequented by the students? The Campus needs a few more trees, and they will be planted, we suppose, by the College authorities; but would it not be better for the students to take the planting into their own hands ? Years from now, when visiting the College, every one planting a tree this year will take great pleasure in seeing how it has thrived. The amount of la-oor expended in procuring the tree from the woods in the neighborhood, and the planting, is slight, and indeed is nothing more than fun; while the pleasure in seeing it thrive will be keen. By all means let everybody here plant a Centennial tree.
Vulgarity.
There is nothing so disgusting and repugnant to the noble and good as to hear the young—or, for that matter, even the old—use profane, low, or vulgar language. Yet this is a habit possessed by many. Young men fn our times are particularly guilty of profanity, using the Holy Name with a license shocking to delicate ears. It seems, in our day, that the “young man” does not feel that he is indeed a “ man ” unless he can excel in this great sin. It seems as though he made this the great test of manhood, and the more expert he is in rattling off oaths the more truly does he think he displays the qualifications for it.
We will not call attention here to the great sin committed by the use of profane language. Attention to this is called, time and again, from the pulpit, and more heed should be given to those words coming from the ministers of the Church than what appears in our paper. But, for other reasons, we would urge all to guard against the use of every word not strictly proper, and to avoid the use of any profane or indelicate expression capable of putting to blush the most sensitive. Are you aware of the tendency of habitually indecent and profane language ? Such is the tendency that the habit may never be overcome, never ob
literated from your heart. He who in youth gives himself to profanity will find at his tongue’s end, when he has grown up, some expression which he would not for any money use. It will be one he used when young. By the use of care, before habits become firmly rooted in his nature, the young man will save himself a great deal of mortification and sorrow. It has happened that good men have been taken sick and become delirious. In these moments, when they no longer had control of their tongues, they have used ’ the most vile and indecent language imaginable. When, after restoration to health, they were informed of the language used by them in their delirium, they could not but grieve because of the pain they had caused their friends and relatives. They had repeated the profanity learned in their childhood, and which they had spent years to forget ; but it had been indelibly stamped upon the heart.
Besides this, obscenity and profanity are the language of the gambler, the pickpocket, the sot and bar-room loafer. No gentleman ever disgraces himself by their use; and one of the signs of true gentlemanly feeling is purity of expression. No young man aspires to be the companion of “black-legs,”—let him, then, think of this whenever he is tempted to use improper language, and never disgrace himself by indulging in it.
Work StilL
That there is among the large majority of students great application to study, we do not deny. The fact that satisfaction is given in all the, classes would prevent us from' making any assertion giving the idea that hard, earnest work is not done. But as there is a disposition among young men of a certain class to ease up in their application with the approach of warm weather, we deem it but right to call the attention of all to the necessity of studying with their usual zeal during the remainder of the session. As the prizes are not awarded until the last week of June, it is imperative, in order to cariy them off, that hard study, regular attendance at class, and attention while in class, be continued until that time. There are many young men who have at present fair chances of receiving prizes and medals at the Annual Commencement and yet may lose them by misspending their time. The fine weather has the effect of causing idleness and a love of ease; the anticipations of pleasure during the months of vacation are sweet to dwell on, and one is tempted to pay less attention to' text-books and to instructions. It is true that in warm weather a student is not capable of the same amount of study that he is in the winter months, yet he can do much in this way; and as time is valuable, he should make all possible use of it in order that his friends and relatives may not have cause for disappointment when the Commencement comes. If he has a fair show of carrying off classmedals or prizes, if he be in the lower classes, let him not by want of attention and application in the study-hall and class-room lose that which lies almost within his grasp. Let him not remain satisfied with what he has so far accomplished, but endeavor to make success sure by hard and constant study. He should remember that there is many a slip betwixt the cup and the lip; that the race is not always to the swift; that the tortoise by his persistency won the race while the hare slept; that there may be in his class many a hard-working, honest student who, though incapable of learning the same amount in a given time as he, does not falter in his work, but studies while he is giv-

rwaggs
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	521
mg his time to light literature or to play. To them the prizes may be given, because they have continued to work until the end; while he, far ahead of them, now loses because of the want of application.
As for the few who during the winter months gave the time intended for study to useless reading or idleness, we would recommend them to endeavor during the months intervening between the present time and the end of the year to make up for their misspent hours. They may find it hard to change their habits and devote the proper time to the preparation necessary for class; but if they will but remember that much can be accomplished by serious and determined application, and set about it in downright earnest, they may, when the annual distribution of prizes takes place, surprise their fellow-students and delight their friends by carrying off a goodly number of prizes. The eleventh hour is soon at hand. They have no more time to lose. It will soon be too late to make up for lost time, for idleness, and for neglect of studies. Let them, then, set to work with a good will, and study seriously and diligently.
There is nothing a teacher remarks so quickly as a change for the better in a student. Perceiving this change, he will assist him to the full extent of his ability. With this help from the teacher, and hard study on his own part, the student may at the annual examination pass creditably and honorably, if he does not lead his class.
We hope, then, that the large majority of students who have applied themselves faithfully and conscientiously, and the small minority who have not devoted themselves to study as they should, will from now until the close of the scholastic year give to their studies all the time they possibly can. We would not have them devote the hours allotted for recreation to study. By no means. During that time they should take all the physical exercise possible, in order that their health may continue good,—for if the time marked out by the College rules for recreation be spent in study, disease, will be the consequence, and the ill-health thus entailed upon the student may blast all his hopes of usefulness throughout life, and bring him to an early grave. Moreover, the great amount of study which a young person would thus take upon himself must of necessity cloud his intellect and tire his brain, thus rendering it harder for him to progress with his studies. It is in order to prevent this that stated hours for recreation are prescribed by the College rules, and it should be obligatory on all to occupy these hours for the purpose intended. Out-door exercise keeps the body healthy and vigorous, rendering the brain clearer and more capable of continued and more serious study. When the proper amount of exercise has been taken during the hours set apart for this ' purpose, then the student may go to the study-hall and work with all the energy possible, storing his mind with the knowledge necessary to enable him to pass with honor at the June examination.
,	Lecture in Phelan Hall.
On Tuesday evening we were favored with the second lecture in the course of Physics, the subject being “ Static Electricity.”
That part of the science of Physics which pertains to electricity may almost be said to be a modern science. The only thing that the ancients knew of what we call
electricity was that amber possessed the property of attracting light bodies when rubbed. In A. D. 800, Gilbert noticed that many other substances besides amber possessed this property. From his investigation the science of Electricity may be said to date. The sources of electricity are three, mechanical, physical, and chemical. The first source is used to obtain what is known as static electricity, and the last to procure dynamic electricity. Physicists state that in unexcited bodies there is a neutral fluid, which they say is a combination of two fluids known as positive and negative. When glass is rubbed with silk the positive fluid of-the two is said to go to the glass, and the negative to the silk. The glass is then said to be charged with positive, the silk with negative electricity. The following are the two laws that govern these fluids. Fluids of the same names repel each other; fluids of opposite names attract each one. The intensities of attraction and repulsion vary inversely as the square of the distances between them. Those bodies which permit electricity to pass freely through them are called conductors; those which do not permit the passage of electricity are called non-conductors or insulators. The insulator commonly used is glass.
The Rev. lecturer then showed the principal electrical mediums to the audience, and explained thoroughly their actions. He exhibited the methods commonly used in determining the amount of electricity contained in any body, and showed the process of collecting electricity. He then thoroughly explained the great physiological, heating and mechanical effects of electricity. The violent effect it exercises on the nervous system, which at times causes death itself; the great power it possesses of heating sven the metals themselves, and the mechanical force it exerts on all obstacles to its progress. Then after explaining that most useful invention, the lightning-rod, the discovery of which we owe to electricity itself, he kindly thanked the audience for their attendance, and dismissed them all well satisfied with the lecture and lecturer.	.
Personal.
—John Heine, of’71, is Clerk of the City Council, Reading Pa.
—	Rev. R. Meagher went to Fort Wayne on Maundy Thursday.
—	Joseph Hull, of ’68, is in the dry-goods business, Detroit, Mich.
—	Frank Obert, of ’71, is in the Union Boiler Works, Reading Pa.
—	Wm. O’Brien, Esq., of Grand Rapids, Mich., visited us this last week.
—	Edward Hull, of ’69, is a drug broker at No. 215 Pearl St., New York city.
—	Charles Forrester, of’70, is in the paper business, No. 22 South 5th St., Philadelphia.
—	Mrs. John Clarke, of Chicago, was visiting her son at the College on Wednesday last.
Rev. P. P. Cooney left Notre Dame on Wednesday last to preach a mission in Morris, Ill.
—	Eben J. Hutchings, of ’68, is in the Merchant Tailoring business, Williamsburgh, N. Y.
—	P. E. Cochrane, of ’72, is now on his way to Honolulu, Sandwich Islands. This is true, no mistake.	.
—	George Duffey, of ’72, has just returned to Milwaukee, Wis., afte» a seven months’ trip to South America.
—	William Campbell, of ’72, is reading law with John L.
Shoemaker, No. 611 Vine Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
—	Reuben Hutchings, of ’74, is with Lauerbach, Gilbert & Company, New Chambers Street, New York city.
I
522
THE NOTES DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.—Mr. 0. Ludwig, of Chicago, and Mr. W. Gustine, of Grand Rapids, Mich., were over to see us this last week.
____D. j. Hogan, of ’73, spent Palm Sunday with us. He is practising law in the Metropolitan Block, Chicago, Ill.
—We are pleased to announce that Mr. John Shea, C. S. C., was lately ordained subdeacon by the Most Rev. Archbishop of Milwaukee.
—William B. Moon, of ’74, is away down in Florida, the owner of a large orange grove. Success to him, and may his path through life indeed be flowery.
—Charles Hutchings, of ’72,visited Notre Dame on Palm Sunday. He is still with the firm of De Castro & Donner, Sugar Refining Company, Williamsburgh, N. Y.
—Rev. Henry B. Brown, of Youngstown, Ohio, passed through Notre Dame on his way home from Watertown, Wis. We are happy to state that the Rev. gentleman is nearly recovered from his illness.
—On Maundy Thursday, the Rev. R. Beer, pastor of the Presbyterian Church, Valparaiso, Ind., with a large number of his parishioners, visited Notre Dame. We hope the Reverend gentleman may call again.
—We are glad to hear that Hon. John M. Gearin, of’71, so well known for his facility in writing while a student here, and whose school-day essays in the Scholastic attracted favorable attention, is a frequent contributor to some of the first Magazines of the country, among others to' the Atlantic, the Overland and Scribner's.
Local Items.
—Alleluia!
—Lent ends with this day.
—“ Did you take a furlough ? ”
—The trees are beginning to bud forth. .
—The reform has been truly wonderful.
—The walking around the lakes is excellent.
—The mails received here daily are very large.
—The Campus is beginning again to look lively.
—The Procession on Palm Sunday was very fine.
—We would prefer having locals sent us instead of gags.
—New benches on the baseball grounds are to be made.
—The gardeners have already begun their Spring work.
—The number of visitors to the College increases each week.
.—The .services all through Holy Week were grand and impressive.
—Bonney, the photographer, was out from South Bend on the 12th.
—This fine weather makes it very pleasant for alleyball players.
—A new validore is to be put up on the Senior part of the Campus.
—The Junior Class this year will plant the ivy near the new Church.
—An addition has been built to the carriage-house near the farm house.
—They are reading the “Life of the Cure d’Ars” in the Senior refectory.	.
- —Matins and Lauds of Easter will be chanted at five o’clock this evening.
—A number of students went fishing on the 12th, but had fishermen’s luck.
. —Witt’s Missa in Honorem S. Cecilite will be sung at High Mass to-morrow.
, —Of course every one will have ham and eggs for breakfast to-morrow morning.
—Who will plant Centennial trees on the Campus ? We suppose everybody will.	•
.—The space in front of the printing office has been put in A No. 1 order. Good!
.—A new fence is to separate the Senior yard from the park in’front of. the College.
—The Juniors had rec. on the 9th, on account of the anniversary of Lee’s surrender.
—The fence around B. Robert’s garden is down. Does he intend forsaking gardening ?
—The fine weather is very agreeable, and everybody seems to be making the most of it.
—The evening recreation began last Monday. It will continue until the end of the year.
—New backstops are to be put up on the Juanita and Star of the East baseball grounds.
—Some Goth has bent the gnomon of the fine sun-dial in the parterre in front of the College.
—A Centennial pillow—an Indian war-club. For further particulars apply to B. Alban.
—Work will commence next week on the sacristy to be built to the west of the new Church.
—The members of the Minim Literary Society had themselves photographed on Wednesday.
—The new cylinder press has been ordered, and we expect it in the course of a few months.
—All the Catholic students in the Senior Department will make their Easter duty to-morrow.
—The Rev. President and Rev. Director of Studies will visit all the classes the coming two weeks.
—There has been a general overhauling in the Minim Study Hall. Everything is as neat as a pin.
—The Manual Labor School is undergoing repairs. It will be thoroughly renovated from top to bottom.
—The faculty held their regular weekly meeting on Tuesday last, instead of Thursday, the regular day.
—The Zouave drill is not relished by the inhabitant of the room formerly used as the Minims’ dormitory.
—The Actives have given up all right to the old Excelsior grounds. The Centennials now own the ground.
—All the Catholic students in the Junior Department made their Easter Communion on Maundy Thursday.
—The repository on Maundy Thursday was beautiful. Those who took part in erecting it deserve great credit.
—The Surveying Class were out at work on the 12tb. They surveyed some ground in the vicinity of the upper lake.
—The subject of the lecture to be delivered in Phelan Hall next Wednesday will be “Magnetism and ElectroMagnetism.”
—The Minims are practising hymns for the month of May. The Leader of the Choir takes great interest in teaching them.
—A sermon will be preached at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, to-morrow evening, at 7.30 P. M., by Rev. President Golovin.
—Students should remember never to write anything on the Scholastics they send away. Anyone doing so is liable to a heavy flue.
—Wild ducks are very plentiful this year in the neighborhood of Notre D ime. We saw a large number on the lakes nearly every day.
—We do not see the names of the members of the new German Class among the class-honors. How is this ? You should do better, boys.
—At a special meeting of the Columbian Club, April 9th, Messrs. D. J. Hogan, of 74, and Charles Hutchings, of ’72, made excellent addresses.
—The young men at the Scholasticate have already begun to put their spacious grounds in order. At the Novitiate they are doing the same.
—A short Entertainment by the St. Cecilians will be given in Phelan Hall in the course of the next few weeks. It will be of a scientific nature.
—The young nimrods “ didn’t have any luck ” on Wednesday last. There were twelve ducks on the lake and everyone of them flew away unharmed.
—The boats on the upper lake have all been repaired and repainted. We may soon expect to see the members of the Boat Club taking their usual rows.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	5231
-Lost.—A pair of gloves, north of the Infirmary build-ihg. The finder will confer a favor by returning them to Prof. Ivers or leaving them at the printing office.
‘ —We are told that a certain undertaker in South Bend drove his new hearse around in front of the different riewspaper offices. Was it a warning to the editors ?
. —The pier at the upper lake sadly wants repair* ipg. It was originally built by the Class of Civil Engineering. Are the members of the Class to keep it in repairs ?
’ —On Friday, April 7th, a very interesting game was played between the Juanita and the Star of the East B. B. Clubs, resulting in favor of the former, the score being 13 to 14.
! —The Passion according to St. Matthew was chanted with splendid effect on Palm Sunday. The part of the rabble, taken by a double quartette, was admired by everybody.	'
—To-morrow, Easter Sunday, High Mass will be at the usual hour. Rev. P. J. Colovin will be celebrant, assisted by Rev. L. J. Letourneau, deacon, and Rev. V. Chzewfski, subdeacon.
' —A number of ex-students of Notre Dame, now living in Chicago, are to have a grand reunion at Hogan’s, No. 225 Randolph St., Chicago, on Tuesday next. We wish them a happy time.
—The Philopatrians havebegun their rehearsals of “ The Prince of Portage Prairie.” A number of new scenes have been added to it by the author which will add much to the success of the burlesque. A grand Zouave drill will be introduced.
—A visit to B. Albert’s studio will give you an idea of the great progress made by the members of the Drawing Classes. We may in the course of a week or two give the names of those who have made the greatest advance in this study.
—On the Monday after Easter there will be a reunion in Washington Hall of all the old veterans who fought in the late war and who now reside at Notre Dame. We have no doubt-but that the exercises on the occasion will be extremely interesting.
—Would it not be well to improve the southern bank of the upper (in the neighborhood of the boat-house) in the way that F. Simon is “fixing up” the banks of the lower lake? We think it would add much to the beauty .of the lake’s surroundings.
—The Clippers’ team is composed of the following members: H. McDonald, capt. and 2d b.; B. Morris, ss.; G. Lowrey, c.; P. Heron, p.; W. Coolbaugh, 3d b.; W. Van Pelt, 1st b.; J. Gilbert, c. f.; S. Bushey, 1. f.; C. Bushey, r; f.; E. Oatman and C. Long, substitutes.
—A game of baseball was played on the 12 th by the Modocs and Senior Centennials, resulting in favor of the Modocs by a score of 18 to 6. By the way, what claim has:this Senior Club to the name of “Centennial”? A Junior Club adopted the name at least two weeks before it did.	•
—At the second meeting of the Thespians for the second session, Mr. Robertson’s name was proposed for membership ; after fulfilling the necssary conditions, he was unanimously elected a member. A vote of thanks was returned to Rev. Fr. Colovin for the magnificent banquet lately given the Society.
—It is intended to remove all the rubbish just east of the Scholastic Office in a few weeks. The coal and woodhouse will be removed to the rear of the steam-house. This will be a good thing, for the heavy wagons continually passing the front of the office cut up the ground and make it very muddy.
—We are indebted to Mr. W. J. Onahan for a copy of the " Library Record," issued by the Union Catholic Library Association of Chicago, Ill. We see that it urges the publication of a monthly devoted to the interests of the Library. It is a good idea, and one which the board of managers should not be slow in acting upon.
—On the 9th inst. a closely contested match-game of baseball was played between the Quicksteps and the Eu-rekas. Ryan’s pitching (of the Eurekas) was rather swift
for boys the size of the Minims, but they soon got the hang of it and would probably have come out victorious if lack of time did not prevent the finishing of the game. As it was, the game stood at the close of the 4th innings 16 to 16..
—The Scholastic Almanac.—This is a very useful and readable compilation prepared by J. A. Lyons, of Notre. Dame College. It contains a fund of information,—sketches and essays, pleasant and instructive, in the selection of which Mr. Lyons has displayed a nice literary taste. The Almanac is for sale by Jansen McClurg & Co., and also at the College, Notre Dame. Price, 25 cents.—Western Catholic.
—The 21st regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Saturday, 8th inst. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. W.-D. Smith, “DeCour-cey ”; G. E. Sullivan, “ Old Ironsides.” The following read essays: F. Keller, “Profanity”; W. P. Fogarty, “Germany.” As Saturday was the anniversary of the birth’of the late Rev. A. Lemonnier, Mr. W. P. Breen read a eulogy on his life. The criticism on the previous meeting was read by Mr. J. H. Cooney.
—The ceremonies on Maundy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday were carried out fully according to the rubrics of the Missal. Rev. President Colovin was Celebrant on the two first days, and Rev. A Louage on the last. The Office of Tenebrce was chanted by all the ecclesiastics at Notre Dame. Palestrina’s Lamentations were well sung by a quartette of even voices, and produced striking effects. Very Rev. Fr. Provincial officiated at the UTandatum, or washing of the feet, on Thursday afternoon.
—We would advise the parents of the students to subscribe for the Scholastic and not depend upon their sons to send it to them. We know of many students who send the paper home whenever their names are on the Roll of Honor, etc., but who invariably neglect to send it when their names do not appear thereon. Many persons write to the President of the College complaining that they do not get the Scholastic regularly every week. Of course he is entirely unable to see that they do get it so long as they are not subscribers. The better way for them to do is to write to the Editor and subscribe for the paper. Then they will receive it regularly every week and will know the standing of their sons in the College.
—The 28th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held April 9th. D. J. Hogan and Charles Hutchings, old students, and graduates, who were here on a visit from Brooklyn, attended the meeting; B. Francis de Sales, B. Leander, Prof. J. F. Edwards and several of the old St. Cecilians from the Senior Department were also present. As they entered the society-room they were welcomed with rounds of applause, such as only can be given and felt by students on seeing old and cherished friends. Messrs. J. McHugh, E. Arnold, W. T. Ball, Carl Otto, T. Logan, J. Campbell and W. Breen on invitation delivered declamations, each in his own peculiar and graceful style. Messrs- Hogan and Hutchings being called upon, rose and made very instructive and pointed speeches, which were received with applause. B. Francis de Sales and B. Leander closed the exercises by addressing the members at some length.
—The following game of baseball took place April 12, between the Centennials and Mutuals. It was the tightest game of the season. At the end of the 9th innings the score was 2 to 6 in favor of the Centennials. The Centennials did not score so many on account of some of their men going home for Easter. The substitutes deserve praise for the way they played.
CENTENNIALS.
Hagan, c................
Streit, 2 b.............
Faxon, s. s.............
Turnbull, 1. f..........
Cavanaugh, 3 b..........
Ryan, r. f..............
Hall, lb................
Davenport, c. f.........
French, p...............
MUTUALS.
o. R.
O’Meara, c.............
Vanamee, p.............
Nicholas, s. s.........
Laub, lb...............
Goldsberry, 2 b........
Peltier, 3 b...........
Smith, 1. f............
Larkin, c. f...........
Walsh, r. f............
3 4
4 1
4 3
3 2
3
0 0
0
1 0
0 0
1 0
Total...............27	2
Total................
524 ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor. ,
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, F Belford, J. Campbell, P. Cooney, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, J. Cooney, H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, J. Coleman, J. Caren, H. Dehner, I Dryfoos, W. Dechant, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, B. Euans, W. Fogarty, E. Graves, J. Gillen, G. Gross. A. Hertzog, J. Harkin. J. Herrmann, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Kreutzer, W. Keily, J. Krost, G. Laurans, E. Monohan, Patrick Alattimore, Peter Mattimore, H. Maguire, N. Mooney, R. Maas, 8. Miller, H. Millen, V. McKinnon, P. McCawley, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, 3. McDonell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, J. O’Rourke, A. O’Brien, J. Obert, L. Proudhomme, T. Peifer, W. Pollard, J. Proudhomme, T. Quinn, C. Robertson, M. Regan, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Sullivan, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, F. Vandervannet, R. White, J. Handley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, J. Byrne, A. Burger, J. F. Carrer, E. Davenport, F. Ewing, J. English, J. Foley, J. French, F. Flanagan, P. Frane, C. Gustine, F. X. Goldsberry, H. Faxon, C. Faxon, C. Hagan, P. Hagan, W. Hake, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, B. Heeb, J. Hagerty, M. Halley, M. Kautzauer, J. Kinney, J. Knight, R. Mayer, AL McAuliffe, W. Morris, J. Mosal, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, C. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, F. Pleins, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, A. Ryan, S. Ryan, W. Ryan, E. Raymond, P. Schnur-rer, G. Streit, W. Taulby, W. Turnbull, N. Vanamee, C. Walsh, G. Donnelly, W. Irvine, C. Roos.	*
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
T. F. McGrath, Lee J. Frazee, J. A. Duffield, J. 0. Stanton, F. A. Campau, H. Hake, R. Pleins, J. A. Bushey, AL Gustine, P. Heron, P. Nelson, J. Davis, H. Hake, G. Rhodius, W. Cash, J. Haney, P. Haney, W. McDevitt, J. Seeger, G. Lambin, W. Cool-baugh, H. McDonald, W. Smith, B. Morris, A. Campau, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, C. Long, E. Oatman. .
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1S76.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Seniors.—L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, A. H. McBriar, D. Byrnes, P. W. Hennessey, S. Miller, P. Neill, J. Perea, C. W. Robertson, S. P. McDonnel, F. Belford, M. Regan.
Juniors.—J. Carrer, P. Schnurrer, J. Healy, F. Smyth, W. Taulby, A. Hatt, O. Ludwig, E. Hall, T. Byrnes, C. Orsinger, M. McAuliffe, J. P. Byrne, W. Hansard, J. French, C. Faxon, AI. Halley, E. Smyth, J. English, A. Burger, A. Hamilton, H. Henkel, F. Phelan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. W. Lindberg, T. F. McGrath, Lee J. Frazee, J. A. Duffield, G. Rhodius, R. Pleins, P. Nelson,' P. Heron, F. A. Campau, J. Davis, AL Gustine, A. Bushey, G. Lowrey, H. Hake, J. Stanton.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and Strict Observance of Rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alisses A Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. AleNamara, L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, J. Bennet, J. Nunning, AI. Faxon, L. Johnson, M. Brady, K. Morris, AI. Cravens, P. Gaynor, A Dennehey, AI. Spier, L. O’Niel, A Heneberry, H. Julius, K. Hutchinson, M. Alurray, R. Neteler, B. Spencer, G. Welch, H. Russell, AI. Thompson, S. Aloran, AI. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, I. Alaas, I. Edes, N. Tuttle, S. Swalley, E. Cannon, AL Hooper, L. Fawcett, S. Cash, D. Osborn, H. Hand, M. Usselman, M. Alarkey, L. Schwass, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, C. Merrill, C. Fawcett, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A. McCormack, AL Halligan, 100 par excellence. Alisses A. O’Connor, F. Dilger, AL Dunbar, AI. Julius, AL Walsh, L. Kelly, E. Alann, A Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, B. Siler, S. Edes, K. Casey, L. Gustine, T. O’Brien, N. King, M. Siler, G. Wells, L. Tighe, A Aliller, J. Darcy, 100.	,
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH
LESSONS.
Graduating Class.—Alisses A. Clarke, H. Foote, AI. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara.	. ‘
1st Sr. Class—Alisses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, AL Brady.
2d Sr. Class—Misses AI. Walsh, L. Kelly, E. Afann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, K. Alorris, Al. Cravens, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Niel, R. Casey, A Heneberry, H. Julius, J.-Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, AL Dailey, B. Spencer, G. Welch.
3d Sr. Class—Alisses C. Morgan, H. Russel, AL and E. Thompson, AL Gaynor, E. O’Connor, B. Siler, I. Maas, S. and I. Edes,-N. Tuttle, K. Casey.
1st Prep. Class—-Misses G. Youell, L. Gustine, T. O’Brien, S. Swalley, L. Aloran, N. King, E. Cannon, M. Siler, E. Edes, G. Wells, AL Hooper, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe, A. Spangler, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, D. Osborne, EL Hand.	.
2d Prep. Class—Alisses D. Locke, L. Schwass, A. Aliller, L. Leppig, F. Guiney, C. Alorrill, J. Darcy, N. O’AIeara, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, AI. Halligan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Alisses Foote, E. O’Connor, Devoto, Spencer. 2d Div.—Alisses D. Cavenor and Riley.
2d Class—Misses M. Gaynor and Arnold. 2d Div.—Misses A. Dennehey, E. Dennehey, Byrnes, Morgan and Cannon.
3d Class—Alisses Kirchner, S. Edes, Bennett, E. Edes, A. Walsh, Mitchell, I. Edes, M. and L. Walsh, King, Cash, A. Cavenor and Gordon. 2d Div.—Alisses J. Morris, H. Julius, Wade, Johnson, Holliday, Dilger, M. and E. Thompson, R. Casey arid O’AIeara.
—The Soiree of Wednesday evening, given by the 2d Class, 2d Div., of vocal and a few instrumental pieces, proved very interesting, and exhibited much promising talent in the music department. In the songs and chorus some remarkably pure and rich voices were praised by the visitors. The execution of “Les Trompettes,” and “Don Pasquale” were spoken of as really creditable, and worthy of musicians of more pretension. All of the young ladies who sang had taken lessons only since September last. At the close, the Rev. Chaplain made very appropriate and pleasing remarks. We give below the programme:
“ Qui Vive ”....................;...................Ganz
The Alisses Siler. -
Song.............................................Gumbert
E. Dennehey. Guitar Solo..............................................
B.	Wade. Song	Kucken
-	A Byrne.
“ Tour billon ”..........................................
F. Dilger.
Song...............................................Torry
A. Dennehey.
“ Les Trompettes de les Gardes ”...................Smith
A. Harris.
Cavatina, from “ La Somnambula,”...................
C.	Morgan. “Don Pasquale”	Prudent
K.	Hutchinson. Chorus	“	Moise ”
Vocal Class.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD'
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONED FOB ALL STATES.
.	206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special jAttcntion Given to Depositions.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOG-RAFHEB
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BHITSTTD,
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
---------T—

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.625
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Sealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
Chicago, Illinois.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER nr
Watches, Clocks,
JL3STID
JEWEL
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, §2.00 Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
“STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE OF ITS DESIGNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR.' EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE. CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC C0>
CHICAGO.
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this will be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Pbof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Db. JOSEPH LEIDY, ' Pbof. ASA GRAY, Peof. J. S. NEWBURY.
. A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fellow of the A. A. A. 8., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
C. ZEE- SHEEBER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’'Furnishing Goods, Etc., IIO Micliisan Street,
SOUTH ZBZEZTSTZD ZEZETZD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
' Clothiers and Dealers in	.
Gens’ Furnishing1 Goods, Eats Caps, etc.,
109 Michigan St.,	•
SOWZDZESZ ZBZEZESTZD, IZCTZDZEA-ZISrA-
Th® Bund
A. McKay, T*rop., NILES, . L£TOZEETG--AJSr_ Free Back to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. C. SHIRE, ~
WHOLESALE
filler in Jaww figw,
1O1 Main Street, TWO lOOIS SOUtl Of EL Gilleil’S,	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
$26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.’
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES. -
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, DL, and Louisiana, Mo.......3	10	pm	12	00	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 30 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	40	pm
Peoria Day Express...............•••*....7	5o	pm	9	30	am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express... ..7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm
Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 4 00 p.m.
Peru accommodation................ 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Might Express.....................10 00 p.m.	6 55 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars to	No. 2.	No. 6.	No. 4.
NEAV YORK.	Day Ex.	Pac. Exp	.Night Ex
	Ex. Sund’y	Daily.	Ex Sa&Su
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.		
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m	11 35	
“ Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
“ Pittsburgh		2 20 - “		
Lv. Pittsburgh		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
Ar. Cresson......				
“ Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
“ Baltimore				6 25 “		
“ Washington				9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
“ Philadelphia..			4 15 u	3 10 “	8 05 “
“ New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
“ New Haven....		11 10 “	10 49 “	
' “ Hartford		12 40 a.m	12 23 “	5 55 “
<c Springfield			1 35 “		7 03 “
“ Providence.			4 25 u	3 48	7 40 “
“ Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. MYEES, G. P. & T. A.
THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
. South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.
'	JERRY KNIGHT, I
CAPTAIN MILLS’ f Proprietors.
PROPBIBTOB OF THE
NOTRE DIME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A.ttaclietl to tlie National Hotel, and A <1-jacent to tile Ivalee Slioi’e and Nlicliifjan SoutHern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. MMj’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. SHICKEY.
L.	S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3	40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 10 30; Clevelandspm; Buffalo 9 15.
IO 13 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35pm; Cleveland 10 15.
11 55 am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9 12pin, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives' at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30 Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4	40 p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 40 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 415 p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5	2Oam, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago
8 20 a m.	.
3 pm, Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte 3 55; Chicago, 6 30
5 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45.
Chicago, 8 20.	■	-----
S OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am, Chicago
11 30 a. m.	■
9 IO a m, Local Freight.	'
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	•Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	i+Atlanti lExpress.	t Night Express
Lv. Chicago	 Mich. City..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “	9 00 a.m 11 01 “ 12 15 p.Tn 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 43 “ 8 55 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 45 “ 4 55 •» 8 00 “
“ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit......	2 12 p.m 5 45 “		7 00 a.m 10 15 “	12 47 a.m 3 50 “	
					
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 37 “ 3 40 p,m 5 15 “ 7 35 •*	9 50 a m 12 30 p.m 4 19 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “	4 00 p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 *•	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “•	9 50 “ 12 45 a.m 4 30 “ 5 45 “ 8 00 “
Niles and South Bend lilvision. GOING NORTH. Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9	0G	a.m.	§7 00	p.m “ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23	“	9	07	“	7	07	“ Ar.Niles—	9	00	“	8	00	“	9	40	“	7	40	“ GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20	p.m.	§8 00	a.m.‘	§5 00 p.m “ Notre Dame—7 07 “ -	4 56	“	8 32	“	5 32 “ Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05	“	8 40	.5 40 “ •Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.* gSunday only. G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Stbong, Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago. Henbt C. Wentwobth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago. B. CELESTINE,-Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.					
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	W
Brand Bolral Hotel*
SOUTH BENLD, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST GLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
IDE1ZJTTST,
-109	STTSEJST,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
D. W. RUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS
For Meals, Oysters,
ICE	FIES, ETC-
JMEEA.IuS AlT ALE HOURS.
ESTABLISHED 1852.
». Bate & Bmj.,
Dealers in
BOOTS JLTT2D SHOES.
The Largest Retailing House in the State Comerof Wngtoii sa and Michigan. Sts., SOUTH BEND.
CLOTHING HOUSE 1
ZMIZSYIEEL LTNUTBTG-STOISr,
60 Washington St.,
Wee Boors West of Blum’s Cigar Store, ' SOUTH BEND, IND
Keens on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
“ IBANK MAYB,
' KEEPS THE
PEOPLE’S JEWELRY STORE,
Where you can purchase the
BOSS WATCHES, CLOCKS ASD JEWELRY,
SILVERWARE, SPECTACLES, ETC.
ENTG-ZRAVINTG- A SPECIALTY
Repairing Done in the Most Skillful Manner.
69 WASHINGTON, St,,
SOUTH BETSTZD.
OTTO VON TESMAR,
TAXIDERMIST, ’
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, III.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidennic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural History, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For farther particulars address as above.	mh H-tJy
The Enemy of Disease!
THE FOE OF PAIN
TO MAN AND BEAST
Is the Grand Old
Mustang Liniment,
Which has stood the test of 40 years..
There is no sore it will not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or 31.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse. mh 11-ly.
CALIFORNIA
Have you any thought of going to California? .Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
S.AJST ZEURUYUSTOTSOO,
Sacramento, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-bs lasted and perfect track of steel rails, Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.	’ '
JELAIteVCJE CARS ~
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.	‘
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleeperm on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri Riv er.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	’
Marvin Hngbitt,
General Superintendent.
W. H. Stennett,
Gan’l Passenger Agent
528
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Go.,
TZHIZE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Send
Tliey Have tlie Best Cutter intlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clotiling, Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ ITurnisIiing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOOTH SEND, IND.
McDonald,
THE
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON - MICHIGAN STREET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
ROOT & SONS MUSIC CO.
OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO = PURCHASERS—AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL—OFDFOREICN AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS, CONCERTINAS, 'FLUTES, GUITARS, * VIOLINS, PICCOLOS CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS, DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS, VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRUMENTS;. ALSO PIANOS AND ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN THE’LINE. OF MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. GENERAL NORTHWESTERN &ACENTS - FOR THE STECKlPlANO AND STANDARD ORGAN? QUALITY GUARANTEED. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
156 SJATEfST.1
^CHICAGO?
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION Barber and Hair-Dresser, ,	87 MICHIGAN ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment Every American needs a copy of such a hook as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner.
Our Flag is there.
Bed, White and Blue.
Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on the Bhine.
Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Bussiau National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Bule Brittania.
Boast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’.
Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn.
Austrian “	. “
Pzice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards. 50cents; Paper, 40cents, •Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (§1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
JL NEW J^TTSTO BOOK.
Dictionary of
MUSICAL INFORMATION.
Thrice §1.35. By John NV. Moore.
Information-about [2,000] prominent Musicians, musical Instruments, musical Events, musical Terms, musical Theory, music Books, and everything else that one wishes to know about music, all concisely and clearly stated. Valuable book of reference. The possessor of this [and perhaps of Bitter’s History of Music, 2 Vols., ea. §1.50] is perfectly posted and inquiry-proof in musical subjects.
Bassiai’s Avt of has Ior y^i8 been a stan" Aik WX MUlglUg, dard b00k jn Vocal Cul_
ture. Used everywhere. Price, Complete, §4.; Abridged §3.
moore’s Encyclopedia of JUusiCf $6*
Parkins* Anthem. Book. (Sf-50)is a famous good book d.	MUWA, of gasy Anthems for Choirg
and Tourjee’s Chorus Choir, [2,00] is an equally good book of difficult Anthems for the same purpose.	'
OLIVER ZDTTSOHST & oo.3
. BOSTON.
J. E. BITSON & CO., CHAS. H. BITSON & CO.
Successors to Lee & Walker,	711 Broadway, BEff YORK.
I’liila.	.
LYON & HEALY, Chicago