j Notre Dame Scholastic.
i :
_________________________________
Disce quasi semper vTictrujns ; vive qriasi eras moritums.
C-' Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 4, 1879.	Number 5.
, _______________________________
(*.
<	Childhood’s Prayer.
, . ------------------------------------
Pure is the prayer from childhood’s lip that flows,
I	Like early dew that glitters on the rose ;
Blest are the infant hands that artless twine, £.	And knees that bend at meek religion’s shrine ;
Thrice blest the infant orisons that rise (Earth’s sweetest incense) to the morning skies. In after years, man’s prayer to Heaven is stained
*■'	By earthly passions in his breast retained ;
Some darling vice, some fondly cherished care, '	Some taint of human frailty mingles there—
But childhood’s prayers, ere guilt’s dark path is trod, it	Inspired by nature, reach to nature’s God ;
By Him are marked (though here by man forgot), Who blessed young children and forbade them not; Him to whose lip the task divine was given, To teach mankind—of such bright hosts is heaven.
The Call of Necessity Heeded.
BY It. H. RUSSELL.
r -	—
To a thorough and faithful student of history the fact needs T no demonstration that whenever necessity and the public good clamor loudly for any result, their call does not go unheeded. Upon this fact rests the foundation of government, the structure of society; in fact, the stability of all human affairs. It has often saved a nation from destruction, and «k with an ever ready hand aided many a noble undertaking otherwise doomed to undeserved failure. It is a noticeable ; ♦ fact throughout all history that there are constantly recurring periods when, by the peculiar combination of circumstances and events, great crises have been caused in affairs. These are th times which mark the turning points of history, which strike a decisive blow in human affairs, when the passive state of mediocrity is no longer possible, and either degeneration or progress must stamp its character.
When a nation is thus tottering to its foundation, threat-ened with overthrow by the first contrary wind that blows, it is then that nature has put forth her greatest energies, and has ever responded with promptitude to the call. It is these epochs that give to history an interest, and to the world an impulse onward toward material perfection. The world was never destined to remain in a normal and passive condition, but it is essentially a world of progress. r , “Excelsior” is its motto, material perfection its ideal state. And its trumpet-calls for aid meet an ever ready response. The men who are ready to respond to these calls are the men who, stand out through all the ages as pre-eminently <! the men of genius—the men who form the’beacon lights
4.
r
of history, showing how, gradually, from the darkness of superstition and barbarism, we have arrived at our modern dawn of progress.
Demosthenes responded in the purest strains of eloquence that adorn the pages of history to the cries of the goddess-of Grecian Liberty, about to be pierced by the sword of Philip. Cicero strove with martyr-like fervor to knock the shackles from the decaying Republic, but they had been too firmly soldered to give way to even his powerful strokes. The Roman Republic fell in ruins, and not for a thousand years were the efforts of genius successful in raising from its ruins the spark of civilization that had been then extinguished. Napoleon, Frederick, Washington, each heeded the call of country, and each has attained an immortal glory. Two thousand years ago the world was so steeped in crime that virtue had become a farce, integrity almost a crime, and law a mockery, while piety and religion, except as applied to the heathen deities— themselves the personification of vice—were utterly unknown. Humanity and religion called loudly for reform, but they lacked a reformer. The necessity of the times demanded a great sacrifice, and the Son of Man was selected as the Victim. And who shall say that the thousands of holy men and women who have since given up their lives freely and cheerfully at the altar of their religion, have not attained a higher position and more imperishable fame than have the Alexanders and Ctesars of history?
But the call of necessity has not been heard only in the political and moral world; the material has been equally productive. The genius of Columbus led him to the dis-.covery of America; succeeding centuries developed that country, with many others, and commerce increased rapidly in value and importance. In order to meet the necessary requirements of the age, a faster means of locomotion must be discovered. To-day the waters of the world are dotted with steamships from every land. Iron bands of rail almost encircle the world, and triumphant steam accomplishes now in a few days what before was the work of weeks or months. What happened in Europe yesterday, is known to-day all over the United States; the businessman in Chicago converses with his partner in New York, over a thousand miles of wire, with the same ease that he would were they seated together in the same room. Economy says that the supply of fuel is likely to be exhausted, that new modes of heat and power must be sought after, and, lo! some scientists in the East come forth from their laboratories and boldly assert that the power of Niagara shall be utilized; that that mighty cataract shall heat our furnaces, drive our locomotives, turn the ponderous wheels of our manufactories; yes, and even warm the hearths of our homes. The genius of the day is active, is constantly on the lookout for new discoveries to meet some new and
66	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
unexpected want. But man, with, his mighty intellect, is to-day hanging on the brink of a frightful chasm. Like Pharaoh of old, he is forgetting in the pride of his strength that there is a power higher than his own; that there is a future into which he with his matchless reason cannot penetrate; that there is an Infinity whose laws are too deep and subtle for his understanding to grasp; and, forgetting the prophetic example of that monarch, he, alas! is following in the same pathway, which can lead but to destruction.
The giant form of scepticism is stalking throughout our land, laying its cold and clammy hand upon the heart’s blood of the youth of the rising generation, and congealing their warmest affections, stifling their religious inclinations, and perverting their judgments and opinions at the very fountain-head. Not that scepticism which tempers religion, which moderates the bigot in his belief. Not that scepticism which rejects the idolatry of images, but turns with pure and earnest faith to the teachings of Christ. Not that scepticism which saves Christianity from the foul stain of superstition. “No! but’tis a monster of hideous mien,” that does not stalk forth in broad daylight,—an evil to be seen and shunned,—but that waylays you in the dark when you are unaware. It insinuates itself into your good graces under the plausible garb of “reason,” and when once it has obtained a footing there its growth is rapid and its destroying influence inevitable.
Reason whispers to you: ‘ Be a man of independence, of understanding; do not accept those fallacious and nonsensical doctrines that were taught in the ages of barbarism ,two thousand years ago. This is the glorious 19th century, an age of enlightenment and understanding—a materialistic age. Let us worship the goddess of Reason—let us believe only what we can know positively, and reason to be the truth.’
France in the intoxication of the “ Reign of Terror” accepted the same doctrines, and its results were exactly in accordance with the nature of the doctrines they believed. What is the cause of this disease that is becoming more contagious and more widespread every day ? It has been too often explained and too little heeded. The fault lies in the education of our youth. Unless in youth the affections of the heart are developed, in maturity or old age they will never produce a harvest. The heart must be cultivated as well as the mind, or else the mind will rule supreme over the whole being.
The majority of the schools of our country are certainly not run on a system calculated to inspire that piety .and faith which alone will prove an efficacious safeguard against the assaults of infidelity. A Christian education is required, and it is to this all-important subject that those who take an interest in the welfare of society and government must turn their attention ere the germ of infidelity becomes too maturely developed, and atheism with its foul breath permeates every society and institution throughout the land. Loud is the call of necessity! Will it ring in the ears of the wise men and legislators of our country and meet in their breasts an answering response? Shall the precedent of history be changed, and shall the “ times ” be wanting in the hour of greatest need ?
—During the recent sessions at Wakefield a witness was asked if he was not a husbandman, when he hesitated for a moment, and then coolly replied, amid the laughter of the court, “ No: I’se not married.”
Pascal.
Blaise Pascal was born on the 19th of June, 1623, at Clermont, the Capital of Auvergne, in France. This extraordinary genius affords one of the most remarkable examples on record of intellectual precocity, and of great progress in knowledge achieved even without the aid of a master. His father, who had been President of the Provincial Court of Aids, had retired from that office and come with his family to Paris, principally that he might devote himself to the education of his son. From his earliest years the boy had manifested both a singular solidity and quickness of parts—not only inquiring, as most lively children will do, the reason of every thing, but showing a perfect capacity of distinguishing between a true explanation and one which consisted, as too many explanations given to children do, in merely substituting one set of words for another. Such verbal tricks or subterfuges never succeeded with Pascal. So surprising was the evidence which he gave in this way, of a searching, considering, and combining head, that his father was actually alarmed at it, and resolved to keep all knowledge of the mathematics from him, lest that science of pure reason should engross his affections to the exclusion of all other learning.
The natural bent of his genius, however, was too strong to be thus controlled. He had already begun to investigate for himself the phenomena of physical nature. One day when he was only in his eleventh year, his attention was struck while sitting at dinner by the sound emitted from a plate which sc\e one had struck by accident with a knife, and especially oy its instant cessation when the plate was touched with the hand. He immediately began to reflect and experiment upon the subject; and he had soon noted down so many facts and observations as formed a little treatise, the soundness as well as the ingenuity of which was considered by good judges to do him great credit.
He now began to importune his father to teach him mathematics; but all the information the latter would give him was merely an explanation, at his earnest request, of the general nature and objects of the science. Such a hint was enough for the inventive genius of this wonderful boy. “He forthwith,” says one of the writers of his life (the author of the Preface to his Treatise on the Equilibrium of Fluids), “began meditating on the subject during his hours of recreation; and being alone in the apartment in which he was accustomed to play, he took a bit of charcoal and drew figures upon the floor, endeavoring, for example, to discover the way of making a circle perfectly round, a triangle of which all the sides and angles should be equal, and to perform other such problems. All this he found out very easily; and then he set himself to ascertain the proportions of different figures to each other. In pursuing these inquiries he called a circle a round, a line a bar, and named the other figures in the same manner. From this he proceeded to axioms, and finally to demonstrations; and, thus entirely left to himself, he actually made his way to the proposition (the 32d of the 1st Book of Euclid) of which it is the object to show that the three angles of any triangle are equal to two right angles. When he had arrived at this stage of his progress, his father by chance entered the room where he was, and found him so absorbed in his diagrams that it was a considerable time before he perceived that anyone was present. His father’s surprise
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
67
ay be conceived when, in answer to the first question he asked him, the boy told him that he was endeavoring to prove the proposition we have mentioned. The further explanations which he received only increased his astonishment, as his son traced to him step by step the manner in which he had advanced to the point where he now was. The father quitted the room without being able to utter a word, and proceeding immediately to the house of his intimate friend M. Ie Pailleux, who was a very able mathematician, he related with much emotion what he had just learned and witnessed. M. Ie Pailleux was not less surprised than he himself had been, and implored his friend no longer to endeavor to repress so strong a disposition to the cultivation of science, but at once to permit his son to have access to the requisite books.
“ Overcome by this reasoning, M. Pascal immediately put Euclid’s Elements into the hands of the boy, who was as yet only twelve years of age. Never did any young person read a romance with more avidity and more ease than Pascal read his Euclid, now that he had got hold of it.” The result, the writer goes on to inform us, was that he now appeared regularly at the weekly meetings held by the most eminent scientific men then in Paris; nor were the new observations which he contributed either less numerous or of less value than those of any of his associates. Still it was only his hours of recreation which his father allowed him to devote to geometry. The principal part of his time continued to be occupied in the study of the languages. His progress in science, however, was so great, that at sixteen he wrote a book on conic sections> with the depth and general excellence of which Descartes was so much struck that he would scarcely believe that it had not been written by the father instead of the son-At nineteen he invented his famous machine for performing arithmetical calculations, a contrivance of wonderful ingenuity. Some years after he followed up and completed the grand discoveries of Galileo and Torricelli on the weight of the air, by proving experimentally that the mercury in the barometer fell on the instrument being carried to an elevated situation, the balancing atmospheric column being thereby diminished. But Pascal’s bodily constitution had from his birth been one of great delicacy, and the ardor with which he had pursued his studies at length began to tell upon his health with alarming effect. Neither the advice of his physicians nor the entreaties of his friends were able to draw him from his books; and his exquisitely susceptible mind soon exhibited symptoms of being not unaffected by the shattered condition of its tenerdent. His piety, which had always been deep and earnest, now assumed a character of gloom and melancholy, which was permanently impressed upon it by an accident that befel him as he was one day riding in his carriage along the Pont de Neuilly. The horses becoming unruly at a part of the bridge where the parapet was wanting, plunged into the Seine, and he only escaped being dragged along with them to instant destruction by the traces breaking. From this moment he renounced the world, and gave himself up to preparation for that death by which he had been so nearly overtaken. Still, however, the light of his genius, although eclipsed, was not extinguished. It was after these new fancies had attacked him that he solved the difficult problem of deter, mining the curve described by any particular point in a revolving wheel, known among mathematicians by the name of the’cycloid. It was also long after this that he composed
his Provincial Letters (as they have been called) against the Jesuits, a work which has perhaps contributed more to give him notoriety among general readers than anything else he has done. For Pascal had the misfortune of imbibing the ideas of the Jansenists, who at that time were creating quite a stir in France. This is a sect of rigorists, who under the semblance of a penitential austerity really concealed a most dangerous spirit of pride, inasmuch as they placed their own merits—namely, such as they supposed they might gain by fastings and macerations—before those of the Redeemer of the world, forgetting that no merit can be obtained except by the grace of God and in union with the sufferings and merits of His Divine Son. Carried away by this idea, the Jansenists, through a . fear of unworthiness, scarcely ever dared to approach the Holy Table, and erred in many other points, chief among which was that of predestination. When Pascal took up the views of this exclusive sect, his mind became embittered against the Jesuits, who on the other hand were the champions of orthodoxy. The work called his “ Thoughts,’ likewise, was the product of this season of gloom and de lusion,—being made up of detached remarks which he was in the habit of committing to bits of paper as they occurred to him. At length, after a long illness, brought on and fed by the most pitiable mortifications, in the course of which he was wasted to a shadow, the last thread of life gave way on the 19th of August, 1662, when the amiable and gifted enthusiast had little more than completed the thirty-ninth year of his age.
The Deadly Upas of the 19th Century.
Through the Catholic Universe we find the following testimony on one of the worst forms in which our modern paganism has developed itself. Parents who teach their ^children to read ought to teach them also what to read, that is if they know how, and it is one of their first duties to learn. There is no excuse now for Catholics not providing their children with Catholic reading. See what comes of reading the corrupt story-papers of the day:
[From the Cincinnati Commercial.]
Attention has been called to the pernicious literature that the boy of the period reads. Pestiferous serials that make heroes of burglars, and hold up to special admiration the young fellow who murders his teacher and runs away from home, are read weekly by probably a majority of the boys who have learned to read in all the towns in the country. If a boy runs an errand and sits down to wait a few minutes, the chances are he will drag from his pocket a well-worn copy of the Police Gazette, Our Boys, Boys' and. Girls' WeeJdy, Pay's Doings, or some like precious weekly, and in a few seconds be so absorbed in it as to be forgetful of the facts of this world. One can see on the street boys reading these papers in the shadow of a stairway, under a wagon, on the shady side of a stone-pile, everywhere, in fact. It may as well be said that means should be taken to suppress by the authorities publications that idolize and glorify crime. They are printed only to pander to the worst side of the impressionable nature of boys and girls, and thus to sell. Their literary style is vile, slangy, and abominable, their matter alike destructive of good morals and good sense. We would call the attention of readers especially to the visible effects of this nasty literature. The past year, police authorities throughout the United
68
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
States reaped a tremendous crop sown by the boys’ and girls’ story papers. Not a day passes but half a dozen newspapers from as many different sections report the arrest of vagrint young desperadoes from ten to seventeen years old. These young villains are charged with attempting every crime known, and in some cases entering upon adventures that it seems might stagger Dick Turpin. Arson, burglary, murder, railway-train wrecking even, are not beyond their ambition. When arrested and searched they have the boys’ story paper of the period in their pockets. Sometimes the papers describe the identical exploit
the little wretches have been attempting. By nature the average boy is mischievous enough and cruel enough. When his nature is bent to mischief and cruelty, increased and developed to the proper point by his favorite reading, he is not far from fiendish.
Not long ago four little boys were’caught putting stones on the Elevated Railway track in New York city. Their intention was no less than the frightful one of wrecking the next train and sending it crashing into the houses and upon the street below. The eldest of the four was thirteen years old, the youngest only nine. The eldest ones claimed that the little boy had incited them to the deed. When arrested and sent to the Tombs they were asked what they had read. The eldest ones declared on their honor that they had read nothing but Sunday-school books. The little boy was a bright, frank child, who seemed to have nothing vicious about him, and who was not yet shrewd enough to tell lies. When asked what books he read, he said he liked best the Police Gazette and the Boys' and Girls' Weekly.
As a matter of curiosity, it might not be uninteresting to Christian parents to find out how many of their nine-year-old sons choose the Police Gazette for their favorite reading. The Superintendent of the House of Refuge on Randall’s Island states that the number of boy-vagrants has greatly increased of late, and when they come to him they always have in their pockets one of the story papers which teach that obedience to parents is unmanly. “ You would be surprised,” says he, “ at the great number of very young tramps we receive..........The stories they relate to each other are something wonderful, and bear a strong resemblance to the narratives in the weekly story papers. The effects of such reading may easily be traced in the statistics of public institutions.”
A graceless young reprobate, seventeen years old, has marked out for himself a career of bloodshed and burglary. He does not know how to spell with the utmost correctness, but he has read story papers enough to give himself the name of “Bowie Knife Dan,” and has succeeded in nearly, if not quite, killing his man. He is now under arrest for burglary, and boasts of crimes enough to make a peaceable citizen’s hair stand on end.
Four young desperadoes, aged thirteen to sixteen, were lately in New York, who attempted to kill the officers that captured them. The eldest of them said words like these to one of the policemen: “You think you’ve done it now, don’t you?—You’ve got the man that killed ; I suppose I’ll swing for it, and I might as well make a clean breast of it.”
It will be observed that the above remark was made in true bloody, story-paper style. The diminutive desperadoes always talk in that strain, the officers notice, using the very expressions put into the mouths of the heroic story-papers’ thieves. It is a pity such high-toned young
robbers must make the inevitable discovery that crime in real life is not all that it is painted in the Boys' 'Weekly, but, on the contrary, that practical vice is rough, ugly, and disgustingly commonplace. Moreover, crime in real life is, after all, oftener attended with unpleasant consequences in the shape of punishment, whereof the eloquent weekly makes no sort of mention.	■
■ Several boys were taken by an Eastern policeman, two weeks ago, who boasted that they had deliberately started out to kill somebody. They had already frightened one peaceable, harmless old man nearly to death; assaulted a
second who got away from them, and beaten a third terribly. They had no grudge against any of these men. They only wanted to kill somebody.
It seems not enough, either, that the story papers should make thieves and murderers of decent people’s boys. The same vile agent is spreading the vagrant, reckless spirit even among the girls.
Every day the telegraph reports that this or that girl, the daughter of respectable parents, has left her home and disappeared. Often such a dispatch is supplemented by another stating that the police had lodged in *he stationhouse two or three little girls, from thirteen to sixteen years old. Four silly creatures of this age ran away from their homes in Toronto a few days ago, led off by one who said she had read in story-papers about the adventures of girls on the stage, and she had coaxed them to come with her to New York to become actresses. Just that much these insignificant idiots knew about real life. They had seen in the weekly a picture of an angelic ballet-girl on the stage, with a heavy villain about to shoot her, and “ a noble young reporter” springing over the foot-lights with a big meat-knife a yard long in his hands, yelling, “Die, dog! would you strike a woman?” With this pleasing picture in their mind’s eye, they had come all the way from Toronto, only to find that there was not a single noble young reporter in all the whole city of New York. They did find plenty of police stations, however, and a man whom the eldest of the party called “a sneaking detective.” She had learned from her favorite romances that it was the proper name to apply to him.
This new kind of disagreeable girl-tramp is directly traceable to the foul, wicked story paper. A single despatch from one place makes mention of five of these desperate boy and girl tramps—three girls and two boys. It calls them “Dime-Novel Heroes.” They ran away with a capital stock of four dollars to begin the world on. After a determined search, the police finally found two of the girls on a steamboat, where they got money singing antb dancing. The other, a pretty girl of fifteen, has not been found. One of the boys left a letter for his father, stating that they were going to “carve out their fortunes in the West.” The expression alone shows what inspired their flight. A large-sized sprout, carved out of a healthy apple tree, would have helped on their fortunes about that time, probably.
Boys and girls naturally like exciting reading, and they ought to have the proper quality and quantity of it. But there is exciting reading enough for them in' the decent line. Simple truth does not lack attractions. The interest of society demands that they should stop reading the disreputable story papers.
€
—Paradoxical as it may seem, people who are inclined to be fat are often the least inclined to be so.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
69
]}
-sb


I r
"y
r'X
4
4 *
One Geographic Cubic Mile.
AFTER THE GERMAN.
Hardly a day passes without our hearing and even using ourselves, such big expressions as “thousands,” “millions,” “the whole world,” etc., and yet there are comparatively few who realize the significance of the words which they use. The following graphic description of one geographic cubic mile, given by a European scientist in order to convey an adequate idea of the size of the earth, which contains 2,662 millions of cubic miles, is one of those almost incredible, but none the less true, illustrations of the expressions so often used and yet so seldom fully understood.
Imagine a chest, a cubic mile long, a cubic mile wide, and a cubic mile high, and we will try to fill it. There is, for instance, the city of Paris with all its palaces, houses, columns, towers and churches: we take this great city, as if it were a plaything, and throw it into the chest. We then go down to Marseilles, picking up all the villages on our way, and throw everything in, and we find that the bottom of the chest is not covered. We then take London, with all its palaces, houses, pillars, steeples and churches, and they help but little ; so we throw in Berlin; Vienna must also- go into the chest; and, not to dis’turb the peace, we let St. Petersburg follow. All this matter lies on the bottom. Now we begin to take all the large and smaller cities, villages, forts, farm-houses, in short everything in Europe built by the hands of man, together with all the ships that traverse the ocean, and all this helps but little I We have to go over the Old and the New Worlds; must throw in the pyramids of Egypt, the cities, towns, villages, railroads and factories of America, and everything else that the people of America, Asia, Africa, and Australia have made, and alas, our chest is not even half full yet. We now shake these things down a little, to make them even, and as we have made up our minds to fill the chest, let us see whether we cannot do it with people; so we begin to lay them in, like herrings. One row will require 12,000, and 4,000 rows will make a bed of 48,000,-000,—just room enough for the people of North America. To make their situation more comfortable, we lay between each bed a layer of straw and leaves 30 feet thick, which will take all the straw and leaves the earth can furnish. On top of the Americans we then lay the 3,000,000, of Australians and the 45,000,000 of Africans, which make the second bed. There are still left 800,000,000 of Asiatics, and we continue with our packing till the rest of the human race is in,—the sum of 1400,000,000—in, by the way, 30 beds! The chest is by this time half full, and we would need about fifteen times as many more people to fill it. What shall we do ? Well, the inferior animals yet remain. But let us even take all the animated creation,-and the chest is not full. And all the space that had to be filled is only one geographic cubic mile, of which the earth contains 2,662 millions! C. J. Brinkman (Prep. Dept.)
—An article in the New York Tribune places the population of the United States at 47,568,000, and of the Territories at 662,000—a total of 48,035,000. The population of the Eastern and Middle States is set down at 14,303,000; of the Western and Pacific States at 16,570,000, and of the former slave States at 16,800,000.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Von Bulow contemplates a tour in England early next year.
—Cardinal Newman has just sent out the fifth edition of his “Anglican Difficulties.”
—A. Roman Countess, profoundly learned in the Greek and Latin languages, has been elected a member of the Academy of Lincei, in Rome.
—The noted Bleak House of Charles Dickens’s novel, situated in St. Peter street, Islington, was totally destroyed by fire at an early hour on Sunday morning, August 31.
—M. Henri Weil, eminent in France as a classical scholar, has just made known to the French Academy the discovery by himself of unedited fragments from Euripides, AEschylus and probably Pausilippos.
—The pedestal for the bronze statue of Burns, which is being executed by Sir John Steell, R. S. A., and is expected to be placed in the end of autumn, has just been completed by Mr. Jameson, of Aberdeen. It is ot Peterhead granite, and formed of massive blocks.
—Among the celebrated personages, natives of Paris, whose statues are to adorn the fagades of the new Hotel de Ville are three musicians, Halevy, Herold and Bocquil-lon Wilhem. Bocquillon Wilhem was the founder of the French schools for singing. He was born in 1781, and died in 1842.
—Mr. Charles Kent, editor of the London Catholic Standard, contributes a very fine translation of the Salve Regina for the current number of the Ave Maria. We hear that the popular Catholic writer,Mrs Anna H. Dorsey, author of “ Tangled Paths,” etc, etc, is engaged upon a new story for the same magazine.
—Count Rusconi’s translation of Shakspeare, which first appeared at Padua in 1844, has just reached an eleventh edition in Rome. Prior to this undertaking by the eminent economist, who represented Italy ati the Pans Silver Congress, Shakspeare was scarcely known to the mass of Count Rusconi’s countrymen.
—In forty-seven Roman convents, which have been suppressed by the Piedmontese Government, there have been found no less than 606,016 volumes, and in the religious houses which are under the protection of foreign powers, there are at least 20,000 more. And these books collected by a people whom we are asked to believe as steeped in ignorance!—Catholic Columbian.
—Opinions vary as to the coming pianist, Joseffy. One of our own public players considers him in some respects superior to any of his predecessors here. Another of our leading musicians heard the pianist in Paris at the last Exposition and calls him a “ pounder,” although admitting that he is possessed of an astonishing technique, youthful fire, and an excellent memory. Joseffy is twenty-seven years old, and a pupil of Tausig.
—We learn that instructions in Book-keeping are given in the diocesan Seminary at Cleveland. This is a good idea. The same Seminary is not without a course of ascetic theology, which is very popular with the students. Mac facere et ilia non omittere. Cleveland has reason to be proud of its Seminary, parochial schools (that of the Cathedral is one of the very best in the country), and diocesan, paper, the circulation of which is zealously promoted in every parish by the reverend clergy.—Ave Maria.
—A drama entitled “ Dianora di Vavasor,” and written by Mr. Morris Moore, junior, was recently attempted to be performed in the Corea Theatre, Rome, at the benefit of Signorina Pavoni. The drama offended the audience by its immorality and tendency to insult religion, and at the third act the spectators rose and demanded the cessation of the performance. The author and actors were hissed.— Catholic Universe. In the large cities of the United States there are theatres where such infamous plays have met with better success—where people have not self-respect and decency enough to hiss them down.
—In the recent First B. A. Examinations for Honors in Latin in the University of London, England, five of the first six places were taken by Catholics, the following
70
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

students from Catholic Colleges obtaining places: First Class—1st, with Exhibition Qol., Beauclerk, Beaumont; 2d (bracketed), with prize marks, Blount, Stonyhurst; 4th, with prize marks, Walmsto/, St. Francis Xavier's, Liverpool; 5lh, Carroll, St. Francis Xavier's; 6th (bracketed), Flynn, St. Francis Xavier's. Third Class—Baldwin, Stonyhurst. That five of the first six places should be taken by Catholic students (two besides the Exhibitioner obtaining prize marks) is an unprecedented success. Honors in German were obtained by Blount, and in English by Walmsley.
—It is said that the opera singer Rubini took a fancy to express on the stage a sentiment of deep emotion by a peculiar trembling, or unsteadiness of the voice, which, doubtless, as done by this accomplished artist, was an idea at once appropriate and beautiful. But, unfortunately, the effect being easy to imitate, he soon had followers, who, not being blessed with his taste and judgment, made the ornament common, and by taking away its appropriate meaning, destroyed its real charm. It became the custom to make the voice always tremble, even on the most ordinary occasions; a defect became exalted into a beauty, and at length a good, steady holding note (once considered a great merit in singing), was scarcely ever heard at all. The constant use of the tremolo in vocal music betrays conceit, and is not in good taste, and should therefore be carefully avoided.—Musical Record.
—W. T. Best, in the American Art Journal, says that “ no two organs are alike, as is the case with the violin, clarinet, and other instruments. The tone of an organ responds only to the appropriate combination and use of the “stops,” the short handles of which, as is well known, project on each side of the player, controlling the sound of every pipe contained within the instrument. The tonecharacter of the same stops is not alike in any two instruments, nor are the mechanical aids ever similar in operation. No more fatiguing exercise for the mind of an executant can be imagined than the consecutive display of different organs of large size. Each instrument rigorously demands its own special study, and every minute detail of tone in an organ previously played must be entirely banished from the memory before a performance upon another can be undertaken with any degree of success.”
—Mr. Ruskin, during a visit to Ireland, attended service in Christ Church Cathedral, and he wrote to a paper to express his approval of the rude-screen, and to advocate the use of crucifixes, silver candlesticks, lights on the altar, and incense. When we remember that Mr. Ruskin was brought up in an “ evangelical ” home of the strictest kind, such an expression of opinion might well startle us, did we not know that the great master of English prose is also the great master of paradox. Protestantism has become less and less conspicuous, however, in his later writings, which contain now and then frank declarations of a state of doubt and suspense. Mr. Ruskin numbers many Catholics amongst his friends, and he would be a bold prophet who should forecast the final faith of that sincere but erratic mind. This much is certain—that among his ethics are a thousand Catholic truths, reached by him through the ways of reason instead of faith.
—On Friday evening, Sept. 26th, as we learn from the daily papers, the inaugural entertainment of the Union Catholic Library Association of Chicago, took place in Hershey Hall, in the presence of a large and fashionable audience. When it is said that Miss Emilie Gavin, Mr. Emile Liebling, and Mr. James Gill were on the programme, its high artistic character will be sufficiently indicated. The literary part of the exercises consisted of a spirited address on “ Libraries and Reading ” by Rev. A. Lambert, S. J.; the address of the retiring President, Mr. W. P. Rend, whose excellently prepared statement showed a large increase in membership of the Association during his term, and a substantial balance in the treasury after paying all expenses; and the inaugural of the Presidentelect, Mr. P. J. Towle—a business-like, earnest paper, whose good sense and determined aim show that the Society has been extremely fortunate in securing Mr. Towle as its executive. In both addresses the proposition to erect a suitable building for the library was favorably considered.
Scientific Notes.
—Chemists tell us that a single grain of substance called iodine will impart a color to 7,000 times its weight of water. It is so in higher things—one companion, one habit may effect the whole life and character.
—The use of gelatine dry plates in photography diminishes by five-sixths the time required of the sitter, and enables the operator to catch a transient smile, or bright happy expression which no sitter, can preserve naturally for more than a few seconds.
—Red snow, which is usually found only in Arctic latitudes, is to be seen this year on a lofty summit near Mount Stamford, in the Sierra Nevada range. For several acres the vast drifts are a beautiful pinkish tint to the depth of three or four inches. One explanation of it is that millions of minute organism cover the surface of the snow.
—An electric target—that is a target which by means of electricity shows instantaneously upon another target set up at the firing station, the exact spot where a bullet strikes, and thus does away with the necessity of employing a marker to signal the effect of each shot—has been lately perfected by a Swiss locksmith, after several years of labor.
—Prof. Klinkerfues, the director of the observatory at Gfittingen, has patented a new telegraphic invention by which it is said to be possible to send as many as eight messages simultaneously along the same wire. A portion of the invention is an apparatus which simultaneously writes down all the messages as they arrive at the station to which they are addressed.	'
—Pursuing his recent researches on the scintillation of the stars, M. Montigny shows, in a note to the Belgian Academy, that the following conclusion may be accepted: In the twinkle of the stars which show the colored rays, when the blue tint predominates, or is found to be in excess, rain may be expected, if it has not already come. The more predominant the blue, the greater the probability that the rain will be persistent and plentiful. It is supposed that the predominance of the blue is owing to the absorption of other colored rays in passing through moist layers of the atmosphere. On the same principle the blue tint of distant mountains indicates rain.
—Prof. Klebs, of Prague, announces that the benzoate of soda is the best antiseptic in all infectious diseases. It acts, as the experiments- of the author show, very powerfully. It is claimed that a daily dose of from 30 to 50 grammes to a full-grown man will render the poison of diptheria inoperative. The benzoate is prepared by dissolving crystallized benzoic acid in water, neutralizing at a slight heat with a solution of caustic soda, drying and then allowing the solution to crystallize over sulphuric acid under a bell-glass. Large doses do not appear to be abso-* lutely necessary. Good results may be obtained by the daily administration of 12 grammes.
—At the Cape of Good Hope, near Table Mountain, the clouds come down very low now and then without dropping in rain. At such a time, if a traveller should go under a tree for shelter from the threatening storm, he would find himself in a drenching shower, while out in the open, away from any tree or shrub, everything would be as dry as a bone. Here is the explanation. The cloud or mist is rather warmer than the leaves, and so when it touches them it changes into clinging drops, which look like dew. Fresh drops keep forming, they run together, and at length the water drips off the leaves like rain, and this process goes on until the clouds lift and the sun appears.
—The new refracting telescope ordered by M. Struve, the director of the Russian observatory at Pulkowa, from Alvan, Clark & Sons, Cambridgeport, will have the largest object-glass in the world. The aperture of the great telescope at Washington is twenty-six inches. That of the instrument for Vienna, now being made by Messrs. Grubb, of Dublin, will be twenty-eight inches. The object-glass of the new telescope for Russia is to have a clear aperture of thirty inches. The focal length is not yet fixed, but will probably be about forty feet. The objective is to be finished within eighteen months after the rough discs have

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
71

•I

been obtained, or three years and a half from the date of the contract, and its price is fixed at §32,000.
—A. caution to pipe-smokers is contained in the experience of a French porter, who recently cut the forefinger of his right hand with a knife with which he had been clearing out his pipe. The next day the finger swelled and the arm became inflamed, while tumors appeared under the arm-pits. The medical man called in recognized poisoning by nicotine, and seeing that amputation was necessary, sent the patient at once to a hospital, where at last accounts he was lying in a very precarious condition. Another instance, in which the poisonous effects of nicotine were placed beyond a doubt, is mentioned in the scientific papers. A man having applied a few drops of nicotine to a wound on a pet dog, the poison was instantly diffused through its system, causing death in a few hours.
—Among the chemicals of American manufacture which have superceded foreign articles may be mentioned tartaric acid, the importation of which last year reached only 183 pounds, against 500,000 not long ago. Of citric acid, 27,018 pounds was imported, against a previous annual importation of 250,000. The lime-juice from which the acid is made is still imported, on account of the small growth of limes and lemons in the United States. If southern agriculturists gave attention to these fruits a new industry, in extracting the juce, could be developed. Last year but 3,492 pounds of borax was imported, owing to the working of new borax mines. Formerly from 600,000 to 1,000,000 pounds was annually received. Of cream tartar, none was received in 1878 from abroad. About six years ago the receipts were 9,000,000 pounds annually.
—Dr. Chiappoli states that he has frequently noticed in patients, apparently very far from death, an extraordinary opening of the eyelids so as to give the eyes the appearance of protruding from their orbits, which was invariably a sign that death would occur within twenty-four hours. In some cases, when only one eye is wide open while the other remains normal, death will not follow quite so rapidly, but it does take place in a week or so. It is easy to observe this phenomenon when the eyes are wide open, but when, as is generally the case, the eyes are half shut and only opened from time to time, it will be advisable to fix the attention of the patient on some point or light in order to see the change. Chiappoli is utterly at a loss to explain this symptom of approaching dissolution, and ascribes it to some diseased state of the sympathetic nerve.
—An enormous mastodon, about equal in size to the largest ever unearthed, that one having been also discovered in 1849 in the same district, was unearthed on the 7th inst., at Newburg, New York State, in land which was formerly a marsh. The remains were first met with only two feet from the surface, by some men who were employed in digging a ditch. The skull was found at the .depth of four feet, six inches from the surface. The lower jaw, a complete foreleg, over a score of ribs, the spring (in sections, foot-bones, and other portions of the skeleton were afterwards found. The following measurements are given: Skull, height, two feet five and a half inches, measurement between the eyes, two feet; length of upper jaw, two feet four inches; eye sockets, seven inches in diameter; foreleg, including thigh bone, seven feet long; weight one hundred and fifty pounds. The bones were petrified.
Books and Periodicals.
—We hope nobody has captured Donahoes Magazine on its way to our scriptorium of late. We have not seen a copy for some time, and prize its visits too highly to lose them for a trifle. Donahoe's Magazine has a field peculiarly its own, and no other can supply the want of it. Reader, if you think this cannot be, send for a sample copy and judge for yourself.
—The Catholic Times purports to be issued from a village in the State of New York. Well, all we have to say is that that village sends out about as lively and well-edited a paper as any that we know of. Rev. F. Lambert is an out-and-out editor, and the weekly paper’issued by him from
the village of Waterloo would do credit to many a large city that has no paper, or but comparatively poor ones.
—It is with great pleasure we have read the October number of the Harp, with which the fourth volume of this interesting magazine is brought to a close, and we beg leave to extend to the publisher our compliments upon the remarkable improvement that has been evinced in its publication during the past year. We hope that his brightest expectations as to the success of its future may be resized, and have no doubt it will continue to be, as it is now, a magazine both interesting and instructive to the reading public.
—The Catholic Advance, published in Philadelphia, by Messrs. Calvert and Burke, comes out as a weekly with its present issue, henceforth giving 16 large quarto pages of reading matter weekly for §2 a year. It is printed on fine tinted paper, with a handsome cover, and is, altogether, a handsome specimen of typographical neatness and good taste. This is the first college paper that to our knowledge has turned into a general literary periodical, but this, we presume, is owing to the consolidation of the La Salle Advance with Calvert’s Magazine. We wish Messrs. Calvert and Burke prosperity in their new enterprise.
—We are delighted to receive with the College Message this week the assurance that its obituary is not yet in order, but, on the contrary, with health still good, that it intends to remain in the world of journalism. Of course anything of the “angelic visit” nature which we may have noticed in regard to the Message has never been in the sense of an infrequency of its visits predicting an approaching dissolution; however, an assurance is comforting, and we are glad to feel secure upon this point, and only hope it may easily dispel all attacks of that e’en courted criticism upon its pathway to the fondly expected “pinnacle”, and soon gladden our hearts with that happy “ surprise” which it has promised us in the “near future.”
—The Cornett Era—the second number of the 12th vol. —comes to our sanctum this week as an exchange. We extend the stranger a cordial welcome, and hope the weekly visits on either side will be mutually agreeable. When we caught sight of the list of five editors at the head of the first column we expected a lively paper, and were not altogether disappointed, notwithstanding the absence of literary articles. We could wish the Scholastic had five editors; as it is, however, we have but to make the best of it with three, exclusive of the space allotted the neighboring Academy. The locals in the Era are abundant, newsy, and well written. From its exchange column we learn that it and the Niagara Index have been waging a wordy war in which each claims the victory. Which is right, and which is wrong, we are not prepared to say; we have no desire to mix up in the quarrel, nor to provoke one for ourselves.
—This week’s number of the American Art Journal is, we venture to say, superior to those preceding it. Art is progressive; so must also be its literature, borne of the articles of this week are remarkable for their piquancy and originality. We cannot see how one could better treat Mademoiselle Dejazet, the comedienne, than Mr. Rosenberg. The description of a comedienne ends so comically, that we do not know what to admire most,—the comical description or the comical person of Dejazet. “ Characteristic Letters of our Time ” is another of those compositions so taking with the romantic, art-loving world. Among the many more attractive articles of the Journal we would mention, in particular, “Mlle. Sarah Bernhardt,” “ The Adventures of an Operatic Manager in Mexico,” by Max Maretzek; “ Art and Criticism,” by Sidney Colvin, and “Recollections of Madame Catalani.” The notes and editorials are up to their usual standard of artistic writing on artistic matters. The articles on pianos and organs are to the point, and most of its advice would prove advantageous to those connected with that trade. We can heartily recommend the Art Journal to every art-loving reader.
—Received—From Messrs. Hickey & Co., New York, “The Crucifix of Baden and Other Catholic Stories” forming the 3d book of the Second Series of the Vatican Library Publications—The Avalon for August, Avalon Co., San Francisco.
72
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
1 limit
Notre Dame, October 4, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thibteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip ot the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all, •
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Words to our Commercial Students.
BE UP AND DOING.
It is true that we find in the world an occasional example of one whose life has been so broken and baffled by circumstances, and who has met, in all his undertakings, with- obstacles so entirely beyond his control, that it would seem as if a higher power had pre-denied to him from all eternity any practical knowledge of the meaning of that sweet word, success. A case of this kind, however, is so exceedingly rare, especially as regards men whose minds have been in any manner developed, that it can be laid down for a general rule that the man who in after-years sits down to lament the condition to which adversity has brought him, and can ascribe his misfortunes to nothing but badluck, can be justly told that he himself is chiefly to blame. He may present to us a truly virtuous moral life, frugal in habits, careful in all his actions, and even industrious to a certain extent, willing to work if he only knew how to commence, but ah I that’s where the trouble lies. The vital quality is missing; he has no energy to make himself get up and look around, see how others do, and then pitch in for himself. Undoubtedly, there can be pointed out to him some period in his earlier life when opportunities the most favorable were his,, which were as roots from which the richest fruits would have been obtained had he but seized and cultivated them with an active determination, and protected their development with persevering industry. But no, he failed to do this; at the proper time and place he was not up and doing. He allowed the golden hours of manhood’s youth,—the most auspicious, and the only time in which to lay the foundation of a truly successful life, to pass by unused; and this is in truth that mysterious cause of his present deplorable state which he would fain style bad luck.
But we do not intend to tire you with a sermon upon the «. quality of energy. You have had it preached to you from your earliest youth; you have been told time and again that it is “ the keystone of success,” “ the only road to pros- ? perity,” and you would soon remind us, were we to repeat to you all those time-worn ideas and expressions, that you -know them off by heart already, that they have become, as it were, stereotyped in your minds. Very likely: we have no doubt that each one of you has already written a fine composition on the subject; if so, all the better, provided you make good use of what you know so well; for its importance is none the less real. It is upon the most practical truths and essential virtues that the wise pastor discourses the most frequently; the most valuable forms are those that the printer stereotypes and lays aside for future * use. Our words, therefore, do not aim at any new ideas upon the subject; they are prompted more by a desire to remind you of the importance of preserving and utilizing 4 those truths so frequently taught you; to incite you to draw out, at times, that stereotyped form from your mind, take a fresh impression of it, reflect and ponder seriously upon its truthful words, and then direct your actions in ac- " cordance with its advice. In an especial manner will this prove profitable to you who anticipate a life in the occupations and pursuits of the commercial world; for it is a conceded fact, that in the present style and manner of transact- ” ing business in general, of all qualities,—those of course being presupposed that constitute the true man, wherever or whatever he be, none are more essentially necessary than that of an active, vigorous, persistent, untiring energy and industry.
You must remember that in our country the method of carrying on any trade or business is entirely different from what it was twenty years ago. The old principle of buyer to sdler has been completely abolished, and just the con- 1 trary substituted in its place. The merchant of to-day can’t purchase a stock of goods, hang out his sign, and then stand behind the counter with arms folded, waiting 1 for customers to come in. Such a man would soon find himself behind the times. He did not have to step out of his store to buy his entire stock, but was probably bothered for a month previous with a continual run of eager and beseeching agents, all crazy to give him samples and prices, and he.in his turn if he would have a trade must * secure it by the same persistent efforts. He must render his name familiar to the trade at which he aims. Advertising don’t fill the bill. He must advertise himself by personal and frequent visits to every customer to whom he would sell, praising his own goods and soliciting their orders. Furthermore, he must never tire of repeating these visits over and over again so that they may be depended upon by his customers at certain intervals. And this style of running after the trade has become necessary, and can be seen even in the smallest branches of business. The unpretending butcher would have no trade, unless he were out early in the morning, with horse and wagon, running from door to door, taking orders and delivering the meat.
We live in an age and country in which it can be truth- . fully said that stores run on wheels, and this we would have understood in a strictly literal sense; and, as an example, ; we may inform you that there is an enterprise of just such a nature in successful operation at the present time: a store gotten up in the shape of a car which runs through the States of Iowa and Nebraska;’ not a mere peddling ! wagon at all, but a regular wholesale notion store, carrying
THE NOTRE DAMEt; SCHOLASTIC.
73

if
ft

l k
A *
I )v
•
' r
cr *
r-
&
with, it from twelve to fifteen thousand dollars’ worth of goods on a trip, transacting a jobbing business with dealers only. Its advantage, of course, is that it can deliver the goods, free from the expense of transportation at the door of the merchant, and we predict for it, if well managed, a successful future; as, far from being a hazardous adventure, it simply develops the principle upon which the traffic of our country is carried on, viz.: that everything must combine not only to suit the buyer, but also to spare him the expense and trouble of securing the goods. It appears none the less in every other business. The banker, for instance, is obliged to spend a great part of his time, among the business men of his city, to retain his patrons and secure new ones. The manufacturer has to keep samples of his product distributed all over the country, and has to follow them around continually, disposing of them, and advertising their merits.
In a word, then, the desired patronage in any business must be sought and secured by a lifetime of hard labor and steady perseverance in a world of equally earnest competitors. Such should be your expectations, when you step out into the business world, and with the greatest care should you prepare yourselves to meet those obstacles and trials which can be overcome only by a continual and faithful industry.
The young man, then, that goes forth into the world with an active determination of perseverance, having completed with proper diligence his commercial course, is particularly favored, and has in his possession all the japital necessary to achieve the most brilliant success. To be sure, he may have to commence life “ at the bottom of the ladder"; numerous and varied hardships may mark his onward course; many failures and disappointments may render his most patient labors apparently fruitless; but all these difficulties will prove in after years an experience to him, rich in its useful information, and thereby the cause of his ultimate success.
The tendency of the young men of our country, upon the completion of their studies, to give way to idleness and dissipation, and forget the great value of time in their early manhood, in which to put into practice the various truths which they have studied and learned, is plainly visible in our day, and much to be regretted. When rebuked for their idleness, they only respond with a doleful countenance that “there is no chance for them; they were born unlucky," or something of the kind; and so they continue plodding along down the hill to ruin, simply because they cannot arouse themselves to take hold and work. They are afraid, as the saying is, to “put their shoulders to the wheel,” but find it so^xtremely easy to do nothing. No chance! with the strength of youth and the mental faculties that God has blessed them with, all of which can be made to tend to their advancement and success if properly and prudently used. No chance! what were the chances of a Girard, Vanderbilt or Henry Clay at one time, . in comparison ? Would they not have considered themselves highly blessed had they but been given in their early years the fundamental knowledge of a commercial graduate? A vast western country lies before us, whose fields and towns are fast filling up with emigrant settlers, whose various wants must be supplied, and whose crops must be exported; for whom railroads must be built, banks established, and into whose midst all other branches of business must be introduced; and yet our young man sees no chance for himself, whereas he is in fact surrounded by
a world of the brightest chances, would he but seize with a will and make use of them. But no, he has a repugnance to labor, and a useless fear of the hardships that must be endured, and the persevering efforts that must be brought to bear in the outset. The consequence is that he buries all his honorable ambition with those pitiful words “ No chance forme ”; and we are forced to read in any newspaper we may pick up of his future ruin, perhaps crimes. This rock of idleness, or protracted pleasure-seeking, after the school-days have been finished, is a dangerous and fatal one, and one of which we hope to see our young friends steer clear, as it has been the wreck of many noble young men whose prospects, but for it, were the most promising.
Catholic Education Societies.
More than 2,000 members of the Katholieke Schoolpenning, a Belgian Society for the promotion of Catholic education amongst the poor, assembled on Monday September 1st, at Termonde. The proceedings were conducted with grgat enthusiasm—Catholic Universe, Cleveland.
When will we, American Catholics, have our societies for the promotion of education among the poor? Want of means to educate their children is one of the most painful among the wants of the poor laboring class, and even of mechanics with large families, in the United States. Even in the very best of times, when work is constant and a fair remuneration given for it, a mechanic with six or eight children finds it as much as he can do to pay house-rent, feed and clothe his family, and furnish his children with books and stationery in order to give them an education. This is, we fear, a matter to which little attention is given by those interested in the education and in the spiritual and temporal welfare of the rising generation; for if it be barely as much as mechanics can do in the best of times to support and educate a large family of boys and girls, what, we ask, can the poor man do when work is scarce and wages low? Evidently he cannot even clothe his children in a suitable manner to keep them at school, not to speak of the money necessary for books and stationery, and the children are allowed to grow up in ignorance. This is one of the principal reasons why we advocate a concentrated course of action on the part of those—not simply the rectors of parishes, as at present—who with a little effort might do a mighty work, one of which they might feel justly proud and in return for which they would enjoy an untold reward in eternity. This would be the forming in every parish of a society for the promotion of Christian education, with a committee selected from among its members to act as a board of administration under the direction of the rector of the parish. In this way sufficient funds could be raised not only to pay competent teachers but to support the schools and furnish stationery to the children of those whose poverty is now a bar to the education of their offspring. A more general interest would thus be awakened in the important matter of parochial schools; they would be elevated to a higher standard, and this without an onerous burden being imposed on any particular person in the parish. The unpleasant matter of appeals for aid from the pulpit would then be unnecessary; and the more wealthy, as well as the poorer members of the parish, would take a special pleasure in seeing the schools in a flourishing condition. Let all but unite in this matter and the results will astonish even the most sanguine.
74
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—William. Harper, ’56, now resides at Kalamazoo, Mich.
—John W. Harrington, ’73, is engaged in teaching' school at Ridott, Ill.
—Messrs. Thos. Nelson and P. J. Garrity, of Chicago, paid us a short visit during the past week.
—Rev. Father Creighton, ’52, is still the zealous parish priest of Our Lady ot Victories’, Brooklyn.
—Emory Smith (Commercial), ’77, called to see us Tuesday. He is now in business with his father, who is a lumber merchant at Lansing, Mich.
—Among the visitors of the past week were: Messrs. Herrick, of Chicago; Ruppe, of Calumet, Upper Michigan; and Stoffenbach, of Jefferson, Wis.
—Prof. Howard, class of ’62, will enter on his duties as Clerk of St. Joseph’s County on the 1st of November. The citizens of South Bend and the people of the County may congratulate themselves on having so efficient and trustworthy a public officer as Prof. Howard.
—We regret to announce the death of Father Reville, the distinguished Dominican preacher, who made so many friends here a year,ago. He was a pupil of the great Lacordaire, and died of yellow fever, a martyr to charity, at Memphis. Grant him eternal life, O Lord, and may perpetual light shine upon him!
—George W. Darr, ’71, in a recent letter from Europe to one of his friends here, writes: “Yesterday I sent you a newspaper from Bregenz, Austria, in which is an account of the rebuilding of Notre Dame. It will no doubt, please you to learn that your beloved University is not only known in America but also beyond the broad ocean, and at a little town on Lake Constance in Austria. Accept my congratulations, and my heartfelt wishes for your and its future success.”
—Senator Winterbotham, of Michigan City, Ind., writing to President Corby some weeks ago, on the occasion of his sending a handsome donation for the rebuilding of the College, mentioned the fact that his son Joseph, ’67-’68, is in business with himself and is doing remarkably well. He expressed his thanks to President Corby for the advantages his son derived from the training given him at Notre Dame. The expression of these sentiments at such a time and the donation sent for the rebuilding of the burnt College are just what might be expected from a gentleman of such noble sentiments and large-hearted generosity as Senator Winterbotham.
Local Items.
—You are not obliged to read these items, you know.
—The Scholastic is the cheapest college paper, in the United States.
—“Sankey” and “Dick” are now rival songsters in the Junior study-hall.
—Have you read “ Moondyne ” ? If not, send for it to the Pilot Publishing Co., Boston.
—The Juniors and Seniors are more numerous now than at any time during the past five years.
—The students have been favored with fine weather during recreation days up to the present date.
—The church and college fairly bristle with lightning-rods. They did good service during the late storm.
—“ Lunch for one hundred ” is the demand of John and Charlie of the Junior refectorian every day, at half-past three p. m.
—Master J. A. Gibbons presented B. Lawrence with a handsome cage and canary bird, for the Junior study-hall, for which he returns his sincere thanks.
—How could you expect him to prophesy a storm when it wasn’t down in his almanac ? “ Remember that the north wind is the ruling wind.”
—The Prefect of Discipline delivered an address on
table etiquette and general politeness on last Sunday evening in the Junior study-halh
—Since the present Professor of Greek, Rev. Father Stoffel, has taken the chair of that department the classes are more numerously attended than ever before.
—While passing through the Junior refectory on Monday we examined the various table covers and found them spotless. We hope the little fellows will continue in their laudable efforts to keep everything about them neat and orderly.
—The 3d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Sept. 29th. The usual business being over, the following delivered declamations: Masters Castanedo, Vedder, Farrelly, J. Seeger, F. Becker, H. Dunne, and J. Gordon.
—The Philodemic Debating Association held its second regular meeting Tuesday evening, Sept. 30th. Essays were read by Messis. McGrath and Russell; declamations delivered by Messrs. Burger and Arnold. G. Clarke and T. Byrne were elected to membership.
—There are at Notre Dame two distinct Libraries—one for the special use of the students, and conducted by them under the name of. the Lemonnier Library Association; the other is the Community or College Library, presided over by Rev. Father Stoffel, C. S. C.
—The third regular meeting of the Thespians was held Saturday, the 27th inst. Declamations were delivered by Richard Russell and W. McGorrisk. It was decided to devote certain evenings of each month to the study of Shakspeare and other classic dramatists.
—B. Bernard’s favorite rat-terrier died at the St Joseph Farm last week.
“ No more this dog will bite the boys, No more you’ll hear his wail;
He’s gone where boys won’t take tin cans Ana tie them to his tail.”
—We are requested to announce that President Corby has the thanks of the students for the select newspapers he is kind enough to send them every week, which, together with those received in exchange for the Scholastic, gives them abundant reading matter during their tree time.
—The third regular meeting of the Columbian Literary Club wast held Tuesday evening, Sept. 30th. The subject for debate was: “ Resolved, That the Missouri Compromise Bill was not a benefit to the nation.” Affirmative—Messrs S. Spalding and M. Burns. Negative—Messrs T. Simins and A. Keenan.
—Parents and guardians who desire to see the Scholastic regularly should have it sent to them directly from the printing-office, otherwise they may not see it except when certain names appear on the Roll of Honor or the List of Excellence. Subscription, one dollar and a half a year. Address Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
—Mr. John Collett, chief of the Bureau of Statistics and Geology, has the thanks of the College Librarian for the 8th, 9th and 10th annual reports of the Geological Survey of Indiana. President Corby has given the greater part of his private books to assist in re-establishing the College Library; we hope others will follow his example.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Holy Rosary, the Misea Regia, page 33 of the “ Kyriale,” will be sung. Vespers, of the Common of the Blessed Virgin, p. 36 oi the Vesperal. 1st Commemoration, of St. Bruno (Oct. 6th, p. 240). Antiphon SimUabo, p. 52; 2d Com., Simile est, p. 56; and, 3d, of the 18th Sunday after Pentecost, Antiph. Tidit ergo, p. 105, Vesperal.
—By indulgence of President Corby, reading in the refectory during supper has been dispensed with. A short passage from the Bible is read, as usual, before, and a few paragraphs from the Imitation of Christ after the meal. The boys, to show their appreciation of this new departure, carry on pleasant and instructive conversations. They are firm believers in the old saying that chatted meals are half digested.
—The Catholic Advance of Philadelphia says: “We are indebted to the Notbe Dame Scholastic for the title of

^-1
<
1
I
A!
** >».
y


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	75
t
one of our departments ‘ Art, Music and Literature.’ By the way, the late numbers of the Scholastic have been unusually brilliant. The weekly is a finished piece of journalism.’’ We wish we could persuade ourselves that the concluding lines were true; but, nevertheless, we thank the editors of The Advance for the kindness which overlooks our defects and prompts them to notice us so favorably.
—The Sth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathem Society took place Tuesday, Sept. 30th. Master C. Brinkman was admitted a member; Declamations were delivered by W. Rietz, A. Mergentheim, E. Orrick, G. L. Morgan, F. Phillips, G. K. Schoby, J. Weitzel, C. Tinley, J. Guthrie, J. O’Neal, E. Sugg, E. Otis, R. O’Connor, W. J. McCarthy, A. Payro. An essay was read by M. J. Burns, and a well written composition by Jos. Browne. The following are the public readers for this week: W. J. McCarthy, M. J. Burns, G. O’Neill, S. Browne, A. A. Caren, G. A. Orr, F. Grever.
—Last Monday a kind friend showed us the white woolen glove or mitten which was worn by our late Holy Father, the immortal Pius IX, when he breathed his last. This precious souvenir was on the hand of the illustrious Pontiff when he raised it for the last time to give his blessing to his weeping attendants, to the city, and to the world. Count Feretti gave it to Very Rev. Father Sorin, by whose order it has been encased in a suitable casket covered with glass, and fastened with the seal of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. It is now placed, with many other relics, in the church here at Notre Dame.
—The 2d regular meeting of the Confraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place Sept. 28th. Very Rev. A. Granger, and Bros. Leander and Philip were present. The following young gentlemen were elected to membership : E. C. Orrick, F. Quinn, Chas. Tinley ,(j. H. Homan, F. A. Kine, E. S. Sugg, R. Le Bourgeois, J. L. Morgan, J. F. Brown, A. F. Hellebusch, J. O’Neill, J. McCarthy, J. W. Weitzel, N. Nelson, P. Nelson, H. Roose, C. Roose, A. Payro, E. Otis, A. A. Bodine, Chas. McDermott, V. Gabel, F. McPhillips, J. Simms, E. Croarkin, H. E. Flemming, and J. Lydmar. The Confraternity numbers 29 members.
—One of Very Rev. Father Sorin’s numerous friends at Notre Dame gave him, a few days ago, three relics, which he has placed amongst his most prized treasures. One is a linen amice which was used for several years by Father Gallitzin, prince and priest. The second reliquary contains an amice and a purificator which belonged to the sainted Father Desseille, one of the early missionaries who labored here among the Indians when Notre Dame was nothing but a wilderness. A third casket holds a piece of white cloth which bears in marks of blood the imprint of the miraculous wound on the left hand of Louise Lateau, the wonderful stigmatica of Bois d’Haine, Belgium.
—The 17th regular. meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M.,at the Manual Labor School, was held on Wednesday, Sept. 24th. There were present on the occasion Very Rev. Father Granger, C. S. 0., Rev. Father Condon, C. 8. C., Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C.; and Brothers Philip, Hyppoly-tus, Hilarion, and Onesimus, C. S. C. Business having been transacted, essays, as usual, were read. Master A. Spangler’s was on “ Mary Queen of Scots,” and showed careful study of the subject. Master D. Clune’s, on “ The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass,” showed that the strict attention paid to the ceremonies of the Church at Notre Dame has a wonderful effect on the young men witnessing them. Master C. O’Maley read a brief essay on “ The Use of Candles in Religious Ceremonies.” After the essays, Very Rev. Father Provincial, in his usual brief but pointed way, delivered the ten minutes’ instruction. The next thing was the election of a censor, the choice falling on Mr. C. Brehmer. After singing a hymn as usual, the meeting was brought to a close.
—Our genial friend in the sunny South has been heard from. He is busily engaged—and he wants no variations played on this last word—in the study of law. The Scholastic, he says, is a most welcome visitor to him every week. Notwithstanding “ his mind' being enwrapt in contemplation over the familiar places, with the well known faces of dear friends which pass before his eyes
when perusing the locals and personals,” he cannot forbear complaining of the “false suspicions, bad practical jokes, and other perversities of heart from which even the best of men are not always exempt.” He wishes all his friends here well, and thanks them for the lively remembrance in which they keep him, but at the same time he earnestly entreats them to remember the saying of the wise man of old, “ that we must pay attention, not promiscuously, to the opinions of the multitude, but only to some opinions, and to others not; and again to the opinions of some, and of others not; and this to the opinion of those knowing and understanding.”
—On Wednesday last an excellent game of baseball was played between the Star of the East and the Juanita clubs. The following is the score:
STAB OF THE EAST	E.	0.	JUANITA. 1	R.	O.
H. Deehan, r. f.		2	3	S. Cambell, 2 b		0	4
J. P. Hagan, c	 L. Duginger, 1. f.		0	4	P. Jordon, p		1	3
	0	4	B. Claggett, c. f		1	3
F. Devoto, lb..		1	2	M. Burns, 3 b		0	4
J. Kinney, s. s		0	4	W. Cox, s. s		0	4
A. Burger, 2 b		1	3	W. Marantette, r. f....	1	3
G. Sugg, 3 b		1	3	W. Arnold, l b		2	2
C. Hagan, c. f			2	1	J. Duncan, 1. f		2	2
F. Bloom, p			1	3	N. Lent, c		0	2
	—	—	Total		—	—
Total		8	27		7	27
Scorers—Jones and Pike. Umpire—R. Russell.
—The Lemonnier Library Association gratefully acknowledge the following donations: Rev. Arthur Haviland, of Philadelphia, has presented five large packages containing complete volumes of Catholic .newspapers and magazines, amongst others are: the New York Weekly Register and Catholic Diary, Vol. 1,1833; Vols. II and III, 1834; Vols. IV and V, 1835; and Vol. VI, 1836. The Jesuit, or Catholic Sentinel, Vol. I, 1829, Vol IV, 1833; Vol. V, 1834. U. S. Catholic Press, Hartford, Conn., Vol. Ill, 1831; Lit. and Cath. Sentinel, Vol. I, Boston, 1835; The Green Banner, Vol. II, N. Y., 1837; Catholic Herald, Phil., 1838, ’39, and ’48; The Metropolitan Monthly Magazine, Vols. I, II, III; volumes of The Catholic World, Catholic Quarterly Review, Catholic Herald, N. Y., Boston Pilot, and the N. Y. Free-maris Journal. Mr. Condon, of South Bend, presented The Polar Sea and Tropical Worlds, by Dr. Hartwig; History of New York. Mr. Kirsch gave the Life of Lord Byron, by Thos. Moore; German Universities, Hart T. Bannon, Worcester, Mass., the Writings of Csesar, Justin, Cornelius Nepos, Virgil, and Horace, in Latin and English, 5 vols.; Sallust, in Latin and French. Master John Brady, of Tuscaloosa, Alabama, presented on the part of Rev. Father Crowley, of the same place, “ Antiquitates Celto-Normannicw et Scandicce, containing the Chronicle of “ Man and the Isles,” abridged by Camden, and now first published, complete, from the original MS. in the British Museum ; with an English Translation, and notes printed by Aug. Frid. Stein at Copenhagen, 1786, also a copy of the Boston Gazette, Monday, March 12,1770.
—The furious storm which occurred on Friday night, Sept. 26th, was calculated to arouse feelings of awe in the minds of the most frivolous. Unlike most of our storms, it was attended with very little wind. Its approach was therefore slow. Flashes of lightning illumined the northern sky for hours before sunset, yet it was not until eight o’clock that the first drops of rain began to fall. At nine the steady downpour seemed to threaten another deluge. The centre of electric disturbance was now in the zenith. The new roof of the College was put to a severe test, and all imperfections in the soldering were made manifest. No serious damage, however, occurred, although the hail, which at one time fell in large masses, threatened to force a passage through the glass which at present covers the lower stories of the rotunda. Portions of the unfinished masonry were broken, and the excavations
76
THE NOTUE DAME SCHOLASTIC B	« U	•
made for the pipes communicating with the steam-house were flooded so as to endanger the steam-house itself. The actual injury, however, resulted no further than in the delay of breakfast for one hour the following morning,—a departure from rule which has not occurred here in twenty years. The metallic portions of the roof drew the electricity from the clouds. One of the lightning rods showed evidence of having been struck. A friend of ours, sitting near the steam-pipes in his room, and resting his knee against them, experienced a shock more powerful than those usually inflicted by a judicious operator with an electrical machine. The telegraph posts between here and St. Mary’s were in many cases split from top to bottom. It is by the manifest favor of Divine Providence that no serious damage occurred. On the following morning rain was still falling; the incessant flashes of lightning had assumed a purplish tint. Vast gullies and waterways had been washed out in various places. Water lay on the surfaces of the fields, as when the snows of winter are thawed by the vernal sun. The river ran bank high, turbid with alluvium. The leaves, still green and plentiful, were knocked from the frees by the violent hail, and formed a carpeted walk for the pedestrian. All unite in regarding this as quite an exceptional visitation.
—Among the many recreation days of the year, there are none that the Juniors look forward to with more pleasure and anxiety than the one in which they visit the “ famous city of Bertrand ” Michigan,—a city of the past, which was at one time a noted place, if the dramatist who wrote “The Prince of Portage Prairie, or the Burning of Bertrand,” did not draw on his imagination. Last Wednesday, the day being fine, and everything in readiness, the long line of Juniors started on their way, headed by Kettig’s Band, and accompanied by Prof; Edwards, Bros. Philip Neri, Leander and Hugh. After getting about three hundred yards from the college, one of the number looked back and noticed “ Dick ” scenting the air with ears extended. The boy gave a shrill whistle and with a few bounds the favorite dog was at the head of the ranks. The Niles road was reached just as the clock in the church chimed one. The jolly group wended their way, making the time merry with joke and song, and as they passed through the rich farming country of the St. Joseph valley more than one Maud Muller gazed longingly after the joyous crowd. Farmer Lyons’s was reached at two o’clock, where a rest was taken and the old oaken bucket brought into requisition. At 2% the line of march was again taken up, and Bertrand reacned at three o’clock. Three cheers were given as the Michigan line was reached, and all betook themselves to the nearest place at which they could procure refreshments. The place is a store, restaurant and post-office combined, known as “ The Sign of the Horse-Shoe.” After refreshing the inner man and thanking the proprietor for his kindness, all started for the depot, or Bertrand station. The conductor proved to be a whole-souled man, and took the party at excursion rates. In fifteen minutes after boarding the train, St. Mary’s station was reached. Very Bev. Father General was at the depot and exchanged a few friendly words with each one present. Arriving at the college, the Prefect of Discipline met the boys and said that as, doubtless, they were latigued after their long walk, they might remain in bed an hour longer next morning, a favor that was highly appreciated by the tired pedestrians. By the way, the boys marched in grand style'from the depot to the College; their caps were decorated with sprigs of. green, each shouldering a slick for.an improvised musket, like
---------Ajax with his torn up tree Stopping for awhile great Hector’s victory.
The air rang with the strains of patriotic songs. Three rousing cheers were given for President Corby as they neared the College. Supper was now awaiting them, ana all did ample justice to the meal and expressed themselves well pleased with their visit to Bertrand.
—“The law,” said Judge Ashurst in a charge, “is open to all men—to the poorj as well as to the rich.” “ So is the London Tavern,” added Horne Tooke, who was present.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. Ashe, R. C. Adams, M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. P. Brice, J. B. Berteling, A J. Burger, Sr., W. Boulger, F. W. Bloom, F. Bell, B. J. Claggett, W. Carpenter, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, B. Casey, J. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clemants, T. B. Campbell, R. S. Gampbell, D. Donohue, Geo. Donnelly, J. Delaney, L. H. Duginger, J. Dempsey, M. English, E. Fogarty, M. B. Falvey, E. Gooley, C. L. Hagan, F. Humbert, J. Halloran, D. Harrington, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hindeling, J. Jordan, R. L. Johnson, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, J. Kurz, F. Kinsella, A A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, J. B. McGrath, W. B. AIcGorrisk, P. McCormick, L. Marantette, C. F. Mueller, J. J. McErlain, M. J. McEniry, J. R. Marlette, E. Murphy, E. Molitor, P. Maguire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, W. Megee,' J. F. Mug, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Pike, H. Pollock, R. E. Russell, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, S. T. Spalding, T. Simms, T. 8. Summers, R. D. Stewart, W. Schofield, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, L. Smith, J. S. Smith, S. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, H. Wathen, A Zahm, T. Zeien, C. Zarley, P. F. Shea, J. Carter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A. A. Burmeister, T. B. Byrne, F. Becker, AL J. Burns, G. C. Castanedo, F. L. Carter, J. V. Gabel, A A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, S. T. Dering, F. L. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. Gibbons, Fred Glade, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, J. K. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, A Mergentheim, F. Mc-Phillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, A P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neill, E. Otis, G. A Orr, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, F. J. Rettig, A. W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A 8. Rock, K. J. Semmes, J. K. Sehobey, E. G. Sugg, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Sheid, C. A Tinley, C. H. Theile, B. Wilder, W. T. Weney, B. A. Zekind.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, F. Mattes, J. 8. Courtney, J. M. Courtney, L. J. Young, C. J. Young, J. H. Garrity, G. E. 1’ourtilotte, W. R Cool-baugh, G. P. Van Mourick, A Van Mourick, C. E. Droste, J. 8. Chaves, H. A. Kitz, C. L. Garrick, F. J. Leach, Guy Woodson, E. N. O’Donnell, A. J. Kelly, H. C. Snee, E. A Howard, J. W. Bannister, W. H. Hanavin, F. B. Farrelly, J. H. Dwenger, J. E. Johnson.
F

a /•J
*—;
V
4.4
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. R. Marlett, J. Delaney, J. Keena, A Zahm, W. Schofield, H. B. Dulaney, J. Strawn, C. B. Van Dusen, H. Deehan, W. McAtee, T. Zeien, P. B. Larkin, AI. Maloney, J. Ryan, T. flindeling, J. F. Mug, J. Brice, B. Pollock, J. Malone, J. Carter, E. Gooley, C. W. AIcDermott, R. J. Semmes, G. Castanedo, J. F. Brown, R. Le Bourgeois, C. Perry, fl. Dunn, A flintze, R. O’Connor, E. Croarkin, F. Reeve, A Caren, U. Rietz, J. Morgan, E. Sugg, J. Gibbons, C. Thiele, F. Glade, 8. Hellebusch, J. Homan, F. Kleine, J. Larkin, E. Otis, Geo. Rhodius, P. Rasche, A AL Coghlin, JL.. W. Coghlin, J. Devitt, O. Farrelly, 8. Dering, 0. Rose, J. B. Wilder.	J’ s’
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J.AL Courtney, D. G. Taylor, J. S. Courtney,G.E.Tourtillotte, C. L. Garrick, C. E. Droste, F. Mattes, G. Woodson, G. P. Van Mourick, H. C. Snee, W. R. Coolbaugh, F. J. Leach, E. A Howard, H. A Kitz, W. H. Hanavin, F. B. Farrelly, A E. Schmuckle, J. 8. Chaves, A Van Alourick, J. H. Dwenger, J. W. Bannister, J. A. Kelly, J. E. Johnson, W. V. O’Malley, J. H. Garrity, F. L Garrity, L. J. Young, C. Young, E.' N. O’Donnell.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studtbs ]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—T. Devitt, J. Devitt, J. B. Wilder,
r
>1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
77
M. A. Vedder, E. Gaines; Grammar—T. Devitt, J. Seeger, C. H. Theile, E. Croarkin, T. Hindeling, E. McGorrisk, W. Coghlin, J. Wilder, H. Dunn; Geography and History—T. Hindeling, C. Roberts, T. Byrne, H. Backmann, J. Brown, E. Croarkin, O. Farrelly,R. O’Connor,P. Rasche; Arithmetic—H.Guynn, H. Dunn, F. Kleine, E. Sugg, J. Brown, J. Morgan, J. Malone ; Algebra —W. Connolly, P. Larkin, T. Conlan, J. Norfleet, A. Zahm, J. McEniry, T. Grever, L. Duginger; Latin—L. H. Dnginger, P. Larkin, G. Clarke; Greek—R. Semmes, R. O’Brien, J. Kurz.
ONE MILE WEST OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
I
k
i
h*
•	—Miss L. Ritchie, graduate of ’75, paid her Alma Mater a short visit on Thursday.
—	Thursday, Oct., 2d, was the grand feast of the Holy Angels’ Society. They will be heard from next week.
—	A singular specimen of petrified sawdust maybe seen in the Museum. It is the gift of Mrs. Butts, of South Bend.
—On the patronal feast day of their Prefect of Discipline, Tuesday the 30th Inst., the young ladies took a long walk, which was much enjoyed.
—Profound thanks are-due Mr. G-. Deimel, of Hancock, Mich., and to the returned travellers, for beautiful specimens presented to St. Mary’s Museum.
—The sermon on Sunday by the Rev. Chaplain, Father Shortis, was a lucid and interesting account of the theology of and devotion to the holy angels.
—The return, from a temporary absence, of the esteemed French teacher, and former Prefect of Discipline, was hailed with pleasure by the young ladies.
•—The subject treated in the meeting of St. Cecilia’s Society, on Saturday last, was “The General History of Music.” The lecture was the introduction to a series.
—The St. Cecilia’s Society held its first meeting of the session on Saturday evening, the 27th inst; the Directress, Sister M. Elizabeth, presiding. The election of officers was deferred.
—The cultivation of the aesthetical, by the analysis of the various works of different composers, is invaluable to the student of music. This is the object of the St. Cecilia’s Society at St. Mary’s.
—The Christian Art Society, Sister Mary Florentine presiding, held its first meeting Sept. 24th, in St. Luke’s Studio. The reorganization and election of officers for the the year were postponed until the return of Mother Superior.
—A very fine amethyst from the shores of Lake Superior, and weighing forty-four pounds, was sent to grace the collection of minerals in the Academy, by Miss Hope Russell, a graduate of ’79. Truly a gem of hope to the Museum.
—The Gregorian Society, Sister Mary Lucretia Directress, held its first regular meeting on Wednesday evening, the 24th inst. The officers elected for the coming year are: Mary Usselman, President; Adelaide Kirchner, Vice-President; Ellen Galen, Secretary; Nellie McGrath, Treasurer. The Society is composed of the Catholic pupils, and is organized for the purpose of practicing Church music.
—On Sunday evening, after the reading of “ Rosa Mystica," Very Rev. Father General said he had something yet to add to what had been said respecting the prize gold medal for penmanship. He said it would not necessarily be won by the competitor who wrote the best hand at the close of the scholastic year, but rather by the one who had made the greatest progress. He mentioned the letters received for the month of September. He said that all the monthly specimen letters will be bound and passed around .for inspection at the Annual Commencement.
—“ Rosa Mystica " was edited by Miss Rebecca Ewing and Miss Nellie McGrath, of the Graduating Class, and Miss
Annie Cavenor, of the First Senior Class. The following is the index: Editorial: Rosa Mystica; Our Lady of Sorrows; Welcome Home; Form and Substance; The Gay Nine; News Letter, and Reminiscences; Piety the Virtue most appropriate to the Feminine Character; The House on her Shoulders; Prognostications; Eccentric People; A Brilliant Constellation; The Music Department; Death of Father Reville, O. P.; Thanks to our Chaplain; The Lecture of Saturday; Answer to the Nuns; ZoOlogy and its Prospects; Constant Reminders; The Art of Composition to the mind, what the plow is to the soil; Frozen Hearts; St. Mary’s Grandchildren; Attraction of Gravitation; A Caesar among us; European Dynasties; Wisdom’s Ways; Violent Hyperbole; A Gem of Hope; Sr. Luke’s Studio; Holy Angels.—A Poem in honor of the -Feast of St. Michael, Sept. 29th.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Annie Woodin, Rebecca Ewing. Sarah Hambleton, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Neteler, Eleanor Keenan.
1st Senior Class—Misses Annie Ryan, Henrietta Rosing, Angela Ewing, Catharine Quinn, Adelaide Kirchner, Anna Cortright, Mary Sullivan, Annie Cavenor, Catharine Ward, Harriet Buck, Alice Farrell.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Herrick, Angela Dillon, Susan Smith, Catharine Claffey.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Mabel Roys, Elizabeth Bruser, Agnes Dillon, Mary Fitzgerald, Clara De Lapp, Caroline Gall Bertha Julius, Caroline Banister.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Margaret Piersol, Frances Murphy, Lillie Lancaster, Clara Stitzel, Teresa Zahm, Elizabeth Callinan, Jennie Keys, Mabel Hamilton, Caroline Gavin, Eithna O’Connor, Louise Populorum, Mary Campbell, Helen Hackley, Angelique Taylor, Adela Dessaint, Catharine Wall, Agnes Mc-Kinnis, Catharine Campbell, Annie Orr, Laura French, Julia Butts.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Lulu Hammond, Flora Reindhard, Dora Horner, Minnie Salomon, Sabina Semmes, Margaret Fishburne.
3d Prep. Class—Misses Emma Moxon, Catharine Edelen, Emma Joseph.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses Catharine Lancaster, Mary Chirhart.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Elizabeth Considine, Elise Papin, Minnie Fisk, Martha Zimmerman.
FRENCH.
Promotions: Misses Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Annie Cortright, Louise Neu, Mary Campbell, Mary Cox, Julia Butts, Angela Ewing.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Caroline Gall, Dora Horner, Mary Usselman, Flora Reinhardt, Minnie Salomon, Bertha Julius.
2d Class—Misses Mary Bischoff, Catharine Hackett,'Catharine Claffey, Minnie Loeber, Laura Mahon.
3d Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Catharine Ward, Susan Smith, Mabel Hamilton, Maud Casey, Ida MolL
4th Class—Misses Agnes Dillon, Catharine Quinn, Elizabeth Bruser, Clara Stitzel, Margaret Piersol, Catharine Campbell, Cecilia Gibbons, Mary Beutlinger, Mary Flemming, Mary Duncan, Clara Ginz, Catharine Harrison, Mary Hutchinson, Minnie Carter, Mary Chirhart, Elizabeth Considine.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clara Silverthorne, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Rebecca Ewing, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Cavenor, Catharine Ward, Annie Ryan, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Ctaharine Quinn, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Catharine Danaher, Adelaide Kirchner, Adel J a Gordon. Annie McGrath, Catharine Lloyd/ Angela Dillon, Agnes Joyce, Edith Alden, Jessie Herrick, Lola Otto, Josephine Mitchell. lorantha Semmes, Sarah Winston, Mary O’Neil, Mary Fitzgerald, Anna Hoadley, Adella Geiser, Susan Smith, Minnie Loeber, Catharine Donnelly, Caroline Bannister, Ollie Williams, Clara De Lapp, Caroline Gall, Marie Dallas, Bertha Julius, Mabel Roys, Kathleen Wells, Mary Bischoff, Mary English, Laura McMahon, Elizabeth Bruser, Teresa Zahm, Margaret Piersol, Mary Campbell, Ethna O’Connor, Jennie Keys, Frances Murphy, Ellen Hackley, Lillie Lancaster, Margaret Simms, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Hatch, Ellen Kinzie, Clara Stitzel, Angelique Taylor, Estella Gillen,
78
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Annie Keenan, Adella Dessaint, Ellen Thompson, Catharine Wall, Agnes McKinnis, Caroline Gavin, Emma Reynolds, Johanna Baroux, Lulu jHammond, Minnie Cox, Dora Homer, Jennie Tailman, Anna Rasche, Mary Michell, Mary Halloran, Catharine Edelen, Emma Moxon, Effle Atwood, par excellence. Misses Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Annie Maloney, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Sullivan, Hattie Buck, Angela Ewing, Louisa Neu, Mary Usselman, Annie Jones, Elizabeth Calliman, Sarah Purdy, Minnie Salomon, Flora Reinhard, Mary McFadden.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Catharine Claffey, Agnes Dillon, Linda Fox, Catharine Campbel], Annie Orr, Julia Butts, Laura French, Louise Pop-ulornm, Marie McN. Garrity, Celestine Lemontey, Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Maud Casey, Annie Leyden, Margaret Fishburne, Maud Lewis, Julia Wells, Elise Dallas, Angela Watson, Grace Taylor, Rose McCloskey, Catharine Harrison, Mary Hutcheson, Ellen Ryan, Catharine Ryan, Minnie Carter, Cecilia Gibbons, Mary Paquette, Catharine Lancaster, Mary Flemming, Mary Duncan, Mary Reutlinger, Emma Joseph, Mary Chirhart, Jane Barlow, Bertha Legnard, Estella Populorum, Clara Ginz, Louise English, Ida Moll, Elizabeth Considine, Mary Fitzgerald, Lillie Robinson, Virgina Orr, Margaret Baroux, par excellence. Misses Mary Feehan, Sophie Papin, Ellen Lloyd, Ada Clarke, Martha Zimmerman, Blanche Garrity, Minnie Fisk, Elise Papin, Isabella Hackett.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Noy. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l	No. 7	No. 3,	No. 5,
	Fast Ex.	Pac Ex.	Night Ex	Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave	1L45 p.m.	9.00 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
■Rochester,		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		4.50 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,^	Areive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestlin.;	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	••••••••«
Korest	  .	9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 ‘	
Uma..................	10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Pt. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 ‘	
Plymouth,			3.50 “	2.46 A.M.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Abbive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, ■Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,............	2.46 A.M.	11.48 “	8.55 •*	
Ft Wayne,	;..	655 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,				8.55 “	4.20 “	L30 A M	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	2.33 “	
Crestline,	Abbive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6.05 a.m
Mansfield,.... ........	12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	655 “
Orrville,			2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	915 “
Alliance,	-	4 00 “	1L15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rochester,		652 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,.... Abbive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. AH others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E, MYEBS, G. P, & T. A,
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its Chicago, st. Paul and Minneapolis line is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee. PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.	•
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-May 35, 1879.
	♦Man	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -Mich. City -“ Niles - - - - -“ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson 	 Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13' “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 « 7 40 “	5 55 p. m	9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	5 30 p.m 9 40 “ 12 35 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and Sontli Bend. Bivision.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “ 6 38 “ Ar. Niles —	9 25 “	715 “		♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaiJy.	+Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth, H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A, Chicago, DI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. ’	G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
79
cr. mish
Keeps the Best Line of CIGARS, TOBACCO and SMOKERS’ ARTICLES In the City.
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK,
Sontli Bend, Ind.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p. m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleveland, 705 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4, 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
RAILROAD.
Depots, foot of Lake St., Indiana Ave. and Sixteenth St., and Canal and Sixteenth Sts. Ticket offices, 59 Clark St. and at the depots. Leave. Arrive.
Ottawa & Streator Passenger........* 7:25 a.m.	* 7:30 p.m
Nebraska and Kansas Express........* 9:30 a.m.	* 4:05 p.m
Rockford and Freeport Express......*10:C0 a.m.	* 3:20 p.m
Dubuque and Sioux City Express.....*10:00 a.m.	♦ 3:20 p.m
Pacific Fast Express...............*10:30 a.m.	*3:40 p.m
Kansas and Colorado Express........*10:30	a.m.	* 3:40 p.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......♦ 8:25 a.m.	* 1:35 p.m
Aurora Passenger....................*3:15	p.m. *7:55a.m
Mendota and Ottawa Express.........* 4:35 p.m. *10:40 a.m
Aurora Passenger...................* 5:30 p.m. * 8:55 a.m
Downer’s Grove Accommodation.......*6:15 p.m. *7:15 a.m Freeport and Dubuque Express.......* 9:30 pm.* 6:35 a.m
Pacific Night Express for Omaha....+ 9:05 p.m.	J 6:55 a.m
Texas Fast Express.................*9:05	p.m.	j 6:55 a.m
Kansas City and St Joe Express.....+ 9:05 p.m.	j 6:55 a.m
C. B. & Q. Palace Dining Cars and Pullman 16 wheel Sleeping Cars run between Chicago and Omaha on the Pacific Express.
*Sundays excepted. tSaturday excepted. JMonday excepted.
For Fares, Time-Tables and Sleeping Car Accommodations, apply to
C. W. Smith,	James R. Wood,
Traffic Manager, . .	Gen. Pass. Agent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 am. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 » 9.55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3 20 p.m. 2.30 11 2 03 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 913 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abbive	Leave - - Michigan City, - - -	- - - La Porte, - - -- - - Stiillwell, - - - -	- - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - -	- - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - -	- -	- Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - - - - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton, - - - - - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - - - - Cincinnati,- - - -- - Louisville, - - - - - - Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m. 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 232 “ 3.00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m.	8.05 p.m 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 “ 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Pern 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m.
“	“ 6.40 pm. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
.	RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car - until a Late Breakfast Hour.
JgFBirths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis. Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
great southern railway line.
C. T». ATMORE, General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
UNIVEBSITT OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUItBING.')
THIS UNIVERSITY’ was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was char- 4 tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping -< • Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topits are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.	’
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but’students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free'on application to the President,
Very Rev^ W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.	f