Votre Dame Scholastic.
Oisce quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 19, 1877.
Number 37.
Harmony.
BY MRS. ANNB LYNCH BOTTA.
He who with bold and skilful hand sweeps o’er The organ keys of some cathedral pile, ’ Flooding with music vault and nave and aisle While on his ear falls but a thunderous roar, In the composer’s lofty motive free, Knows well that all that temple vast and dim, Thrills to its base with anthem, psalm or hymn, True to the changeless laws of harmony.
So he who on these clanging words of life, With firm sweet touch plays the Great Master’s score Of Truth and Love and Duty, evermore, Knows too, that far beyond this roar and strife, Thongh he may never hear in the true time These notes must all accord in symphonies sublime.
—Scribner, for March.
Classical Education of Women.
If women are to be again afforded opportunities for acquiring classical and scientific education, they will merely return to the standard of culture which prevailed as early as the VHIth century. During the middle ages, the period which it is so fashionable to characterize as “dark,” they enjoyed university privileges on the Continent, especially in the institutions directly under the control of the Catholic Church. lu the universities of Bologna, Genoa, Rome, and Padua, they studied and taught; and they were awarded degrees as late as the eighteenth century. They were professors of medicine, canon law, mathematics, natural science, and the languages. It was a woman who succeeded Cardinal Mezzofanti—Matilda Tambovini, who was thought the fittest successor for the greatest linguist of the age.
I do not believe that at any earlier time primary intelligence was so generally diffused among all classes of both sexes as is it now. It is but yesterday that war ceased to engross the attention of two-thirds of the world; and schools do not withstand battles. Higher education, especially in Europe, where caste prescribes the boundaries of mental as well as of social development, was limited, as a rule, in every age, to those whose riches and whose leisure supplied the means of pursuing it, for, although Hallam admits the establishment of free cathedral schools at an early date, and there is clear testimony that the Church endeavored to provide for the talented few, and maintained scholarships for them at certain of the universities, still the supposition is undoubtedly correct that these eleemosynary aids only made exceptions to the general rule. History appears to warrant the presumption that in Ireland popular educationjwas more widely spread than on the.continent, the
Irish kings making grants for the schools prior to the ninth century. How many of these survived the English invasion of 1172 it is fruitless to enquire; we know that any remnants which had escaped repeated rebellion and uninterrupted tyranny up to the time of the Reformation, disappeared then under the flame and the sword; and legislation, for nearly three hundred years, kept the grass on their razed foundations. A larger per centage of population of the world is now receiving elementary instruction in every civilized country, except Italy and Spain, than at any previous period; but the classical standard of education for women, which was once recognized by the Church and by “ society,” seems to have been gradu illy lost on acount of the homage which “society” requires women to pay to its modern follies and pageantry.
Can anyone suppose for a moment that this higher education will make women any less domestic? It had not that effect on Sir Thomas More’s daughters I John Milton took desperate -means to d.eprive his children of learning, and they were coarse and brutal, even toward their father. Will it unfit women to be amiable and useful wives ? Oh! ask any wife,any husband, if their affection does not derive exquisite happiness from a mutual enjoyment of the same subjects, the same books—from parallels of thought, ask them if mental equality is not, next to sacramental love, the golden bond of marriage ? Less useful ? Why, is not the educated wife likely to be a better helpmate to her husband than the frivolous or ignorant one ? What more beautiful household spectacle is there than the tender wife, her husband’s intellectual peer, dividing his toil, doing his work when he is weary or sick, and performing *his labor with skill and satisfaction ? Does not every man value and love such a wife more than a butterfly for whom he is merely to derive the wherewith to purchase prismatic hues and sweets ?
Does anyone suppose that classical and scientific training will unfit a woman for the duties of the mother ?
Shall we not give her the highest education for that very . reason that it is her life-long function to educate others*
In the real university for women, the highest honor should be bestowed upon the accomplishments of the heart, the next, for domestic skill; the third, for substantial learning.
It has already been intimated that a high standard would be found for the education of women at a much earlier period than ours, and adequate proof was given, so far as the fifteenth century is concerned, by citing the household and the letters of Sir Thomas More.
It would be very gratifying to find that, as society advanced in education and refinement, the opinions of the eminent Chancellor on the equal adaptation of learning to both sexes passed into more general acceptance. There
578
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was one great man who, notwithstanding the illustrious example of Sir Thomas More, held .very contrary opinions —I mean no less a man, no less a genius than John Milton.
I propose to place the opinions and the conduct of these two representative men of their respective epochs in antithesis, for two reasons.
To show that the great Catholic scholar was in favor of the highest education for women.
To demonstrate that the principle of superficial or slight education for women is non-Catholic.
John Milton was born in 1608, nearly 200 years after Sir Thomas More. The tidal wave of the Reformation had broken its blood-tipped crest, and the receding waters were everywhere narrowing their lines. The advocates of Protestantism had been boasting for a century and a half of the “ emancipation of intellect ” which the new doctrine of Protestantism was declared to have brought about. Milton’s was the noblest character which the Reformation had produced. His splendid genius was not his best part ; his life appears to have been free from gross faults from the cradle to the grave. In addition to his marvellous natural gifts, he had advantages of education and experience unknown in the days of Sir Thomas More. Spenser, Shakspeare, Beaumont and Fletcher, Ben Jonson, Hudi-bras Butler, had written. Bacon died when Milton was sixteen years old,—already a classical scholar. Kepler and Tycho Brahe had published astronomies. Scaliger’s history and criticisms were read freely in France, and Descartes, Pascal, Bourdaloue, La Bruy^re and Montaigne were supplying nutriment to philosophical minds in all Europe. Camoens and Cervantes in Spain. Grotius iu Holland, and hundreds of dimmer lights had shone or were shining. There were newspapers, telescopes, thermometers, and conductors and non-conductors of electricity, barometers, coffee and tobacco. Large settlements were effecting in America, and civilization had opened new doors in the West.
Mil ton had many advantages of education over Sir Thomas More. The two men were like each other in several respects; they possessed dissimilar gifts, but in almost equal degree, and, strangely enough, they were somewhat similarly afflicted. Both were scholars from early childhood; both had fleeting inclinations toward the ecclesiastical state; both were fond of the viol; and both suffered awful trials on account of their wives.
Milton’s first choice was the volatile and dashing Mary Powell; it was the wedding of the Sybarite and the Presbyterian; the frail and fickle vine, thrown in the moral iceberg. She bore the incompatibility for a month, left him to his grim life and his Greek books, and returned to her father, a gallant gentleman who had sold her to Milton for money enough to pay off a mortgage. Milton really missed her; and finding that she would not come back in response to his demands upon her obedience, prepared his Treatise on Divorce, a most tremendous argument, weightier with erudition than with reason, which he sought to have enacted as a law by Cromwell’s Parliament. Milton was Latin secretary to Cromwell.
He believed that a man should have a right to put his wife away if she went to a matinee at a theatre without his consent, or for other such grave and mortal offences, and that he should have the privilege of remarrying immediately, but that she should wait a year! I have not Milton’s prose writings at hand to quote from, as I
would wish; but I recommend his treatise on divorce to lovers of curiosities of learned literature.
Mary Powell did not take affright at the proposed divorce law; but when she heard that her Puritan spouse was paying his addresses to another lady, she went back to him at once, apologized for her freak, and was forgiven. They lived together, incongruously, until Mary died, and three daughters survived her.
Did the Protestant scholar Milton educate his daughters like the Catholic scholar Sir Thomas More?
After Mary’s death, Milton married again, but his second wife died two years later; and he undertook a third venture with a young woman who survived him.
It was after his third marriage that his greatest literary work was accomplished. He remained in politics until the restoration of Charles II in 1660, and became totally blind in 1662, although he had been partially so for more than ten years. He. was poor. Paradise Lost, it will be remembered, brought him only five pounds, and that in his extreme age, at the height of his fame. He could not afford to employ competent amanuenses during the twenty years or more in which his eyes rendered him little or no service; he had to look to his wife and daughters for the literary as well as mechanical aid which his habits, tastes and necessities required.
Sir Thomas More, the Catholic scholar, had no such urgent reason to educate Jtis daughters. Although not a wealthy man, his professional income was very large, and he felt no obligation for training his daughters to any avocation, or for any toil beyond that of Christian industry and their own predilections. He educated them because he knew it to be his duty to do so; because he recognized the fact that God had given his daughters minds to be developed precisely as He had given his sons minds for the same purpose. He considered his daughters’ minds gifts from Heaven to be utilized for good on earth, and returned to Heaven enlarged and beautified. It, was his Catholic faith which guided his sense of duty. So he taught them the dead and living languages, the sciences, and as much of the arts as their tastes and talents justified.
But John Milton presents a curious and mournful contrary. A great scholar himself, one would naturally suppose that he would find his highest delight in making scholars of his children. Sir Thomas More married his first wife while she was very young in order that he might be able to cultivate her mind the more thoroughly, and so form her mental preferences that ■ their constant companionship might be perfectly congenial.. He chose his second with a view to giving his children the counsels and care of a mature woman; and shrew as she proved, he greatly softened her by his amiability, wit, and accomplishments, while enjoying in the highest degree the learning of his daughter Margaret.
But Milton seems to have looked upon all his wives as mere servants or menials; and between him and his daughters there was neither society nor affection. More’s household was an exquisite spectacle of love, culture and equality. Milton bestowed upon his family no love, and received none from them. One of his most flattering biographers admits that he gave his daughters no education whatever. When blindness compelled him to use their assistance, he taught them to read and pronounce mechanically the various languages from which he was accustomed to draw for his English or Latin compositions; and they learned in this irrational manner Hebrew, Greek, Latin, German, French,
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	579
Italian and Spanish. They wrote in several of these at his dictation, and they never understood the meaning of a single sentence thus prepared by their own hands.
Which comes nearer the ideal of a Christian family, the Catholic More’s or the Puritan Milton’s ?
. The unfortunate poet reaped in his old age the harvest whose seed he had planted in his prime. Harsh, unfeeling, unnatural father as he was, his wife and daughters were coarse and ignorant women whose degraded minds vented their natural force in mean and brutal ways. They conspired to deceive and annoy him; they helped the tradesmen to rob him of his hard-earned means; they habitually misrepresented his accounts; they gave him back, in his misery and white hairs, the results of his theory about woman’s inferiority. He had always acted on the hypothesis that they ought not be educated; and on his very death bed he cursed them to strangers, and in his will denounced and disowned them.
But it was the sight of his daughter Margaret that drew from Sir Thomas More the only tears he shed during his journey from the Tower to the scaffold; and upon her weeping form fell his last and tenderest blessing!
M. F. S.
The Transfiguration.
Of the many masterpieces which may be seen in Rome, there is none more brilliant or which is so worthy of immortality as the Transfiguration of our Lord, painted by Raphael. The words of the Evangelist describing the event in the life of Christ are:
At that time: “ Jesus taketh unto Him Peter and James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain apart. And He was transfigured before them. And His face did shine as the sun: and His garments became white as snow. And behold, there appeared before them Moses and Elias talking with Him. Then, Peter answering, said to Jesus: Lord, it is good for us to be here: if Thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for Thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. And as, he was yet speaking, behold a bright cloud overshadowed them. And lo, a voice out of the cloud, saying: This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased: hear ye Him. And the disciples hearing, fell upon their face, and were very much afraid. And Jesus came and touched them, and said to them: Arise, and fear not. And they lifting up their eyes saw no one, but only Jesus. And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying: Tell the vision to no man, till the Son of man be risen from the dead.”
The artist seems almost inspired in raising himself to the loftiness of the Evangelist; to convince oneself of this, it is sufficient to cast one’s eyes upon this admirable composition, where the grandeur of the style answers to the grandeur of the thought. This page of the poet of painters breathes forth an ardent faith; the beholder feels that the work was born of Christian inspiration. Raphael has chosen the moment when Christ conceals His humanity. The Saviour no longer appears to belong to earth; He seems to-return to heaven to partake of the glory of the Father; His gaze is turned towards the throne which awaits Him after the sorrowful ordeal of Calvary; His head is bathed in an atmosphere of clearest light. Elias and Moses have raised themselves slightly with Him, their eyes riveted with love upon that divine Head which isjto redeem hu
manity. They alone can bear the brilliancy of the rays of glory which illumine the Saviour. The three disciples are struck with stupor, and have fallen with fear to the ground. They cannot yet gaze upon the Divinity in Its splendor.
At the foot of the mountain are the other Apostles in prayer; an old man and some women bring a child possessed by a demon; the crowd, which pressed continually on the steps of Jesus, follow eagerly; the kneeling woman points to the child, who seems to cry aloud with frenzy; with her lips she seems to call upon the Apostles to cure the child, while the hand pointing to the body speaks to the same effect. The head of the old man, as he brings the child forward, inspires both terror and hope. Nevertheless, looked at as a work of art, this part of the painting has been the subject of grave reproach in this, that it is a subject distinct in itself, which mars the general effect of the whole work by distracting the attention. The reproach may perhaps be just in the critic; but the Christian looks at it differently. It is the Christian thought which inspired the artist, and guided his hand while tracing out this part of his work. The women, the child, the old man, the crowd who press behind are the ocular witnesses who confirmed the words of the Apostles and deposed in favor of the law against incredulity. However it may be, it may be said that if the divine Sanzio has sometimes equalled, he has never surpassed that perfect harmony of contour which is so precise without stiffness and so graceful without effeminacy, that majestic simplicity in draping, that fruitfulness in invention and that depth of expression which make many excellent judges prefer to all the works of Raphael that sublime page which was the last effort of his powerful genius. Unfortunately.the coloring of the painting has been seriously injured; some years after the death of Raphael the delicate shades had already disappeared, and time has only continued these ravages. Vasari attributes the cause of this to the lampblack used in sketches by Julio Romano.
Ovid.
Ovid, whom Seneca calls the most spirited of poets, has derived nearly as much celebrity from his misfortunes as from his writings. In an age when public favor and the good will of the sovereign endeavored to reward the man of genius, a sudden stroke of imperial wrath snatched Ovid away from his friends, his pleasure and his glory, and banished him to the frozen shores of the Euxine s'ea, a wild and distant corner of the Empire. There he pined away in tears and despair, no less weak in supporting his misfortune than powerless in disarming the arm that had smitten him. We give here a short sketch of this so suddenly interrupted life, the principal events of which are found in the writings of the poet himself.
Publius Ovidius Naso was born at Sulmo,* a town in the territory of the Peligni, at the distance of 90 miles from Rome. He came into the world in the year of Rome 711, 43 years before Christ, on the very day when the victorious consuls Hirtius and Pansa f fell in the battle of Mutina, and in the memorable year in which Cicero gave his XH.
* Sulmo mihi patria est, gelidis uberrimus undis;
Millia qui toties distat ab urbe decem.—Tristes, iv, 10.
t Editus hie ego sum: necnon, ut tempora noris, Cum cecidit fato consul uterque pari.—Id.
580	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Philippic and paid with his life for his courage and his eloquence. About the same time Virgil came to Rome with his Eclogues in his hands and claimed the patrimony of which he had been deprived, and Horace, about 23 years old, placed himself under the standards of Brutus and Cassius, where he continued for nearly two years, until the fatal battle of Philippi. In the midst of these civil troubles the parents of Ovid wisely maintained their reputation and preserved their fortune, and when peace had returned they could give their sons large estates in the neighborhood of Sulmo, rich gardens not far from Rome and a house near the capital. (See Pont., iv, 8, and Trist., i, 3.) The offspring of ancient Roman knights and possessor of a considerable fortune, Ovid had an advantage over Virgil and Horace, the first of whom descended from a farmer in Mantua and the latter from a freedman of Venusia in Apulia. Without consulting his taste, his family had destined him to the bar and to all the honors to be derived therefrom. This is the road which had led Cicero, a knight of Arpinum, to the highest office in the state, and though judicial harangues no longer opened the way to the consulship or to the government of wealthy provinces, still some distinction and emolument might yet be derived from a brilliant display of oratory. - Accordingly Ovid, at an early period of life, was sent to Rome along with his elder brother to be fully instructed in the arts and learning of the capital. Whilst there he paid great attention to the study of the art of oratory, and acquired great reputation in the schools of the grammarians and rhetoricians. Seneca, the orator and professor of eloquence, and the father of the philosopher of the same name, having heard our poet practicing declamations before Arellius Fuscus and Porcius Latro, the two most eminent teachers of those times, informs us that he excelled all his fellow-students in deliberative discourses. Nevertheless he was reproached with deficiency in methodical arrangement, with too great an indulgence in poetical digressions, and licentiousness even in the ordinary passages of disputation; for judicial discourses, where reason and consistency are required, he had a natural repugnance. (Seneca, Controv. 2,10.)
Being formed in these exercises, he went to Athens and visited the most illustrious cities of Asia Minor; after the
• example of Horace and Cicero, he- visited those famous schools of philosophy and eloquence, those ancient sources of good taste and polite learning where every mau of rank before engaging in active life went to attain the perfect education and the well-known politeness which the city of Minerva and Pericles alone could impart.
After his return to the capital, Ovid followed the career which his father’s will had traced out for him. With great legal skill he pleaded some very important causes and also frequently acted as arbiter, greatly to the satisfaction of the litigants whose causes he decided. (Trist. 2, 93.) But the noisy clamors of the forum could not stifle the voice of the muse who called him secretly to the mountain home of the nine Sisters and seduced him to the worship of Apollo. To fight against -these desires, so opposed to their wishes, his family pushed him continually forward to public offices; named successively triumvir, centumvir, decemvir, he gradually arrived at the very threshold of the senate. At the moment, however, of crossing it, and of receiving the senatorial insignia, he in his ambition was afraid of his honor and repose, and notwithstanding all remonstrances on the part of his family he gave himself up unreservedly to his poetical taste.
The death of his elder brother now left Ovid sole heir to a fortune ample enough to satisfy his wants, and indeed his father’s arguments against the cultivation of poetry, deduced from the stale example of Homer’s poverty, were now receiving a practical refutation in the court, where favor and affluence were the reward of so many distinguished poets from the hands of Augustus. Roman society, pacified and consolidated, passionately desired the fine arts and encouraged the efforts of talent All kinds of poetry flourished in the city at the time; the tender Tibullus and the ardent Propertius sighed elegy; Horace seized the lyre of Alceus, Sappho and Pindar; Virgil equalled Theocritus, Hesiod and Homer. To these princes of Latin poetry we must add the names of some others celebrated at that time, though their works and fame no longer exist; as Varius, of whom we read:
“While Varius in sublime and ardent vein Supports the grandeur of the epie strain.*
Gallus, an elegiac poet, sung by Virgil in his tenth eclogue; Florus, friend of Tiberius and Horace; Titius, the lyric poet, Bassus, the tragic,'and thousands of others whose writings have not come down to us. All these poets were united in intimate friendship and reciprocral esteem. Rome eagerly received their works and honored their persons; the emperor was not backward in showing them the maiks of his liberality; and the heirs of his power, Marcellus, Drusus, Tiberius, sought for their society and from among them formed the so-called cohort which was to accompany them everywhere, even to the very field of battle. .
The honors and pleasures of such a condition captivated Ovid; these beautiful geniuses, so great in their writings and so simple in their private life, inspired him with an enthusiasm mixed with veneration. They appeared in his eyes as so many divinities.! In the number of such men he wished to be received, and by the charms of his talent and the sweetness of his character succeeded in becoming first their friend and then their rival. He soon had gained the affection and esteem of Augustus, and lived on terms of the most intimate friendship with Horace, Macer, Propertius, Tibullus and Gallus; he applauded their success, listened to their counsels and received their encouragement. Nor did he only become the intimate friend of these literary men; the epistles written from his banishment were addressed to persons well known to us even at this distance of time. While blessed with so many friends, he seems to have been undisturbed, at least during this period of life, by the malice of one single foe. Neither the court favor which he enjoyed, nor his poetical renown, procured him enemies; he was never assailed by that spirit of envy and detraction by which Horace had been persecuted. He opened his poetical career with erotic verses in the style of Tibullus and Propertius; but out of respect for his memory we pass in silence these frivolous and monstrous productions which contain more immorality than poetry, lessen his renown, and disgrace his name. Virgil and Tibullus had just died; Horace had published his odes, satires and most of his epistles, when Ovid, raising himself
*.............forte	epos acer
Ut nemo Varius ducit............
—Hbr., Sat. i, 10.
t Temporis illius colui fovique poetas; Quotque aderant vates, rebar addesse deos.
—Trist., iv,10.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	581
to conceptions more worthy of his talent, commenced his Metamorphoses and Fastes, at which he worked from the year 19 before Christ to the year 9 after Christ. His tragedy of Medea, which has been praised by Quintillian, and of which there are but two verses extant, appeared in the year 2 before Christ, 6 years after the death of Horace.
For nearly 30 years had Ovid enjoyed the pleasures of the capital, blessed with the smiles of fortune, honored with the favor of his prince, and fondly anticipating a tranquil old age, when unexpectedly a decree of the Emperor burst like a thunderstorm on his head and swept from him every hope and comfort for the remainder of his existence. It was in the year 9 after Christ, and when Ovid had reached the age of 51, the year of the disaster of Varus, when he, now the last of the constellation of poets who had brightened the earlier age of Augustus, was banished to a remote and barbarous corner of the empire. What was the real cause of this disgrace, but for which the name of Augustus would have descended to posterity as that of a generous and universal protector of learning and poetry? This has always been and ever will remain a great problem in the literary history of Rome. The secret unquestionably was known to many persons in Rome at the time, but as its discovery had deeply wounded the feelings of Augustus, no contemporary author ventured to disclose it. Ovid himself only dared remotely to allude to it, and as he sometimes speaks of his offence as a mistake, or a chance in which he was more unfortunate than blamable, these hints and suggestions have given rise to explanations the most different, all equally well refuted by the holders of the different opinions. We may admit that the pernicfous licentiousness of his writings contributed to bring upon him the imperial wrath; but still, well-deserved as this punishment would appear in the eyes of a Christian nation, we can hardly account for its rigor, since at that time licentiousness was the crime of most poets. Some suppose him to have been the wittness or even the accomplice of some disorder in the imperial family; and others again think that he had divulged some secrets that Augustus desired to conceal. This last opinion seems very acceptable, but nevertheless it is but a conjecture, and the subject in question will always remain a mystery.
But whatever may have been the real cause of the exile of Ovid, the pretext for it was the licentious verses he had written. (Ep., c. Ponto., 2, 9). Augustus affected a regard for public morals, and concealing on this occasion the true motive by which he was actuated, he claimed a merit with the Senate, and all who were zealous for the reformation of manners, in thus driving from the capital a poet whose licentious verses had met the disapproval of all right-thinking men. The mandate for his exile arrived unexpectedly in the evening, and the night preceding his ’ departure from Rome was one of the utmost grief to his family and of consternation and dismay to himself. In a fit of despair he burned the copy of the Metamorphoses which he was then employed in correcting, and others of his poems. Instead of making preparations for his journey, he passed the time in loud complaints, and in adjuration to the gods of the capitol. In vain all his friends endeavored to console him; with their repeated assurances of support, he at length departed at the approach of dawn, his dress neglected and his hair dishevelled.
The destined spot of his perpetual exile was Tomi, on the shore of the Euxine, a few miles to the south of the spot where the most southern branch of the Danube unites
with the sea. The place, originally a Greek colony, was chiefly filled with rude and savage barbarians of whose manners and habits the poet draws a most vivid description in his elegies and epistles to his friends in Rome. It may not be out of place to give here a little resume thereof. The town was defended by feeble ramparts against the formidable tribes of the north, and on the incursions of the enemy the poet himself had sometimes to grasp a sword .and buckler and place a helmet on his gray head. He inhabited a small and inconvenient house, along with some barbarians, whose ferocious appearance kept him in a state of constant alarm. They neither cut their beards nor hair, which, hanging dishevelled over their face, gave a peculiar horror to their aspect They were clothed in the shaggy skins of various animals, and each one carried with him constantly a bow and a quiver containing poisoned arrows. They daily filled the streets with tumult and uproar and even the litigants sometimes decided their cause before the tribunals by the sword. On account of the insecurity of property and severity of climate, the fields were without grain, the hills without vines, the mountains without oaks, and the banks without willows. Spring brought with it neither birds nor flowers. In summer the sun rarely broke through the cloudy and foggy atmosphere. The autumn brought no fruits; but, through every season of the year, wintry winds blew with prodigious violence and lashed the waves of the boisterous Euxine to its deserted shore. The'only animated object was the wild Sarmatian driving his car, yoked with oxen, across the snows, clad in his fur cloak, his countenance alone uncovered, his beard glistening and sparkling with the hoar frost and flakes of snow.
Such was the spot for which Ovid was compelled to exchange the theatres, the baths, the porticoes and gardens of Rome, the court of Augustus, the banks of the Tiber, and the sun and soil of Italy. These people, though at length displeased with his incessant complaints of their country, at first received him with kindness and sympathy and long paid him such distinguished honors that he almost appears to have realized the fable of Orpheus and Amphion, in softening their native ferocity by the magic of the Roman lyre. Nothing, however, could compensate for the privations he had suffered, and all his endeavors to prevail on the Emperor to recall him to Rome remained without success. The rigorous climate of Tomi was extremely hard on one who had passed a delicate youth of pleasure and repose under an Italian sky; and soon after his arrival Ovid totally lost his strength and appetite, became thiu, pale and exhausted, and finally, at the age of sixty, sunk under the hardships, to which he had been subjected for nine years, in the 4th year of the reign of Tiberius. Before his death, he expressed the wish that his ashes might be carried to Rome; but even this desire was not complied with. He was buried in Scythian soil, and the Get® erected him a monument near the spot of his earthly sojourn.
With regard to his writings, all critics agree in recognizing in him a brilliant genius of a wonderful ease and facility. Inferior to Horace and Virgil, he had neither the vigor, nor the pathos, nor the elevation of these two incomparable writers. With him wit and humor prevail; but to be a poet, there is more required than this. Ovid’s descriptions are sometimes without coloring whatsoever, and his style is sometimes slack and prosaic, especially in his elegies and epistles, and his sensibility is never deep. But
582
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
what one cannot admire enough in this poet, is the inexhaustible abundance of ideas, sentiments and expressions, which cost him no effort; it is those vivid, rapid, and sometimes sublime traits which he throws around in profusion without his knowledge, and the wonderful skill to fashion the rythm and the measure in a thousand ways according to the infinite forms of his thoughts. He says himself that the thoughts and the words combined themselves harmoniously in his mind without effort, and that there the verses grew, as it were, without training.*
This profusion, however, is at the same time his principal merit and his greatest defect. Too much elated by his riches, he wastes and dissipates them. Seneca, who could have been indulgent for defects from which he himself was not exempt, reproaches him for not having been able to confine himself, and to have spoiled his descriptions by puerile details. (Quaest. nat. iii, 27).
The judicious Quintillian expresses the same opinion. He says: “ Ovid is too fond of his genius.... His Medea shows how much this great poet could have excelled if he had rather wished to moderate his genius than to indulge in iLf The abundance, however, and the ornament for which Ovid has so variously been blamed, is not that abundance of words which cover the vacancy of ideas; they are the overflow of a real rich fountain of treasures. His ornaments, even when they are wasted, show no work, no effort. His negligence and little research are amply made up for by his spirited humor and ease which are met with throughout his writings, and, if we except his' deficiency in morals, we may apply to him the expression of Quintillian “ abundat dulcibus vitiis.”	N.
* Sponte sua carmen numeros veniebat ad aptos, Et quod tentabam dicere, versus erat.—Tristes, iv, 10.
t Inst. Oral.X. “0vidius nimium amator ingenii sui .... Ovidii Medea videtur mihi ostendere, quantum vir ille praestare potuerit, si ingenio suo temperare quam indulgere maluisset.”
Scientific Notes.
.4
—That gorilla in Berlin referred to in some of our numbers is to be brought to London this season.
—The death is announced of Prof. P. Panceri, the eminent Italian anatomist. He died suddenly whilst lecturing in the University of Naples.
—Some weeks ago the inauguration of a statue in Darmstadt took place in honor of the great chemist Liebig, and we understand that another will in the course of time grace the art city of Munich.	.
—A correspondent of The American Art Journal says that the girls of Cashmere make shawls worth $30,000, and will show three hundred distinct colors or shades which we cannot make or even distinguish.
—Fathe Secchi has invented a new electric seismograph with moving smoked paper, which indicates the direction, number, intensity and duration of the shocks, and many other details of great value in connection with seismography.	.
—The discovery has been made at the observatory of the University of Strasburg of a new comet, which presents a well-marked body and a short tail in the shape of a fan; it is perfectly visible with an ordinary telescope. This new comet is situated in the constellation of Pegasus.
—The use of electrical power is frequently spoken of as a substitute for steam, but it should be borne in mind that so long as the electric power depends upon a galvanic battery it must be much more costly than steam-power, inasmuch as the combustible consumed in the battery is zinc,
a substance necessarily much more expensive than coal. If in the production of the electric current a natural force could be utilized, the question would assume a totally different aspect.
—A curious clock has recently been invented by M. Cabot, of Paris. It has two apparently free hands, placed in the centre of a double plane, the two sheets of glass composing which are held in an ornamental frame. The clock is operated by concealed mechanism in the frame, which once a minute causes a slight and nearly invisible motion of one of the glasses. This causes the movement of the minute hand, and a minute gearing cencealed in the pivot of the latter actuates the hour hand.
—There has lately been discovered in Nicaragua a plant which has electro-magnetic properties. If you tear off a branch you experience an effect as though you struck a battery. The discoverer could not by careful analysis detect any magnetic metalic substance in the surrounding soil. The intensity of the shock varies according to the hour. At night it is scarcely perceptible. At 2 p. m. it is strongest. Birds and insects never seem to alight on the phytolacca dectrica.
Art, Music and Literature.
—“Pegasus Resaddled” is the title of a new volume of poetry by Cholmondely Pennell.
—“ Zilda,” a two-act comic opera by Flotow, has found little favor at its first production at Frankfort.
—M. Gounod is now convinced of the deficiencies of “Cinq Mars,” and intends to modify the opera greatly during the summer recess.
—Edward O. Jenkins, No. 20 North William St., New York, has-in press “Lessons in English Literature,” by John O’Kane Murray, B. S.
—Capt. Sir George Nares has received permission from the admirality to publish at his own expense a narrative of the recent Arctic expedition.
—Mr. Edward Freeman’s book on the “ Ottoman Power” will be published soon in London. Mr. Freeman has gone on a journey through Corfu to Athens and Dalmatia.
—Caxton’s “ Dictes and Sayinges of the Philosophers” is to be reproduced in fac-simile by Mr. Elliot Stock in time for the four hundredth anniversary of the introduction of the art of printing in England.
—Mr. Joseph Gawens, a deaf mute, has modelled and carved a statue of the “ Good Shepherd,” for St. Saviour’s Church, London. The statue is pronounced by competent judges to be an admirable work of art.
—M. Saint-Saens, who for twenty years has been organist of La Madeleine, in Paris, has resigned his post in order to have more time for composition, and to accept engagements in France and other countries as pianist.
—The Rev. Dr. Gregori Palmieri, O. S. B., lately Librarian at St. Paul’s fuore le mura, has been appointed to a post in the Secret Archivio of the Vatican. Dr. Palmieri is well-known in England as a learned Benedictine. .
—Robert Browning’s translation of the Agamemnon of JEschylus will soon be published. It is very literal, the original being rendered almost word for word, and even the exact order of words, as tar as possible, being preserved.
—The most extensive Shakespeare bibliography yet gathered is that of Mr. Albert Cohn, the industrious German Shakespearian scholar, whose labor of twenty years will make a classified Shakespeare bibliography of 600 pages.	‘
—Two hundred years ago, on the 16th of last month, Huldrich Groose bequeathed his library to the city of Leipsic, and the bequest was the germ of the great Stadtbiblio-thek, the anniversary of the founding of which has just been celebrated.
—Wickham Hoffman, who was an assistant adjutant general during our late war, and afterward connected with the American legation at Paris during the siege, will shortly publish some reminiscences of his various experiences, under the title of “Camp, Court, and Siege.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
583
—Father Laurent, a French priest, has just published a book, entitled “Of What Use Are Convents?” Theauthor proves from history that convents are the most potverful instruments for the re-making a country. Coming at a time when public inquiry is being made into the subject, it will accomplish much good.
—A fund is being raised for the erection of a statue to the memory of the poet Burns in Kilmarnock. The Earl of Eglinton, in reply to a request for a subscription, wrote: “I have the bad taste to neither appreciate Burns’ character nor poems; so, under these circumstances, I must beg to decline subscribing toward the proposed monument.”
—The conditions upon which “ The Modern Symposium ” —the serial article now appearing in the Nineteenth Century —is printed, are that each writer shall have the privilege of seeing all that has appeared before his own remarks, but (except the first, who is to sum up at the end,) nothing that follows them. As soon as the article is finished it will be • published in a small volume.
—Mme. Van Zandt, the brilliant operatic star, is, we hear, likely to be eclipsed by her youngest daughter, Miss Wissie Van Zandt, who is now in Italy under the care of her mother studying with the famous maestro Lamperti. Those who have heard the young lady sing say that her voice is something phenomenal, while Carl Rosa predicts for her a success second only to the diva Patti.
—Two Catholic gentlemen of Hartford, Conn., are interested in a national anthem, just published by Messrs. Wm. A. Pond & Co., of No. 547 Broadway, N. Y. The words are by Mr. Wm. B. W.ilsh, of that city, and the music is by Professor F. X. Rizy, the organist of St. Patrick’s Church. Mr. Walsh has aimed at uoble and patriotic sentiment, with what degree of success the public are yet to decide.
—A copy of Beaumont and Fletcher which formerly belonged to Charles Lamb has been bought for the British Museum. It has a number of notes by Lamb, and markings by himself and sister of passages to be extracted for his “ Specimens of Early English Dramatic Poets.” Many notes by Coleridge are also in it; one runs: “ N. B. I shall not be long here, Charles! I gone, you will not mind my having spoiled a book in order to leave a relic. S. T. C., Octr., 1811.”
—Brahms’ new spmphony was recently performed in England for the first time. It is pronounced incomparably the greatest work of the kind since Schumann; while German critics declare it to be the only modern symphony worthy to be placed by the side of those of Beethoven and Schumann. This great work was given at Cambridge under the direction of Joachim, the violinist, and on the occasion of his installation as honorary doctor of music at that university.
—Rome tries in vaiu every spring to get up a salon for art work like those of Paris and London, because its hundreds of studios, foreign and domestic, are so many salons in themselves, and hence artists will not go to the bother and expense of exhibiting in one building. But in no city of the world are there more paintings and statues annually turned out than in the Eternal, all roads leading thither for the artist, while such is not the case in regard to Paris and London.
—The orchestra for the Wagner festival in London is composed as follows: 24 first and 24 second violins, 20 violas, 20 violoncellos, and 22 double basses, making a total of 110 strings, 6 flutes, 6 oboes, 2 English horns, 6 clarinets, 1 base clarinet, 6 bassoons, 1 contrafarotte, 8 horns, 6 trumpets, 4 trombones, 4 tubas, 1 contrabass-tube, 2 pairs of kettledrums, 1 triangle, 1 pair of cymbals, 1 side-drum, 1 glockenspiel, and 6 harps; total, 173. The first violins will be led by Wilhelmj.
—Mr. Thomas Winans, the Baltimore millionaire, says he is building an organ that will be one of the largest in the United States when completed. It will have 5,000 pipes, ranging in size from 34 feet to three quarters of an inch. It is to be composed of five organs, solo, swell, orchestra, pedal and high pressure, and will be worked with an air pressure of four afid eight inches. The room in which this organ is being built is the full height of the house, and has windows at the top filled with slats by means of which the music can be thrown in any desired direction.
—The Academy gives from a Venetian journal some details about the monument to be erected to Titian at Pieve di Cadore, his birth-place, on the “ tercentenary of his death.” Titian died in 1576; so the tercentenary has already passed by, but it is pleasant to know that his monument will be worthy of him. The statue by Del Zotto, a Venetian, is of more than life-size, and we are' assured that “ the whole effect of the figure is full of life, and expresses at the same time the calm repose of age, the natural vivacity of the artist and the dignity of genius. It will stand with the face turned toward the cottage in which he first saw the light, and on whose walls, as tradition tells, his youthful hand traced the first lines; the proud and keen pinnacles of the Mamarole which, true artist and true Cadorin, he never forgot, even among the homage of the great, will form a worthy cornet behind his head.”
—Burns & Oates, of London, have in press “ The Trias Thaumaturgus: St. Patrick, St. Bridget, and St. Columba.” The value and importance of this work to antiquarians and hagiographers can scarcely be over estimated. It. will contain well-authenticated and important documents of the fourth, fifth, and sixth centuries, which throw a flood of light, not only upon the histories of the Saints of that age, but also upon liturgical uses and ecclesiastical customs. The greater number of these MSS. are written in Celtic, which can only be translated by Celtic scholars. The writer has had the assistance of some of the most eminent philologists of the day in preparing this work for the press. The antiquity of those documents has been fully admitted by the late Rev. Dr. Todd, Senior FellowofTrinity College, Dublin. Tne writer has obtained great assistance from the Rev. T. O’Mahony, Professor of Irish in that University and from the Librarian of the Bodleian Library, Oxford, in the collation of manuscripts.
—The sale of Mr. Albert Grant’s great collection of pictures was commenced in London on April 27. The exhibition of the pictures for some days previous had excited the greatest interest, and some estimate of the number of visitors may be gathered from the fact that over 5,000 catalogues were sold. The large Wilkie “Napoleon and Pope Pius VII,” Landseer’s “ Otter Hunt,” a number of Millais’s best paintings, and Elmore’s “ Charles V at the Convent,” form part of the collection. At the first day’s sale, among the oil paintings which brought the highest prices were: “A Quartet Party,” by F. D. Hardy, §3,990; “Opening the Gate,” by J. T. Linnell, §3,308; “ The Holy Family ” (the carpenter’s shop), by J. R. Herbert, R. A., §2,363; “Falstaff Personating the King,” by C. R. Leslie, R. A., §7,612 (it had cost Mr. Grant §10,000); “ The Head of the House at Prayer,” by F. Goodall, R. A., §6,017; “Are Chimney Sweepers Always Black,” by J. C. , Hook, R. A., §5,880; “ The Scotch Baptism,” by John Philip, R. A.,§7,875; “The Spanish Flower Girl,” by the same, §9,450; “ TheSpmish Lottery,” by the same, §15,750; and “The Morning After the Wreck,” by C. Stanfield, R. A., §13,437. The sum of §211,425 was realized from the 98 paintings and drawings sold on the first day.
—Highlandershave the habit, when talking their English, such as it is, of interjecting the personal pronoun “he” where not required, such as, “ The king he has come,” instead of “ The king has come.” Often, in consequence, a sentence or au expression is rendered sufficiently ludicrous, as the sequel will show. A gentleman says he has had the pleasure of listening to a clever man, the Rev. Mr.-(let his locality be a secret) and recently he began his discourse thus: “ My friends, you will find the subject of discourse this morning in the First Epistle General of the Apostle Peter, chapter v., and verse 8, in the words: ‘The devil he goeth about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour.’ Now, my friends, with your leave, we will divide the subject of-our text to-day into four heads. Firstly, we shall endeavor to ascertain ‘Who the devil he was.’ Secondly, we shall inquire into his geographical position, namely, ‘ Where the devil he was,’ and ‘ Where the devil he was going.’ Thirdly (and this is of a personal character), Who the devil he was seeking.’ And fourthly, and lastly, we shall endeavor to solve the question which has never been solved yet—‘ What the devil he was roaring about.’ ”
1
584
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Jiaine
Notre Dame, May 19, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.	-
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	.
Students should tase it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Post paid. Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Catholic Writers and the Catholic Press.
How often does the question spoken in a querulous tone of voice, come to our ears: “Why are not our Catholic newspapers and periodicals as a class as well sustained as those which are non-Catholic ? ”
A chorus of voices, principally from the young, gives a prompt reply: “Because they are not so attractive. If they were, we should enjoy them as much, and a great deal more, than the non-Catholic.”
“ But why are they not made as attractive ? ” continues the querulous voice.
To this we hear, almost invariably, some such reply as this, in a most apologetic if not absolutely abject tone: “ Catholics are poor; they are not able to support fair periodicals and newspapers; and as for books, we are not a reading people. We must wait for another generation before we can afford anything but cheap editions or reprints of choice books, much less illustrated ones.”
“Catholics poor! ” anybody might exclaim; certainly if this “anybody ” has known anything of our large cities and towns. “Catholicspoor! How then can they afford to live in such houses, how afford to furnish them so luxuriously ; how afford to dress so fashionably, and even expensively? If this is poverty, what is the next generation expected to do in the way of extravagance ?”
But the literature? When the question of poverty has been set to one side, another apology is offered more abject than the first; because poverty and brains, and poverty and intelligence, and outward poverty and interior riches, may often go together; and the apology is this: “ Literature is not yet a profession among Catholics in America. We must wait for another generation, when culture is more generally diffused among Catholics, before those rare birds of paradise, authors, can be hatched and fully fledged.”
“ Literature not yet a profession among Catholics! Few Catholic authors! ”
Let us see what is to be found among the Editorial 'Notes of an American periodical staunchly Catholic, and with a reputation too fair to be disputed when it makes such an assertion:
■ “ Protestants often point with pride, and with some justice also, to the daily press, and claim that the ability with which it is conducted and the talent displayed in it is an indication that Protestautism is more conducive to intellectual advancement than Catholicity. But it may be news to many that a far larger proportion than some suppose of the newspaper talent, both of England and America, is Catholic. The London Times, Punch, and many of the Manchester and Liverpool journals, have Catholics on their staff The Saturday Review, of Loudon, has many Catholic writers; and here in America we venture to say that there is hardly any leading journal but has Catholic writers on its staff.”	.
And these papers are the very ones which find their way into Catholic households and are paid for! Catholic subscribers swell their subscription lists, for it is well known that every cabin in the land has its newspaper. Poor as Catholics are declared to be, they generously support Protestant papers and periodicals, and buy Protestant romances and poetry, illustrated.
Moreover, what our Catholic editor says of the presence of Catholic writers on the staff of every prominent journal is true of the illustrators and engravers employed by those journals. Many of those who have put thousands of dollars every year into the pockets of non-Catholic, or worse still, anti-Catholic publishers', should by right, as it is well known, have done all this for their own co-religionists.
With these facts before us as to the existence of Catholic authors, Catholic illustrators and engravers in America, we may reasonably ask: Why do we not see them adding the glory of their names, and the attractions of their pens, pencils and gravers to Catholic literature in America? The reply can be given in a very few words: Authors will write and artists illustrate for those who pay rather than for those who do not. This is simply natural, and unless people have made up their minds.to be silent martyrs and living saints, this is simply necessary. Nor is this inconsistent with the pious self-devotion of those who in former times were only too glad to assist the Catholic press in gaining a foothold in society by free contributions. The very persons who were most ready to do this when it was needed are the first to feel the injustice of being expected to do so by a press able to support itself, and to support itself respectably. Editors, Catholic editors, as well as any others, must pay brilliantly if they want brilliant articles. No author, if he can help himself, will send his best and choicest articles to an editor who does not consider his time worth more than that of a common seamstress; or defers those payments until they are looked upon as mere waifs of fortune which a favorable inspiration on his .part wafts to their shores; or, still worse, if even these wretched payments are not made at all; and when a meek letter is sent petitioning for this wretched payment an answer is given in language so disrespectful that all courage dies out of the heart, and, it may be, all fealty also to the Catholic press, all desire to be ever again associated with it. How many of those now writing, not only for non-Catholic but absolutely anti-Catholic periodicals or journals, began their career with a holy desire to devote their talents to the service of Catholic literature! How many still pine for an | opportunity to offer their pens again to the same cause!
4

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	585
“But meantime,” they say, “we must live; we cannot starve ”; and so year by year goes by to see them toiling and moiling under another banner than their own.
We know that many Catholic editors will declare that they cannot afford to pay contributors; or, paying them at all, they cannot afford to pay as much as their Protestant neighbors. Very well, then; but do not complain that your Protestant neighbor has more Catholic subscribers on his list than yourself. Give your Catholic contributors the inspiration of good pay, of feeling that their choicest articles will find a place in Catholic columns, that their most loyal articles, most loyal to the Faith, to its monuments of piety and of art, find appreciation at your hands, and there will be no lack of subscribers intelligent enough to reward your far-seeing policy. There are now Catholic authors enough, and enough Catholic illustrators and engravers, to make our periodical literature a shining light to our day and generation. If it is not so, it is not because Catholics are too poor to subscribe for good journals or periodicals, nor is it because there is not native talent enough in the Catholic Church in these United States of America to contribute to it.
Self-Command.
The great business of life is that of self-control, since without it every other advantage is lost. The conqueror of empires, if not master of his ambition, if he has not learned self-command, is but a slave.
Alexander, Xerxes, Napoleon, expert in military tactics and successful in their application, were captives beneath the iron sceptre of their pampered love of power, which they never sought to restrain. Origen, Tertullian and Lamennais, mighty in eloquence, erudition and theologi. cal knowledge, were weak because under the dominion of pride; whilst the list of literary celebrities who have electrified the world with “ thoughts that glow and words that burn ”; of politicians who have outwitted the wisest, of artists who have infused the cold canvas and marble with the grandeur of their genius, is almost endless; and yet of this vast number—who though envied for their skill in commanding the passions of others,—how many were in abject servitude to their own!
Since, then, genius, learning, influence, are worse than useless without the power of self-control, every youth with an upright conscience will not fail to exert himself to obtain this power. Imagine Spartan stoicism refined and purified by Christian faith, and you have the example of the sway that the superior powers of the soul should exert over the impulses of the human spirit. Christian self-command elevates the standard of the Spartan, takes from it the merely animal motives, and imparts the highest possible character to every act. It is this self-command which it is our object to recommend.
To succumb to our own inclinations takes away the vigor of the soul; and the more debased those inclinations> the more effeminate and helpless does the spirit become; whilst to triumph over ourselves gives soundness to principle and renders us superior to our surroundings. In this world of changing fortunes, where a man is to-day a prince and to-morrow a beggar, this is indeed a most important lesson to acquire.
We know it is the custom to regard whatever is not absolutely sinful, as in itself quite innocent, but the young person who is in earnest to make the most of life will ac
cept no such easy rule. Created to a supernatural destiny, he would deem himself as mercenary, as insulting the Giver of that sublime destiny, should he not convert indifferent actions into means for improvement. He will hoard the maxims of strict virtue as the miser does his gold; and whomsoever either by precept or example detracts from his practice of those maxims, he will treat as his worst enemy. He who yields to his appetites and passions, with the declaration that he is unable to help himself, is no more nor less than a moral coward. His manhood has departed. He is not brave enough to resist, and has given up the contest. The throne of habit has .been usurped by evil; and his holy angel guardian, dishonored and rejected, is no more recognized. He yields because he will,—not because he must; for it would be impious to believe that God had ever imposed this necessity upon any of His creatures.
We have said that to triumph over ourselves gives soundness to principle, and renders us superior to our surroundings. This is consolation alike to the hero and to the saint. It is encouragement also to those who are engaged in the strife which we all must sustain against the foes who beset us on every side. And what is this triumph but self-abnegation, regardlessness of personal satisfaction—for the attainment of a nobler purpose: namely, that of moral independence; an independence imparted and strengthened by charity ? But hold 1 are we not representing the means as superior to the end? We trust not,—but only demonstrating that selfishness, even in a refined sense, would incite us to the practice of self-command and the corresponding virtues. We are showing the advantages from a practical point of view.
Self-gratification is a merely animal impulse, whilst selfsacrifice is obedience to the noblest suggestions of our being. It distinguishes man from inferior creatures; and yet how many wrong themselves by giving free rein to the instincts they hold in common with the brute, whilst they crush those heavenly tendencies which render them “ but little lower than the angels! ”
The daily examination of conscience incumbent upon the Christian will aid each one to detect his progress in selfcommand. Delicacy in noting every failure will point out the practices to be avoided and the customs to be encouraged in order to acquire full control of human nature. Many, awakened in the prime of life to the fact that the energies of their youth have been squandered, mourn the hopeless wreck induced by their own folly. They count their broken resolutions, their faithless vows, their former levity of purpose: but to no avail. To establish the habit of self-command required too great exertion for them. They foolishly confessed themselves unequal to the task; and now they are gathering the fruit of cowardice. May their misfortune be our admonition. A good resolution made in the morning, scrupulously kept throughout the day, charged at night on the journal of a good conscience, is one grand installment of a priceless fortune; and to sum up the weeks and years of life by these daily victories over self-love is to make a triumphal progress which the heavens themselves delight to honor.
The human soul is so constituted as never to rest in evil; hence all satisfaction derived from vitiating practices is short-lived, and followed by remorse. Peace, interior tranquillity which no misfortune can disturb, is the product of self-command. Happy they who learn this lesson, for they are proof alike against the keen shafts of adversity and the flattering dangers of prosperity. They have discovered the
586
^THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
secret of happiness and are in possession of the surest passport to eternal bliss.
Personal.
—Henry Dehner, of ’76, is doing well in Cascade, Iowa.
—Rev. L. J. Letourneau has taken a week’s rest, visiting his friends.
—D. J. Wile, of ’73, is District Attorney of Laporte County, Ind.
—E. G. Graves, of ’76, has charge of a surveying party in Western Missouri.	.
—Eugene Gramling (Commercial), of’76, is prospering in Indianapolis, Ind.
—John Cullen (Commercial), of ’75, is in the Telegraph Office, La Fayette, Ind.
—John H. Lyons (Commercial), of ’75, continues to thrive in St. Paul, Minn.
—Joseph F. Campbell, of ’76, is in the Government employ, Washington, D. C.
—Leonce Proudhomme (Commercial), of’75, is engaged in business in Natchitoches, La.
—Henry Beckman (Commercial), of ’73, is keeping his father’s books in Cleveland, Ohio.	.
—Florian Devolo, of ’76, though not one of them, resides among the Mormons in Utah.
—John A Carr (Commercial), of ’72, does an extensive grocery business in Cleveland, Ohio.
—Oliver Gove (Commercial), of ’74, is a large dealer in firearms and ammunition, iu Denver, Col.
—John Kreutzer (Commercial), of ’76, is in the queens-ware business with his father in Peru, Ind.
—Denis Gorman (Commercial) of ’74, is teaching in the public schools at Anola, Allen County, Ind.
—J. Jepson (Commercial), of ’74, is with Keith Bros., corner of Franklin and Madison Sts., Chicago, Ill.
—H. Schufeldt (Commercial), of ’64, is in the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific RR. Ticket Office, Chicago, Ill. --^Kev. C. Kelly, C- S. C., has taken charge of the Scho-lasticate, vice Rev. J. Fr5re, who has returned to the Presbytery.
—J. P. Dreudel (Commercial), of ’53, is proprietor of the New York House, No. 239 and 241 East Randolph St., Chicago, Ill.
—Among our visitors lately were Mr. Fred Linder, of Indianapolis, Mr. Rudolph Rheinboldt, of Cincinnati, Mr. and Mrs. Coghlin of Toledo, and Mr. Inderrieden of Chicago.
—Last Sunday, the Pope’s birthday, the venerable Father Neyron reached his eighty-fifth year. May he live many years to come is what his many friends here and elsewhere pray.
—We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of an invitation to attend an entertainment given by the Thespians of Detroit in their hall in that city on the 16th of May. On the committee of invitation we notice the name of L. 0. Watson, of ’71, and D. B. Hibbard, of ’70. Mr. Watson, took the part of “ Grumpy,” in “ The Quiet Family.”
—So far N. S. Mitchell, of’72, L. G. Tong, of’65, Thomas B. Clifford, of ’62, D. J. Hogan, of '74, J. F. McHugh, of ’72, Charles J. Dodge, of ’74, William W. Dodge, of ’74, Orville T. Chamberlain, of ’61, James E. McBride, of ’68, Wm. J. Clarke, of ’74, James A. O Reilly, of ’69, John D. McCormick, of ’73, C. M. Proctor, of ’75, A. J. Slace, of ’64, D. A Clarke, of ’70, and A. C. O’Brian, of ’76, are the only old students who advertise in the Scholastic.
—Murray, of the South Bend Herald, says in his paper of the 16th: “Mr. Thos. A Dailey, business manager of The Herald, will deliver the Commencement Poem of Notre Dame this year, of which institution he was a few years ago one of the faculty. Hon. Frank Hurd, of Toledo, will be the orator of the day. The choice in either case, coming from a seat of learning of the importance and national reputation of Notre Dame, would becomplimentary to the
most distinguished literary men of the country. The Herald feels some pride in the fact that one of its staff should be thus distinguished, while it believes he is eminently qualified as-a scholar to do credit to the College and the occasion.”	.
Local Items.
—Extensive repairs are being made on the Scholasticate building.
—The Juniors took their first promenade after supper last Sunday.
—We are told that Mast. A. Widdicombe is to represent the St. Cecilians on Society-Day.
—The triple competitions were held this last- week. These will be the last of the year.
—The Minims during their promenade on Monday after-on caught two chipmonks and a gopher.
—Attention is called to the new time-tables of the-Lake Shore and the Michigan Central Railroads.
—The Community Cemetery is being laid out with great taste. Additional ground has been lately added to it.
—The young fishermen were out again this week and had great sport hooking specimens of the finny tribe.
—Messrs. Juergens & Anderson, manufacturing jewellers, have removed to Nos. 125 and 127 State St., Chicago, Ill.	-
—Any person in want of back numbers of the Catholic World or Brownson's Review, new series, to complete sets, may apply to us.
—Which is the gayest capital in Europe? You might be inclined to think Paris on the Seine; but that would be a mistake, it is Berlin on the Sprei.
—The meeting of the Alumni will take place on the 26th of June, and not as was, by mistake, announced in our last issue, on the 27th. The 27th is Commencement-Day.
—The members of the Boat Club do considerable rowing on the lake. We have not yet been informed of the names of the crews to take part in the race on the 26th of June.
—The 33d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held May 7th, at which Rev. President Golovin was present and assigned the parts for the coming Entertainment.
—A young fisherman on the 13th was so unlucky as to have his hat blown into the lake, and was forced to remain bareheaded one whole hour until favoring gales wafted the home-made panama to the opposite shore.
—The 30th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held May 15th. Essays were read by J. B. Proudhomme and T. H. Quinn. Declamations were delivered by F_. H. Schlink and M. Regan.
—The Minims have their usual quota of 30 students notwithstanding the reports of general falling off in the number attending the various educational establishments throughout the States owing to the financially depressed state of the country.
—There will be three repositories erected on the Feast of Corpus Christi: one at tbe Novitiate, one at the Calvary to the west of the upper lake, and one on the Scholasticate grounds. We have every assurance that these repositories will be made with as much taste as in former years. .
—The following compose the Quickstep Nine for the second session: Wm. Cash, catcher; Wm. McDevitt, pitcher; J. Scanlan, short-stop; P. Nelson, first-base; C. Reif, second-base; J. Seeger, third-base; G. Hadden, leftfield ; P. Heron, centre-field; G. Rhodius, right-field.
—We have been informed that several of the Juniors volunteered to supply the small altars in St. Edward’s and St. Patrick’s dormitories with natural flowers during the month of May. Among the prime movers of the good work are Masters McGrath, Hanson, Kelly and J. Nelson.
" —A party of Juniors one afternoon this week caught over one hundred fish in the lower lake. They were mostly suckers, sun-fish, etc. We were out with the boys, but the only thing we got was a stumble which laid us almost flat
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
387
. in a small pool near the lake. We never did like fishing, anyhow.
—At a meeting of the Isaac Walton Club the following officers were elected, viz : T. C. Logan, President; H. C. Cassidy, Vice-President; W. P. Breen, Secretary; F. S. Hastings, Treasurer; and J. P. McHugh, Preserver of the Game. Mr. H. C. Cassidy read an essay on Sturgeon and Muscalogue.
—Five members of the Isaac Walton Club, Thus. C. Logan, Prest., caught in four hours, one day this week, eighty-one rock bass, fifteen perch, and three sea-devils’ besides a number of sun-fish, etc.' There was quite a competition between two young gentlemen of the Club for the office of stringer.
—The Catholic Union, of Buffalo, is a journal we always look for with the assurance that in it we will find something worth reading. We understand that it is in a most prosperous condition. Rev. Father Cronin is an excellent' editor, and his assistants are up to the wants of the times.
. We notice among the names of the contributors that of W. H. C. Hosmer.
—The Mutuals and Eureka B. B. Clubs met for the second time. Anthony reports the score IS to 20 in favor of the Mutuals. The Eurekas are composed of the smallest boys of the apprentices. They play a good game, and it is thought by many that they will win the next. It is said that Charlie’s curve pitching did the work for the Mutuals the last game. The Mutuals are the medium-sized boys of the Junior department.
—To-morrow, the Feast of Pentecost, or Whit-Sunday as it is called, the Church celebrates the descent of the Holy Ghost upon the Apostles. It is on this day that the foundation of the Church is particularly commemorated. The second Vespers of the Feast may be found on pages 93, 94 and 95 of the Vesperal. Rev. President Colovin will preach at Solemn High Mass, which will be celebrated at the usual hour. The Mass sung will be Missa Regia.
—We have lately added to our exchange list the St. John Weekly Herald and The Sunday Messenger. The Herald is a lively little paper, published at St. John, New Brunswick, and deserves the patronage which we know the people of the province will give it. The Sunday Messenger comes to us from St. Louis, Mo. It aims to be a good paper, and from the numbers we have glanced over we believe it to accomplish its object, for the paper is well edited. Success to both these candidates for popular favor.
—The 35th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society took place May 11th, at which declamations were delivered by Masters A. Keenan, W. Vander Heyden, Julius Rogers, R. Keenau, W. Jones, J. Ingwerson,E. Pennington, G. H. Donnelly, J. McTague, F. Phelan, I. Rose, K. Scanlon, J. Duffield, J. A. Burger, Lee Frazee, and J. Bell. At aspecial meeting Masters Vander Heyden, Rogers, A. Keenan, and Paul Scbnurrer were elected members. Mast. R. Keenan was elected Vice-President, vice R. Con-gar resigned.
—The Quickstep Nine endorse the advice offered by the Scholastic last year, namely the retaining the name a club receives at its organization. This the Quicksteps have done (like their big brothers the Juanitas) since it was founded by its present director in 1866. Several members of the Champion Nine of this and last year who handle the ball so well and wield the ’‘ash ” so effectually, among whom might be mentioned G. J. Gross, Martin Smith aud L. McKernan, first acquired a taste for the manly sport in this juvenile nine
—Signor Gregori is about to commence a series of paintings on the walls of the transepts of the church. This series will consist of the following pictures, viz.: 1st, Nativity of the Blessed Virgin; 2d, The Presentation of the Blessed Virgin; 3d, The Marriage of the Blessed Virgin; 4th, The Anunciation; 5th, The Visitation; 6th, The Nativity of our Lord; 7th, The Purification; Sth, The Assumption of the Blessed Virgin. He is about to begin work on the picture of the Visitation. All these works will be executed in that beautiful manner for which Signor Gregori is so well known.	‘
—The following sentence appeared in the first number of a
New York weekly: “ Lethargic morbidness had stolen into the calm and azure depths of our unruffled soul, and we were gradually imbibing the sweet oblivious antidote, utterly forgetful of every ambitious scheme and rating care, when in one of those semi-lucid intervals of which the wakeful faculty of consciousness tries in vain to stir up the embers of application, the right pupil of our eye, after having contracted itself into every variety of contortion, in order to exclude the light of a dull lamp which was burning dimly before us, rested itself placidly and without effort upon the features of one of the beavenliest cherubs that ever shot radiance with its joy-inspiring smiles into the dark council-chambers of the heart of man.”
—In looking over Pettengill's Newspaper Directory for 1877, we find that the following are the only college papers which give their circulation: Bates Student, monthly, 500; Amherst Student, semi-monthly, 2500; University Beacon, monthly, 1000 ; Harvard Advocate, semi-monthly, 650; Yale Courant, semi-monthly, 980; The Targum, monthly, 500; The Princetonian, monthly, 350; College Herald, monthly, 400; College Journal (Pittsburgh), monthly, 500; The Wittenberger, monthly, 600; Notre Dame Scholastic, weekly, 1,000; College Monthly, 1,920; Illini, monthly, 650; Volants, monthly, 500; University Chronicle, semi monthly, 600; College Mercury, semi-monthly, 300; University Reporter, monthly, 500; College Message, monthly, 832; High School, monthly, 2,000; Besom, semi-monthly, 500; Georgetown College Journal, monthly, 650; and University Monthly, 500. The only college papers published weekly are the Notre Dame Scholastic and the Cornell Era.
—A championship game of baseball was played on the 16th between the Juanita and the Star of the East Baseball Clubs, which resulted in th^following score:
STAR OF THE EAST.
O. R.
W. T. Ball, p..........
J. P. Quinn, 3 b.......
H. Hamilton, 1. f...... H. C. Cassidy, r. f.... F. Maas, s. s..........
C. Hynds, 2 b..........
E. Sugg, c. f.......... A. Hertzog, lb......... P. J. Hagan, c.........
Total..............
2711
JUANITAS.
W. Chapoton, p.........
T. C. Logan, 2 b.......
J. Lambin, c. f........
G. J. Gross, s. s......
M. Smith, lb...........
W. Deehant, 1. f.......
V. McKinnon, c.........
W. Breen, r. f.........
J. L. Perea, 3 b.......
Total...............
O. R.
2 2
4 3
3 3
3 3
4
3
1
1
1 1
1
1
1 0
2710
Umpire—J. Ohlman.
Scorers—W. Turnbull and J. Calkins.
Time of game—2 h. 40 min.
—He came in with a demoniacal look in the northwest corner of his right eye, and laid his MS. on the table. We expected something was wrong, but nevertheless took it up to read. There was a smile of fiendish glee mantling his lips as we began looking over the paper. “Don’t you think ’em good ? Ain’t I fit to join the Paragraphers’ Association?” he asked. We looked around tor a shootingstick or a column-rule. Had we laid hands on one or the other he never would have left the room alive. Then a diabolical thought took possession of us. We gently seized him by the collar and placing him in a corner we drew up our stool and shut off all retreat. Then we began our lecture. “ Young man,” we said, “before you aspire to join the Paragraphers’ Association let us give you»a few words of advice. Don’t do as you have done just now, get off stale jokes concerning the war in Europe, about * Russia gobbling up Turkey’; don’t say anything about Greece, being a slippery country, and other puns that were used by our forefathers. Let us break you into the art of punning. You took the Eastern Question as the subject of your jokes. So will we. Attend. War having begun, you may remark that Russia is Romanoff to Turkey. Then again you might say that Russia thinks she has Azov(t) thing in the war, but just let her wait a little while and she may point to the battle-fields and exclaim: ‘Dardanelles of many brave Russians are sounded.’ For the Turks all say ‘ The Czar is no Bosphorus.’ ” The young man was becoming uneasy, but we were determined to make his punishment severe. “Take that map,” we continued, “and see what is the capital of Armenia. Now if you wish to continue your jokes you might remark: ‘Russia
588
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
says to Turkey: ‘Erzeroum for us in Armenia in which to fight it out?’ to which Turkey might respond: ‘See here, we’ll have to hold a few more Caucasus about this matter, because if you are going to spill that Porte we must see about it around the smoking Kars. At all events it would be positively a Crimea see for us to act otherwise. Let me tell you there’s one of your friends we’re going to try to Popoff in a hurry. If we don’t it would be the Samos showing the white feather, aud you won’t find our men a Balkan either, when the time comes. Our defeat may be written in the book of fate, but we’ve decided to give that Bucharest for a time. It would then be eminently advisable for the Czar to issue a stirring address to the principalities, telling them amongst other things: ‘You must by Gor-tschakoff your tyrant’s yoke and prove they haven’t the Mussul to keep you Sclaves. Rise! your duty calls you to crush the (P)ruthless Cheekva Bashaw—‘Ba Zooks it does ’ would be a good expletive by way of emphasis. Of course to such a stirring appeal the only answer possible would be: ‘Come, friends and deliverers, Wallachia pass wherever you please.’” His countenance had already assumed a deadly pallor, his fingers twitched convulsively, his eyes glared in their sockets, horror and amaze were stamped on every feature. What is the matter ? ” we inquired, sympathizingly. .“We are inclined to say to you what the Kaiser said to the Czar, at their last meeting: 1 To settle this thing finally, do as I did: take a little Metz in. Lorrain(t) it done me good since I made these fellows give up the Rhine-o. ’” Perceiving that he was already gasp ing for breath and could not be expected to hold out much longer, we hastened to add: “ I suppose you have heard of the communications that have passed lately between the Shah in Shah and the Czar. Said the former: ‘Persia’s going into a war that’ll cahse many a Teheran groan before it’s over. I ain’t such a Muf(t)i ain’t as to pitch in like a Volga(r) nobody. I’d rather see some other friendly mon Khedive into the troubled pool first. No sir; if the Turk thinks he Caboul-y me into fighting for him, I don’t think he Khan do anything but Kelat such a game. Hope you’ll give Himalaya out he won’t forget. And there’s • John Bull too: in his way he’s not at Allahabad fellow, though he’s a Dampore chap to rely on. He’s in Lucknow apparently, but I rather think you Cawnpore blows enough on him next winter to make his friends Cal(l)cutta-s enough to carry home the pieces.” He was completely exhausted. With tears in his eyes he fell upon his knees and cried: “ Herzego(!)vina fellow or kill me at once, but cease this torture. How can you Servia me so! ” Our heart relented, and mildly applying our .Bogardus to the seat of his breeches he was transported beyond the threshold. Conscious that we had worked his reformation, we returned to our work. Moral.—Never go to an editor with bad jokes on the Turko-Russian war; for what else save what we did Ottoman do ?
BoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Ball, W. P. Breen, J. Burke, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, W. Dodge, E. Davenport, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, W. Farrer, T. Garrity, P. Hagan, J. F. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W.'Keily, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, W. McGorrisk, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, C. O’Donald, L. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, O. Rettig, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, M. Smith, G. Saxinger, P. Tamble, W. Turnbull, F. Vandervannet.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A Bergck, T. R. Barry, A J. Burger, J. Boehm, F. E. Carroll, F. W. Cavanaugh, J. Carrer, F. G. Ewing, J. English, P. Frane, C. Faxon, T. Fischel, J. Gibbons, B. B. Heeb, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, A M. Keenan, O. Lindberg, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, J. Mungoven, E. Moran, R. Mayer, A. Miller, W. J. Nicholas, T. Nelson, C. T. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. T. Pleins, F. Poor, R. Price, H. W. Rogers, W. J. Ryan, F. Rheinboldt, J. H. Rothert, K. L. Scanlan, L. Sievers, W. Taulby, C. Van Mourick, T. Wagner, L. Wolf; V. E. Hanson, J. Bell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Heron, Geo. Lowrey, Geo. Rhodius, R. Pleins, Charlie Reif,
A. Coghlin, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, Johnny Seeger, E. Carqueville, J. Scanlan, G. Lambin, G. Hadden, H. Riopelle, F. Carqueville, F. Gaffney, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, C. Long, C. Hertzog, E. Hertzog, H. Snee.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING MAY 16.
-	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Seniors—J. G. Ewing, C. Otto, W. T. Ball, N. J. Mooney, H. C. Cassidy.	.
Juniors—W. P. Breen, J. McHugh, J. Coleman.
Sophomores—A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, J. McEniry, W. Dechant.
Freshmen—H. Maguire, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, P. Cooney, P. Tamble, F. Maas, F. Hastings, J. C. O’Rourke, A. Burger, J. •F. Larkin, J. Montgomery.
minim department.
P. Heron, P. Nelson, G. Lowrey, G. Lambin, J. Scanlan, W. Coolbaugh, A Coghlin, E. Carqueville, G. Rhodius, Willie Cash, C. Reif, R. Pleins, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, H. Riopelle, A. Sehnert, W. Coghlin, Charlie Kauffman, J. Inderrieden, A. Rheinboldt, F. Gaffney, H. Kitz, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, C. Hertzog, E. Hertzog, Harry Snee.
ifiuUuw.
—The display of natural flowers on the altars speaks well for the skill and devotedness of the florists at St. Mary’s.
—The good health, cheerfulness, and devotedness to study reigning among the pupils are highly encouraging and consoling to all concerned.
—The Children of Mary have the honor of taking care of the flower-beds in front of Loreto. They have procured choice plants with which to decorate this chosen spot.
—On Sunday evening the following original compositions were read in the study hall: “ Indications of Vanity,” “ May Offerings," “ The Feast of May,” “Ignorance,” “ The Art of Pleasing.” The readers were Misses Henneberry, M. Spier, G. Breeze, A. Byrne, and D. Cavenor.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, A Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, L. O’Neil, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A Henneberry, A Reising, H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Forrey, E. Pleins, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, M. Dunn, L. Tighe, M. Pomeroy, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, C. Ortmeyer, I. Cook, S. Rheinboldt, 100 par excellence. Misses A Walsh, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, M. Spier, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, M. Schultheis, A Woodin, D. and A Cavenor, K. Burgie, J. Burger, G. Conklin, M. Coughlin, K Gibbons, M. Usselman, M. Hungerford, N. Johnson, L. Brownbridge, L. Weier, E. Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. •
Misses A. Ewing, A. Morgan, L. Chilton, A McGrath, L. Walsh, A Kirchner, D. Gordon, C. Corrill, M. Davis and J. Kingsbury, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Redfield, M. Ewing, M. Mulligan, I. Mann, M. McFadden, M. Robertson, A. Peak.
Minims—E. Mulligan, M. Lambin, L. and M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee, L. Ellis, A Williams, J. Butts, A Getty and E. Wootten, 100 par excellence.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
- HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses E. O’Connor and B. Spencer. 2d Div.— Miss D. Cavenor.
2d_Class—Misses A. Byrnes and C. Morgan. 2d Drv.—Misses L. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A Kirchner, A. Reising, B. Wilson.
3d Class—Misses B. Siler, M. Walsh, J. Bennett, D. Gordon, H. O’Meara, L. Walsh, S. Cash. 2d Div.—Misses N. Johnson, S. Rheinboldt and Casey.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
589
General Class—Misses A. Williams, A. Getty, J. Butts and L. Vannamee.
The members of the Private Vocal Class deserve great credit for the earnest application they have shown in working at heavy choruses for Concert day and Exhibition.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer, H. Julius and J Nunning.
1st Class.—Miss B. Wilson. 2d Div.—H. Hawkins, C. Silverthorne, M. Cravens.
2d Class—Misses M. Julius, A. Harris, A. Byrnes, L. Kirchner. 2d Drv—Misses A. Koch, M. Spier, L. O’Niel, C. Morgan.
3d Class—Misses G. Kelly, B. Siler, M. Usselman, D. Cavenor, E. M. Pleins, A. Hennebery. 2d Div.—Misses D. Gordon, J. Burgert, M. Redfield, A. O’Connor.
4th Class—Misses K. Burgie, A. McGrath, L. Walsh, E. Lange, A. Kirchner, M. Thompson, J. Bennett, E. Thompson, L. Johnson, L. Forrey. 2d Div.—Misses N. McGrath, A. Walsh, A. Cullen, A. Reising.
5th Class—Misses K. Martin, A. Morgan, M. O’Connor, L. Weber, M. Walsh, P. Gaynor, E. Forrey, J. Burgie, H. O’Meara. 2d Drv.—Misses A. Cavenor, G. Conklin, M. Robertson, I. Cook, M. Getty, A. Woodin, L. Weier, C. Ortmayer.
6th Class—Misses M. Brady, C. Correll, L. Beall, L. Kelly, M. Ewing, M. Mulligan, EL Gibbons, A. Ewing, N. Johnson, 8. Cash, L. Brownbridge. 2d Drv.—Misses C. Vannamee, N. Hackett, C. Boyce, M. Halligan, M. Casey, M. Coughlin, A. Peak.
7th Class—Misses L. Lambin, L. Cox, M. Davis, L. Wright.
8th Class—Misses M. and R. Cox, E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury
9th Class—Misses L. Ellis, E. Wooten. Classed—Miss E. Parsons.
10th Class—Misses M. McFadden and 8. Rheinboldt.
Harp—1st Class—Miss E. O’Connor.
2d Class—Misses D. Cavenor and B. Wilson.
Organ—Misses M. Usselman and B. Wilson.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Korrte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00a.m. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation................. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express......................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
St karifs Readmit
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.	'
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to th« educational requiremmts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that,charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.	.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
A. CATHOLIC JOTTZELTT-AJE.
Huoted to the ^onor of the ^lesoed flirjiit.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BI HIS HOLINESS PIUS H, AND MANY EMINENT PBET.ATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorset,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
One Year.............................'...............$ 2 50
Five Years...........................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)......20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the -
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
TLSTZDT A-2ST A—
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee................................... $5	00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music.................................. 12	50
Use of Piano.......................................
Use of Violin......................................
Telegraphy..................'......................
-n- t	J General Class Principles..........
Vocal Lessons, j Vocal Cnlture.....................
Elocution—Special Course...........................
Use of Library (per session).......................
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic.....................
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........
( Classical Course.................
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course................
(Commercial Course.................
Students who spend Summer vacation at the Univer-
10 00 2 50
10 00 10 00 15 00
5 00 1 00
15 00
5 00 10 00 10 00
5 00
40 00
sity are charged extra.......................
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with
date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
.	Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attomevs at Law.
SPEER	MITCHELE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS GE TONG, [of’651 Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJMDiBVG & HOGLAJM [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN! 1?. McAJLUGMT [of’721, Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind. .
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney ax Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’6S), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WTT .T ,T A M J. CL 4 RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A.. O’REILLY'—of ’69—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN E>. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 pm; Buffalo 8 05.
IO 37 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
12 30 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am; Cleveland, 7 05a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 OS am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30;
Chicago. 8 pm.	'
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 4 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket AgL Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS S TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, •	.	• ILLINOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST-.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75). Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHLi R J. STACK [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian.pub’ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clabkb, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin. pubHshed every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.50.
THE YOTTTVG- FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre’Dame.
Abthub C. O’Bbian, of ’76.
The djotbe zdame scholastic, Published weekly during term time at Notre Dame, Ind. Terms, §1.50 per Annum.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) §1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the, Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass 0. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GBANGEE, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic QTGAR.S and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rrututu BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
591
C. & N.-W. LINES.
|	THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces tinder one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and B	the Western Territories. Its
*	OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
►	This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago
and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
|	Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore
& Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan . Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of all cross points.
Tic kets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember. you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. '	For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket
agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City -nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......4	00 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9.30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line....:........................7 30 am	9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................4 00 pm	9 30 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm	9 30 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation..................  9	20	am	4 30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. j. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, -well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-ATT ZD
411 Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INTO IA NT A.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOT1NO WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,...		11.30 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	2.00 p.m.	6.00 AM.
■Rochester			12.40 a.m.	10.15 “	3.14 "	7.45 “
Alliance,			305 “	12 50 p.m.	555 “	11.00 “
Orrville,'			447 “	2.32 “	7.42 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield 				6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,		. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	1030 “	3.50 “
Crestline,		...Leave	7.50 a.m.	540 p.m.	10.35 p.m.	
Forest	 .		925 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima,				10.45 “	9.35 “	1 05 A.M.	
Pt. Wayne,			1.20 pat.	12.10 A.M.	3.25 “	
Plymouth			345 “	3 20 “	5.49 “	
Chicago,			7.20 “	7.20 “	9.20 “	
’	GOING EAST.					
		No. 4,	No. 2.	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,......	...Leave	10.40 p.m.	8.20 A.M.	5.35 p.m.	
Plvmnnth		2.40 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft Wayne 			6 55 “	2.10 pat.	11:45 “	
Lima,					8 55 “	4.05 “	1.39 A.M.	
VnrARt	. _				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.50 “	
Crestline,		..Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “	... . ....
Crestline		...Leave	12.05 P.M.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a .M
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.50 “
Orrville,						2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 “
Alliance				4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	1120 “
Rochester,....		6.22 “	1.20 AAI.	11.06 “	2.00 PAf.
Pittsburgh,....		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 pat.	3.30 »
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
592
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.
Importers and Dealers in Pine
Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STEEET, CHICAGO, TLLTUSTOTS.
NOTRE DIME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, hypermission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
t*. S HICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “ Collections of Minerals.”	.
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged slphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spec es number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it en’irely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25	50	190
in box in box in box
100
200 300
Crystals and fragments....
Students’ size, larger....
Amateur's size, 2*4 in. x 1*4-.
$ 50
1 50
$1
3
$1 50 | $ 1
6
High School or Acad, size,2 *4x3% in /shelf specimens College size, 354x6 in., shelf specimens . ...
5 10 25 500
$ 2 $ 3
10	25
25	50
50 100
100 300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-May 13. 1877.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	+Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City..	5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
	7 33 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles .	9 01 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	10 50 “	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson. .	2 15 p.m	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	6 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	4 45 p.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 80 “	12 45 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 CO a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 50 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 02 “	4 05 .“	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 15 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
Niles and Sontli Bend Division.					
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 15 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 22 •	6 35 ’• Ar. Niles— 855“	715“	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6 5G a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame— 7 25 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 30 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Snp’t, Chicago, Hl. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ina.	
ZF. ISZLZE'X’IEH?, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-1
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.	,	'
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opsite snerman Hoose,
Chicago, Illinois.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOGHAFHEB
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH ZBZETsTZD, TTTZDTJATTJA.
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to
M. Livingston & Co.,
A T?,~FC TZEHE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND