The Scholastic
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE jSTUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 7, 1874.	Number 28.
The Catholic View of Temperance
I	IN CONNECTION WITH THE TEMPERANCE CAMPAIGN.
We clip the following from the Ohio State Journal.:
Right Rev. S. H. Rosecrans, Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Columbus, delivered a sermon at the Cathedral last night, the points of which were as follows:
t	The recent report in the daily papers of a Committee of la-
s	dies having called upon him to secure his co-operation in their
£	temperance movement gave the Bishop occasion to declare the
1 teachings of the Catholic Church on the subject of temperance. I	Temperance, in Catholic language, has a much wider meaning
j than abstinence from excessive drinking. It is one of the four )	cardinal virtues—so called, because they are the virtues on which
?	hinge all the other virtues of both the natural and the super-
|	natural order. It means that virtue which strengthens the will
!	against all manner of excess in good things, and holds it mid-
i	way between the evil on the one hand- of making too much,
;	or on the other of making too little, of what gratifies us in life,
j	Men lose their souls because they love earthly goods and fear
।	earthly evils too much. If they were temperate they would
I	prize both the evil and the good at their true worth, as dis-
closed by the Church’s teaching, and would never be lost.
From this you see plainly that the custom now established of calling abstinence from hard drink temperance, is not a Catholic i custom. No virtue in its proper sense can exist in the soul 1 unless it has all its integrity.
A man may believe some doctrines of revelation, but if he doubts a single one of them he has not the virtue of faith.
So of hope and charity.
So a man may abstai.i from drink, yet be intemperate in eating ; or he may be temperate in his diet, yet be intemperate in his judgments, views and language.
To have the virtue of temperance, one must be free from excess m thought, word and deed. He must keep the straight road in what he believes, in what he studies, in what he designs, in what he says and in what he does. He must not be turned aside by fear of danger, or allured by hope of gain. He must ■ not be swung from his steadfastness by the joy of success, or the humiliation of defeat; by the applause of his fellows, or the ,* bootings of the multitude; by the promise of life, or the threat of death. With this understanding of the virtue of temperance, let us examine what is known as the temperance cause.
>	To abstain from intoxicating drinks does not straightway
li v make a man virtuous. To be free from one vice does not in-sure freedom from all vices. The fact is, most men point out E	some vice that they are free from, and do so when their con-
f	science troubles them. lu the prison and the haunts of out-
t casts one may hear boastings of hardened wretches of the ci imes I ‘ they have never committed, of the meanness they never stooped to.
In the Catholic countries of Southern Europe, where intemperance is rare, you never read or hear, in instructions to the people about gluttony, the advice to abstain totally from the use of ■ wine. Of some saints it is told, as a marvel, that they never tasted wine at all—or during Lent or Advent. Wine there is as much an article of diet as tea or coffee here, and quite- as-
harmless. Yet, there as here, and throughout the whole Church, intemperance is denounced and condemned with the same emphasis, and for the same reasons.
These reasons, there as here, are:
The intrinsic malice of sin, which destroys the image of God. in the soul, reducing man to a level with the brute.
The repeated prohibition of the sin by Almighty God, under the most awful threats, both in the Old and New Law.
The disasters it brings upon its perpetrator and victim, which maybe summed up thus: (a) the loss of God’s Grace, which it, in common with other mortal sins, entails; (6) the spiritual blindness it brings upon the understanding, and the impotency to which it reduces the will; (c) the loss of health, strength and comeliness it brings upon the body, of good name upon the reputation, and of poverty upon the earthly fortune; (d) the crimes of which it is the occasion—such as impurities of all kinds, quarrels, murders, cruel treatment of families, brawls, and thefts and robberies.
We know the justice of these reasons, having seen them with our eyes, again and again, set forth in the victims of intemperance we have known and perhaps buried.	*
Now all sin is infinitely hateful in the sight of God. Murder, adultery, robbery, blasphemy, impiety, hatred, envy, calumny, drive grace from the soul and condemn it to eternal pnnishment just the same as drunkenness; They, one and all, crucify the Son of God and' put Him to shame. Therefore theGatholic Chutch, spouse and mouthpiece of the Son of God, must hate all sin with infinite intensity. Hence she cannot sympathize with any movement to root out this sin, which in order to effect its purpose, would willingly do injustice; or, the purpose accomplished, leave other sins festering in the heart unrebuked. Ignorance and prejudice have ascribed to her the doctrine that “evil may b® done that good may come of it; ” that prisons and racks may be employed to make Christians,—but this doctrine she has always abhorred and condemned. Why is Pius IX in prison now but because being asked to sanction wrong, he answered,. “ We cannot.”
The Catholic Church could not violate any right, though the. empire of the world were the reward of the violation. Hence the Church cannot sympathize with those who, to reform their neighbors, propose to inflict penalties where there is no conscious or intended crime, or to coerce men by the aid of human law into abandoning what in their consciences they never believed to be wrong. And not for the evils to human society, and liberty, which would soon follow, where one part of the community begins to think itself permitted to reach the good it proposes, by riding roughshod over the convictions and imagined rights of the other, does the Church refuse her sanction to such a course, but because she essentially hates and abhors what is domineering and oppressive.
Again: the Catholic Church cannot sanction any movement that to-destroy one vice would agree to leave the others undisturbed.
She has to look upon sin as God looks on it; and so she must detest pride and blasphemy and unbelief as she detests drunkenness. To her, corporal intoxication is no more loathsome than the spiritual intoxication which, comes from pride, and which makes a man stand before the world and say: “ Behold me! and be like me. l am sanctified- through and through; nothing
218	THE SCHOLASTIC.
remains but to-convert the rest of mankind—and if the lawgivers and policemen .will, only place themselves under my directions, we will soon have that done and bring on the Millennium.” When, therefore, it is proposed to make abstinence from drink supply the place of all other virtues—faith, hope, charity, piety, honesty,—and atone for all other vices, such as unbelief, blasphemy, dishonesty, lying, oppression of the poor— the Catholic Church has no sympathy. God has no interest in the struggle between one sin and another—between one devil and another for supremacy over a soul. To such as propose a union of earthly motives against any single passion, she simply says: “Go your way, you that are outside of the ark, for the brief time you are above the water in the sunshine. You and your fights and fondlings will soon sink beneath the waters to be known no more. There is no alliance between us, and no contest. 1 and those with me are bound for another shore, and our hearts are there already.” But by thus repudiating all alliance and sympathy with worldly schemes to forward even good ends, the Church must not be understood to be blind or indifferent to the sin of intemperance as it exists among us.
The Bishop here drew a picture of the evils of intemperance in this country, resulting, as he said, from the eagerness with which we seek what we seek at all—from the force of evil example, and the poison of adulterated drinks. He mentioned with eulogy the St. Patrick’s Total Abstinence Society, and exhorted all, particularly heads of families and young men, to enroll themselves among its members. He begged also all who prize the name of Catholic to have nothing to do with the keep-ng or frequenting of saloons. In conclusion he said: This duty .of ours is not new, except as the day is new. Our duty every day is to conform our spirit to the spirit of the Church and of Jesus Christ.	'
• " ‘	/ Artists. ’	’
“ Do you never think, Lewis, that you would like to be an artist ?	•
_ “It is all very well to think about it; Gus; but who wants to be a poor dog all his life ? ” .	.	.
“I wonder if you call Raphael a poor dog ? or even Correggio, who is now proved to have enjoyed the good things of this life instead of dying of hunger, as the storymongers had it for awhile?”.	.
“But you are getting into the clouds, Gus. We :do not have Raphaels now-a-days, nor Correggios.”
“Well then, was Titian, the Artist-Prince, or Rem' brandt— ”
“ Stop, now: I was not talking of artists like any of those you have named. ‘We shall not look upon their like again’ for a century or two. Great ideal painters, before whom their generation was glad to pour out its gold and silver and precious stones.”
“ Then take Van Dyke, a portrait painter, if you will; .and Sir Joshua Reynolds; and to come to our own country (Benjamin West and Washington Allston were ideal paint; ers, so I must leave them off my list, you say,) Copely and Stuart, who certainly were not poor, and Healy of this present day, who is anything but a poor man. What do ‘ you say to all this ? These last are portrait painters; great artists in their way—but not claiming places beside Raphael or a hundred others we could mention.”
• “ Still, Gus, you must acknowledge that artists are, gen-‘ erally, wanting of the goods of this world. They may enjoy themselves better without money than others do with it; but the fact is all the same.”	..	.
“I do not acknowledge this to be the fact, Louis. On.
the contrary ; if you will take the trouble to think about this a little, you will find that if an artist is a poor man he would have been a poor man had he been a shoemaker, blacksmith, mechanic or merchant. Some men have a faculty of money-getting. They grow rich whether they are lawyers or doctors or carpenters or machnists or cobblers. It really makes no difference what they do ; they get rich by it.'- If a fellow has a love for art, and devotes: himself ter it, he will be .poor or rich just according to this faculty for making money. He may love art so well th'at he cares not a rush for the money, and yet it will come to him. Whereas, if he were a merchant and without this faculty for making money, he would be poor all his life; prospering perhaps one day, to be on the brink of failure the other six days of the week.”
“But then, you must own that-the merchant, the carpenter, the master builder and architect deliberately set about making money.”.	.
“ So does the banker, Louis; but how often he loses it,— and with it, how often goes his reputation ! ”
“We are talking about money now, Gus, and I insist upon keeping to that. Do not go off on one of your grand tangents about fame, and the ideal. Let us have money and reality.”	_	.	.	.
'	[to be continued,]	’
Spring’.	,
When the cold days of Winter have gone. And the sun rises, welcomed with song; . When the trees shake the ice from their bark, And sleeping nature ’wakes with a start';
•Then shall the rule of the icicle king Bebroken and given to’beautiful Spring.
Such is the change Spring’s touch doth impart, Such is her power and such is her art, Such the influence she has over all, On objects both great and objects both small;] That nothing existing in nature’s domain, But heralds her glory, and spreads wide her fame.
Bringing forth germs from every small cell, Provided by parents to keep them sO well ; Causing the trees- with their foliage to lean ; Covering the earth with a'carpet of green, Wafting sweet odors on breezes to tell • Of her great labor performed truly well.
Striving the brooks and the streams to unfold, Rolling their pebbles o’er sands bright as gold ; Bringing the birds with their forked little tongues, To warble and sing their sw.eet joyous songs ; Oh! what can equal the pleasure she brings, E’en, as it were, by the sweep of her wings.
Sping gives life to the vegetable world Its manifold beauties by her are unfurled ;
Spring bringetb joy to many a poor soul ’ Suffering from poverty, hunger and cold;
Spring is a queen to her subjects so kind, She taxes them nothing all for them to find.
Spring, ever bounteous, generous, fair, . Let us never tire of praising thee here, Por as thou gavest from generous hands, Presents more numerous than are the sands, So let us try in our poor, modest way. To return thanks; for we cannot repay.
. .	. Habry Hadlos.
THE SCHOLASTIC. •	-	’ = 219

A Lstter from CasdAnal Baraato to the . Bishop of Fort Wayne.
1 Our Rt. Rev. Bishop has received a letter from Cardinal .	Barnabo, dated 19th January,1874, in which hisEminence
J says: The draft for 9,575.21 fraucs, sent in your letter of the i 17th Dec., was presented to our Holy Father on the Sth of this month, and His Holiness most gratefully received this ! offering and the expressions of love and devotion contained in your letter, aud with great affection gives to you, to the Clergy and faithful of your Diocese, especially to those who contributed to this offering, His Apostolical Benediction.
I ’	'	--------~’
Tom Cashin and. the Minims.
n By invitation from the Minims’ thoughtful Prefect we weuded our way towards their neat little study-ball on । Tuesday evening, to listen, .as we had been previously inI	formed, to a lecture on the “ Fine Arts,” by Tom Cashin.
i	The accomplished lecturer has become famous around
Notre Dame; and the Miuims, appreciative of. his worth, I । and of the benefit as well as amusement to be derived | from his lectures, waited on him and invited him to favor | them with an entertainment when be found it convenient. The artist, on consulting his’managing agent, Mr, A. Horne, ascertained that Tuesday evening was the only evening in the month of March for which he had no appointment. So he very generously sacrificed his only spare evening for the gratification of the Minims. We may here state that he lost nothing by his generosity, for he will always have the blessings of the Minims of 73- 74on bis head. They enjoyed themselves hugely. We would like to give a full account of the artist’s entertainment, but that is impossible, as we lost the paper on which we had every’word taken down in short-hand. The losing of this paper is to be lamented for generations to come. The artist is a little eccentric, he never commits anything to paper (except his paintings), and depends altogether on the inspiration he receives in the course of his lecture. Oa this night he was unusually inspired, bringing to bear on his subject not only the influence of place but also of the audience. He proclaimed truths that have been puzzling the minds of great artists for centuries. We invite all the readers of The Scholastic to join with us in lamenting the loss of that valuable paper. However, we can give our readers an idea of how he proceeds with his entertainments. He commenced by complimenting the Minims, and exhorted them to prepare themselves well for the herculean task of following him in his train of argumentation. (There, Cicero, and Chops—keep better order!) He then returned his thanks to the members of the Junior Drawing Class for the assistance they afforded him iu collecting many of his “views”. His paintings were fine, and his explanations good. Among what we considered his best were Damon and Pythias, The Ancient Twins; The Alps Crossing Napoleon; The Standpipe by Moonlight; Shakspeare Finishing the Merchant of Venice, et contra Merchant of Venice Finishing Shakspeare; Cadmus, the Inventor of Detention and originator of the beautiful expression “Cheese it!” The artist also favored his audience with some specimens in the line of vocal music/ We have been requested to return Mr. Cashin the Minims’ heartfelt thanks.
All Around Man.
.	Obituary.
On Monday, the 2nd inst, there happened a very sad’, accident, by which Master John Ward, a most promising youth of some sixteen years, lost his life. “ Johnny,” as he was familarly known among his associates, was learning the carpenter’s trade, and while working on a piece of. scaffolding some forty feet from the ground, he in a thoughtless moment stepped backwards, lost his foot-hold and fell. Strange to say, he did not fracture a single limb, nor did he receive any cuts, but was fatally injured internally. He died within an hour of the accident, and such a beautiful, happy, and Christian death, as that many of us may well envy him. He had enjoyed the happiness Of receiving Holy Communion the day previous, and, after his hurt, lived long enough to receive the last Sacraments. His funeral was beautiful, and affecting—displaying the high esteem in which he was held by all his companions, ‘ who followed the deceased to his last resting-place, all wearing crape in token of their sincere sorrow at.the loss of a well-beloved companion. Requiescat in pace. ’	’
.	•	■	•	. C. D.
On the evening of Tuesday, March 3d. at the solicitation of the older members, a meeting of the pupils of the Manual Labor School was called by Bro. James, the Director, and the following preamble and resolutions were.drawnup and unanimously adopted:	•	\
Whereas it hath pleased Almighty God, who dothall things well, to remove from our midst our . beloved fellow-pupil, John Ward,—be it therefore '	•	'
Resolved, 1st, That we, the members of the Manual Labor School, while we humbly bow to the mandate of Divine Providence, cannot but deeply regret the loss.of sb. dear and esteemed a fellow-pupil. . ■ r
Resolved, 2ndly, That we most heartily sympathize with the relatives in this their hour of sad bereavement,-and, beg leave to remind them that their loved one has but left, this life for a brighter and happier.	. -	■.. . ;
Resolved, 3dly, That a Solemn High Mass be celebrated, for the repose of the soul of our departed fellow-pupil, at which we shall all assist.
Resolved, 4thly, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to the relatives of the deceased, and also be; published in The Scholastic and in th’e : papers of Burlington, Iowa.	W. Hughes, ' ’-/
M. O’Day,
- J. Dwyer, ' ■ •' - ? R. Dougherty, • P. Hennessy, 7 '	H. Murphy, • —
Committee. ‘
Franti N^lla Fid.es. ’' ‘ '
I am sorry that I was unacquainted with the character of the Toledo Review man (an editor, forsooth!); had I inquired concerning him, I should not have demeaned myself by answering his assertions, or endeavoring to correct: mistakes.	'	'	'
The Toledo Review has reached the acme; more mistakes, blunders and misprints on less surface than any other pa- -per in the United States.	-	"
.	.	. H. V. Hayes.
220
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Tilne, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AH communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame. Indiana.
TERMS: Oneyear.......................Si 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Office.
The lakes are perfectly free of ice.
Many visitors were invited to be present at the reading of the Aurora at St Mary’s, on Sunday evening.
Forty-two young ladies took the veil at St. Mary’s, on Sunday, the 1st inst. The parents and other relatives of many of the young ladies were present at the edifying ceremony.
• We are glad to hear that our Steward, Bro. Francis de Sales, is recovering from an attack of sickness that has, nevertheless, pulled him down very low; hut we hope soon to see him around again.
We are glad to learn that the literary spirit has not entirely died out among Notre Dame students, and that we are soon to have a sensible proof of the same. The Philo-demicsare preparing for a lively debate to be given in public about the-seventeenth inst.
We had the pleasure of a call from Thos. Dillon, formerly a stud nt of Notre Dame, and Mr. Cavanagh of Chicago, on the' 1st. Mr. Dillon, with his mother, sister, and brotherin-law, came to be present at the religious reception of his sister Mary, who was one of the forty-two young ladies who took the veil.
On Sunday evening, March 1st, Professor D. A. Clarke delivered a very interesting lecture, on “ The Influence of Climate on a Nation’s Character,” before the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean and St. Stanislaus Societies, and a number of invited guests. At the close of the lecture a vote of thanks was tendered him by the members.
We hope soon to receive the Univers. It is one of- the real Catholic newspapers, and its editor-in-chief, Louis Veuillot, may well be proud of three things: 1st, of the sympathy which he has always had in Rome, and which has sustained him in his struggle against false liberalism, infidelity and communism; 2nd, of being ranked by the archenemy-of the Church among the defenders of the Holy See who are a thorn in the side of the tyrant,—Bismark ranks him with the noble German Bishops and the religious orders whom he has so unjustly persecuted; 3rd, of being most violently hated by all the enemies of the Church and so-called liberals.
-	Special.	-
-	Master F. Hubert, whose illness prevented his attedance-at the regular Examination, was granted a special examination by the President, and passed satisfactorily in all the branches of the Commercial Course.- He will therefore receive his Diploma at the next Annual Commencement without further examination. -
- MJ B. Brown, C. S. C., Director of Studies.
Boll of Honor.
•	SENIORS.
J. Abbot, J. BroWne, W. Ball, C. Bowman, M. Bastarache, C. Berdel, J. Brogan, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, W. . Clarke, P. Cooney, T. Cashin, T. Cochrane, J. Caren, H Dehner, F. Devoto, C. Dodge, B. Euans, J. Egan, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Gribling, J. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, W. Gross, C. Hess, V. Hansen, F. Hubert, A. Home, T. Hansard, L. Hayes, H. Hayes, B. Hersey, E. Gillen, M. Jef. fries, J.Kennedy, J. Luby, J. McManus, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, D. McGinnis, M. McCullough, J. McMahon, E. McSweeney, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, P. McDonald, B. Mathers, J. Mathews, J. Ney, J. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, T. O’Mahony, P. O’Meara, E. O’Connell, J. O’Toole, J. Ott, C, Proctor, J. F. Rudge, J. Rudge. G. Rudge, G, Roulhac, C. Ruger, ■ L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, R. Staley, P. Skahill, S. Studebaker, J. Van Dusen, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter, H, Shephard.
JUNIORS.
Bonifacio J. Baca, Joseph Beegan, W. P. Breen, Joseph Buchanan, L. Busch, L, Best, A Crunkilton, John Cullen, James Delvecchio, J. Doyle, William Darst, John Ewing, Frank Ewing, Charles Freese, G. J. Gross, E. Grambling, C. Hake, Dennis Gorman, M. J. Kinsella, Stephen Kennedy, P. Kelly, C. A, Lewis, B. Le Fevre, G. Lehman. M. McCormack, G. McNulty, J. P.-McHugh, N. J. Mooney, C. Meyer, W. S. Meyer, F. Miller, D. O’Connell, H. Quan, E. S. Ratigan, A. Schmidt, R. Sobey, F. Stamm, J. F. Soule, W. Schulthies, Louis Smith, T. Solon, R, West, R. Walker, E. Wood,’ F. J. Weisenberger, J. Cohen, Jos. Leander Perea.
Class Honors.
Commercial Department, Friday, Feb, 27, 1874. .	SENIORS.
J. Abbot, B. Baca, J. Beegan, J. Berry, J. Boyle, J. D. Callery, G. Cunnea, E. F. Dunn, H. Esch, C. Furer, E. Gillen, W. Greene, G. Gross, F. Hubert, A. Horae, M. Keeler, A. Kreichgauer, L. Loser, J. McDermott, M. McCullough, H. F. Mathews, J. L, Mullin, J. Mathews, G. McNulty, P. Moran, C. Meyers, W. Meyer, JO. Nichols, J. E. O’Brien, R. O'Connor, J. Quinn, C. Ruger, J. F. Rudge, F. C. St. Aubin, L. Sanders, H. Scrafford, T. Solon,’ H. Shephard, J. Soule, L. C. Watson, C. Welty, J. E. Wood.
JUNIORS.
T< Cashin, F. Frazee, J. Girard, D. Gorman, B. Hersey, C. Hess, E. O’Connell, J. O’Toole, H. Skahill, A. Schmidt, F. Thallman.
MINIMS.
M. McAuliffe, R. Golson, F. Carlin, E. Buchanan, T. Hooley, L. Goldsmith, C. Parker, C. McKinnon, A. Fosler, H, Canol), A. West, S. Goldsberry, H. Middleton.
■ All Around. .
There’s nothing like it!
Old Winter has delivered his valedictory.
The Seniors are anticipating “fun;” we noticed some bluejays on the first of March.
A horseback ride is veiy enjoyable at times.
The St. Joe Lake is open, and navigation has commenced.
The Thespians’ decorations of the Hall were charming. They captivated the ladies.
The various Societies and Clubs are reorganizing and electing officers for the spring and summer term.
We hear the last Exhibition spoken very highly of by every one who had the pleasure of attending it. It is styled “-the-best.”	'
THE SCHOLASTIC.
221

There have been several base-ball games already. There are two good nines in the field for championshin, and it would be difficult to say now which will be victorious.
A walk around the lake at this season of the.year is per* fectly lovely, as the “ chimes ” would say. The air pure and healthy, stirred by the gentle breezes from the lake and the company delightful. Oh, it is snyptious!” ' If March comes in like a lamb it will go out like a lion, is an old saying that has often proved true, but we hope this year will be an exception. It cannot be denied that it came in like a lamb; the weather was clear and pleasant the gentle zephyrs now and then wafted a sweet note of some beguiled bird too anxious for warm Weather.
The other evening we rambled towards the playhall, on the qui live of expectancy to witness the Terpsi-chorean exercises of Prof. Ivers’ Calislhenic Class. On arriving at the play-hall wre were struck with amazement at the perfect phantasmagoria there presented. The Professor spares no pains in directing the movements of the Cinderella foot as well as that of the clod-hopper. His labors are sure to be rewarded.
Subscriptions to the New Tabernacle.
,	.	[continued ]
Mrs. Susan Callary, Newark, New Jersey...... $10 00
Mrs. Rache, Newark, New Jersey.............-.	10 00
Mr. Rache, Newark, New Jersey....• • • ...... 10	00
Master Horatio Reynolds, Newark, New Jersey...	5 00
Master Charlie Johnson, Newark, New Jersey....	5 00
Mrs. M. Kenny, Newark, New Jersey,........... 10	00
Miss Kaveney, New York,...................... 10	00
Charles O’Keefe, New York,................... 10	00
Mr..E. Murphy, New York,..................... 10	00
Mrs. Murphy, Newark, New Jersey,.............. 5	00
Mrs. Katharine Reinbold, Tiffin, Ohio,........ 5	00
Patrick Foye, South Bend, Ind................ 10	00
Mr. Michael Dougherty, St Louis, Oregon,.... 10 00
Mrs. Margaret Dougherty, St. Louis, Oregon,. 10 00
D.	C. P. L., Detroit, Michigan.............. 10	00
[to be continued] •
Society Reports.
THESPIAN ASSOCIATION.
A special meeting of the above named association was held Feb. 28th; after electing Mr. B. McGinnis a member, the society proceeded to elect officers for the present scholastic session, which resulted as follows:
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C.
President—Prof. J. Ai Lyons, A. M.
Vice-President—C. A. Berdel.
Rec. Secretary—R. W. Staley.
Cor. Sec.—H. V. Hayes.
. Treasurer—D. E. Maloney.
After this a vote of thanks was tendered Bro. Francis de Sales, Prof. Edwards, Mr. Roberts, andothers for favors, etc.
H. V. Hayes, Cor. Sec'y.
COLUMBIAN LITERARY AND DEBATING CLUB.
Mr. Editor:—Some delay occurred this session in the election of officers for our Club, since their humility (that virtue always inseparable from true greatness of mind)
occasioned many to decline the honors offered.- them. The following list is the final result:
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C.
Honorary President—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Acting President—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.
Promoter—Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, A. M.
Vice-President—Thomas Cashin.	'
Recording Secretary—John F. Wolfe.	"
Corresponding Secretary—George W. Crummey.
Treasurer—Henry C. Cassidy.	•
Librarian—Lee B. Sanders.	*
Censor—F. C. St. Aubin.	•
Sergeant-at-Arms—Alfred Horne.
Marshal—John F. Burnham.
At the 25th regular meeting the following read essays, and delivered declamations: J. F. Wolfe, L. B. Sanders, C. Watson, J. F. Burnham, Thomas Casbin, and James B. Crummey. Messrs. O. Tong and J. E. O’Brien were unanimously elected members. The proceedings of the evening closed with an impromptu debate, in which Mr. Sanders brought forward some good hints on agriculture. No more 'business being on hand, the meeting adjourned.
George W. Crummey, Cor. Sec'y.
ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
The 23d, 24th, and 25th meetings were held Feb. 6tb, 13th, and 20th, respectively. The debate, Resolved: That the Miser is more beneficial to Society than the Spendthrift ” occupied most of the time of the three sessions. Master J. F. Beegan opened the discussion in favor of the affirmative. His speech, though not so well prepared as it might have been, contained many fine points; perhaps if the debate had been delayed until the evening appointed, he would have done much better. He was followed by the first speaker on the negative, Mr. J. Ewing, who came out very ably, bringing forth many proofs in a pleasing and calm manner. Master N. Mooney then stepped forward, amid the smiling countenances of the affirmative speakers, whose advocate he was, and acquitted himself with much ability. C.Freese, the second speaker on the negative, entertained us for some length With his winning eloquence. He made some very keen cuts upon his opponent, but in an amiable manner; summing all in all, his arguments gave great weight. Then the floor was taken by the third apeakeronthe affirmative, J. McGrath, who made a very neat little-speech. C. Furer, third speaker on the negative, brought in many familiar incidents worthy of consideration. He was followed by the fourth speaker on the affirmative, Jos. P. McHugh, whose literary blows fell thick and first upon his antagonists, making the debate very lively. Messrs. J. Cullen, C. Nichols, B. Baca, B. LeFevre, and especially John Soule, spoke very well, and to the point. Master Jos. F. Beegan reviewed the debate in an animated m inner, after which the President summed up the arguments and gave his decision accordingly in favor of the negative. On the whole, the debate seemed to be well prepared on both sides, and was one of the most exciting we have assisted at.
W. P. Breen, Cor. Sec'y pro tem.
The 26th regular meeting was held Feb. 26th.. At this meeting John Ewing represented the Historical Branch by giving an interesting History of the Settlement of New York State, her distinguished Statesmen, Renowned In
222
THE SCHOLASTIC.
stitutions, etc. After this came declamations, and the reading of the “ Philomathean Standard.”
The 27th meeting took place March 2nd. Masters L. Best, F. Smyth, G. Gross and C» Hake were admitted members. Prof. D. A. Clarke then delivered a very fine lecture on ** Theltfluence of Climate on a Nation’s Character,” which, •was listened to with the utmost attention by the old and the new membeis of the association, also by the members of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society and by a number of invited guests. All were delighted with the lecture, and hope to have the pleasure of hearing Prof. Clarke soon again. Before adjourning, the members tendered the Professor a unanimous vote of thanks.
At a special meeting held sometime previous, for the purpose of presenting a beautiful silver-headed cane to Bro. Marcellinus, Prefect-in chief of the Junior Department, Messrs C. and W. Dodge and H. Hayes displayed their elocutionary powers, to the great delight of all the members. A vote of thanks was then tendered to Bros. Francis de Sales, Celestine, and Simon, for kind favors received at their hands. J os. F. Beegan, Got. Sec'y.
ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRIAN ASSOCIATION.
The 11th, 12th, and 13th regular meetings were held Feb.' 14th, 21st, and 27th, respectively. At these meetings the following read compositions, or delivered declamations F. Weisenberger, AV. Darst, Jno. McIntyre, J. Keilty, F Claffey, T. McNamara, M. Kinsella, H. Faxon, R. Downey, T. Gallagher, W. English, C. Welty, A. Mitchell, B. Daley and H. Quan. Masters R. West, J. Quinn and R. Walker presented themselves for membership and were unanimously elected.	M. Kinsella, Gm’. Sec'y.
STAR OF THE- EAST BASE-BALL CLUR.
Mr Editor:—The first meeting of the Star of the East Base-Ball Club was held Feb. 18th, for the purpose of electing officers for the remaining part of the scholastic year. The election resulted as follows;
Director—Brother Norbert, C. S. C.
President—A. J. Mooney.
Vice-President—D. T. McGinnis.
Secretary—E. S Monohan.
Treasurer—W. T. Ball.
Gensor—C. W. Spears.
Gaptain of 1st Nine—D. T. McGinnis.
Captain of’2nd Nine—W. T. Ball.
E.	S. Monohan, Sec'y.
The Hon. John M. Francis, late Minister to Greece, writes in his paper, the Troy Times, about the drinking habits of Europe. He says that in France, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Greece, where the consumption of wine is very great, there is far less drunkenness than in Great Britain or the United States. His opinion is that the substitution of mild wine for the whiskey so generally drank here would be a reformatory agency in checking intemperance. The result of his personal observations in Spain was that wine shops met him at every turn, but he rarely saw a drunken man. Outside of the English and American colonists he knew of very little drunkenness in Paris. In Germany he witnessed a tremendous flow of lager, but believes the proportion of confirmed inebriates there does not equal one to twenty of the same class here. In Russia a liquor stronger than our worst whiskey is used with bad
results, and in Great Britain the evil somewhat approaches its extent in the United States. Glasgow was the most drunken city he saw abroad.
Kemimscencc. of Ges.. Lewis Cass.
Such reminiscences as the following of our public men are a heritage, of valffe to other generations, and are worthy of record. Let it be borne in mind that the man who was able thus to speak had seen his share of hard life, and severe trial, and sore temptation. In the war of 1812 he was active and efficient, serving through the whole period. He entered as Colonel of the Third Ohio Volunteers. His first essay was a march of 200 miles through a swampy wilderness to Detroit, and thence into Canada; and to him is awarded the honorable distinction of having been the first man of our forces, in that war, to put his foot, in arms, upon British soil. He snuffed the sulphur of battle, and withstood the leaden hail. His manifold public services from that time are matters of history. In 1836 Mr. Cass was appointed Minister to France; and on a public occasion, previous to departing on his important mission, he put.on record the following testimony in relation to his habits of life. Said he:
“ I have never tasted any ardent spirits, nor have I, at any time during life, been in the habit of drinking wine. It is of course almost useless to add, that I know nothing of the effects of stimulating liquors upon the constitution, except as I have observed them in others. I have, perhaps, dur- ’ ing my life been as much exposed as most men, having lived, since boyhood, in< new country; having served in the army during war; and having been led by official duties to traverse almost all the western region north of the Ohio, and east of the Mississippi. What effects might have resulted to me from the use of stimulating liquors at periods of great exposure and fatigue I cannot say. I can only say that I have done well enough without them.” ------------------: ;— --------------
In. a lecture delivered in San Francisco recently Prof. Le Cointe gave some interesting information regarding the lava beds of California, Oregon, and British Columbia.' The great lava bed, he said, begins in middle California and appears in separate streams of lava which grow and grow until in northern California they merge into a grand flood. In Oregon, Washington -Territory, Montana, and British Columbia, an area of from 300,000 to 400,000 square miles is covered with lava, showing, where it has been cut through by the Columbia river, a thickness of 3,700 feet. The Des Chutes river, emptying into the Columbia, runs for 160 miles in a deep narrow gorge, on the sides of which are lava layers from 1,000 to 1,500 feet high. - The clear section of the lava is here probably near 3,000 feet in thickness. The northern portion of this lava flood, which came from the Cascade mountains, covers an area bf 100,000 square miles. The Columbia, which has cut its way to the sea almost througli the base of the mountains, .runs between cliffs that are from 1,000 to 2,000 feet high. In one place only, in the very axis of.the mountain,.the river has cut through the kiva flood and into the sedimentary strata. In this section underneath the lava there is a coarse pudding-stone, composed of pieces of porphyritic stone,- cemented together and of all sizes up to five and six feet in diameter. Upon this stratum-are to be seen several stumps of trees in their original positions, perfectly,
a
SCHOLASTIC.
223
petrified, with the roots extending five or six feet on either side. Immediately above this, about two or three feet, filling up the spaces between these stumps, there is stratified sandstone absolutely covered with the most beautiful impressions of the leaves of trees. Above this is a conglomerate resembling modified drift, in which are. scattered masses of driftwood either petrified or lignified. Then comes a ledge, and above this a layer of columnar basalt about 3,000 feet in height. Scattered over the Cascade mountains are quite a number of extinct volcanic cones, but their existence is not sufficient to account for such an enormous flood of lava as was required to leave the vast deposits described, which must have been ejected by forces equal to those which cause the upheaval of mountain chains.
Lately at a dinner-table in London, a gentleman remarked that A------, who used to be given to sharp practice, was getting more circumspect. “ Yes,” replied Judge Hoar, “he has reached the superlative of life. He began by seeking to get on, then he sought to get honor, and now he is trying to get honest.”	'
A correspondent complains in the. Catholic. Union of typographical errors in his printed communication; which makes the editor say: “ If men will write in such a style that their manuscript looks more like a map of Boston than a letter to an editor, these mistakes will happen even in the best regulated newspaper offices.”	-
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMY
St. JIary’s Academy, JIarch 4,1874. ARRIVALS.	•	'
Miss F. Howard,	Goshen, Indiana.
■“ J. Riopelle,	Detroit, Jlichigan.
“ R. Jlitelee,	Havana, Illinois.
“ JI. L. Bradford,	Pontiac, Jlichigan.
“ A-. Miller,	Niles, Jlichigan.
“ N. Jliller,	Niles, Jlichigan.
-	TABLET OF HONOR.
• SENIORS.
Misses L. Niel, JI. Kearney, A. JI. Clarke. N. Gross, R. Devoto, JI. Brown, R. Spier, L West, L. Black, N Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, B. R?ynolds, JI. Wicker, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, JI. Letourneau, J. Locke, E. Boyce,K.Finley, JI. Walker, G. Walton, J.Fanning, A Keeline, A. T. Clarke, N. Foote, JI.Riley, A: St. Clair, JI. Quan, G. Phillips, E. Bohan, JI. Johnson, E Denehey, L. Arnold, S. Sweeney, E. Doherty, L. Pfeiffer, A. Conahan, N. JIcEwen, F. Jloore, J. Bennett,L. Wyman, L. Keena, R. Ros-cesco, JI. Kengel, A. Sullivan, JI. Barry, JI. Bell, A. Hambleton, E. Ives, D. Simons, JI. Cummings, A. Jlinton, L. Henrotin, E. Ross, E. O’Connor, R. Klarr, L. Lilly, T. Heckman, E. Gosse, K. Graham, JI. O’JIaboney, H Jliller, R. JIc-Keaver, F. Gunzert, A. JIertz, J. Haney, S. Murrin, JI. Po quette, N. O’Connell, JI. Klotz, C. Sottrup, JI. Sheil, A. Boser, A. Garies, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K Engel, J. Adams, R. Neller.
JUNIORS.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, JI. Faxon, A. Walsh, JI. Carlin, JI. O'Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson. K. and JI. Hutchinson. JI. JIartin, JI. Walsh, K. Morehead, JI. Pritchard, E. Lang, L. Harrison, JI. Brown, H. Hand, L. JIcKinnon, J. and Jl. Thompson, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, JI. Kaeseburg,
A. Cullen, D. Allen, L. Germain, B. Golsan, J; McDougall, E. Schnob ick, L.' Walsh, A. Goewey, El Lappin, C. Orr, JI. Ware, E. Simpson, B. Gillary, -N. and L Mann, C. and JI. Hughes, E. McDougall, J. and F. Dee, S. West, H. Jlier.	'
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE	.
1st French Class—Jlisses JI. Quan, A. JI. Clarke, R. Spier, JI. Kearney, J. Kearney, L. Dent, JI. Letourneau, JI. Poquette, J. Walker, M. Walker. .
2nd French Class—Jlisses L. Ritchie, B. Reynolds," M. Resch, JI. Thompson, E. Thompson, J. Stimpson, G. Sottrup, B. Wilson, JI. Langdon, N. Brown, L. Kiel.
3rd Class—Jlisses L. Dragoo, A. Smith, A. T. Clarke, JI. Riley, A. St. Clair, F. Jloore, B. Golsan, K. Morehead.
1st German Class—Jlisses H. Miller, M. Kengel,’ L. Pfeiffer, A. Garies, K. Irmiter, F. Gunzert, M. A. Faxon, L. Black, JI. Klotz.	■	.
2nd German Class—Jlisses E. Richardson, R.Roscesco, B. Golsan, JI. Kaeseberg, M. Schultheis, K. Engel.
3rd German Class—Misses G. Phillips, C. Miller, L.
Kelly, E. Schnoback.	.
•	- vocal music.	.
1st Class—Lillie West.	.
2nd Division—H. Foote, E. O’Connor, L. Black, E.
Haggerty, JI. Quan.	-	.
2nd Class—T. Heckman, J. Kearney, J. Riopelle.
2nd Div.—JI. Kearney, J. Locke, D. Simonds, E. Dougherty, A. Jlinton, JI. Riley.
3rd Class—E. Taylor, C. Strother, A. Roberts, A. Keeline, L. Pfeiffer, J. Stimson, A. G tries, C. Orr.
2nd Div.—JI. Klotz, JI. Jackson, J. Brown, R. Canoll, I. Hatch. *	-
WATER COLOR PAINTING.
2nd Class—Hisses N. McAuliffe, C. Morgan, M. Kaese-berg, C. Sottrup, JI." Resch.	'	.
3rd Class—Misses A. Boser, R. Klarr.	,
.	OIL PAINTING.	.
1st Class—Jlisses B. Reynolds, B. Wade, A. Keeline, L. Pfeiffer. ’ .	’	’	.
2nd CLASs^Misses JI. Cummings, L. Arnold. .
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—E. Biack, J. Walker.	.
2nd Div.—R. Spier.	•
2nd Class—N. JIcEwen, J. Kreigh, T. Heckman, -A. Smith.
2nd Div.—D. Simonds, JI. Quan, A. Roberts.
3rd Class—K. Hutchinson, JI. Barry, A. Jlinton, M. Letourneau, E. O'Connor, A. Clarke, R. Devoto.
~ 2nd Div.—JI. Kearney, E. Denehey, A. Nichols, A. St Clair, L. Wyman, E. Ives, M. K>ch,.F. Moore, L. Arnold.
4th Cla«s—L. Tinsley, C. Jlorgan, A. Keeline, JI. Hutchinson, J. Bennett, J. S'impson, A. Boser, J. Locke.
2nd Div.—JI. Hoover, L. Henrotin, B Wilson, B. Golsan, E. Boyce, C. Kiotz, R. Roscesco, E. Haggerty, C. Jliller, L. Pfeiffer, JI. Brown.
oTti 'Class—M. Cummings, JI. Kaeseberg, JI. Faxon, I. Hatch, K. Finley, A. Allen, JI. Jackson. K. Engel.
2nd Div.—G. Strother, A Garies, L. Ritchie, J. Andrews, F. Lloyd, E. R'chardson, C. Sottrup, L. Niel, L. Lilly, M. A. Roberts, E. Lang, F. Howard, L. Johnson.
6th Class—A. JIeftz, H. Hand, JI. Schultheis, H. Peak,. K Morehead, JI. Carlin, JI. Walsh, A. Walsh, L. Walsh, E. Thompson, JI. Thompson, M. Riley, A. Curtin, L. Ger-, main, S. Sweeney.	. .
■224
THE SCHOLASTIC.
2nd Div.—N. McAuliffe, E. Sebnoback, H. Miller, A. Sw* eney, I. Fisk, L. JI unin, A. Sullivan, K. Iriniter, N. O'Meara, J. Adams, V. Ball, N. Ball.
7tii Class—N. O’Connor, K. Casey, E. Lappin, M. Reynolds, R. McKeaver, S. Keena, M. Quill, R. Callary, E. Dougherty, C- Orr.
8th Class—E. Simpson, T. Cronin, F. Dee.
9th Class—A. Ewing, J. Brown.
10th Class—M. Poquette, K. Graham.
Harp—J. Walker, M. Wicker.
2nd Class—M. Walker, E. O’Connor.
Guitar—L. Harrison.
Harmony—R. Spier, E. Black, J. Walker. theoretical classes.
N. McEwen, E. Gosse, M. Wicker, M. Kearney, L. Henrotin, J. Kearney, M. Letourneau, A. St. Clair, A. Smith, E. Dennehey, T. Heckman, M. Kengel, K. Morehead, D. Simonds, A. Emmons, G. Phillips, N. Foote, E. O’Connor, E. Ives, E. Richardson, C. Nason, L. Lilly, L. Wyman, A. Roberts, A. Nichols, M. Brown, L. Germain, A. Allen, A. Cullen, N. Koch.
Scales and Exercises—N. McEwen, E. Gosse, A. ’ Smith, R. Spier, N. Foote, A. Nichols, E. Dennehey, M. Quan, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, L. Pfeiffer, C. Nason, G. Phillips, A. Clarke, E. Ives, E. Connor, D. Simonds, M. Emmons, R. Devoto.
L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, December 14,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOIXG EAST.
1,47 a. m (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 9 5J; Cleveland, 2.15 p. 3t. ; Buffalo, 9.10 p m.
1O.1O a. m (No. 2), Mail, over Main and A r Lines; Arrives at Toledo, 5.10 p 31 ; Cleveland. 9 50 p. M.
11.58 r m. (No. 4). Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. at.; Buffalo 4 20 a at. J
9 09 p. m. (No G'.-jAtlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland. 7 05; Buffalo, 1.25 p. 31.
3.45 p. at. (No 70), Local Freight. GOING WEST.
3.20 A. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.25; Chicago 6 55 a. st.
5 20 a. 31 (No 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8 30 a. 3t.
6.34 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7 30; Chicago, 10 r. st.
5.45 p. st. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express- Arrives at Laporte, 6.40: Chicago, 9 00.
9.05 a. st. (No. 71), Local Freight.
Note. C inductors are pinlively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.	.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago. ’
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844,enlarged in 1866, and fitted up ■with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	■
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos 7, 9, anu 71: East, Nos. 2 and 70 Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. st., rnnuiug through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent. '
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRA0K RAILROAD.
is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
.	TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$ 6 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- ISO 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, - -- -- -- -- -- 10 00 Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing. - - - -- -- -- -- - 15 00 Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee— Commercial. $>; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra.	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with, Pullman's Palace Cars,.are.run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
. Fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	“ . 9.00 p.m “	. “	.	11.30 p.m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. .
F. R. MYEB8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. -♦ Second day.
The First S-ssion begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address'
Rev. A. LBUONNIBB, C.S.C.
President.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
(JWRAIN'S leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
NILES I SO UTH BEND R.R.
Leave Niles, -
It
Leave Niles, -
GOING SOUTH.	GOING NORTH.
9.21 a m.
5.20 p.m.
7.35 p.m.
Leave South Bend,
SUNDAY TRAINS.
10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, 7.35 p m. | li “
- 6.30 a.m. 11 00 a m. 6.15 p.m.
- 8.00 a.m. 5 00 p.m.
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
♦9:30 a.m. ♦8:00 p.m
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
♦9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
46:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
J9:00 p.m. J7:15 a.m.
49:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS naving become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on find'ng the best accom" odation.
Ladies and -entlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hoo e during their stay,
JERRY KNtGHT,	,
Captain MILLS, rProprietors, .ft—51 von
♦ Except Sunday. 4 On Sunday runs to Springfield only 4 Ex cept Saturday. |] Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all dan Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. c. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANY & CHICAGO K.H.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:	'
GOING NO It TH.
Pass............. 7 29	p	st.
Freight..........2.48	a.	31.
Freight..........8 57	p.	31
Pass.............9.24	a.	m.
GOING SOUTH Pass .............. 823	p it.
Freight ..........10	47 a.31.
Freight............4.45	A.31.
Paes...... .......11.23	a.m.
H. N. CANIEF, Agent.