The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII. NO TEE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 21, 1874. Number®.
JNO.HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notaby Public.
•pjAGERTY & TONG,
ATTORNEYS-AT-L,AW,
REAL ESTATE ano INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS,	:
.	Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
' Cor- Michigan and, Washington Sts., o24-tf	South. Bend, Indiana.
J) J- HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of '
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
„	- .	—ALSO—
’ WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
: : 1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
p E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
-. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
‘	.(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
/______________________________._:_:------
/	Do you want a drive ? Go to
^EN COQUILLARD’S ,	i
LIVERY STJYELES,
Corner of Michigan and Washington Streets,
:	South Bend, Indiana.
;	o24-2m
I •—-------------------:---------:-;
^!!THE STUDENTS’ OFFICE!!^ ;
•pjENRY BLUM,	-
WHOLESALE AND BETAIL DEALER IN
j CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc.,
I - No..54. WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. %o2Ltf
Jg NICAR & Co, -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St-, - - - SOUTH-BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOB	*	‘ - -
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fisbing-Tackle, Etc?, Desk-Locks, Padlocks^ Japanned Boies, 'etc., , ____________________________________oM-tf
■y NICAR, ' '
‘ DEALER IN HARDWARE, c::
91 MICHIGAN St., ... SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
.	-	. „ sobts ep	1	—
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks,- Fishiug-Tackle, Etc.
‘ —ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
•	-_____;____________________QSMf
jyns. C. S. STOVER,
MILLILTER,
129 Michigan, Street, -	- South BeiiH, Inliana.
Dealer in
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc.
^“The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will-find it to their advantage to give her a call.-	o24-Jan 1
JJIGHT & FAIRFIELD,	--'---
JEWELLERS
- South Bend, - - - Indiana.
Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Marg's
CONFIDENT IN
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED' STOCK,
c ■ None Can Fail to be Suited.
^“Particular attention given to repairing fine’ Jewelry, and Watches.	o34-3m'
QEORGE -HEHR,	- -
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
; 'AND GENERAL DEALEB IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Dp Stans.)'	'
THE KNOBLOCK STORE,
WASHINGTON St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, IND*
'is the Peace Fob all Kinds of
‘ CHOICE FRUITS (FOREIGN and DOMESTIC), —ALSO—
CHOICE BRANDS of CIGARS , and TOBACCO, :
Cheaper than at. any other- place.m the city. o24-lnj
98
THE SCHOLASTIC.
JJALMER & VanWINKLE,	.
‘	Dealers in *. •
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, •
- Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
J> DUBAIL,
' * BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER, 71 Washington St., ~	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Duhail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	• South Bend, Indiana.
.	.	•	.	o24-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
. WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
fl HANAUER,
• ■ * Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. ~	Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING, .
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, ‘ STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS., All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to "DUZBY & GALLAGHER, CLOTHIERS,	'
MERCHANT TAILOBS,
■	AND DEALERS IN	'
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, .	HATS, CAPS, &c.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH SEND, IND. o24-2m
J.JSATIN GLOSS PHOTOGRAPHS.
For the most improved Satin Gloss Photographs or Gems (4 for 50 cents), go to	.
BECKWITH’S GALLERY,
107 & 109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana
-	- (Over National Bank.)	> % o24-6m.
JRELAND & SON,	'
•	' PROPRIETORS OF	-
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, *
No. 54 MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND., _
(Opposite the Dwight House).	~
--o---	,
. HACK LINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary's.	JJO24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE I” ' ----------------0--- ‘ DROP IN AT	'
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
„.	AND
. See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRY'KNiGHT, 1 CAPTAIN MILLS, [Proprietors.
A. KLIN GEL & SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St.,
SOUTH BEND. IND.
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of
Diens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
OP THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Brackett & Boyden’s Hand and Machine sewed Goods,	,;
the	•-'
Largest Stock J In The City. /
Give us a CaH and see the Nobby Styles^
LADIES
We would call your attention to our immense Stock of L SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3-
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
'	For the Best Confcctionery, go to	S
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,	j
99 MAIN STEEET, -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, i
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!	.
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
«o24-tf
The Scholastic:
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
Disco quasi semper victurus; Vive quasi eras moilturus.
Volume VIII. KO TRE DAME, INDIAKA, NOVEMBER 21, 1874.	Number 9.
Bright Death.
A TRIBUTE OF FRIENDSHIP TO THE MEMORY OF REV. NEAL R.
GILLESPIE, C. S. 0., BY J. M. J. G.
I.
With heavy step and tear-dimmed eyes— ’Neath leafless trees and low’ring skies,— We bore him ’mid sad symphonies miserere, Domine! ii.
Alas the day 1 we loved him well, How much, no human tongue shall tell, But death has rudely broke the spell. miserere, Domine!
in.
His noble heart is quiet now,—
The life has died upon his brow:
Dead !—Gone from us!—But, Lord, we bow. JUiserere, Domine !
IV.
The lines of manhood from his face
Have disappeared, and childhood’s grace Has wreathed with smiles stern Time’s deep trace. '	miserere, Domine!
v.
That face a mother’s hand caressed When sweetly sleeping on her breast He looked'an angel taking rest.
miserere, Domine!
’ VI.
He walks the fated path alone
• Unto the halls of the Unknown, Where wails Death’s lonely monotone,' miserere, Domine !
.	VII.
And now, behold the realms of Night' Send forth their spectres to affright. His soul, and hide the hopeful light. miserere, Domine!
[VIII.
Back, shadowy crew !—there is no loss, Though hell’s dark billows rage and toss, For him who clings to Jesus’ Cross. miserere, Domine!
IX.
What power have ye, infernal brood, O’er souls all crimsoned with the Blood . That flowed from blessed Calvary’s Rood ’ miserere, Domine!
x.
Vain all your rage; for He who gave Life to the soul, knows how to save E’en at the portal of the grave.
miserere, Domine!
r-	XI.
V" ■" Ye cannot stay the golden light
That’s breaking on his dying sight From Aidenn’s mountains, snowy white. [miserere, Domine! xn.
Eternal silence ! grow more still, For now the realms of Heaven thrill Before that Form on yonder hill.
miserere, Domine !
XIII.
A thorny crown rests on His Head, His Hands, His Feet, His Side are red,— For thee, dear Neal, that Victim bled I miserere, Domine!
XIV.
The majesty of suffering there Hath made of Death an angel fair, And crushed the monster of despair. miserere, Domine! ' xv.
And by our dear Redeemer’s side Walks Mary—Daughter, Mother, Bride,— With all the heavenly hosts beside.
miserere, Domine!
XVI.
0 glorious dawn of endless day I
O sun whose uneclipsdd ray
For thee shall never fade away.
. {	miserere, Domine!
XVII.
The mystic gates of light and gold Noiseless as angel’s wings unfold, Revealing realms of joy untold. miserere, Domine!
XVIII.
Girt with bright glory as a crown Thou reapest now the Victory won, And, as a king, thou tak’st thy throne.
miserere, Domine!
God’s benison thy memory keep, Rest, rest in peace I 0 sweetly sleep I And pray for Love left here to weep. miserere, Domine!
And when the hour of His design Shall strike for us, may Love Divine Make our last end, dear friend, like thine. miserere, Domine!
“I resolve never to speak of a man’s virtues before his face, nor of his faults behind his hack.”
Who does not know that knowledge is a gift of .God,. who communicates it so much the more readily to those.: who ask it the more they purify their conscience ?—R. Fr . Alvarez..	.	i
100	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Sunnyside Reveries.
THROWING AWAY LIFE.
It is easier for children to ask questions than for wise men to answer them, some one has so truly said. Seated iffmy'fbom'af hiyboarding house one cold, dark evening a few years since, quietly smoking my customary cigar, and reading in an absent way a quaint old book, while several little children were playing around—and I always permitted them to come, and when they became too noisy I would silence them only by a look or absent remark from which they were sure to recover to become more noisy than ever, and I liked them all the better for it—my attention was attracted by the philosophic remark of one of the drollest of the merry group. I had allowed my cigar to burn on until the white ashes had covered more than one half of its entire lengtht, and then without thinking leaned forward and brushed the now lifeless ashes into the hearth. “ See,” said she, “ he has throwed away more than half his cigar, and I am glad of it; wish he wouldn't smoke;” and I lost the rest of the childish prattle, for I was away in the realms of fancy, dreaming; and, laying down my book, I mused upon human life. That, I thought, was simply a natural outburst of innocent indignation at a useless and offensive habit, and contained a keener rebuke than a whole Sabbath-morning sermon. The child was right; but-, I mused, is it the only foolish, useless thing we do in life? Surely not. Do we not brush away more than half of life itself, often never thinking of what we are doing? We live on and on, from day to day, never putting off the things that belong to our childhood’s years, until stern necessity or some chance-like freak of fate brings to us the unwelcome reality that we have thrown away more than one half of our life: and can we wonder if some more buoyant and hopeful child should say: He might have thrown away the-rest, for it is worthless; and looking for a moment at the sad reality, we feel its utter hopelessness and see that we have done nothing—absolutely nothing—to prove our title to an inheritance here. And why do we live at all? We have wasted more than half; and we have worn the garb of childhood so long that the raiment of more sober years but ill becomes us. No: we cannot wear it now; it would look too strangeand absurd; we must live on as we are, and nothing but the cold, lifeless ashes will mark the fact that we have lived at all, burned slowly out, and diffused into the surrounding atmosphere, often corroding it, but never an aid; a benefit nowhere.
We brush away the ashes while we dream: we are chasing some phantom and do not see the tiny spark that may. hap lives in the pale ashes; that spark we might have nurtured into a vigorous blaze, a glowing life-current of original thought which might have astonished, electrified the world, but we were too intent on some childish amusement, and thoughtlessly allowed it to go out, dull, smouldering, cold and dead upon the hearth.
And how do we burn our lives away? By fire, surely. Some by the buming, blasting influence of ill-guided ambition, blackened and seared by the scorching, withering fires of passion; and some by reckless and wasting dissipation that only tortures the poor weak soul to madness and crime. Flashes and evanescent.gleams of hope glow up brightly for a while, and paling again by falsehood, deceit, or wearying care, leave despair to work upon the sensitive
soul, and the beauty and romance and hope-gilded pictures of youth fade like the pale white ashes before me, and we brush them away, not carelessly now, bu t with a certain half fierce stoicism which leaves but little to hope for what remains. But the fire of existence burns on, and we must consume the days and we^y useless years, for it is our only solace as well as our unavoidable fate- - ...
And now in fancy let us turn the written pages of the record,—not the Record of our family, so cleverly kept be tween the divisions of the Sacred Law—Old and New,—but" the great human “ family record ” of our friends, kept without a blemish in that wonderful vaulting me mory of which-we so seldom boast, and mark here and there a friend born into the realm of our affections, and wedded into our hearts by some sacred proof of worthiness, and sadly, oh how sadly! we turn with weary, retrospective gaze to that other, that last entry, “ Gone; ” it tells the rest. And did it not, the hard, bitter suffering of heart—a wordless agony; the strong impenetrable shield of our pride with which we shut out the prying curiosity of a heartless world, a veil which lifts only in our lonely musings, when there is no one near to see our more than childish weakness,—would they not force upon us the certain evidence of our pilgrimage, the sadly, uneven, wreck-strewn pathway we are all so surely pursuing ? Ah, yes! and we can turn to those silent records easily,—records which in .our blind, unreasoning love and selfishness we think no one else has ever kept,—for the scoriated and lava-blackened pathway is one over which we have often travelled, with weary feet and alone, the arid reaches of which we have moistened with such tears as strong, rugged natures alone can shed, the memories of which go with us; and though the depth of our despair seemed beyond the reach of sympathy, yet that memory is 1 a blessed inspiration which forces the most wandering | heart to the truth and sacred reality of that beautiful realm of immortality.
And does there come over our drifting fancy a nameless indefinable fear that mayhap some one else keeps even such a record, and that some one else may shortly be called upon to write on that immortal tablet of memory our name too ;	!
and do we shrink from the thought as from the odious presence of an unwelcome visitor; and do we try to reason down the tenacious thought by the shallow-sounding teachings of philosophy; and do we say: yes, we too must go, but no one will care, we have no friends who would wish to follow our humble pageant to the tomb, Jess to treasure our memory on the shrine of immortal thought ? And do we succeed ? No: it is impossible. However much of our lives has been wasted, however worthless the remainder may appear, the dread of death remains coupled with a longing, yearning desire to be appreciated and remembered < by some one. It is the natural instinct of the heart, and can neither be gainsaid nor thoroughly understood.
T. A. D.
—A darkey’s instruction for putting on a coat were: “ First de right arm, den de left, den give one general con-wulsion.”
—If anything will impress the human mind with awe, it is the expression of the man’s face who has just been aroused from snoring in church.
—A South Bend boy propounds the awful query: “ Which would you rather have, the stand-pipe tofall on you, or all the maple sugar you can swallow ?”
THE SCHOLASTIC
101
■.Sfis,
In Msmoriaax.
»BV. A. LEMONNIER, G. S. 0., LATE PRESIDENT OF NOTRE DAME.
BY J. M. J. G.
O Death! dark angel of the Lord: What harmonies of Life
Awake, when the last mortal chord— When earth’s long, weary strife— Is ended, and the Christian soul Slow fading from the eyes, Sees, shining fair, the promised goal, Beyond Heaven’s radiant skies.
Where is thy triumph, Death, and where
* -	The terror of thy sting ?
J	When flashing lights all soft and fair
Their magic splendor fling {	Adown upon the Christian heart
Throbbing with joy intense. Because it chose the better part— I	The crown and recompense.
There is a hymn the angels sing In holy ecstasies
When a pure soul is taking wing, When a Christian hero dies.
And their voices hush thy hurtling spear And blunt its point, O Death I And soothe the soul, and dry the tear, And bless the fleeting breath.
Dread minister of God,—thou page Of His eternal will!
Humanity’s stern heritage, Thy whispered words: “ Be still! ” (	Freeze up the mystery of life
Into a thing of clay,
|	Painting the blooming cheek of youth,
With thy twilight tint of gray,
Moura for the sinner dead in sin Beneath unholy sod,
But mourn ye not for those who win The blessed. smile of God;
!	His faith is but a fickle reed
Who, ’mid the raging storm—
Though tears may flow and sad heart bleed— Sees not th’ Almighty’s form.
Lemonnier I ’twas not in vain, God sent theeito this scene;
A holy life without a stain Shall keep thy memory green I For, like the rose that gives its breath Out to the waking morn, '	Our hearts are sweetened in thjr death,
।	Although with sorrow torn.
Peace to the dead in grace,—sweet peace!— Be blest His dear design
Who walked the Valley of Release And made Death’s self divine,— Made grief a sacred thing, and pain , •	An emblem of His Cross—
i .	That faith may see in death a gain
I	Where nature sees but loss.
i	Peace to the ashes of the dead;
।	Strew flowers upon his grave,
Light rest the green sward,o’er his head Sweet Lord, we humbly crave I May all his saintly acts take wing, And safely bear him o’er
The gloomy realm where Death is king,— The sea without a shore.
O sunless sea! O silent sea Without a bound or shore, Lo! set the panting spirit free, Henceforth for evermore,
The light is breaking,—Heaven near, The opal mountains gleam,
And clouds which filled the soul with fear With forms angelic teem.
Considertions on the Origin and Progress of Physical Science.
A LECTURE READ BEFORE THE NOTRB DAME SCIEliTnTC ASSOCIATION*.
[CONTINUED.]
We have denied the reasons commonly advanced by nnti-Catholic writers to account for the slow progress of science previous to the beginning of the sixteenth century—and now the question arises, can any substantial reasons be assigned why such was the case. We respond t Yes; several,—the principal of which we will briefly enumerate. The first, and by do means the least, of these, is found in the unsettled state of European society during those ages. Owing to the dismemberment of the Roman empire and the confusion and disorder consequent on the incursions of the barbarous hordes of the North at a later period, the manifold wars which all Europe was obliged to wage in order to defend herself from the incessant attacks of the Saracens, Moors and Turks, who threatend not only to overrun her territory but also the liberty and independence of her people, there was evidently but little opportunity afforded for the cultivation of science, and still less for its furtherance by inventions and discoveries.
Another cause which tended to retard the advance of scientific knowledge was the ridiculous reverence for author-, ity manifested by those who devoted themselves to scientific pursuits during those ages, and the implicit confidence which they placed in the declarations of those of their predecessors who had excelled in any particular branch of science. To dispute the dicta of Aristotle, Ptolemy, or others universally recognized as masters, or teach anything contrary to what they held was looked upon as the height of presumption—as an innovation not to be tolerated. We find a striking illustration of this in the science of MedL cine. Galen, a celebrated physician of the second century, required in support of one of his theories the existence of holes of communication through the septum of the heart,. from the left to the right ventricle. Now although there, are no apertures whatever through this partition, the very fact of Galen’s affirming their existence enabled the physi rfans nf the, succeeding fourteen centuries to see them; nor was it until the time of Desalisis, a Flemish physician who flourished in the beginning of the sixteenth century, that this theory was rejected by his declaring, notwithstanding, the high authority of Galen, that he could not find them.
Again, another cause which exercised, not a less blighting influence on the progress of science, was the unwillingness which the scientists of the age, particularly the phem-ists—or more properly the alchemists—manifested in making their discoveries known to the world. Whether this reluctance proceeded from a desire of inducing in the minds of the multitude a belief in the superiority of their individual attainments, or from some other motive, we
1023
THE scholastic;
cannot say. - As an exemplification of this, we may adduce the conduct of Roger Bacon, a Franciscan friar of the 13th centuiy. This author—universally celebrated as a man of genius, and several centuries in advance of his age—was undoubtedly acquainted with many facts of paramount importance, which however were not made known to the world at large until long afterwards. He understood the properties of lenses, and constructed magnifying glasses and small telescopes, as we learn from his writings. He knew also—as is now generally admitted, the composition of gunpowder—but for some unassignable reason was unwilling to make known an invention which at a later age so completely changed the constitution of military tactics. He gives at once a part of the required ingredients,—the tails the carbonum pulvere, petra et sulphuris; but the other part of the mixture—he veils under the undecipherable anagram—luru none cap urbe. .
'.But what undoubtedly more than anything- else prevented the advance of science was the want of a means of communication and of diffusing knowledge among the masses—a desideratum supplied only by the invention of printing. If, then, science began to make such rapid strides in the way of invention and discovery about the period of the Reformation, we cannot consider this as the effect of the Reformation, but rather as a result of the art-of printing, which, by making known to the public the researches and experiments of scientists, excited a spirit of scientific emulation in the minds of thousands, who, although gifted with genius, would have otherwise remained inactive and indifferent to scientific pursuits, and would never have been, as they now are, recognized by science as her most distinguished votaries, by humanity as its noblest benefactors. . .
We may now, after these considerations, return to the history of Chemistry and Physics, the cultivation of which sciences, as yon recollect, we left in the hands of the Arabic philosophers of Cordova and Bagdad. They made but. little progress in Europe until the beginning of the 17th century, when Physics received a new impulse from the discoveries of Galileo, Torricelli and Pascal, and chemistry took a new start, or rather was placed on an entirely new foundation. Hitherto the latter science especially advanced but slowly, not only on account of the retarding influences above mentioned, but more particularly on account of: the mode of investigation—entirely devoid of anything like inductive reasoning—adopted by the alchemists and the end which they had in view,—the effectuation of what was evidently impossible. Basing their experiments on the hypotheses of certain of the ancient philosophers,who assumed the existence of only four elements, earth, fire, air and water, they directed their undivided attention to the transmutation of the baser melals into gold. They substantiated, they thought, their views by the following considerations:—All bodies, said they, must be either hot or cold, wet or dry; and according to the Various combinations of these properties the four elements’"are produced. Thus; according to their way of reasoning, dryness and warmth, produce fire,—dryness and cold, earthy—moisture and warmth, air,—moisture and cold, Jwater. Continuing the same train of reasoning, these four elements were thought to be reciprocally trausmu table, by an interchange of properties. In like manner, the production of all bodies was explained, the nature of the body being characterized by its predominating element or
property. We do not wonder then, that the Alchemists, considering as they did, this hypothesis, and all their deductions from it as indubitable,- should attempt the production of gold, by transferring its properties to the baser metals, iron, tin, lead, etc.; nor are we surprised that they should seek for a substance capable of effecting’ this transmutation—a substance familiar to all, as the Philosopher’s Stone, and which from the magic power it was supposed to possess, was also denominated the Universal Medicine, and the Elixir of Life.
Although we are far from approving of the motives which actuated the Alchemists in their researches, we must nevertheless give them credit for the good they have done. Indeed Alchemy which we have heretofore considered under the name of chemistry is the parent of modern chemistry—to which it bears the same relation as did astrology to astronomy. In their researches for the Philosopher’s stone, the alchemists discovered many substances which have since become very extensive articles of commerce. Instead of obtaining the alcahest—the universal solvent,—they discovered what are now regarded as indispensable in every laboratory,—the nitric, muriatic and sulphuric acids. Ins-tead of finding the universal medicine, their labors were rewarded by the discovery of many substances of incalculable value to medicine. •	.
About the middle of the seventeenth century, when alchemy had almost completed the term of its existence, the celebrated theory of combustion, the phlogistic theory, wan introduced. It was first advanced by Beecher, a German chemist, and further developed by his eminent countrymen, stated a few years later.. According to this theory, all bodies capable of burning contained a rare ethereal substance—called phlogiston—which was incapable of being isolated, but, escaped during the process of combustion, and, by its escape, gave rise to this phenomenon. Ail incombustible bodies, as well as those deprived of their phlogiston, were accordingly said to be the dephlogisticated; this theory was universally accepted for more than a century, when it was finally, in 1781, overthrown by the great French chemist, Lavoiser, to whom and Dr. Priestley belong the honor of being the founders of modern chemistry. -	'
After the discovery of oxygen by Priestly, in 1774, and the many brilliant experiments which were made by others a few years later, a new system of chemistry, the one which how obtains, was inaugurated. To better understand the beneficial results consequent on the discovery of oxy’gen, and the introduction by Lavoisier of the chemical balance —that indispensable instrument in quantitative analyses— listen to the words of the most eminent chemist of the day—the father of agricultural chemistry—Baron Liebig. Of the former, he says:—“Since the discovery of oxygen, the civilized world has undergone a revolution in manners and customs. The knowledge of the composition of the atmosphere, of the solid crust of the earth, of water, and o^ their influence upon the life of plants and animals, was linked with that discovery. The successful pursuit of innumerable trades and manufactures, the profitable separation of metals from their ores, also stand in the closest ’ connection therewith. It may well be said that the material prosperity of empires has increased manifold since the time oxygen became known, and the fortune of every individual has been augmented in proportion.” Concerning the chemical balance, the same illustrious scientist ob-
T£tE SCHOLASTIC.	103
•a——  	.  _'	2
series: “The great distinction between the manner of proceeding in chemistry and philosophy, is that one toeighs while the other measures. The natural philosopher has applied his measures to nature for many centuries; but only for 80 years have we attempted to advance our natural philosophy by weighing. For all great discoveries, chemistry is indebted to the balance, that incomparable instrument which gives per manence to every observation, dispels ambiguity, establishes truth, detects error, and is a guide in the true path of inductive inquiry.”
Subsequently to this epoch followed in quick succession a series of discoveries no less remarkable than those just mentioned. The discovery of ox ygen led to the investigations of Sir Humphrey Davy on the nature of combustion; and the labors of this great physicist were richly rewarded by man’s inventions and discoveries. He is, as you know the inventor of the safety lamp, which has since been the means of saving the lives of thousands. Moreover, we owe to a lecture of his on the nature of flame—the principles of which were practically applied by one of his hearers, a young man named Cort—the puddling process of changing cast into wrought iron. By this process the facility of manufacturing iron was greatly increased—indeed the great demand for this indispensable metal could not otherwise be supplied except at exorbitant prices.
(to be continued.)
Literature.
The Contents of the De La Salle Monthly for November are: 1, Cardinal Wiseman; 2, Bone and Sinew and Brain; 3, The Vice of Reading; 4, A Night Never to be Forgotten; 5, A November Evening; 6, The Prince of Humbugs; 7, Paul Templar: A Prose Idyl; 8, Discipline; 9; Desultory Reading; 10, The Madonna of Einsiedeln; 11, Rene the Conscript; 12, Editorial Comments; 13, Catholic Items; 14, Scientific Notes.
The Contents of the Young Crusader for December are: 1, Brave Boys of France; 2, The Farm of Four Oaks; 3, Christmas; 4, Wonderful Dexterity of a Goat; 5, The Spider’s Thread; 6, St. Barbara; 7, The Kamseen; and other minor pieces.
We think the publishers would do well to make a table of contents for their excellent little journal.
—The Catholic Record, comes to us this month in a complete new dress. A new department which we do not like in a monthly has been introduced, in which the Editor gives brief editorial comments on the leading events of the month. The contents of the November number are; I, The Necessity for an Ed ucated Priesthood—George D. Wolf. II, Love—Oscar von Rcdiritz. Ill, The Truth of It,—Mrs. M. M. Warde. IV, The Sanctity and Honor of the Roman Pontificate,—Dr. Moriarty. V, Two Scenes from the Life of Hayden—The Month. VI, A Gleam of Light from the “ Dark Ages,”—Charles H A. Esling. VH, Letters to a Protestant Friend—Dr. Moriarty. VIII, A Flattering .Reminiscence. IX, To the Sad Hour of Yesterday—Mrs. M. M. Warde. X, Xavier de Merode—The Month. XI, Editorial Notes. XII, New Publications. We think the writers for the Record should endeavor to shorten the titles of their articles. We have left out part of the titles in the above, simply because some of them would occupy at least
; a line of our paper.
Catholic University of Ireland.
J
—On the 16th of October, the solemn inauguration of the Catholic University of Ireland, for the session of. 1874-7^ took place at Dublin. This is the first session begun since the changes which last year’s legislation have demanded. It was useless for the Catholics to hope for anything like real justice from-English hands. The Catholic Hierarchy of Ireland, knowing this, determined then to trust to the hearty support of the faithful people of faithful Ireland, and make the Irish University what it should.be, the great educational establishment of Ireland, where the people might be able to send their children to receive a thorough education as regards not only science but also as regards morals and religion,—an institution where, unlike Belfast in the North, their sons would not be exposed to such scientific instruction as is meted out by Tyndall and Huxley.	'
In putting their trust in the Catholic people of Ireland the prelates were not mistaken. During the past five years thirty-seven schools and colleges have been affiliated to the University; and since last fall, when the regents' or trustees of the University framed their new rules and regulations, one hundred and forty-two students have matriculated in the different Catholic colleges throughout Ireland^ and are now following the University course. The people have come to the aid of the University; and though they are not able to give the large amounts which the Staid gives to Trinity and the Queen’s College, yet they bid fait to place the institution on a firm financial basis and thus make it successful in all respects.
Cardinal Cullen^ in his address at the inauguration^ speaking of the University, said:
“ He hoped every branch of science would be well cultivated in this University, and he hoped that every year there would be a succession of young men to undergo their examination in theology, philosophy, and in the arts, and thus prepare themselves for the pursuits which were before them in this world. They were not, however, to expect all in a moment from any institution. It was in the nature of things that Universities and public institutions of that kind should go on gradually—that all things should have a small beginning, and time to develop themselves by degrees, and so become firmly rooted. The. Catholic University was slow, but they must expect that it would produce greater fruits in the progress of time, and its existence and its utility would be more permanent. There was another reason why things could not advance so rapidly as they would wish. There were great institutions in this country which were very successftil, but they were supported out of the public funds. There was, for instance, Trinity College, with £60,000 a year, probably; there were the Queen’s Colleges, with £30,000 or £40,000 a year, and endowed in various other ways. The Catholic University had no endowments but what came from the charity of the generous people of Ireland. It was engaged in a very unequal struggle, but, notwithstanding the difficulties which lay in its way, he trusted it would triumph over all, and become a great institution in the country.”
And yet the Catholic University, depending on the charity, of the people of Ireland, made a better show during its last session, with a roll of two hundred and forty-two students, than did any of the Queen’s Colleges not withstanding the lavish endowments of the State. So it is everywhere. Catholic schools and colleges, with no endowments, flourish; while the non-Catholic, with liberal endowments, fail.
104	THE SCHOLASTIC.^
Ths $shola§tw.
Published every Week during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
' AH communisations should be sent to Editor Scholastic Kotre Dame, Indiana.
TEBM8: r One.yesr...........-...........>100
/ Single copies (frets.) sen be obtained at the Siadente’ Offisc.
—The opening of the Catholic .University College at Kensington, .England, on the loth of October, forms an event.in the.history of Catholic Education in that country, and its ^importance cannot be too highly rated. It marks also an era in the history of the Catholic Church in England. "Fromthis time forward it will not be necessaiy for the youth of that country to seek that knowledge and education beyond the seas which they were unable obtain at home.
* The Catholic University College was founded by the Catholic Hierarchy of England, at the suggestion of the Roly Father. With excellent judgment they have placed the Rt.Rev. Monsignor Capel, D. D., at the head of the Institution, as rector,—a title which corresponds tothat of president in ^n American University. Monsignor Capel is one of the most devoted and accomplished members of the Catholic Church in England. By his eminent talents he has achieved a .distinguished name outside the narrow limits of that country. Probably no living English Catholic, after Archbishop Manning and Dr. Newman, is so well known in America. He is a man of great zeal, and his activity and determination will undoubtedly cause the University College to succeed, notwithstanding the prophecies of failure which have been made by many Catholics in England.
The University was established for two classes of students : those who wish to follow the normal course of four years study, and those who arc preparing for the Army, Civil Service, and Law. So far as we know, there are no departments of Medicine or Theology as yet, though these no doubt will afterwards be added. -
• ■ .Among the members of the- faculty we meet with two names familiar to American ears, those of D. Florence .McCarthy and St. George Mivart. Florence McCarthy, . Who fills the chair of English Literature, is one of the /sweetest of modern English poets. There is. scarcely an American Catholic who has not been charmed by the sweet .melodious verse of the translator of Calderon, and his ' fellow-countrymen throughout America will be pleased- to. -'hear’of the honor conferred upon one of Ireland’s sons in an English University. St. George Mivart, wTho fills the .chair of Biology, is one of the first scientists in England, ' and has shown himself a more than equal antagonist to
Huxley, Darwin, Tyndall, Spencer, and the other leaders 1 of infidelity, in their own chosen fields of science.
The other Professors and tutors, though men of much * knowledge and ability, who have acquired eminence as .teachers in their own country, have not yet attained ‘ American reputations. Some of them are graduates of . Trinity College, Dublin, others are from Oxford and Cam-" bridge, England. -
Seventeen students were entered the day-of the opening
of the College. Of these, most of them have already matriculated at.StonyhurstjUsbaw.and oth'er .Colleges, which have become affiliated to the-Catholic University College. Eight others, two of them undergraduates of the London. University, will enter the University College in a few. weeks. This will make a fair and respectable number of students for the first term, and is an omen of future, success. The College bids fair to accomplish one of the great objects for which it was started, namely that of being a centre where the Catholic youth of England may meet in healthy rivalry; for, as we have said before, most ofthe students have made their preparatory studies in the. older Catholic .Colleges.
The Catholic University College starts out with every prospect of success, and they have the good wishes of the. Catholics of all nations.	,
—Catholic Collegesin the'United States labor under great' disadvantages. Most of the non-Catholic institutions have been endowed by the State or have received so many donations from private parties, by which means they have been able to found professorships and scholarships, that whether they have many students or few they are able to keep their classes running. This is not the ease witb Catholic colleges. There is not to our knowledge a single one which has ever received from any quarter whatsoever an endowment of any kind. We never hear of anyone out of his privatemeans establishing a professorship in any Catholic college. We know, of no scholarships having ever been established in them by anyone. All professors in our colleges are paid by the trustees of the.colleges, and these receive the money which they pay .to ,the’professor from the students, for tuition.
As we have said .above, this is not the case with other colleges. All, or many of them, have princely .revenues. Scarcely .a man of any means dies.in Boston without leaving something to Harvard. His name is perpetuated in connection with some professorship,or library, or museum. Yale is. well endowed. Ann Arbor is supported by the State. Columbia, Cornell, and others do not depend upon the tuition of the students for their existence. And in Canada the same may be said of many Catholic institutions^ The University Laval, in Quebec, is richly endowed. The Sulpicians in Montreal have large revenues to support their college and seminary. In England a number of wealthy Catholics have pledged themselves to give a certain amount yearly to support the new Catholic University College, and we believe the same thing is done in Ireland.
The Catholic Colleges in the United States are deserving of much praise for what they have done with their limited means. Had they, too, endowments or other sources of revenue than the mere profits which accrue to them from tuition, etc., Catholic education would- be greatly improved, professors would be better paid, and the education of young men become cheaper.
The Catholics of the United States have, with small means at their command, done wonders. They have built churches, founded hospitals and asylums, established parish schools, and have given freely for the education of the young men destined for the Church. These were the things first needed, and the Catholic people of America have done well in this respect. The great want of higher education for all will soon become apparent to evety Catholic, and when that time comes we feel confident
THE SCH,
01 ASTI 0.	IM
that Catholic colleges will receive those endowments from the people which they do not receive, like the non-Cath-olic colleges, from the State.
- The above editorial was written for last week’s issue, but was crowded out. Since writing it we have read an article in the New York Tablet containing many good suggestions to Catholic Colleges. The latter part of the article confirms what we have said in our article. The writer in the Tablet says-:	• -
- “ Our wealthy Catholics neither in their lifetime nor at their decease seem to remember the utility of Catholic colleges. We find them leaving a few thousands of dollars to an orphan asylum or an hospital, for which we praise them, though even here there are few to deserve praise; but the foundation of a college or even a professorial chair is never heard of among Catholics in this country.
“We pray that some wealthy Catholics may be influenced by, this hint to them to do their part in furthering the success of ■Catholic educational establishments.	.
“ We are fully aware that the greater number of shortcom. Ings in our colleges come from the want of the proper means, which should be supplied by the Catholic people, for we know how indefatigable those in charge of our colleges are for the welfare of the young men that frequent them.”	.
The writer of the article gives to the officers of the Catholic colleges the. same praise which we bestowed, say-, ingofthem that “wonders have been performed, considering: the manifold duties, outside of the educational department,! that are placed on the shoulders of those who direct bur. most important institutions.”	'
- We are glad to see that the Catholic press are beginning to speak of endowments of colleges. It is a thing necessary for Catholic education, but one on which all who have been connected with, these institutions have refrained from speaking, not wishing to appear before the public as begging.	.	'
Do but give to our Catholic colleges, and they will not, be behind any institutions in the land; but so long as they -must depend upon the tuition of the pupils in order to pay their professors, they will always be more or less cramped! in their endeavors to promote higher education.	J
Funeral of Kev. Father Gillespie.
•____ ।
As we stated in our last issue of the Scholastic, the,' funeral of Rev. Father Gillespie took place at nine o’clocklast Saturday morning.
* On Thursday afternoon the body was laid out in the Chapel of Loreto, at St. Mary’s. Sixteen years ago it .was when Rev. Father Gillespie, then a newly-ordained .priest, br'ought over from Rome the plans and designs of this chapel. In it he had often offered up the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass—indeed of all the chapels about Notre ’ Dame and St. Mary’s, Loreto was his favorite, and it was fitting that when his soul had fled to heaven his body should be laid out in this sweet place. The walls of the chapel were draped with the emblems of mourning; the altar was draped in black, but from the steps up to the: highest part beautiful hot-house flowers were placed in pro< fusion. The blessed candles were interpersed here and there among the flowers and by these candles alone was; the little chapel lighted. At the head of the coffin stood the crucifix, the emblem of salvation. In his hands Father
. Gillespie held the chalice, while his breviary rested upon his bosom.	.	- :
Around the coffin knelt the pions religious of St. Mary’s, telling their beads for the repose of his soul, or reading the Office of the Dead; while every moment in the day relatives or friends from the College or St, Mary’s came to pay their respect to him whom they loved so much. There too, went the priest or Brother from Notre Dame to take a last look at him with whom they had been associated for years. On Thursday the members of the Sodality-of the Holy Angels went in a body to pray about the coffin of the one who organized their little Sodality. :
In the Chapel of Loreto the body remained until Saturday morning. At half-past eight o’clock the prayers of the Church were read by Very Rev. Father General, and then ■ the procession formed, and proceeded to the collegiate Church at Notre Dame.	.	. .
On arriving at the church the Sub renite was sung, and the clergy proceeded to their stalls where Matins and Laud's of the dead were solemnly chanted. When these were finished asolemn Requiem High Mass was sung. The celebrant was the Very -Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Provincial; Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., and Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S.C. acting as deacon and subdeacon, and C. Kelly, C. S. C., master of ceremonies. At the end of the Mass, Rev. P. J. Golovin, 0. S. C., acting President of the College, ascended the pulpit and-preached one of those excellent sermons for which he is well known. He spoke feelingly of Rev. Father Gillespie as a man and as a priest, and of the great work which he had accomplished here at Notre Dame. There were two virtues practiced by him on which he dwelt at great length. One was his charity. There was not a person at Notre Dame, who, remembering all he could of Father Gillespie, could lay his hand upon his heart and say that he had ever heard him speak an uncharitable word. The other virtue practiced by him was humility. No one had . ever heard him talking of what he did, and though he waa for eight years Editor of the “Are Maria” there were many who were not aware of it.	.
He eulogized his social qualities at some length, and in a feeling peroration be spoke of the duty which all present . owed to him, of praying for the peaceful rest of his soul.
The sermon over, the Libera was solemnly sung by the clergy, standing around the body, and the procession formed in front of the church. Its order was as follows:
Students of the Minim Department.	.
Students of the Manual Labor School.	’
Students of the Junior Department.	'
Students of the Senior Department.
. Novice Brothers.
.	Professed Brothers.	-
.	■ N. D. U. C. Band.	,
The Faculty of the University. .	'
Acolyte,—Cross bearer,—Acolyte.	*
Choir Boys.	. ..
Altar Boys.
Seminarians.	-
Clergy.
Celebrant and Assistants.	'
The Corpse. ’	-
Relatives and friends of the deceased.
.	. Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy. ‘	'
Religious of St. Mary’s Convent.	.
Carriages.	•
With solemn steps and slow the procession moved towards the little graveyard of the Community. The great bell of Notre Dame tolled mournfully; a requiem was played by the Band, and the clergy chanted the Benedictus,, while

THE SCHOLASTIC.
•banners draped in mourning fluttered in the autumn winds. In fifteen minutes the cemetery was reached; there the lid of the coffin was removed for a short while to allow his friends one glance more. It was then re-covered. Then it was slowly lowered into the grave beside his brother in religion and friend of many years, the Rev. Father Lemonnier; ■the earth was thrown in, and with heavy hearts his friends slowly left the graveyard.
. Among the Rev. Clergy who attended the funeral were all the priests now resident at Notre Dame, besides whom •were Revs. P. J. Conway and P. M. Noonan of Chicago, Ill.; Rev. T. O'Sullivan, of Laporte, Ind.; Rev. J. H. •Quinlan, of.Elkhart, Ind.; Rev. J. Capon, of Niles, Mich.; Rev. Father Sedden, Private Secretary to Archbishop Manning; Revs. W. O’Mahony and J. Lauth, of fSouth Bend, Ind. Rt. Rev. Dr. Gilmour, Bishop of Cleveland, was too unwell to take his place among the •clergy, but he attended the funeral in one of the carriages.
There were many laymen, friends or relatives of the deceased, who came, some of them from a great distance, to pay their tribute of respect to one whose memory they will ever cherish. .
.	RESOLUTIONS.
. Resolutions of the Faculty, on the death of Rev. N. H.
•Gillespie, C. S. C.	-
. Whereas it has pleased Our Lord to take to Himself our Rev. and dear Fatheb Gillespie, C. S. C., so long associated with us as a inember of the Faculty^ therefore he it
Resolved, That in this second visitation of Divine Providence we recognize the hand of Him who smites those whom He loves, and in whose presence we are all as little children in the pretence of a compassionate father.	.
Resolved, That in Father Gillespie we recognize him who, uniting religion with letters, gave the first impulse to the study of polite ‘literature and the fine arts at Notre Dame. His clos’e connection ■with the Religious and Literary Societies, and with the periodicals ■and other publications that have emanated from Notre Dame, has diffused throughout the University and the Community his own fine literary taste, hallowed by the ennobling influence of Religion, and 'we trust that this legacy, left by the first other graduates, may prove ;a rich inheritance for his Alma Mater, thus making it, as it were, so many Institutions of other days, a home of letters and of prayer!
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy, in their bereavement, to his religious brethren and to his afflicted relatives, trusting that we all may be united With him again in a more blessed - and unchangeable union.	•
Resolved, That these Resolutions bepublished in The Scholastic and spread on the Journal of the Faculty, and also that a copy be sent to the relatives of the deceased.
T. A. Dauet, Secretary.
The following Resolutions were adopted by the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, at their meeting held Nov. 18,1874:
Whereas, accord’ng to the Divine will of our' Heavenly Father, who doth all things well, our revered friend and beloved associate Rev. N. H. Gillespie, 0. S. C., has been removed from our midst, be it therefore	■
Resolved, That by his death the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary has sustained the loss of an eminent member, who by his pious example, both as Priest and student, never wearied in endeavoring to instil into its members the sound principles of faith and morals. ‘	'
Resolaed, That although we cannot but feel grieved by the loss of one whose whole life was devoted to the honor of our Holy Mother both by his writings and teachings, yet one pleasing hope consoles us in this hour of earthly sorrow: that he is now enjoying the pres, ence of her whose glory and honor he never tired in proclaiming during his earthly pilgrimage.
• Resolved, That while we condole with his much-beloved sister, Mother Angela, and his sorrow-stricken relatives and friends, that
we, as a tribute of respect and love, offer up our Communion on the Feasr of the Immaculate Conception for the repose of .his departed soul.
Resolved. That a copy of these Resolutions be presented to his afflicted sister, Mother Angela, and that they be printed in the Ave Marla, the Ohio Eagle, and Thb Scholastic. .
T. J. Mvbpht, 1
'	J. E. Hogan, VCommitteei
H. C. Cassidy, )
The following preamble and resolutions were adopted at a meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Literary As* sociation:
• Whereas, it hath pleased Almighty God to remove from our midst Rev. N. H. Gillespie, C. S. C., the founder and ever active friend of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Literary Society, be it therefore ;
Resolved, let, That we as a Society draft Resolutions expressive in an especial manner of our sentiments of sincere regret, and that the Society has lost in him an earnest advocate and worthy friend. ’ Resolved, 2dly, That While yielding with meek submission to the will of Almighty God, we deeply mount his early death.
Resolved, 3dly, That we sincerely sympathize with the family and friends of the deceased.	,	’
Resolved, 4thly, That a copy of these Resolutions be recorded in the Journal of the Society, and.that, they be published in the Ohio Eagle, of .Lancaster; the Detroit Free Press, the New York Freeman's Journal, and The Schoi.astic. Also, that a copy of these Resolutions be forwarded to 'the relatives of our deceased patron and friend. -
T. H. Grier, 1	,
G. M. Kelly, ^Committee.
T. M. O’Leary, )
, At a meeting of the Sociality of the Holy Angels, called for that purpose, the following resolutions were passed:
Whereas, It has pleased our dear Lord to take to Himself the beloved Founder of our Sodality, Rev. Father Gillespie be it therefore
Resolved, That we express our filial sorrow for the departure of our dear Father in Christ; and also our earnest sympathy with his religious brethren and his relatives in the great loss which they have sustained.	•
Resolved, That we shall pray most fervently that God will grant that our dear Father may enjoy in heaven the company of the saints and angels and the smile of their Blessed Queen, for which his devoted life on earth has so well prepared him.
Resolved, That with God’s help we shall so live that when we are called from this earth we shall have the unutterable pleasure of meeting again with our beloved Father and Founder in the company of the Blessed. . .	.
D. J. O’Connell, )
W. Burns,	> Committee.
R. J. Walker,	)
—The following are the resolutions adopted by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, at a meeting held Nov. 19th, 1874:	'
Whereas, In conformity to His will, Divine Providence hath taken our esteemed former Director, Rev. N. H. Gillespie, C. S. C., from the trials and temptations of this world to the enjoyment of his reward in a blissful eternity, be it therefore,
'Resolved, That although we desire to submit humbly to the decrees of an Allwise Providence, believing them to be for the best, yet we cannot but mourn In this bereavement the absence of a kind and good father.	:
Resolved, That our departed patron and sincere friend has left a vacancy in our midst, which we. in common with others, feel cannot again be filled. Father Gillespie was our first Director, and has always endeavored to promote the interests of the Society; rejoicing in its success, he thought not of his own efforts which were so essential to its prosperity.
Resolved, As a slight token of our sorrow, and in remembrance of our father, who has shown in his character so many perfections leaving us such a marked and beautiful example, that the Hall of the Society be draped in additional mourning, there to remain for a period of thirty days.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
107'
Hesolvbd, That we, the members of this Association, feeling in this demise a double affliction, offer our heartfelt sympathy to his friendsand relatives, especially to his revered mother, Mrs« M. M. Phelan, and beloved sisters, Mother Angela, Superioress of the Sisters of the Holy Cros.s in the United States, and Mrs. Ewing, who cannot but experience most acutely the loss they have sustained.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the abovementioned members of his family, and that they be published in The Scholastic.
	Egbert Staley,	J. F. Beegan,
	H. V. Hayes,	J. F. Soule,
	Mark S. Foo-be,	W. S. Meyeb,
	J. L. Kuddiman,	A. Schmidt,
	V. McKinnon,	D. J.O’Connel,
J. P. McHugh. ' Committee-
•The following Resolutions were adopted by the Thespian Association on the death of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, at a meeting held Nov. 18th, 1874.
•Whereas, It hath been the will of Almighty God to callfrom our midst the Kev. N. H. Gillespie, our devoted friend and revered founder, be it therefore
Resolved, That in him we have lost a sincere and faithful friend, and one who by his talents and energy has ever forwarded the interests and welfare of our Society.
Resolved, That although we deeply deplore his loss, we are consoled by the happy thought that he has but gone to reap the reward of a life spent in the promulgation of the divine truths of our holy religion, and devoted to the honor of our Blessed Mother. '
-Resolved, That we mingle our lamentations with those of his stricken relatives and sorrowing friends ; and as a slight balm.for their great bereavement that we offer up our prayers for the repose of his soul, in that bright Land “Where the weary are at rest.”
-Resolved, That these resolutions be entered upon the records
of the Society, and that they be printed in the Ave JU ana Scholastic and Ohio Eagle.
E. J. McLaughlix, ' T. H. Grier, J. J. Gillen, ■ T. J. Murphy, C. M. Procter, .
Committee.
Personal.
—P. J. O’Connell of’73, is in Summit, Ill.
—R. L. Aiken is doing well in Evansville, Ind. .
—Jas. Cunnea, of ’69, is banking in Morris, III.
—J. C. Eisenman is in business in Louisville, Ky.
—Rev. Father O'Rourke is pastor of Milford, Ohio.
—Prof, von Weller is teaching music in Cincinnati.
—N. T. Johnson, of’68, is practicing-law at Sedalia, Mo.
.—Wm. Waldo, of ’70, is prospering in Independence, Mo.
—Rev. Father Vagnier calls at the College frequently.
—0. T. Chamberlain, of ’62, is practicing law in Elkhart, Ind.
—Jas. Dickinson still remains in business in Fremont, Ohio.
—Jas. K. Finley, of ’72, is in the real estate business inPana, Ill.	•	.	•	.
-—T. J. Dundon, of ’73, is still in Clarksburg, where he is doing well.	'
•—Michael J. Skilling, of ’71, is practicing medicine in Philadelphia, Pa.	.
—J. D. McCormick, of ’73, is in the marble business in Lancaster, Ohio.
.—Alfred W. Arrington, of ’70, is in one of the Departments in Washington.	.
—Jos. Rumely, of Laporte, formerly a student here, spent Saturday and Sunday with us.
—Fathers Sullivan, of Laporte, and Quinlan, of Elkhart, were present at the funeral Saturday*	, -
—Hon. W. C. McMichael, formerly foreman of this office^ and sister, were present at the funeral Saturday.
—Mr. H. R. Roken, of Gans, Arnold & Co., Philadelphia, spent Sunday, the 15th, with us at Notre Dame. .
—Very Rev. Father Boff, V. G., of Cleveland, Ohio, was on a visit to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s last Wednesday. -
—Rev. Father Tighe, of St. James’ Church, Chicago,' writes his regrets at not being able to attend the funeral of Rev. Father Gillespie.	'	.
—By a mistake the telegram to Rev. Father Corby of Watertown was not sent off in time for him to reach Notre Dame for the funeral.	.
—Charles A. Berdel, B. S., Class of ’74; Dennis J. Hogan,-’73; John W. Buehler,’71; James Ward,’72; are among the students of the Union College of Law, at Chicago.	•
—Vincent H. Hackmann, commercial graduate of the Class of ’69, is in business with his father, of the firm of-Spaunhorst & Hackmann, wholesale grocers & commission merchants, 805 North Second Street, St. Louis, Mo. ‘
—Among the many who attended the funeral of the late Father Gillespie were the Hon. P. B. Ewing and lady, and Air.-Jas. M. Miers, of Lancaster, Ohio; Mrs. Dr. J. M.-Bigelow, of Detroit; and Mr. John Miller and his son, of Chicago,—all of them relatives of the deceased.
Local Items.	i
—Oh!	.
—Cold!	-	’
—“ Bobeet.”	,
—Thanksgiving.	-	■
—Ho! ye turkeys!
. —Days disagreeable.	’
—A holiday next week.	-
—Where is that oration ?	•
—-The church clock is running.	>
—Thanksgiving Day next week.	'	*
—Raking leaves is a healthy exercise,	.
—Many visitors at the College Sunday.	>
—“ He told us to come up at half-past five.”	.
—“ Fabiola” is being read in the Senior refectory.	:
—The stove in the Senior recreation-hall has many friends.	’
—The Students of the Manual Labor School have taken. poss1 ssion of their new Hall.	t
—A number of the undergraduates attended the lecture in South Bend, last Sunday evening.	.	■
—Prof. Stace’s horse is said to be pretty fast on the road.-Not having been behind it, we can’t say for certain. ;
--The “Ave Maria" and Scholastic Office was beautifully draped, last week, in memory of Rev. Father Gillespie.
—A committee formed for the purpose of erectiting a memorial, chapel tb Father Lemonnier will send out their-circulars in a few days.	.
—Although we printed one thousand copies oflast week’s.-Scholastic, we find that we are'shoi t of copies. Can any of our friends supply us with Nos. 2, 6, and 8 ?
—High Mass was sung on Sunday last by Rev. Father-Sedden, Secretary to Archbishop Manning. The Rev. gentleman is visiting Canada and the United States for the purpose of procuring houses for poor Catholic orphans of London. .	_
—A little friend of ours, some five years old, remarked the other dayat the breakfast-table: “I guess so, means ‘yes’; ‘mebbe so,’ means ‘no’; but ‘I’ll see about it,’ doesn’t mean nossin’ at all.” He is an observer.	■
• —We are pleased to see that Bro. Peter is astonishing the people in the Badger State by his learned and highly instructive treatises on the “Transit of Venus.” We* were tempted to transfer them to our pages but our limited space will not permit it.. .	.
JOS-
THE SCHOLASTIC.
We were shown a letter the other day from H. J. Falken, bach, who is now studying in the monastery of St. Martin, at Beuron, Hohenzollern Germany. He says that he is in the best of health and that when his German studies are over he will make the tour of Europe before coining home.
—Prof. Stace met with a severe accident on Thursday last. He was driving in his new buggy with Denny O'Connell, and while turning the road near the P. O. he was thrown out. He was insensible for a considerable length of time but has happily recovered. Denny was thrown out also but was not injured at all.
—Persons visiting Notre Dame will find Ben Coquillard and Ireland & Son the most accommodating livery men in South Bend. Our friends will find it much more convenient to employ men who are disposed to be accommodating, than to trust themselves to the regular coach, which, on account of bad roads, may drop them at any point on the road.
. —Rev. Father Golovin delivered an excellent lecture before the Temperance Society and its friends, in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, on the evening of the 15th inst The audience was large and appreciative. The lecture was what might be expected of a man of the Rev. gentleman’s talent,—calm, practical and convincing.
—A friend of ours told us the other day that he was one day riding in the cars somewhere near the border of Maine and New Brunswick, when a gentleman got up in the car and asked: “ Is there any person here from the city of St. Jonn ?” “ I am,” said our friend, rising from his seat. “ Ah I” returned the other, “ would you be so kind as to lend me your corkscrew?” Like a St. John man he produced it.
—The Grand opening of the play Hall for the Students of the Manual Labour School took place Wednesday afternoon at 1 o’clock Mr. Gagan delivered an oration which was much appreciated by all who had the good fortune ot hear him. It is needless to sav that his eloculionory powers are of a superior order. Some games of foot and hand ball occupied the remainder of the day, and in the evening Bro. August entertaind a large audience by relating many interesting and instructive incidents in the early history of Notre Dame.
—The lecture of Bro. Augustus at the Manual Labor School was well attended. Among those present were Messrs. J. F. Edwards, J«>s. A. Lyons; Brothers Marcel-linus, Alban, "Alxander, Celestine, Columbkille, Leander, and others. The Lecture, entitled “ Auld Lang Syne,” was very exhaustive and entertaining, and was listened to with much attention. The audience complimented the erudite lecturer, on his finishing, with a vote of thanks. It is to be hoped that he may be prevailed upon to repeat the lecture.
’ —A gentleman visiting Notre Dame last week told us the following story, illustrative of all persons in the Catholic Church. We print it becouse we have never seen it in any journal heretofore. His brother, on a visit to "Washington, on a Sunday, attended low Mass at one of the churches of the city, A large number of persons went to Communion. Among the last who went, were an old gentleman and lady, both very feeble. They had been sitting in different parts of the church,but when they reached the sanctuary-rail they were side by side. He watched them as they returned to. their places, and saw as they walked down the aisle that the woman was a poor old negro slave and the man was Hon. Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
:	Art Notes.	..
—The views of the University, shortly to be published, will be beautiful.
—The design for the Tabernacle and Altar to be put in the new church are now to be. seen in the College parlor.
—We have received from Strobridge & Co. many outlines of chromos published by them. To judge from the outlines they are of much merit.
• —In linear drawing the finest specimens lately produced in the Drawing Class are by C.M. Procter and J. E. Obert.
—We saw in Father General’s room a fac simile in ala* b ister of the famous Cathedral of Pisa, with the baptistery, etc. It is not more than four or five inches large, yet it is very pretty. .
—Among the latest productions of the Drawing Class, we notice three pictures worthy of mention—namely, a landscape in pencil, bjr E. Grambling; a winter scene on the Apennines, in crayon, by A. Schmidt; and a portrait in crayon by J. Lambin.
—Drawing from blocks is becoming more popular every day among the members of the Drawing Classes. They are beginning to see the superiority of this method over that of copying. Those Students who follow a course of block-drawing during the winter season will be agreeably surprised at the facility with which they can make beautiful sketches from nature next spring. No other method will train the eye and the hand so well as learning to draw solid objects.	•
—We noticed several beautiful statues recently received by Very Rev. Father General from Pisa, Italy. These statues are made of alabaster, and present a most lovely appearance. The most beautiful of all received is a bust of the Blessed Virgin, which is superior to anything about Notre Dame. A medallion of the Ebes Homo is very beautiful. There was also received a statue of the Madonna, in alabaster, and one of the Angel Guardian.
Musical Notes.
—The Arion Quartette Club hold their meetings regularly at the Professed House. The are succeeding splendidly. -
—The Band rehearsals are very good. Their playing at the funeral was excellent. Why not give a public rehearsal ?	.
—The Mendelssohn Club will hold their regular meetings every Wednesday evening.
Society Notes.
—The 6th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society was held on Nov. 12,1874. At this meeting the following young gentlemen presented themselves for membership and were, unamimously elected: C. Whipple and J. Hays. Compositions were read bjr E. Grambling and W. Roelie, and declamations were delivered by C. Welty and J. Delvecchio.
—The 7th regulas meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-tian Society was held Sunday. Nov. 15. At this meeting a composition was read by C. Welty, and declamations were delivered by Masters J. Hays, J. Crummey C. Whipple and E. Roelle.
—As Correspoddlng Secretaries. Messrs. J. Delvecchio of the Pbilopatrians, Jos. P. McHngh of the St. Cecilians, and D. J. O'Connell, of the Sodality of the Holy Angels, cannot be beat. They are prompt in handing in their reports, and concise yet newsy in their statements.	-
—The H. O. B. Club held a very interesting meeting Oct. 11th, at which a verjr learned dissertation was read by the Treasurer. The singing of the Secretary was much admired.
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Nov. 17,1874. At this meeting the following were appointed as a committee to draught resolutions on the death of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, C. 8. C.: H. Hayes, M. Foote, R. Staley, J. Beegan, W. Meyer, J. Soule, D. O’Connell, A. Schmidt, V. McKinnon. and J. McHugh. Rev. P. J. Golovin, C.S.C., was elected, by acclamation, Director of the Association. The follow ing members deserve honorable mention for declamations : J. L. Perea, D. O’Connell, P. Palmer, C. Hake, ■ J. McHugh, V. McKinnon, J. O’Hara, L. P. Best, E. Arnold, A. Schmidt and J. F. Soule. After this, Masters M E. Murphy and W. Byrne presented themselves for mem bership, and were elected.	.-
THE SCHOLASTIC.	10$
Aiditioaal Arrivals.
Chicago, Illinois.
Springfield, Massachusetts.
Ashland, Kentucky.
Bernalillo, New Mexico.
Chicago, Illinois.
Frank Hebard,.............
Frank Smyth,..............
Edward Courtney,.........
Joseph L. Perea,.........
Robert Haley,............
Soli of Honor.	'
• SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. Allen, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, K. Barrett, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, AV. Dechant, TV. Doherty, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, J. Ferry, C. Favey, T. Flannagan, TV. Fullerton, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, J. Handley, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, H. Hunt, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman, F. Hebard, J. Kennedy, J. Koph, A. Kramer,"M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Marks, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, F. Millen J. McManus, H. Marble, P. Mattimore, P. J.-Mattimore, E’ Maas, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, C. Olto, F. O’Brien, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahil, P. Shaul, G. Summers, F. Scrafford, C. TValters,?R. White, L. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Beegan, TV. Byrne, F. Bugner, A. Byrne, A. Bergck, F. Ruckman, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, A. Crunkilton, J. Crummey, E. Courtney, H. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, J. T. Foley, F. Frazee, L. Goetig, J. M. Green, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen E. Gramling, F. Hoffman, J. Hamlin, J. S. Hayes, C. Hake, H. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, J. Keilty, F Kleiner, C. V. Larkin, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, J7 Lynch,- V. McKinnon, A. H. Mitchell, J. McIntyre, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, W. S. Meyer, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, H. Newman, J. D. O’Hara, C. Peltier, C. R. Post, J. L. Perea, H. TV Quan, W. J. Roelie, E. F. Riopelle, A. Reinke, F. Raymond, L Smith, J. A. Smith, G. Sugg, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. <T Solon, T. Summers, TV. Smith, P. Schnurrer, T. Talbot, A. Thomas, N. Vanamee, C. W. Welty, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward.	’
.	-	MINIM DEPARTMNT.
'Francis Carlin, John O’Meara, Tommy -Hooley, Eddie Ray* mond, Albert Bushey, Michael McAuliffe, Ralph Golsen, Colly Clarke, Clement Moody, Colly Campau, Joseph Carrer, Louis Goldsmith, Harry Ordway, Charlie Bushey, Willie Cash, Robert Haley.	,
- Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior Class—G. W. Hoyt, P. Lawrence, F. H. Schlink, A. Lonstorf, R. Maas, C. Favey, S. Kennedy, J. E. Marks, J. McManus, J. Berringer, L. Chambeilain, E. Gault, F. G. Bearss, TV. Pettrie, H. Marble,’ T. Flannagan, R. Barrett, W. Doherty, P. Mattimore, Peter Mattimore, L. Zeitler.
Junior Class—J. Nelson, J. Delvecchio, P. Fitzpatrick, D. Nelson, A. Bergck, J. French, J. Willis, F. Raymond, C. Whipple, J. Wood, H. Faxon, A. Reinke, W. Stout, J. Hamlin, C. Post, P. Schnurrer, J. Kurtz, A. Betcher, F. Hoffman, C. Larkin, J. Hanlon, M. Kramer, C. Leonhardt, T. Talbot, W. Meyer, J. Foley, L- Goetig, J. Soule, J. D. O’Hara, C. Greenleaf, V. Me. Kinnon, A. Burger, A. H. Mitchell, F. Kleiner, H. Webber, J-Lambin, R. H. McGrath, J. W. Connolly, G C. Budd,, J. M. Crummey, D. Summers, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, -J. Colton,. W. Smith, J. L. Johnson, J; A. Lynch, J. llaffey. ■	•
Minim Department—Eddie Raymond, John O’Meara, Francis Campau, Alexis Campau, Michael McAuliffe, Samuel Goldsberry, Sylvester Bushey, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, LeS J. Frazee, Otto Lindberg, Eddie Joice Dubois.
Sports.	' ;
t-Ih the Senior yard there is a new turning pole. : —The rings in the two yards are well patronized. .	.
—Walking is the principal exercise indulged in by the majority of the students.
—Some very good games of hand-ball have been played,, but none were champion games.	'
—A good game of base-ball was played on the 15th ihst. between the four best players of the Senior Department ’ and Best’s Picked Nine in which the latter came.out' ahead by a score of 6 to 19.	:	‘
—We received, last week, among our exchanges, a paper published at Budapest. Among the many columns of delightful reading we clip the following concerning boae-! ball, which we found under the head of “ Sports• “A galgavideki agarasz-egylet evkonyve 1274-re megjel-ent csinos kiailitasban. A. valasztmany neveben kiadja bard Laffert Antal. Az alabszabalyok reszeit kozoltuk a mult evben.”	. .	. ।
All-Hallow E’en is a gala time for our Minims, and the" time-honored iustitution of apple-ducking is one which' they do full honor to in the exuberant joy of their young" hearts. This year, however their festivity was postponed ■ on account of the recent demise of our worthy and esteemed President, Rev. Father Lemonnier, and it was not until the evening of the 10th that they had their annual jollification. ’ Having procured for them an ample supply of apples, a tub of tepid water was next obtained, and the little fellows ‘ prepared for the apple ducking match. The fun provoked by the occasion is more easily imagined than described.-The unsuccessful efforts of some of the duckers to lift the desired object caused great merriment. Some of them, succeeded however. Among those who secured the prize at a first attempt were Tommie Hooley, Clement Moody, Otto Lindberg, Samuel Goldsberry and Colly Clarke.
After the ducking match, the remainder of the apples so kindly furnished by the Steward were equally divided among the little fellows, and it is unnecessary to say that, those whose efforts were unsuccessful enjoyed their share of the fun as well as the others, and perhaps the- few Minims of a larger growth who bad the privilege of’ lookers-on took as much delight in the whole affair as the-Minims themselves.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—On Thursday, the 12tb, the sad intelligence so long and so painfully apprehended was borne to the ears of all by the mournful sound of the “ passing bell.” The news flew from lip to lip, that one most near to the beloved Superior of St. Mary’s was gone—that our dear Father Gillespie had breathed his last.
Letters of warm affection and condolence were addressed on the part of the various classes to Mother Superior, and to the beloved mother of the departed, Mrs. M. M Phelan, for whom in a most particular manner the most lively and unbounded sympathy is cherished.
The treasured remains were laid out, with all the care" that loving hands could bestow, in the favorite resort of the deceased: that is to say, the Chapel of Loreto, the model of which he brought from Italy some seventeen years ago. On Saturday, the young ladies joined in the imposing obsequies. Hon. Judge Ewing and Mr. Henry Miers, of Lancaster, Ohio, and Mrs. Dr. Bigelow, of Detroit.^ Michigan, arrived in time for the funeral.	-	-
IIO	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Brownbridge, F. Reppetan, A. Lehman, M. Railton, M. Quinn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Cravens, M. Schultheis, B. Wilson, M. Carlin, M. O’Connor, M. Siler, M. Reynolds, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, L. Walsh, M. Pritchard, J. McDougall, M. Hollman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, C. Orr, M. Redfield, K.’Hudson, J. Corrigan, M. Derby.	■
minim department. •
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, N. McGrath, I. Mann, A. McGrath, E. Simpson, M. and C. Hughes, R. Goldsberry.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div.—J. Kreigh, M. Poquette, E. and M. Thompson, L. Tinsley, F. Dilger, S. Harris, J. Stimpson, K. Joyce, M. McGrath, B. Wilson, A. Harris. .	.	.
2nd Class—L. Bradford, A. T. Clarke, M. Riley, H. Russell, K. Hutchinson.
1st Div.—C. Morgan, A. McGrath, A. Dilger.
2nd Div.—P. Gaynor,' L. Betcher.
3rd Class—L. Wyman, L. Arnold, A. Walsh, J. Bennett, G. Walton, J. Fanning. •
1st German Class—M. Faxon, L. Dennehey, S. Harris, J. Nunning, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, A. Harris, A. Lehman.
2nd Class—S. Riesing, M. Dunbar, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, L. Kelley, R. Klarr, A. Koch.
Latin Class—J. Locke, A. Curtin, A. Smith, D. Green;
-	SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
Drawing—J. Walton, R. Neteler, A. Cullen, A. Koch, R. Klarr, M. O’Connor, M. A. Schultheis, M. Ewing, L. Arnold, M. and E. Thompson, P. Gaynor, A. Sweeney, J Stimpson, L. Vincent.	-
Painting—B. Wade, L. Henroten, L. Ritchie, E. Sweeney, C. Morgan, N. McAuliffe.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN
Ornamented Needle Work—S. Harris, E. Thompson, H. Piper, F. DeLong, A. Lloyd.
Plain Sewing—L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, A. Curtin, A. T. Clarke, L. Bradford, J. Fanning, M. Riley,’ L. Wyman, E. York, F. and A. Dilger, M. Roberts, S. and L. Moran, M. Railton, H. Parks, F. Reppetan, C. Maigrey.	’
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—H. Foote, E. O’Connor, L. Henroten, E..
Haggerty.	'
2nd Class—J. Riopelle, J. Kearney.
. 2nd Div.—J. Locke, M. Riley, A. Smith, E. Dougherty, L. Bradford.
3rd Class—L. Arnold, M. Johnson, M. Jackson, C. Morgan, C. Orr, A. Curtin, H. Peak.	.
2nd Div.—J. Bennett, E. Bowman, M. and A. Walsh, L. • Walsh, D. Allen,---Cash, A. Koch.	-
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Chuieh at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing
36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes.- PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest	.
in 6, 12 and 18 months,	'
with interest. •
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the	'
New Church does not admit of its	’
depth, which is 12x18 feet	-
in width.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov 7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana-
.—The Rev. Father Seddon, Secretary to Most Rev. Archbishop Manning, of London, England, honored the young ladies by distributing to them their good points on Sunday eveuing. In remarks which followed, he informed them that he comes to America charged by the Archbishop, for the purpose of securing homes for those poor children of the great British metropolis who have been rescued from the dangers to which poverty and evil surroundings expose them. He said that twenty-four thousand children are now under charge of the Association which he represents. His brief remarks were full of interest and instruction.
—On Monday, Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour administered Confirmation to Mr. H. Miers, in the House of Loreto.
—We forgot to mention in the item in the last number of the Scholastic that the beautiful lamp in Loreto was presented by Mrs. Phelan as a votive offering on account of the religious vocation of a loved granddaughter.
•	ART NOTES.	.
—A very decided change for the better has been made in the Drawing and Painting Department, by raising the grade of the different classes. Beginners are now in the Fifth Class, and. must pass regularly through the Fourth, Third and Second into the First Class in each of the Divisions. This arrangement secures perfect regularity, besides exciting the same emulation which it is found to do in the other departments. Some of the pupils who are still detained in the lower classes by some gap in the perfect following out of the course, will soon be ready to leave them, and very rapid promotions may be expected. The utmost cheerfulness prevails among the pupils over the new arrangement, for they can see the connection, plainly enough, between it and their future honors; and several are looking forward, very steadfastly, to the gold medal of the Graduate.
—As the season becomes more and more wintry, the studies are changing from bright leaves, fruits and berries, to winter apples, and even to the casts The value of these studies from casts cannot be exaggerated.
—Drawing fr>>m memory is a good practice no doubt; but. we must first look at things in a way to remember them correctly.	■
—Phantom shadows are effective in their place; but the shadow cast by an actual block is worth some painstaking to reproduce.	’
—Mr. Sun has always been noted for the truth of his shadows. He has not been known, once in his long life, to throw his shadows the wrong way.
TABLET OF HONOR,
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOVEMBER 15, 1874.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and Strict Observance of Academic rules, the following young Ladies are enrolled:
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L Bradford, E Sweeney, A. St Clair, M. Johnson.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. Walsh, L. Wyman, J. Me-Guire. E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, M. Julius.
3rd Sr Class—Misses M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, L. Henroten, E. Quinlau, J. Kreigh, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts.
. 1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, C. Thayer, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S. Hole, H. Russell, E. Bowman, J. Stough, A. Sweeney, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S. Edes, J. E les, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, B. Hildebrand, L. Mead, E. Cody, M. McKay, E. McFarlane, L. Moran, S. Reising.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, G. Hills, L.

THE scholastic;
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL	'
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PUTS IN, And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests 01 the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians, but solely to sn< h as love the Mother of Jesus’and wish to see her honored throughout the'land; commending itself not only to the various pions Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living .Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month.
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space of one year.
Terms:
One Year, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	§300
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-.5 00
Pive Years, . -	-	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc, should be addressed to <.	.
.	Editor of “AVE NARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JTOTJE^E pAME, JNDIANA. .
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, tinder the direction of the Sisters of the Holy t ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beantifnl rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activiiy and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre-Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works. *
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Marv’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7 8m
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
•	---o-
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
94L Micliigan St., Soutli. Bend, Ind^
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
■	—AND—
FUR-jSTISHING- goods,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you'want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom-Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost- if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clothing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
f
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths. Cassini ores-and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One Third Lower than any other house in the business. .	o24-tf.
HORTON & PALMER, -
'	DEALERS IX
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings, SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, '
’	AND ALL KINDS OF
. MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
'	--o---
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices.	'	~
Ho. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
«o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
* Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Goonley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
OJAZTZD-y FACTORY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago., . Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy _	-	-	_ 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35c.
Caramels -	-	-	-	. -	- 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately Low Prices to Wholesale Casli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
•	■	o24-tf
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
7 University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc., .
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
.	. o24-tf

112
THE SCHOLASTIC.
BOOTS & SHOES.
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
■	—WE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
'	- —TO—	-
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK,
' SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE “
_	.	.	—AUD—
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
;	WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING
■	• —THAT—
‘	FROM OUR FACILITIES
-	*	—AND—
:	- TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
’	—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.	■
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with a call.	Respectfully,
D. H. BdJZJER, & Bro.,
1OO Michigan Street,	-
o24-2m	’	South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. K_RAIL WAY.
On and after Sunday, May_24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
• S.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.30; Cleveland,'2.35 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. at. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. m. ; Cleveland, 10.20	•
12.27 a. u. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5..50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo 4.05 a.m. '	-	•
9.11 p. m. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. m.
7.54 p. m. (No. 10) Toledo Express; Main Line. Arrives-at Toledo,'2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a m., Buffalo 1’10 p. m.
3*55 F. M. [No.70], Local Freight. " GOING WEST. . 3.20 a. m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 630 a. m.
4.50 a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a, m.
5.55 P. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives al Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 p. m. ‘
4.51 p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte -	5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. M. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 - a. m , Chicago 11.10.
730 a. m. [No- 71J Local Freight. Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains."
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio. -	..
■ F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W.-W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.	•	'
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
X.OVI8VIZ.Z.E N. ALBANS’ & CHICAGO H.H.
Un and after Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Al ban j and
Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING NON TH.
Pass .... ■ Freight.. ‘ Freight.'.
Pass.....
29 P M. .2.48 A. st. .8 57 P.- M. .9.24 a. m.
G 0 IN GSO.U TH. Pass ..............8	23 p.k.
Freight Freight. Paos...,
4.45 A.St.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent
Michigan Central Railroad
‘	• Time Tal>le.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:.
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, ---------	12.45 a
Mail. -	-	-	-.......................  9.10	a
Day Express. -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	12.12 a
Accommodation, --------- 7.35 p Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	-	-	.	-	8.55 p.t
Way Freight, -	8.00 a
TRAINS WESTWARD.
Evening Express,	-	.	-	-	-	-	2.35	a
Pacific Express,	-	--	--	--	--	4.40	a
Accommodation,	-	--	--	--	--	6.25 a
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.57	p
Day Express -	--	--	--	--	- 4.35 p
Way Freight -	--	--	--	--	-	1.45	p
.	AIR LINE DIVISION.
-	EASTWARD.	’
Mail—Arrives in Niles -	-	-	- ' -	-	9.15 p.
Three Rivers Accommodation ------- 7.40 p Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	-- 9.00 p.
Way Freight -	--	--	-----	-	10.30 a.
.WESTWARD. -
Three Rivers'Accommodation—Leave Niles	-	-	-	-	-	6.05 a.
Mail - ' -	-	-	■ -	-	- - - •-	-	-	■-	3.45	p.
Pacific Express -	•	-	-	-----	-	-	-	-	5.05 a.
Way Freight- -	-	- -	-	- - -	-	- -	-	-	- 5.05 p.
- SOUTH BEND DIVISION. .
Trains leaae South Bend—815 a m, 11-10 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles'—8.42 a m, 11.40 a m, 3,30 p m, 7.00 p m
Leave Niles—6.30 a m. 9.20 a m, 12.45 p m, 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 am, 9.£5 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 a m, 7.00 p m.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 a m, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION. ” '
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 pm.	'
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a m, 3.05 p m. 6.35 p m.
’	Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.31 a m, 5.30 p m.	Leave—9.C5 a m, 7.05 p m.
H. E:. SARGENT, Gen’l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, AgentNotreDame	■
q a a q a a a a a a a q s s q e a a q a
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
flWRAINS leave M^st Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Qp Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
LEAVE. ARRIVE. ♦9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
♦9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
•9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 .m.
$9:00 p.m. J7:15 a.m.
$9:45p.m. §7:15 a.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington " Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield-Night Express, via Main Line,	'
St.LouisaudSpri ngfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana. Mo.	,	,	„ ______
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex cept Saturday. B Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and .a Saturday Night Train. _	. .
PullmanPalace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains. ~
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	' Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PENNSYL V AIMI A CENTRAL
- DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New ■	- York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. | Arrives at New York 11.30 a.mi* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. “ ’	“	6.41 a.m.*
3rd train “ u ‘9.00. p. m. |	“	’ “	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at-Crestline with trains North and-South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CRElGHTuN, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYEK8, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.	’