The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras nioriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 13,1875.	Number 2L
I
/
JNO.HAGEtlTY,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notary Public.
gAGERTY & TONG,
:attorneys-at-law, REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indian*.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS,	.
.	Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS,
Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co.,
Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS ' LN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO me BIG AN St.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
£ E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, j - South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STJLBILES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, -	-	_	_	_ Michigan.
A. McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house
. nov28-J$tf.
NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIAN^-
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc.,
o24-tf
y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
oK-tf
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
^“Orders expeditiously attended to. £53
Office with M. Stover, Room 32, over Wills & Sterns, Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.	-
nov 28-J$tf.
. . NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, Indiana	.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their 1 stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. A>ary's can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
nov 7-8tn	•
Q.EORGE HEHR, ‘	-
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
■	AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STBEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND.
(Up Staiis.)	&o24-tf
M. A. Smith.	E. P’ Holloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY, 1
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS,
Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys
and Musical Instruments.
No. U, Washington St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND;IND
. -	“ dec5-%W
290
THE SCHOLASTIC.
ALMER & VanWINKLE,
«	Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Mi scellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
' Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
|®“ Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER, AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	.	. South Send, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
|R. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, •	- South Send, Indiana.
o24-tf J^DWARD BUYSEE, Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Steeet, South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. JJ-tf
HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
•	South Bend, Indiana.
.	Dealer in .
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
'	BURKE’S
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
JRELAND & SON,	i
PBOPRIETOKS OP	I
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54/MICHIGAN St,	• SOUTH BEND, IND., I
lOpposite the Dwight House).	I
--o----	|
HACK JLITVE	I
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City," and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24 2m j
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” -----------------O—	1
*	DROP IN AT	1
“THE NINE	CENT	STORE’.”	I
AND	S
See	the	Curiosities.	i
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-ff. 1
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
■A/TESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the _1VL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired anc* furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely onfinding the best accomn odation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s wi’ ' find here all the comforts of home during their stay,	1
JERRY^KNtGHT,	J
captain mills, j Prop™’0” J
If	•	-9fl
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE! M -------------o-	'S M. LIVINGSTON & CO! I
94 Micliigan St., South Bend, Ind. W
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND-:-
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everyth ng you want in our Line will always be found on our thelv is.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaac ly ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost, if made to measure. Money is scarce but C1O tiling is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis. Cassl-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf

140 and. 142 Madison Street.
{Between Clark and LaSalle,)
CHICAGO, -	-	- I1L1L.
_	f63m.
jJ E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., ... South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
’	-	decl-Jitf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT, 99 MAIN STEEET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIAN
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigar
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candie s’MadeDaily.	'
7	'	~
The Scholastic
pEVOTED TO THE
TUDENTS.
I>isce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus-
me VIII.
NOTES DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 13, 1875
Number 21.
Ths Dying Child,
sr J. M. J. G.
<
B
o2
Who are singing so sweetly, dear mama—
Singing so softly far away ?
I smell roses and violets, too, mama,—
And the night is as bright as day,—
Is it a dream of pictured lore
That troubles my fevered brain ?—
No, no 1 it’s like songs on a far off shore,
Hark!—There it sounds once again!
ir.
I think it is coming nearer, mama,
For I hear some beautiful words,
And, list!—you must catch it yourself, mama,—
The music of silvery chords I
O mother, for just one little peep,
Though the grey clouds which will not break !— I’d be happy then, and might fall asleep,
For, I’m weary, mama, and so weak.
in.
I see them 1 I see them 1 they’re all in white, 0 mother their eyes are divine 1
They are clad in robes of heavenly light, And their faces with great joy shine;
Gold crowns on their heads and harps in their hands,—
O angels, dear angels, you’re come, And wait on eternity’s golden sands, To take little sick Mary home!—
IV.
I see lillies waving in golden mist,
With their leaves of emerald green,
And billows of roses and amethyst;—
O such flowers were never seen 1
And far, far away in the lovely land,
I see opal mountains like fire,
Summit o’er summit sublimely grand, Like light flashing higher and higher!
Tr
What age am I, mama ?—Just six years:— Only six and going to die'!—
Only six years in the valley of tears 1
And forever! beyond the sky!
They are lifting me up with gentle care, Mama, they are kissing my brow;
So strange that a child of want and despair, Should have angels for servants now!
VI.
My heart is singing the hymn, mama, Which I often heard at your knee ;
Love tuned your voice and it’s tone was sweet, As the angels’ singing with me !
Immortal beauty is shining o’er all, With a rare, celestial grace,
One—One, alone, of the beautiful throng, Bears a Mother’s love on Her face!
vir.
She beckons to me: O sweet, sweet smile !— They are opening the golden doors,
Weep not, dear mama ; in a little while PH rest in arms stronger than yours:
Come—after—me—quickly------“ She spoke no more,
But just as the morning dawned fair,
She turned her white face to the golden shore, With a happy laugh frozen there.
John Kents,
There flourished in the early part of this century a poet of great promise, who unfortunately died before he reached his maturity. That poet was John Keats, who was bom at Moorsfield, London, in 1796. Born of humble parentage,—his father and grandfather having kept a stable, at Moorsfield—he received but a poor classical education. He was then, at the'age of fifteen, apprenticed to a surgeon, of Edmonton, but he soon abandoned medicine for literature. He made the acquaintance of Mr. Leigh Hunt, then Editor of the Examiner, and having been encouraged by him, published a few of his poetical effusions in that paper. In 1817, he brought out a volume of poems, dedicated to Mr. Hunt. In 1818, appeared Endymion, a Poetic Romance, his first considerable production. This poem has many beauties, and perhaps as many faults, but still it was a proof of his remarkable poetic talents. As soon as this work appeared, it was unsparingly attacked by Mr. Grifford, in the Quarterly Review. Many persons, mislead by lines in Byron’s Ron Juan and Sheeley’s Adonias, have attributed Keats’ early death to the shock then given to his sensibilities. But this is not true, as he would have died early in any case, for he had but a frail constitution. In 1820, Keats gave to the world a second volume ot poems, the principal ones: Lamia, Isabella, The Eve of St; Agnes and Hyperion. This volume fully redeemed the promise of great poetic talent that he displayed in Endymion. In October, 1820, he visited Italy for the benefit of his health, but he derived no advantage from the change, and died at Rome, of pulmonary consumption, on the 21st day of February, 1821, in the twenty-fifth year of his age. When discussing Keats’ merits as an author, Mr. Grifford’s article on Endymion is always a prominent topic, and therefore I give a few extracts from it below. Speaking of Endymion, he says: “With the fullest stretch of our perseverance, we are forced to confess that we have not been able to struggle beyond the first of the four books of which this Poetic Romance consists .... It is not that Mr. Keats
(if that is his real name,—for we almost doubt whether any * man in business would put his real name to such a rhap-
252
SCHOLASTIC.
Body,) it is not, we say, that the author has not powers of language, rays of fancy, and gleams of genius; he has all these: hut he is, unhappily, a disciple of the new school of what has been, somewhere, called Cockney poetry, which may be defined to consist of the most incongruous ideas in the most uncouth language.” Such language as this was rightly considered by Keats to be anything but complimentary; but that Mr. Grifford can be charged with his death on this account, is absurd. But still many have' charged Grifford with his death, and Hazlitt said that “Mr. Keats was hooted out of the world, and his fine talents and wounded sensibilities consigned to an early grave.” Endymion is a poem recounting the loves of Endymion and Diana; it may be compared to the Comus and Arcades of Milton, as regards the subject and the style, the chief distinction being that in those poems imagination is subject to reason and judgment, but in Endymion it is supreme. So, with his imagination leading him everywhere, Keats soon lost all idea of reason, plan and consistency.
The greater part of this poem is written in the most fantastical style imaginable. He seems to have put down, at a venture, every glittering image and striking expression that presented itself; and so he wanders on, forgetful whence he comes, or whither he is going, until his pages have been filled with connected and incongruous figures, that “are harmonized only by the brightness of their tints and the graces of their form.” As might be expected in such a headlong career he has made many lapses and failures. And in this poem, therefore, any malicious critic could find much to ridicule, and could also find many passages that are obscure, unnatural and absurd. But if anyone on this account would condemn the poem as worthless, either he has no notion of poetry, or no regard for truth. Moir, speaking of Endymion, says, “ft would be difficult to point out, anywhere, a work more remarkable for its amount of beauties and blemishes inextricably intertwined.” Landor says that Keats, in Endymion, surpasses either Chaucer or Burns, in imagery; and that in some parts of that poem no poet has attained the same excellence on the same ground. Endymion is a poem that one cannot appreciate without he has a true, native relish for poetry; it has many faults, it is true, but these are more than compensated for by its beauties of language and imagery. Lamia and Isabella, his next two productions, are highly praised by many competent critics. His Eve of St. Agnes and Hyperion are his best productions. The Eve of St. Agnes, the sweetest of his poems, is remarkable for its sensuous beauty. Hyperion was Keats’ last production, and was left unfinished. Jeffrey believed that the subject was too far removed from human interests to be successfully treated by a modern author. Byron, Moir, and De Quincey, on the other hand, speak highly of it, and consider it the best of Keats’ productions. Byron says, “It is a fine monument, and will keep his name alive.” Hyperion is a poem treating of the expulsion of Saturn from Heaven; it is noted for its austere beauty, simplicity, and majesty. Of Keats’ minor poems, the best known and the, most admired are the Lines written on Chapman’s Homer, the Ode to a Nightingale, the Ode to a Grecian Urn, and the Ode to Autumn. All the poems of Keats are distinguished for their sensuous warmth, and imagery He had an exquisite ear for harmony, and great familiarity with the finest diction of English poetry. He was undoubtedly a poet of great promise and power, and his early death was a loss to English Literature. Fairfield.
Essays on Divers Matters.
BY J. M. J. G.
No. IV.—Elocution. '
A good voice, well governed, is very essential to complete success as an orator, but there are many exaggerated ' notions concerning this matter which deserve a passing remark. One may be a great speaker and yet possess a miserable voice. Bichard Lalor Sheil had a high, strained, shrill voice which grated on the ear like the sharpening of a saw; aud yet, it is a well-known fact that whenever he was named as likely to take part in a debate, the House of Commons was crowded to excess. Not even the great Tribune himself, with his, “lips of coral and voice of ivory,” as a critic once said, created half as much interest . as the shpeking little Irishman. Burke’s enunciation was a prolonged, furious scream. Gladstone has a weak organ, and displays, to a painful degree, that sorry, English affec’ tation of “ aw-ah,—aw! ” not that he wants words, but because he is so exquisitely chary in his choice of expression. Bright’s voice is poor, with the same hesitation that characterizes Expostulation Gladstone. Indeed, English speakers, as a rule, are stammerers. The only subject upon which they speak fluently is dinner, or Popery.	• »>
We are continually reminded, by rhetoricians, of Demosthenes, his stammering, weak voice, pebbles, the ocean, etc. For my part, presumptuous and heterodox as it may seem, I do not believe one word of that story. If a man speak indistinctly, he can never mend the defect by filling his mouth withstones. Just try it the next time you are playing jack-stones. A tenor can never sing bass, for the timbre of his voice renders such a feat impossible. He may sing a low note, but it is not bass. So, with a speaker. If his voice be naturally of a high pitch, he may modify it somewhat, but let him never imagine that he can attain that round, rich, finely-modulated baritone which makes	f
a commonplace speaker attractive and interesting. Such a voice is a gift of nature altogether beyond the domain of art.
It is an admitted fact that the deep, manly, full voice, so common in Europe, is rare in America. The miserable> thin, nasal twang, almost universal on this continent, is a serious drawback to public speaking. The cause of this	£
defect lies deeper than climate, although catarrhal affec-	••
tions have a good deal to do with it. The real cause must	*
be traced to various habits which it is not convenient to particularize.
As a general rule, one should try to speak in the natural conversational voice, only with power adapted to the size	®
of a place and the audience. Watch your manner of speak-	k
ing in ordinary conversation upon a serious topic, and you	’
will find that emphasis, inflection, modulation, etc., are all there naturally and spontaneously. Now, when you speak before an audience, do not try to improve upon nature, for such artificial attempts will make your speech a complete failure. I do not' mean to say that one should indulge on the platform in the careless familiarity of daily conversation. That would be beneath the dignity of speaker and listener; and if a man cannot be natural without playing the buffoon, let him cure the defect by always being a listener in public.
But as you value common sense and decency, never attempt the folly of counterfeiting an emotion which you do ■ Av not feel. He who causes his voice to falter artificially	M

THE SCHOLASTIC.
293
who appeals with upcast eyes and hands to Heaven artificially, who groans and “Alas”-es artificially, may be an actor, first-rate or fiftieth-rate, (usually the latter), but he is no orator. He is nothing more nor less, not to put too fine a point upon it, than an arrant humbug. Such a one will never be an orator, even should he live the years of Mathuselaln Nature cannot be counterfeited in this case. The youngest child in an audience instinctively judges between the real emotion and the theatrical imposition. And a discourse, otherwise excellent, may miss its legitimate effect on account of the disgust which a contemptible display of false passion excites in the bosom of every intelligent man.
JacfrafcAltTrades*
For an American it is altogether wrong to blame him. It is he who made America what she is to-day. It is he who rules her at the present hour. Pray, who were the men that settled down in the wilderness of this Western Continent three hundred years ago ? Jacks at all trades. Were not the Pilgrim Fathers jacks? Was not Captain Smith, the famous Smith, a jack? a runaway, a soldier, a hunter, a beggar, a cavalry officer, a slave; a Turkish lady’s favorite, a duellist and prisoner; an emigrant, a farmer, and a president; an explorer, a sorcerer, a terror to the Indians, but a sweet object of admiration for the gentle Pocahontas und the ladies of the English court; a genuine jack at all trades* . And the history of those hardy pioneers, who opened the forests of the Great West for the rolling waves of immigration, what else is it but a record of jacks at all trades. Farming, hunting, warring; astronomy, geology, ■ geography; shoemaking, tailoring, carpentering; chemistry, botany, zoology . . . there is scarcely a branch of sci- ■ ence or of art, but they must have had a smattering of it. i And who was the famous Benjamin Franklin ? A whistler,; a printer, an editor, a philosopher, an inventor, a politician, an Ambassador; Geo. Washington, the Father of his Country, was a woodchopper, a farmer, a letter-carrier, a lieutenant, a buckskin, a General, a politician, a President; ( Abraham Lincoln, the great and good man—a railsplitter, farmer, lawyer, President; Andrew Johnson, a tailor, Senator and Vice-President; Morse,an actor and telegraphist; U. S. Grant, a tanner, General and President; Cyrus W. Field, a Liberty-street merchant and Atlantic cable-layer;, Geo. Law, a bricklayer, shipbuilder and buccaneer; And Horace Greely, a scientific farmer, printer and editor. Indeed, America is full of jacks at all trades. To-day, jack is a druggist, to morrow he will be a doctor, next day, an undertaker; then in turn a teacher, a lecturer, a postmaster, a circus-man; a Grover and Baker, a Wheeler and Wilson; a Singer; a candymaker, a banker and councilman: a railroad manager and Congressman. We know printers who are members of the Legislature; book-keepers, who are lawyers; professors of mathematics, who are dancing-; masters; professors of calisthenics, who are cigar-makers;. expounders of Homer, who are county-surveyors; deacons, ■ who are chemists; surgeons, who are priests; and Bishops, who are masons and carpenters. Some, in opposition to । sound metaphysics, manage to be two opposite things at-the same time, while others, more logically, take to it by turns. For it is an established fact that the one-idea-man cannot get along in this country. Woe to the wretch who has learnt but one trade, who knows one profession only;
' in a short time his craft will be high and dry on the sand
bank of popular changeableness. He is certainly a poor fox that has but one hole to fly into when the dogs are after him. Look at these scientific men, those philosophers and metaphysicians, who from time to time have come over to this country from Germany, France and Italy; men who can construct cosmogony as glibly as old Hesiod; men who will run you up and down the ladder of Ontology, from infinite nothing to infinite something, as lightly as a young lady at the piano rattles oft’her scales; men who perhaps know Sanscrit or Egyptian hieroglyphics to perfection, and yet may be found at the present day eking out their miserable existence by hauling dung for some Ohio farmer, or breaking stones in the quarries of Missouri; and all that for no other reason than that they had not pluck enough to play-jack in the nick of time.
It is undoubtedly owing to the spirit of our age, the influence of the press and our republican institutions, the popular taste and the genius of the American nation, that the jack-at-all-trades is, in most cases, a success, because he will stop rolling and changing as soon as he finds himself in that sphere of action which yields him the best return. Under the existing circumstances, therefore, and looking at the question from a practical point of view, we ought not to find fault with a j.ick-at-all trades, but admit that sometimes may be better than mute&ti.
__________________________O. M. S.
Scientific Notes.
■ fill —
—The.following regime of the astronomical discoveries in the year 1874, is given by Prof. Daniel Kirkwood. Six minor planets have been added to the list. No. 135, discovered by Dr. C. H. F. Peters, February 18th, at Clinton, New York. No. 135, by Palisa, at Pola, Prussia, March. 18tb. No. 137, by the same, April 21st. No. 138, by Per-rotin, at Toulouse, May 19th. No 139, by Prof. Watson, at Peking, October Sth. No. 140, by Palisa, at Pola, as above.- Four comets were also discovered the most interesting of which was Coggia’s. The star-shower, of Nov. 19th, entirely failed, and ne further return of the meteors, in any considerable number, can be expected until near the close of the century.
—MM. Fizeau and Cornu are at present engaged in an extended series of experiments, with a view to determine the true velocity of light. A beam of light is transmitted from the Paris Observatory to Montlhery whence it is reflected back to the starting point, the whole distance traversed being sixty-six thousand feet. The instruments, designed to measure the time elapsing between the departure and the return of the light-wave, are of the most delicate construction, and the results, when announced, may be regarded as authoritative. These observations are authorized by M. Leverrier, the director of the Paris Observatory.
—Prof. Alxander Agassiz is continuing the South American explorations, begun by his honored father, Louis Agas siz. He will direct his course more particularly to Chili and Bolivia. At L ike Titicaca, he will direct the dredging and temperature observations, while Mr. Garman, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology will superintend the collecting parties.
—Dr. Gwynne is making a series of experiments, with a view to utilize the expansive force of Carbonic acid, generated and self-condensed by the action of an acid on some carbonate. The results of experiments already made, ia very encouraging.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
—Prof. Alfred Mayer, of the Sephen’s Institute, has shown, by a series of new and very ingenious experiments, the truth of Prof. Henry’s inference that the discharge of a Leyden jar is multiple and oscillatory in its nature. Other 'physicists had already established this point,butit remained for Prof. Mayer to trace the oscillations and to determine the number of partial discharges per second. In one of his experiments he found the average interval between the partial discharges to ba .000011-f- of a second.
—Frank Buckland having counted the eggs in a single ■turgeon, found that they numbered 921.600. The total weight of the eggs was 45 pounds. In one onnce there were 1,280 eggs.
—Prestel, a German meteorologist, has observed a marked periodicity of ozone in the atmosphere. It is at its minimum at the end of September, increasing steadily and Teaching its maximum at the vernal equinox, after which it again diminishes.
—Experiments, made by Prof. Mayer, show that solid cylinders of iron < Lmgate on being magnetized, but contract to a corresponding d gree in their transverse dimension, so that their volume rem tins constant. In hollow cylinders, on the other hand, the interior capacity is increased when they are magnetized. •	’
—Another donation of shells for the Museum, and several fine specimens for the Herbarium have been received from Rev. F. Carrier.
Jtaical Notes.
—The music halls are very lively nowadajrs.
—The members of the Band intend forming a singing club.
—The evening soiree by the Mendellsohn Club are very enjoyable.
—The Vocal C’ass are practicing a grand Chorus by Beethoven. It will be sung at the next soiree. By the way, when will the n-xt soiree be given?
—The Junior Orchestra it is expected will give a concert in the Junior S udj'-Hall in a few weeks. They will be assisted by the Gillespie Choral Union.
—The performances of Thomas’ Orchestra surpass anything that has ever been heard in this country. As a leader, he is great. He has built up an orchestra which enjoys even a E iropi an r< pntaiion. In the Old Country, such orchestras are supported by kings and princes; in our own land they have to rely on the public support and favor. It might liter f >re be called a princely gift, a royal favor, which Tuomas has b stowed upon us, by organiz ing his orchestn, and it is to be hop d that the people of this country will not only be proud of this orchestra, but that they will also" support it right liberally. Rich men ought to aid similar institutions in our cities, and the millionaires of New York ought to build a ball for Thomas worthy of the cause he represents. His work has only been begun. The seed is springing up, but if care be not taken the fields will again be overspread with weeds.
Whether instrumental music or vocal, or the combination of both, is the true art work, is not here to be decided. So much is sure, that the masses knew nothing about classic instrumental music, and now they seem .to appreciate it in part at least. It was Thomas who led the people into this sanctum, an act for which he deserves much praise. May his orchestra continue in the good work un
til musical culture shall have penetrated every city and village.—Brainards' Musical World.
Society Notes.
—The 19th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on Sunday, January 31st. At this meeting Master C. J. Whipple was elected Cor. Secretary, and F. Hoffman Prompter. The President then having made a number of remarks the meeting adjourned.
—The 18th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on Thursday, January Slst, 1875. At this meeting Mr. Courtney was unanimously admitted to membership. The following delivered declamations: J. Lambin, W. Roelle, L. Pilliod, J. Nelson, J. Hayes and G. Budd. J. French read a composition.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held their 2nd regular meeting of the Session, on February 9th, Prof. Dailey presiding. The question “ Resolved, That the Invention of Gunpowder has been Beneficial to Mankind,” was well discussed. Many statistical and historical facts were adduced, and well-chosen positions taken on both sides. The decision was in favor of the affirmative. The disputants were,—on the affirmative, Messrs E. S. Monahan, P. Skahill and J. Caren. Negative, Messrs. M. Foley, E. Roulhac, and T. Grier.
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held Feb. 4. At this meeting the election of officers took place, which resulted as follows: Director, Rev. P. J. Colovin; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Vice-President, H. Quan ,• Secretary; C. Whipple; Treasurer, J. Delvecchio; Cor. Secretary, L. Pilliod; Sergeant-at-arms, W. Roelle; 1st Librarian, J. Crummey ; 2nd Li-jrarian, J. Hayes; 1st Censor, F. Ewing; 2nd Censor, G. Budd; Marshal, J. Nelson; Prompter,F.Hoffman. After this Bro. Leauder was unanimously elected Promoter.
—The 24lh regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held February 9th, 1875. At this meeting the question, Resolved, “That Rural Life is more Beneficial for Mankind than a City One,” was debated. Those who defended the affirmative were Messrs. A. Schmid^ J. E. Wood and T. J. Sidon; while those on the negative were Messrs. J. P. McHugh, J. Minton, E. Arnold, L. P. Best and R. Downey. The debate was carried on in a lively and courteous manner, the best speeches being made by J. P. McHugh, R. Downey and A. Schmidt. The ’resident reviewed the debate, and gave his decision, according to the arguments brought forward, in favor of the negative.	.
—Mr. G. A. Sala, in the “Echoes of the Week,” which he writes for the Illustrated London News, recently related a pretty anecdote of Pius VIL This Pope, whilst staying in Paris for the coronation of Napoleon I, in 1804, paid a visit to the Imperial Printing Office. As his Holiness passed through one of the rooms, one of the workmen—a free-thinking republican, presumably—declined to take off .bis hat in the Pontifical presence; whereupon the mild old ' ’ope went up to him, and, gently removing the refractory compositor’s chapeau,laid his hands on his head, saying: “ There, my son! The blessing of an old man will do you no harm.” The compositor, we are told, deeply moved by this kindly behavior, sank on his knees and burst into tears.
THE SCHOLASTIC.	m
-	Literature.
--Van Benthuysen & Sons, of Albany, will issue an American Edition of Bishop Vaughan’s “Life of St.
■ Thomas of Aquin.”
—The De La Salle Monthly has passed into the hands of Mr. John Savage, well known throughout the country as an accomplished poet. He has changed the name back to that by which it was formerly known, and it will hereafter be known as.the“Z7ze Manhattan and De La Salle Monthly." The number for February, 1875, which now lies before us, is finely got up. The articles are very interesting, bearing evidences of good and spicy writing. The. contents are; I. St. Valentine’s Day; II. Aunt Lizzie’s Story; III. Her Voice; IV. Anecdotes of Thos. MooreV. Alone; VI. Famous Memories of the Month; VII. In Memoriam; VIII. A Relique of Father Prout; IX. Shaun the Unbeliever; X. The Sunlit Path; XI. Gladstone on Civil Allegiance; XII. Winborough and its People; XIII. Miscellany; XIV. Current Publications; XV. Obituary. The subscription is $2,50. Address John Savage, Editor of the Manhattan Monthly, No. 33 Warren St, New York City.
—The Philadelphia Catholic Standard is one of the livest papers published in the United States. It is issued by Messrs. Hardy & Mahony, who also publish the Catholic Record. There are a number of students from Philadelphia and the neighborhood, and to them we especially recommend the Standard; and if our other readers are in want of a good Catholic paper, we can also recommend that they subscribe for it, as they will get more than their money’s worth.
—St. Paul was the ideal of a gentleman. Witness his delicacy and tact, seen pre-eminently in advice and reproof: “JT praise you not,”—this is his euphemism for “£ blame you" “ I partly believe it," when told of the divisions among his children. Mark his delicate tact with Festus, Agrippa, Felix. Note his dignity and sweetness in receiving the gift from the Philippian church, the grace with which he rejoices that “ your care of me hath flourished again;” then the anxious guarding against hurting their feelings, also the hopefulness for them: “Wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity.” Let any . one curious in these points read from the 10th to the 21st verse of Philippians iv. The passage is full of the subtle touches of the character. Professor Blunt, in the first lectures on the “ Parish Priest,” admirably traces out this characteristicof St. Paul, though from another point of view than ours. And, once more, if any reader would have a perfect model of consummate tact and intense delicacy, let him study St. Paul’s urging of a request that might have been a claim, in the Epistle to Philemon.—Contemporary Review.
Music Teachers’ Trices.
Speaking of teachers’ prices as paid in Chicago, Mr. W. S. B. Mathews says:. The compensation varies widely. Some of the poorest, down by Halsted and Twelfth streets, give lessons at 25 cents a lesson. At this rate a teacher in full business could earn about $1.25 or $1.50 a day. A common price with lady-teachers is 50 cents a lessonStill a better class gets as high as $1 a lesson, and some
few as high as $2 a lesson, though this latter rate is very rare indeed. Very few gentlemen give lessons below $1 each. Some get $1.50, From this it ranges up to $3 and $4 an hour, which latter is the nominal rate of Goldbeck and Wolfsohn. Scarcely any lessons are given higher than $3 an hour. This rate includes -a half-dozen of the best teachers in the city. At this rate, a man in good business will earn from $4000 to $5,000 a year, which is little enough for the grade of talent and experience required.
The question may arise, Why are lady-teachers paid less than men ? The answer is, because they are generally less competent. They are less competent because, as a rule, they resort to music-teaching merely as a make-shift; about the time they acquire a little experience and tact in dealing with pupils, they get married and quit the business.
The rates for music-lessons are much lower here than in New York. There, three teachers—Dr. William Mason, Richard Hoffmann, and S. B. Mills—receive $6 a lesson when given at the residence of the pupil, and $5 when given at their own rooms. Mason is a very painstaking teacher, earning $8 000 or $9,000 a year in lessons. Still, this is below the income of a clergyman, lawyer, or doctor, of equal ability, and relatively as eminent in his profession. —Brainards' Musical World.
—A laughable story is told by the Cannelton Enquirer, Several months since a stone-boat sank near the little town of Rono, in this county, which had on board among other things several kegs of powder. One keg was carried up to Mr. Galey’s and kicked around the yard for several days, but at last the inquisitiveness of Mr. G. overcame his accustomed prudence and he determined to experiment upon that keg. The powder had caked, and become to all appearance, a solid mass, but was in fact streaked all through with little veins of dry powder, which the water had affected very little. Mr. G. applied a torch to the mouth of the keg, and, after considerable scraping and poking, the fire took hold a few seconds before Mr. G. let go. The keg made a puff like an infant Vesuvius, and bounded up the hill like a frightened coon—endwise. It puffed and smoked a few moments, when it made another spring into the air, turned over several times and made straight for Mr. G., who by this time became somewhat frightened and began to yell for water. This roused the entire family, and while Mr. G. and his eldest son were vainly endeavoring to capture the keg, and kept busy avoiding it in its peregrinations, the other members were busy heaving bucketful after bucketful in the direction of the kicking keg. One bound, one. more lofty and vigorous than any of the preceding ones, carried the animated keg to the top of the house, where it sizzed and buzzed and whizzed behind the chimney, finally it rolled off and landed just in front of Mr. G., who sprang aside the smoking thing and yelled for more water. It came. Bucketful after bucketful was thrown upon the man and keg as they rolled over and over the ground, filling the air with, smoke and soot and cuss words, until the fire in the keg and the curiosity in Mr. G. were both totally extinguished
—“Half a million dogs keep the people of New Mexico in bark. If the tonic does them good they are welcome to it.” So says Rowell; we don’t want any of it.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Schnlaslw.
Published evsry Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
’ TERMS: One year.....................................$1 00
Single copies (Sets.) can be obtained at the Students' Office.
The Sehdlaetic far the 2nd Session. The subscription price of tbe Scholastic for the 2nd session of & months is fifty cents j besides which all new subscribers are reqeested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents. Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P.- O.f Ind,
—We have been asked by a number of persons why we have taken occasion to urge upon all our readers both students and others, the propriety of subscribing for Brownson's Revi^, the Catholic World and the Catholic Record. Young men, our interrogators have told us, do not care for such kind of reading. It is asking too much of them to subscribe for periodicals which can in nowise interest them. What people nowadays require is light reading; philosophy, science and history they leave to priests, and those who make these things their special study. Something light which will while away an idle hour or so is what the great mass of the people require, and as these cannot generally be found in publications such as we have named, it is useless labor to be recommending them to the consideration of the generality of readers.
In reply we have merely to say that we would deem ourselves false to the position which we occupy as editor of a paper read by hundreds of youths if we did not on every occasion which presents itself, urge upon our readers to sustain by their subscriptions such publications as Brownson's, the World, the Recoid, and the Manhattan Monthly. The good Catholic publications of the United States are not supported as they should be, and just for the reasons given above. There is nothing in them which is flashy and sensational. Most of the articles in the above named monthlies and quarterly show marks of deep thought and earnest study. They are the productions of scholars, who do not write to satisfy the cravings of diseased minds. In them we find tbe great questions which agitate the minds of men discussed. If indeed they give us tales and romances they give those of which the moral is pure. They do not fl mrish romances of unreal life, asking our sympathies for characters whose whole lives are portrayed as spent in sin and crime. And it is simply because they do not fill their pages with tales of doubtful morality and a philosophy opposed to the Church which leaves them to struggle for an existence.
The great trouble with us Catholics is that the best educated of us are not always wealthy, and consequently are not able to subscribe for many journals; while our wealthy Catholics are not always given to much reading. We hope that there will be a change for the better, and that all persons who are able will even at a little inconvenience subscribe for some, if not all, of the many able Catholic Magazines published in the United States.
We see the statement of the Christian Era going the rounds that most of the subscribers to Brownson's Review are non-Catholics. We do not know whether this asser
tion is true or not, but this we do know that it is shameful if it is so. There probably is not such another intellect in the United States as Brownson’s. He is not a man of wealths' and the Catholics owe a support to his Review. We always feel pained when we see the small number which come to our Post Office. For every number that does come, we feel that there should be at least ten or twenty; and we -hope that an addition to the number will be made. There : is not a single Society in the house but what can afford ' to subscribe for it—indeed we do not see how they can ■ afford to go without it.	•
Then the Catholic World should be read more than it is. It is true that there are many about Notre Dame who take -it, but we are not sure that many of the students do. The Catholic World is considered even by non-Catholics to be the best monthly Magazine published in the United States. It deserves the support of all, and we hope to see it read by all the students much more than it is.
The Catholic Record, though not so old as the World, has made its mark in the Catholic literature of our country. It has a sphere of its own in which to work, and in its sphere it cannot be excelled. It has a number of contrib' utors, well-known throughout the country for their ability as controversial writers, but it is for the beauty and morality of its lighter articles that we admire it.
The Manhattan Monthly, edited by John Savage, also deserves the attention of the readers of The Scholastic Though not at all pretentious in its appearance, our readers will find in its pages much information that is instructing and entertaining.
It is, then, because we believe our Catholic Magazine* and Quarterlies do not receive the support which they deserve, that we call attention to them so frequently. It may be that we are not heeded at the time, but we feel that by persistently calling the attention of our readers to their merits we may succeed in having their circulation increased a little. We hope that the members of the different societies will see that all of tbe magazines above mentioned, with Broicnson, be taken for the Societies. And, more, we hope that the individual readers of The Scholastic will all take at least one or two of them, and thus give their mite towards sustaining Catholic Literature in the United States.	,
—The Examinations were concluded on the 30th, of January last. That the extra work which was entailed upen both the Professors and Students was amply compensated, by the almost entire satisfaction which it afforded, it wou.d be useless for us to say. We would not have it understood that we mean to say that in every instance tbe pupils gave their Professors ample cause for pride, or that without exception the students were at ease when submitting to the trying ordeal of tbe examination. Unhappily this was not the case. We must confess that there were exceptions, and that some were found deficient in some of their classes' * The reason wby they were so is well known to these pu' pils themselves. It is evident that their deficiency was caused solely by their want of application and hard study during tbe five months past. Had they applied them* selves during the time which they spent here since Sep--tember, they too might have passed brilliant examinations. However the vast majority of the students did great honor to themselves by their ready and correct answers* They fulfilled the highest expectations of their teachers who have labored hard in their behalf during the session-

I
THE SCHOLASTIC.
They proved beyond doubt that they had done the work allotted to them during the session faithfully; that, not wasting their time in the study-hall, they had diligently prepared themselves for their classes, and that when they were in class they gave heed to the instructions of their teachers. It would be a pleasure for’ the editors to make especial mention of the many hard-working, earnest students who particularly distinguished themselves on the occasion of the Examination, but our space will not admit of this. We have already given the general averages of the students, from which all persons can judge of the satisfactory manner in which the great majority of the students acquitted themselves.
Before concluding, we would state that we have it from the officers of the house that the Exmaminations have given them satisfaction and pleasure, and that if the June Examinations show a like improvement in the students, they will not only be satisfied, but even proud of the success of the University during the past year.
And now a word or two to those who failed and those who succeeded. If you failed at the February Examination, do. not let that discourage you, but let it excite you to energy and hard study. Endeavor during the coming months to make up for the time lost during the last session. Study with a vim that will carry everything before it. Apply every moment of study-time to the work which you have cut out for you, and then when the June Examinations do come, you will receive the reward of your labors. But if you succeeded in passing well in the Feb ruary Examination, do not consider your success next June as assured. If you now rest on your oars the race will be lost. Others who are now behind you may pick up, and when the examinations come around again you may be found wanitng. No: work as you worked the first session. Endeavor to do even better next June than you did in February, and then your success is assured.
.	Personal.
will give each week agreat number of Personals, for the purpose of letting the old students know the whereabouts of their former comrades.]	•
—Rev. Fr. O’Mahony is a frequent visitor to the College.
—	E. Hull, of ’69, is doing an excellent business in Detroit, Mich.
—	Rev. P. J. Carroll, of ’59, is parish priest of Ravenna, Ohio.
—	Rev. J. G. McNulty, of ’67, is stationed at Decorah, Iowa.	’
—	Rev. John B. Krull, of'66, is pastor in Augusta, Kentucky.	'
—Rev. Anthony Messman, of '67, is stationed at Kentland, Ind.
—Rev. Fr. Vagnier walks over from St. Mary’s nearly every day.
—	Carl A. B. von Weller is teaching painting in Cincinnati, Ohio.	•
—	Gen. W.F. Lynch, of’60, has an excellent law practice in Elgin, Ill.
—Otis Walker, of ’67, is in the Union National Bank of Chicago, Ill.
—Rev. M. Connolly, of ’67, has charge of a parish in Hudson. Wis.
—E. McSweeney, of ’74, is practising law in Oil City, Pennsylvania.
—Rev. J. Bleckman, of ’67, is pastor of the Church in Covington, Ind.	-
—John H. Cody, of ’61, is doing, a staving business in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Jos. McKernan, of ’67, is in the real estate business, Indianapolis, Ind.
. —Hon. T. A. Corcoran, of ’65, has a good law practice in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—J. M. Grier, of ’69, is one of the most prosperous fanners in Geneva, Wis.
—A. W. Arrington, of ’70, we understand, is doing finely in Washington, D. C.	■
—Prof. Pepper made himself a general favorite at Notre Dame during his stay.
—	Judson A. Fox, of ’71, is Passenger Agent on the C. B. and Q. R. R. at Aurora, Ill.
—	Jas. Connor, of ’60, is now a partner of B. F. Ford, Oliver & Co., Chicago, Ill.
—	J. C. Dunlap, of ’65, is a Railroad Contractor in the Southern part of this State.
—	Rev. F. M. Kielty, of’52, is pastor of Church of the Holy Angels, Sc. Louis, Mo.
—	Edward W. Robinson, of ’74, is a telegraph operator away down at Millview, Florida.
—John Dillon, of’68. is in the Post-O^e Department, Chicago. He is succeeding well.
—Bernard McGinnis, of ’74, is now at the Grand Seminary in Montreal, studying for the Church.
—Thos. Ireland, of ’72, is with his father in the wholesale dry-goods business in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—We are happy to state that Michael McCormack is rapidly recovering, and will be around in a few days.
—Late accounts from Oregon tell us that Hon. Jno. M. Gearin, of ’71, is making bis mark in the State Legislature.
—John F. McHugh, of’72, will be admitted to the bar this spring. He would have been practising ere this but for his age.
—Charles A. Berdel, of’74, is reading Law with Caulfield, Hardin & Patton, formerly Dickey & Cauldfield, Room 44, Reaper Block, Chicago, HI.
—Lady Georgiana Fullerton writes a serial for the Ave Maria. This journal is the only paper in the United States for which the lady has ever written.
—Jas. McCormack, of ’66, who w’as here for some time with'his brother, left for his home in Nashville, Tenn, last Monday evening. We hope to see him around this way frequently.
—Rev. Thomas Mackin, of ’65, assistant pastor of St.’ Patrick’s Church, Chicago, preached a beautiful sermon on the vanities of the world, in that Church, on Ash-Wednesday.
—Thos. Clifford, of ’58, is doing a fine law business in. New York city. Mr. Clifford would like to have a Catalogue of the University for the year 1857-8. If any person can furnish him the Catalogue we will forward it to him.’
—The lecture delivered by Rev. Father Riordan, before the Catholic Library Association, on Thursday evening, the 21st inst., was attended by a large number of persons and listened to with marked attention. The life and labors of the illustrious subject of the lecture, Father Marquette, were ably treated, and the noble Order to which he belonged, and with the spirit of which he was imbued, was the object of a glowing tribute. His missionary work was briefly but vividly sketched from its commencement to its close, when death came to end his journey and ushered him into the mansion of the Master in whose cause he had so zealously labored. The lecture was one of the ablest yet. delivered before the Association.—Catholic 'Vihdicator.
—An exchange laments over the small amount of attention the “transit of Venice’’ commands.
—“ Have you Goldsmith’s Greece ? ” was asked of the clerk in a store in which books and various miscellaneous articles were sold. “No,” said the clerk reflectively, “we . haven’t Goldsmith’s Greece, but we have some splendid hair oil.”	.
I
589
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
-—Pshaw!
—Glorious!
•—Are you 21 ?
—Good skating?
—W alking—ausgespielt.
—More members are added to the Band.
—Sal and Bud have dissolved partnership.
—Billy takes charge of the Senior bell now.
—Do you wish a reserved seat or a private box?
—It was very cold in the Hall last Monday night.
—The upper Lake had a number of friends last Sunday.
—In spite of the cold weather some will play hand-ball.
—The per cent in each class was read to the Students.
—The room alongside of the Circulating Library has many visitors.
—The first Book-keeping Class, under Prof. Tong is very large in numbers.
—If you haven’t your card’ to give your friends, you don’t belong to the ton.
—Notes of conduct of the Juniors on Sunday last were the best read for years.
—The Classicil Department has had quite an addition made to its number of students.
—In the Commercials, Bro. Philip is making good penmen of the members of the first Book-keeping.
—Spikedbo >tsare very convenient this slippery weather. It prevents you from taking a seat too suddenly.
—A question for our debating Societies. If a negro had a lion by the tail, which would it be better for him to do, hold on or let go ?
—Circulars have been sent, to a number of students by the Superior of the House of the Angel Guardian, Boston. It is a deserving charity.
—We understand that a popular Baseball Club in the Senior Department will hereafter be known by the name of “ La Guarda di Mulligani.”
—We know of nothing more contemptible than the grumbling of some C ’tholic boys when they have to spend a half an hour m church. Bah!
—We are afraid that certain young men did not profit much from the Lecture last Sunday night. Their conduct in the Hall on Monday did not give evidence of it.
—The Directors of the Lemonnier Circulating Library return their thanks to Rev. J. C. Carrh-r. C S. C., formerly Prof, of the Natural Sciences-it Notre D tme, and now President of St. Marv’s College, Galves’on, Texas, for the donation of 3 vols. They thank also R. J. Walker and R >bert Staley for donations.
—Our philosopher defies the world to show anything illogical in the following syllogism:
Solomon was a wise man, But, Samsom was a strong man. Ergo, Cain killed bis brother Abel.—
Peripatetics, Academicians, Stoics, Cynics.- Answer!
—The Minims, called on Father General the other day, when the Very Rev. Father treated them to a fine box of candies. The youngsters, desire us to say that they are very thankful to him for his kindness, and that they will ever remember him for it. The candies were given to them for their industry during the p.ist session, and for the brilliant examination which they passed.
—We are sorry that a certain number of persons, who have no gentlemanly feelings whatever, should have displayed their ill breeding so prominently in the hall last Monday night. Their conduct showed not only their ignorance, but that they have no idea of the ordinary decencies of life. Such persons should hereafter be prevented from attending any entertainments given in the hall.
. —The “Mulligan Guards,” the pride of the Seniors, numbers among its members the elite of the Department, This session they have commenced under the most favorable auspices; and with their great activity have ob
tained some of the best players in the College, three of whom are “ex-Champions” of last session. The Guards . have secured the grounds at the upper end of the yard, formerly those of the “ Star of the South. We anticipate good playing by the “Guards,” and advise other clubs to look well to their laurels in the coming baseball season.
—Our friend John has a very sweet tooth, and candy is never refused by him. He got some the other day, and Went for it. No sooner did he put it in his mouth than he sputtered, and spat, and pranced round, and called for one of Babcock’s fire-extinguishers. No person bringing it, he thrust his head into a bucket of water, and, taking it out, he sat with his mouth open for a good half hour, waiting for his tongue to cool. And he says that if any person again gives him candy doctored up with red pepper, the young man might as well see to packing his trunk,—otherwise there will be a funeral.
—The following books have been added to the Lemonnier Circulating Library since the first of February: Ancient Literature, Lounge', Law Dictionary, Burrell; “Edinburgh Review,” 1802-30, 50 vols.; “Atlantic Monthly,” 29 vols.; Putnam’s Magazine, (first series) 9 vols.; Catholic Record, 7 vols.; The Month, 20 vols.; Catholic World, vols. 18.19 and 20; Hood’s Poems, 2 vols.; Akenside’s Pogms, Life of Franklin, Parton, 2 vols.; French and German War, 2 vols.; Border Wars, The Southerner at Home, Natural History, Bible History, Life of the Blessed Virgin, Life of •St. Aloysius Field of Ice, {Jules Veroin); Mysterious Island, {Jules Veroin) Meridiana, {Jvies Veroin) Boys in Blue, Juvenile Works, Fairy Tales of all Lands 4 vols.; Border Tales, {Jones) 4 vols.; Paley’s Tales, 4 vols.; Undine, Sam Slick of Slickville.
—A correspondent sends the following from St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio:
“ The Semi-Annual Examination at this institution is over, and to say it was satisfactory would be to bestow insufficient praise on the really diligent pupils who attend this flourishing institution ; they are blissfully ignorant of that strange disease many students are afflicted with about examinatibn-time,— not one pupil being absent during the week of examination. Quite a number of promotions took place yesterday, and those who were promoted felt amply recompensed for the hard work of last session. Testimonials of honor were also given to the most deserving.
A few days ago the pupils were favored and delighted by a very pleasant and interesting visit from our beloved. Most Rev. Archbishop.
The 1st inst., being the first Sunday of the month, the members of the St. Joseph’s Sodality received Holy Communion in the colleue chapel. This truly Catholic sight is always interesting, and the Brothers strive to make the day a joyful one for the boys who attend Mass and Vespers at the College on such days.
This brings to mind the excellent College choir, which has not its superior in the city; this may seem like flattery, but it is really true. By the by, your friend John has applied to St. Joseph’s College for the (honorary) degree of Batch--Do you think his chances are good ?
The number of pupils in attendance now is 174, the graduating class numbering ten. The semi-annual exhibition has been postponed until Easter Monday.
St. Joseph’s College promises fair to be one of the leading commercial colleges of the West.
—Our friend John studies algebra. He is not at the head of the class, for somehow or other mathematics don’t agree with him. That x is something of which he will never know the value, and so far, he says, he will be blamed if he can find any use for it. He had an example given to him. the other day, and the way he went about working it out showed that he was determined to obtain its solution. He wrote it down on his slate, and made a flourish with his arm and then the whole side of the slate was covered with xs and ys and + signs and — signs and roots. Away he worked for one half-hour, and the perspiration started from every pore in his body. Then he wiped the whole of it out, and began again; it was x-}-y and x—z for another quarter of an hour. Then he looked at the book and again at the slate: another x and then y and his pencil fairly flew dotting down figures. Then he sat and began to think; up went his right hand towards the ceiling as if to stop some thawed-out fly; then it slowly descended, and his finger went running through his hair as if in search of an idea or something'here unmentionable. Not finding either he placed his thumb and finger on his upper lip as
I
THE SCHOLASTIC.
299
If he were smoothing down a moustache, a thing by the way which he will not have for years, and then he brought his fist down on the desk with a terrible thump; then he contracted his eyebrows and frowned a terrible frown—justlike a tyrant in the play when he orders the unhappy criminal to be placed upon the rack;—he curled his upper lip, and his nose seemed nearly twisted off, and the grimaces became • frightful to see. His lips began to part, and the mutterings that proceeded from the aperture were most terrible; he rolled up his sleeves, he pitched the book with a slam into the desk, he kicked his slate into the furthest part of the room, where it fell broken into a thousand pieces, and he started for the door; and if Davies and Robinson, and Olney and Ray, and other getters up of mathematical works, could only have heard him talk they would suppress all the editions of their works.
Prof. Pepper’s Lecture.
When we heard that on the evening of Monday last we were to have a lecture on “ Optics,” with experiments, we anticipated a rare treat. We were not disapppointed. We went to hear Prof. Pepper, F. C. S., Assoc. Inst. C. E., and for many years Superintendent of the Royal Polytechnic Institution of London, celebrated as a lecturer, as an inventor of various ingenious apparatus for illustrating the principles of physical science, and as an author of various works on scientific subjects intended for juvenile readers, for whom he has chiefly written.
The subject of the learned Professor’s lecture was “The Romance of Light.” He opened it by giving a short and clear exposition of the two theories of light—viz., the emission or corpuscular theory, invented and defended by7 Sir Isaac Newton, and the undulatory theory, the fundamental principles of which were enunciated by Huyghens and Euler, and subsequently developed by the labors of Young, Fresnel and others, and now universally adopted by Physicists as the only theory capable of satisfactorily explaining the various phenomena of light, heat and other manifestations offeree. He then illustrated the leading principles of the theory by several beautiful experiments.
. He next spoke of the persistence of light, explaining everythingby appropriate experiments. All will recollect his;exhibition with the Photodrome, a veritable Phenakis-toscope, presented by the inventor to the Professor, and unique in its kind. The Daneing Skeleton and the gorgeous figures of the Oxyhydrogen Kaleidoscope, an apparatus invented by the Professor himself, elicited the applause of all present. '
He then explained the laws of the reflection of light, illustrating them by numerous and well-selected experiments with lenses and mirrors. But the Detruncated Head, which followed, began to cause a suspicion to arise in the minds of some “ that all was not right,” and that the Professor if not himself an alchemist, was the next thing to one. However he soon dispelled their fear by showing them that all was quite simple, si scias artificium, “ if you only know how.”
His experiments on the refraction of light, although few in number, were interesting and instructive. The one showing the phenomenon of fluorescence was most beautiful, although we doubt not there were some of the audience who appreciated the others more. The lecture was concluded by the exhibition of some of the wonders of the Opaque Lantern; but as there had not been sufficient time allowed for its proper adjustment, the Professor said that he could give only a faint idea of its great convenience and power. .
After this the Professor thanked the audience for their kind attention, and retired amid rounds of applause. As for ourselves, we most cordially thank the Professor for his instructive entertainment, and hope, as we doubt not all do who had the good fortune of hearing him, that we will have the pleasure of hearing him again.
Holl of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. Allen, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, F. Bearss, L. Busch, J. Caren, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W. Canavan, R. Doherty, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, P. Guilloz, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Gault, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, A. Hess, 3. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, F. Hebard, W. Hughs, J. Kennedy, 8. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, F. Keller, A. Lonstorf, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, M. McCormack, H. Marble, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, V. McKinnon, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, C. Olio, J. O’Connell, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, C. Robertson, W. Ryan, E. Ratigan, J. Rudge, M. Reagan, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, W. Stout, J. Soule, J. Verment, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Beegan, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, F. Frazee, J. Egbert, J. T. Foley, J. Griffith, 3. Golsen, E, Gramling, E. D. Gleason, C. Hake, H. Harvey, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, A. Leitelt, J. Lynch, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, T. Monahan, M. J. Murphy, D. Nelson, G. Nester, C. Ottoway, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, J. A. Smith, F. Smyth, W. Smith, T. J. Solon, P. Schnurrer, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, E. Washburn, F. Rosa, W. Fawcett, T. Quinn, F. Rollin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Ralph Golsen, Edward Raymond, Colly Clarke, Francis McGrath,Thomas Hooley, John O’Meara, Joseph Carrer, Walter Cunningham, Francis Campau, Albert Bushey, Hugh Colton, Willie Van Pelt, Charlie Bushey, Harley McDonald.
Class Honors-1
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11. PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior Class—G. Roulhac, G. Hoyt, W. Canavan, F. Keller, A. Lonstorf, S. Kennedy, J. McManus, R. Doherty, J. Campbell, R. White, F. Bearss, H. Marble, P.'Mattimore, E. Maas, F. Hebard, E. Ayers, T. Carroll, J. Whalen, W. Armstrong, M. Clarke, J. Verment, M. Reagan.
Junior Class—J. Delvecchio, R. Walker, P. Fitzpatrick, D. Nelson, W. Nichols, A. Bergck, M. Katzauer, F. Rosa. C. Post, E. Riopelle, P. Schnurrer, J. Kurtz, A. Betcher, J. Foley, F. Goldsberry, C. Hitchcock, J. Smith, P. Kelly, E. Washburn,F. Kleiner, H. Weber, R. McGrath, C. Treanor, H. Sickel, H. Kin-son, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, F. Rollin, E. Gramling, C. Peltier, C. Ottoway, H. Harvey, H. Newman, J. Colton, W. Kreigh, J. Haffey, W. Davis, E. Courtney, J. Jones, W. Edwards, J. Egbert, T. Quinn.
minim department—Edward Raymond, Colly Clarke, Sam-ual Goldsberry, Lee J. Frazee, Otto Lindberg, Oscar Bell, Ralph Golsen, John O’Meara, Joseph Carrer, Francis Carlin, CoDy Campau, Sylvester Bushey, Francis Campau, Albert Bushey, Michael McAuliffe, Francis McGrath, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Hugh Colton, Walter Cunningham, Louis Goldsmith, Charley Bushey.	___ -
$00
THE SCHOLASTIC
Chapel of Out Lady of Louid.es.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY OE REV. A. LEMONNEER, C. S. C.
Miss J. Ford, Dorchester, Mass.,............$	4 00
Miss M. Ford,	“
Mr. R. Higgins,	“
Mr. P. Higgins,	“
Miss B. Garrity,	“
“ S. Ward,	“
“ M. Kelly,	•“
“ M. Finnerty,	“
“ M. Larkin,	“
" M. Byron,	“
“ .................. 3	00
“ .................. 2	00
“ .................. 1	00
“ .................. 1	00
“ .................	1 00
“ .................. 1	00
“ ............... 100
“ "................. 1	00
« .................. 1	00
SAINT MALY’S ACADEMY.
ADDITIONAL ARRIVALS.
Miss E. Botsford,.......... .Florence, Ohio.
“	E. Gustine,...........Grand Rapid«, Mich.
“	L. Jackson, ..........Springfield, III.
“	B. Jackson,...........Springfield, III.
“	F. M. Wells,...........Lemont, Ill.
“	G. A. Wells,..............Lemont,	Ill.
“	C. Casey,................Chicago,	III.
“	E. Ryan,..............Chicago, Ill.
“	E. Schawss,...........Chicago, Ill.
“	M. Gaynor,............Arlington, Ill.
“ L. Bosch,.................Burlington, Iowa.
“ S. A. Swally,...........Sturges, Mich.
—A. dance was the point of interest on Tuesday, the 9th.
—The distribution of points and certificates of conduct prevented the reading of Compositions on Sunday evening. Time was limited.
—A mistake occurred in the last report, by which the praise due to the First and Second Preparatory Classes in their examination, was omitted. To do them simple justice, we must say that they passed remarkably well, as their published promotions will attest.
—On the Feastival of the Purification, a rare treat was enjoyed in the French Class Room. Gratitude found expression in a graceful poetical effusion from the pen of one of the young ladies, and the pencil of another developed a charming artistic memorial of the Feast, to accompany the poetry.
—The dayr preceding the Purification was devoted by the young .ladies to the pleasures of sleighriding. One party made a trip to Niles, but the jingle of bells resounded throughout the entire day: rosy cheeks, bright eyes, and muffled, indefinite figures, flitting in and out of the halls at all hours.
ART NOTES.
DRAWING DEPARTMENT.
—Miss Lizzie Kirchner, of the Junior Department, entered the Fifth Class in Drawing with the new session. .
—Miss Jennie Kreigli. of the Senior Department, entered the Fifth Class in Drawing with the new session.
—Miss Lizzie Ritchie, of the Senior Department, has' been promoted from the Fourth to the Third Class in Drawing.
—Miss Emma Lange, of the Junior Department, has been promoted from the Fifth to the Fourth Class iu Drawing. From this time, (the beginning of a new session), all the promotions will be carefully noticed; also, every accession to the Classes.
WATER-COLOR DEPARTMENT.
—Miss Carrie Morgan has been promoted from the Fifth to the Fourth Class in Water-Colors.
—Miss Lulu Henrotin takesfa lesson of two hours this
session. This is always saying that the improvement is more than twice in proportion to the time.
—The reports of the Massachusetts Board of Education on the Relation of Art to Education, are most encouraging to the Art Department at St. Mary’s. Massachusetts, with her Legislature, her appropriations, her press, her school-committees, is all on the side of introducing elementary drawing into all schools, even the primary. Massachusetts, too, with her Legislature, her appropriations, her press, her school-committees and her intelligent population, is on the side of establishing training schools for drawing-teachers. St. Mary’s challenges a comparison with any school in Massachusetts for the thoroughness of her elementary course 5 and after the Reports of the Board of Education on the Relation of Art to Drawing, of the necessity of Training Schools for teachers, and the declaration that such Schools do not exist in the United States, we do not feel obliged to hide the fact that as early as 1868—that is, one year before Mr. Walter Smith set foot on American soil, and opened his Training School for teachers in Bos-son, in 1809—a Training Class for Drawing Teachers was opened at St. Mary’s. The Course of Study may, without hesitation, be compared with Mr. Smith’s; and its results, if numerically smaller, are none the less valuable in themselves.	E. A. S.
i
SEMI-ANNUAL EXAMINATION.
Honorably mentioned in English lessons.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M, Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, A. St. Clair, M. Riley, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dailey, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, F. yDilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty; J. Nunning B. Wade, M. Julius.	’
3rd Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelly, M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, B. Wilson, L. Johnson, M. Walsh,K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Nettler, M. Carlin, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henroten, A. Byrnes, A. Harris, F. Taylor, B Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, M. O’Connor, J. Fisk.
preparatory course.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Quill, S. Hole, E. Lang, S. Moran, M. Ewing, M. Pritchard, A. Pool, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, B. Golsen, B. Siler, M. Siler.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H.) Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, M. McKay, M. McFarlane, L. Moran, A. Allen, S. Reising, C. West, M. Anthony, E. Botsford, J. Brown, H. Peak, M. Summers.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, M. Railton, M. A. Quinn.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses I. Yates, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, M. Hogan, A. Goewey, L. Hutchinson, A. Ewing, N. Mann, H. Kraus, L. Walsh, M. McGrath, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, C. Orr.
1st Jr. Class—Misses A. Peak, I. Mann, K. Hudson, A. McGrath, M. Bell, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, M. Derby, E. Simpson.	.	•
2nd Jr. Class—Misses'R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier, L. and A. Schnurrer. -
PROMOTIONS in ENGLISH LESSONS.
Promoted from the 3rd to the 2nd Senior Class, Misses, M. Dunbar and. L. Johnson. From the 1st Preparatory to the 3rd Senior Class, Misses K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S.
■THE SCHOLASTIC.
sot

Hole, A. Duncan, M. Poquette, M. Pritchard and M. Shiel. From the 2nd to the 1st Preparatory Class, Misses H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, L. Moran, M. McKay and N. McFarlane.
. Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, A. St. Clair, M. Riley, K. Joyce, L. Arnold> L. Bradford, J. Stimson.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dailey, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, F-Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunuing, B. Wade, M. Julius.
3rd. Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelley, M. Dunbar, S. Harris> C. Woodward, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M« Quill, R. Neteler, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L.’ Henroten, E. Quinlan, R. Klarr, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts> F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, N. McAuliffe, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Quill, S. Hole, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S, I. and E. Edes, S. Cunningham, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, L."Moran, S. Reising, E. Botsford.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, M. Railton.
'	FRENCH CLASS.
1st Class, 1st Div.—Misses J. Kearney, J. Walker.
2nd Div.—Misses J. Stimson, K. Joyce, F. Dilger, S. Harris, E. Thompson, M. Thompson, M. Poquette, A. Harris, B. Wilson, N. McGrath.
2nd Class, 1st Drv.—Misses L. Ritchie, M. Wicker, P. Gaynor.
2nd Div.—Misses L. Bradford, A. T. Clarke, M. Riley, K. Hutchinson, C. Morgan, A. McGrath.
3rd Div.—Misses K. Spencer, B. Spencer, L. Wyman, A. Walsh, J. Bennett, M. Carlin.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, L. Kirchner, J. Nunning, S. Harris, M. Schultheis, A. Harris, B. Golsen.
2nd Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, H. Kraus, E. Koch, L. Kelly.	,,
3rd Class—Misses B. Wade, H. Peak, L. Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. Carlin, M. O’Connor, M. Ewing, M. Pritchard, A. Cullen, M. Siler, B. Siler, B. Golsen, A. Allen, H. Peak, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, L. Walsh, N. McGrath, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, C. Orr, K. Hudson, M. Bell, M. Derby.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Mann, I. Mann, A. McGrath, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING FEB. 7, 1875.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, F. . Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelley, S. Harris, M. Walsh, /K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, M. Brady, P. Gaynor,
R. Canoil, A. Byrnes, L. Henroten, E. Quinlan, R. Klarr, M. Roberts, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S. Hole, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, M. Carlin.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson, . E. Thompson, C. Morgan; N. McAuliffe, M. Quill, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, S. Cunningham, M. McKay, N. McFarlane.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, E. Edes, S. Reising, C. West, M. Anthony, E. Botsford, L. Gustin, D. Allen.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, M. Railton, L. Schwartz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Pritchard, M. Ewing, A. Pool, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Siler, B. Siler, B. Golseu, J. Brown, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath, I. Yates, C. Yates, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, C. Orr, K. Hudson, M. Bell, M. Derby.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses I. Mann, K. Hudson, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, E. Simpson, R. Goldsberry, G. Mier, L. and A. Schnurrer.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3rd Sr. Class—Misses B. Wilson, M. Cravens, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Pritchard.
1st. Prep. Class—Misses M. Ewing, A. Pool, M. Schultheis. E. Lange, A. Cullen, L. McKennon, B. Golsen, M. Siler, B. Siler.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses H. Peak, J. Brown, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses A. Goewey, L. Hutchinson, A. Ewing, N. Mann, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, C. Orr, I. Yates, C. Yates.	.
1st Jr. Class—Misses I. Mann, K. Hudson, M. Derby, M. Hughes, C. Hughes.
2nd Jr. Class—Misses R. Goldsberry’, Y. Mier, L. and A. Schnurrer.	\
'	EXAMINATION REPORT.
Latin Class—Misses A. Byrnes, A. Smith, N. Foote, K. Joyce, E. Doherty, M. Brady, E. York, J. McGuire, D. Green, A. Curtin. .	' *
St. Angela’s Academy, Morris, Ill.
SVe insert here the interesting report of St. Angela’s Semi-Annual Examination. No one in Morris could be a better judge of the young ladies’ proficiency than the gentleman who reports what he has witnessed, and whose scholarship is so well known there:
Ed. Reformer—You say the friends of St. Angela’s Academy, would like to hear about the Institute and its doings. If so, let them call there some morning, and the Lady Superior will cheerfully give them a chance to see. The semi-annual examinations came off last week, and,-as I was present at the examination in algebra,'I am able to testify to the thoroughness of the work being done there. During a session of two hours quite a number of most difficult problems, taken at random from the algebraic treatise on equations and extraction of roots, weres solved by successive students, with a promptness and correctness that could not be surpassed. Such readiness and exactitude are not attained without earnest and laborious study. If the knowledge displayed by the pupils, in this particular branch may be taken as a sample of the manner in which the various other branches of study are prosecuted, I guess St. Angela’s can toe the mark with any other educational gymnasium in the State. I had also the privilege of* inspecting the examination themes in English. These were written at a sitting, without dictionary or Qther. aids than pen, ink and paper. The best efforts were by the fallowing young ladies, in pretty much the fqliowing order: Misses Mary Kjllella, Nettie Luske, Katia
302
THE SCHOLASTIC.
"Walsh, Gertrude B. Brarton, Sarah Prior, Mollie Downey, E. C. Finley, and Maggie McGuire.
Mary Killella and Katie Walsh excelled in higher algebra; Miss Gracie Tower in instrumental music, and Misses Rose Ann McQueeny, Anna Crain and Cora Wilbur in vocal music. The graduating class this scholastic year is composed of nine young ladies. It is something of the future to say how many will receive the gold medals June next. It was intended the excitement of the week would wind up with one of those fancy dressballs, but such a blessing is reserved for some time in the near future. I should not omit that Misses Lettie and Lillian Collins, daughters of Hon. Phillip Collins, examined well in mathematics and instrumental music, as also in other studies.
Kaaba.
Magrudsr’s Goat.
lira. Magruder’s baby is carried out by the nurse now, since the accident to its carriage. Magruder thought it would be a good idea to have a tame goat to pull the coach, and he bought one for the purpose; but one day the goat met another goat that differed from him in politics or religion, or something, and each undertook to convince the other by jamming him in the skull. Every time Magruder’s goat would rear up, preparatory to making a lunge forwards, Magruder’s baby would lurch over backwards, and when Magruder’s goat struck the other goat the concussion would shake the milk in the baby’s stomach into butter. And sometimes the other goat would aim at Magruder’s goat, which would dodge, and then the other goat would plunge headforemost into the cofich, and mash •the baby up in the most frightful manner; and in the midst of the contest a couple of dogs joined in, and Magruder’s goat backed off and tilted the coach into the gutter, and the dogs, biting round kind of generally, would snap at the goat and cause it to whirl the baby around just in time for the bite. Until at last the goat got disheartened and sprang through the fence, leaving the coach on the other side, and it struggled frantically to escape, while the other goat crowded up against the baby in order to avoid the dogs, and finally knocked the babe out, and butted the coach to splinters. They say that the way Mrs. Magruder eyed Magruder that afternoon when they brought the baby home mutilated and dishevelled was simply awful to behold; but she didn’t speak to him for a week, and he had to soften her down by buying her an ostrich feather for her winter hat. The goat is still at large; anybody who wants him can have him free of charge. Magruder doesn’t recognize him when he meets the animal upon the street.—Danbury News.	, .
. —A Keokuk lady, while engaged in the pursuit of domestic duties, encountered a mouse in the flour barrel. Now most ladies under similar circumstances would have uttered a few feminine shrieks and then sought safety in the garret. But this one possessed more than the ordinary degree of feminine courage. She summoned the hired man, and told him to get the shotgun, call the bulldog, and station himself at a convenient distance. Then phe climbed half-way up stairs and commenced to punch the flour barrel vigorously with a pole. Presently the mouse made its appearance and started across the floor. The dog at once went in pursuit. The man fired, and the dog dropped dead. The lady fainted and fell down "stairs, and the hired man thinking she was killed, and fearing that he would be arrested for murder, disappeared, and has not been seen since. The mouse escaped.
Collega Societies.
THE ARCHCONFRATERNITY OF THE B. V. M.
T. Murphy, President; Henry C. Cassidy, Secretary.
THE ST. ALOYSIUS PHIL0DEMIC SOCIETY.
T. A. Dailey, Pres't; J. J. Gillen, Rec. Sec'y; M. Fol£y, Cor. Sec'y.
THE SODALITY OF THE HOLY ANGELS.
W. S. Meyer, Pres't; D. J. O’Connell, Sec'y.
THE ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A." Lyons, Pres't; J. F. Soule, Rec. Sec'y; J. P. McHugh, Cor. Sec'y.
THE THESPIAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A. Lyons, Pres't; R. H. Staley, Rec. Sec'y; T. J. Murphy, Cor. Sec'y.
THE COLUMBIAN LITERARY AND DEBATING CLUB.
A. J Stace, Pres't; Jos. Campbell, Rec. Sec'y; N. J. Mooney, Cor. Sec'y.
THE NOTRE DAME BOATING CLUB.
T. F. O’Mahony, Pres't; J. J. Gillen, Sec'y.	,
THE ST. STANISLAUS PHILOPATRIAN ASSOCIATION.
J. A. Lyons, Pres't; J. Kielty, Rec. Sec'y; J. Delvecchio, Cor. Sec'y.
THE FATHER GILLESPIE CHORAL UNION.
J. F. Edwards, Pres't; Thos. M. O’Leary and D. J. O’Connell, Secretaries.
THE LEMONNIER CIRCULATING LIBRARY AND READING -	ROOM.
J. F. Edwards, Librarian.
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is • solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet. "
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov 7-tf.	Notre	Dame, Indiana.
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
Over Cooriley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every, Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on : hand pbotographsof the Professors of the	*
University, members of the Col-	,
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to aH desiring ,	oat- _
THE SCHOLASTIC.
the
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ENC0UBAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PUTS IX,
I	[And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians, but solely to such as love the Mother of Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of , Mass once a month.
Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments Within the space of one year.
Terms s
One Year, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	$3 00
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 00
Five Years, -	--	--	--	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc, should be addressed to
Editor of “AVE NARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JJOTRE pAME, JNDIANA.
SA TNT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy* ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, ana two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent, forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, While the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
CARPENTER HATTER!
105 MICHIGAN St. -	- SOUTH BEND,
dec 5-^tf.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Pbices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
O-A-ZtSTlDT FAOTOFuY 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15e.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35c.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately Eow Prices to Wliole-sale Casli Buyers.
-i- Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf
“THE SCHOLASTIC,”
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO
THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Published Weekly, During Term-Time,
AT THE	•
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
$1.00 PER YEAR.
THE “Scholastic” is the title of a neat little paper published every week, except in vacation, at the University of Notre Dame. The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and friends of our Students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at this University and at St. Mary’s Academy, and of the progress of their sons and daughters in these two institutions. For this puri ose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names oi those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be recorded on the Roll of Honor, andwho by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professors and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately in-forn ed on all that concerns their children.
The paper also opens a field for aspiring young writers, who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive; while many articles of an instructive and literary character, from writers of mature mind and abi'itj. render “The Scholastic” a valuable publication for all who desire variety and utility in their reading. “The Scholastic” consists of sixteen, wide two-co umn pages, ten of which will be occupied with reading matterand the remainder with advertisements.
Notice to Advertisers:
The Publishers will receive a limited number of Advertisements for “The Scholastic,” and have arranged upon the following list of prices:	'
One Page, (per month,) -	-	-	- $io 00
One Column	“	-	--	--	600
Half Column,	“	-	-	-	-	4 00
One-Third Column, “	_---.-	2 50
One-Eighth Column,	“	-	-	-	-	150
Address,	Editob of THE SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
j FOUNDED IN 1842.	CHARTERED IN 1844.
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred students.
Situated near the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, it is easy ol access from all parts of the United States.
Terms :
Matricu1ation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing and Mending of Linens, per session of fiv*-months, -	--	--	--	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each -	- 10 <‘0
Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-	U 50
Use of Piano, -	- ■ -	-	-	-	-	-10 0#
Use of Violin, -.	-	-	-	-	-	! SO
■tr_, T „„„„„ f General Class Principles, -	-	- 10 00
Vocal Lessons J VocalCnlturej	.	15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	-	-	-	-	-5 00
Uss of Library, (per session) -	-	-	-	-	1 00
Drawing, -------	-	15 CO
Telegraphy	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus -	-	2 00
(Classical Course, -	-	-	- 1G 00
Graduation Fee, x Scientific Course, -	-	-	- 10 Off
(Commercial Course,	-	-	-	5 0Q,
Doctors' Fees and Mtdieines at Physician’s Chargu.
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the University are charged extra, -	-	-	-	-	-	35 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with dat# of entrance.
Payments to be made invariabjy in, aijvanc?-
Class books, Stationery, etc., at auigept prices.
The first Session begins on the 1st Tuesday of September; th# second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, addies
___ • • . • •	p J COLO.YIN, c. s, o.
§04
THE SCHOLASTIC
Now Ready,
VERY BEV. DR. NEWMAN’S
REPLY TO GLADSTONE,
ENTITLED
A LETTER ADDRESSED TO
His Grace the Duke of Norfolk
OX OCCASION OF
MR. GLADSTONE'S RECENT EXPOSTULATION.
BY
JOHN HENRY NEWMAN, D.D.
Of the Oratory.
AUTHORIZED EDITION.
Paper cover,
50 cents.
New York:
THE CATHOLIC PUBLICATION SOCIETY,
LAWRENCE KEHOE, Gen. Agent,
9 Warren Street, New York.
feb 6-t>A
L. S. & M. &_RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
u follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35
10.12
11.57
9.11
8.00
* 5-44
3.18
5.21
6.31
8.00
9.15
a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 29; Cleveland, 2.45 r. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 r. m.
a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives al Toledo, 11.57 r. M-; Cleveland, 9.50
a. sr. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 P. sr.; Buffalo 4.20 a. m.	T ,
p. m.(No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives -at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. M.
p. m. 'No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,'2.30 a. m„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1-10 p. m.
p. m. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
> st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. sr.	-
a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. -Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. st.	.
p. sr. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. sr.
p. m. (No. 1). Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
a. m. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55
a. m , Chicago 11.10.	'
a. m. [No.‘71J Local Freight.
Noth. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers Upon Through’Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PaRSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago. ■
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
CUiicago, Rock Island and I’acillc K. It,
Depot, corner Van, Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, ’	Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains. .	leave.
Omaha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express, Peru Accommodation, Night Express‘->
ARRIVE.
3.30 p m
9.30 a m -
6.15 a m
. 10.13 a m - 5.00 p m ■10.30 p m
UE AVE.
ARRIVE.
♦4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m, *9:40 a.m.
•4:30 .m.
•8: p.m
Michigan Central Railroad, q
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1S74.
Going East.
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit'
Mail -	-	-	5 00 am	9 02 a tn	5 45 p m
Day Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 a m	6 30 p m •'
Accommodation	- 3 35 p m	7 35pm	8 45 a m
Atlantic Express	- 5 15 p tn	855 p m	3 50 am (
Night Express -	- 9 pm Going	12 45 p m West.	8 00 am ’
Trains	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 am	4 05 pm	8 05 p m	'
Day Express . -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 pm	9 00pm
Accommodation -	1 50 pm	6 30 am	1035 am	-
Evening Express	- 5 40pm	2 3o am	6 3o a th
Pacific Express -	- 10 00 p m	5 00am	8 30 am ;
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 630 pm, *9 am, *7 pm.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55 pm, 710 p m *9 40 am, *740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 30 a m, 9 20 a m, 510 p m, ’ 8 a m, 15 o m. ’
Arrive at South Bend—715 a m, 10 a m, 5 55 p m, + 840 a m, +5 40 p m
NOTRE DAME STATION.
-	Going East, via Wiles.
Depart—8 07 a m, 6„38 p m, + 9 07 a m, + 7 07 p m.
Arrive—707 am, 942 am, 5 46 pm, +832 am, +5 32pm	.
Going West, -via Niles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.'
JSF" Trains marked thus • + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich, S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH, General Passenger Agent, Chicago.
W.B. STRONG,
General Superintendent, Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, HL, ana Louisiana, Mo.
*9:30 a.m.
•9:45 a.m.
*9:30 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
.+6:30 p.m.
$9: p.m.
17:15 a.m.
+9:45 p.m,
a.m
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex» cept Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains lo St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Gars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN, -
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PEXNSTLVAXIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with’ Pullman's Palace Gars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.»
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m.*
C.d	“	9.00.p.m.	"	"
3rd train
-	.	,	.........	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad;
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYErts, Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
•Second day.	’
