Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsee quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 6, 1877.
Number 18.
Sonnet.
The span of life is three score years and ten,	1
And I this morn have reached the midmost day;
Beyond, grave manhood becks, nor will have nay, Though youth, fond youth, would lure me back again : E’en now weird Dante seized that sculpturing pen That filled the hollowed globe with all his prey, And carved the lightsome heavenward mountain way; Ere this did Shakspeare, Milton, Pope contemn The lower rounds of fame and mount the heights Of sweetest poesy,—Napoleon wore
His diadem, and Pascal’s brilliant lore
Had dazzled half the nations. Wondrous flights, Young eagles! My half-life, alas, invites No likening: yet how brave my hope doth soar!
Rusi Nubbe.
Literature, its Influence on Society.
Literature, in the most extended sense of the word, embraces all compositions, whatever their subject-matter may be, those on the positive sciences alone excepted. But according to the usual acceptation of the term it is confined to bdles-lettres. It therefore, properly speaking, includes especially rhetoric, poetry,-history, essays and criticisms each of which is a subject in itself, affording an ample field of matter to expatiate on and well calculated to occupy the attention of even the most highly cultivated mind. Here we shall speak only of literature in its general sense and its influence on society. First of all, it is the expression of the soul, the thought of the heart, the sentiments, —in a word, the index of man’s internal rectitude; and by it, whether the productions be classed under the head of poetry, history, or criticism, etc., we may judge of a nation’s morals and civilization. It cannot be otherwise, for no man can give what is not in him—can express what he has not; a man with a calm, steadfast soul will never soar aloft in the regions of imagination, and on the other hand a person whose mind is naturally of an elevated character, passionate and excitable, will never glide on the calm surface of the mighty deep wherein is contained the sounder portion of human knowledge. And so it goes on, one man for this kind of composition, another for that, but the sum-total of all comes under the head Literature, and by it we can judge very well of the condition of a people, with regard to their manners, customs, morals, etc. It tells us what they are, whence they came, what their knowledge in general is, their habits, and particularly their degree of civilization. Who reads the Latin classics and does not know almost everything about the history, laws, morals and religion of the ancient Romans ? Who reads Tacitus and cannot give
a full account of the manners and customs of the old German tribes ? And so with all the rest.
The literature of a nation or -country gives us a perfect idea of that nation or country as it is, or was. It gives us the names as well as the date of their actions, life, etc., of all those remarkable or distinguished for this or that—some for carrying on successful wars, others for performing deeds of valor on the hard contested field, others again for equity, justice and honor in administering the government with exactness and purity and in the transacting of business both at home and abroad. One excels as a critic; he points out the faults of an author if he have any, praises him if he be worthy of praise, and censures him altogether if his productions be wanting in those signs or marks that characterize the works of our best authors.	.
Hence it is obvious that in every department of literature there is a wide field for the exercise of the respective talents of each and every individual. The poet, who writes to please, finds in nature materials sufficient for displaying the genius of his wonderful soul; he delineates, describes and paints, just as an artist would a picture, the difference being in proportion to the relation existing between the two acts. The prose writer, whether he treats of facts such as are recorded in history, whether of the relations of man in general, or, leaving all reality aside, assumes a fictitious subject whereon to exercise his talents to the best advantage, leaves us in his writings that stamp or character peculiar to himself and which is only possessed by him. So that in order to contrast, to compare one nation with another as regards learning, etc., we have only to read, examine and judge the literature of each. The influence of this literature on the human heart and mind is well known and generally admitted. But to establish the truth of the assertion, let us simply have recourse to the productions of the famous revolutionist, Thomas Paine. Here we find a man whose knowledge was limited, but who, like so many other fantastical specimens of humanity, considered himself as having given the death-blow to even Christianity itself. What presumption! what folly on the part of a half-enthusiast! But what will not ambition do, the circumstances permitting? It is true that some of his writings helped to urge on the patriots engaged in shaking off English rule in the United States, and hastened the crisis that took place on the 4th of July, 1776. But the works that will ever mark him as a political and infidel writer are “The Rights of Man,” published in London in 1791-2, and “ The Age of Reason,” published in London and Paris in 1794-5. The former was so well adapted for disorganizing and stirring up the minds of an almost rebellious people, that the Government becoming alarmed caused the notorious Payne to be prosecuted according to law, for libel and insurrection. The latter was an attempt to overthrow religion. Franklin, be
274	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
coming aware of the contents of the first part, sent to him by the author before publication, returned it with a letter addressed to Paine, in these words so reasonable and prophetic : “ I advise you not to attempt unchaining the tiger, but to burn this piece before it is seen by any other person, whereby you will save yourself a great deal of mortification from the enemies it may arise you and perhaps a good deal of regret and repentance. If men are so wicked with religion, what would they be without it?” It appears that Paine afterwards regretted its publication, and to use his own words would give worlds if “ The Age of Reason ” had never been published. Speaking of the way in which he handled the Bible, he says: “Ihave now gone through the Bible as a man would go through a wood with an axe on his shoulder to fell trees. Here they lie; and the priests, if they can, may replant them. They may perhaps stick them in the ground, but they will never make them grow.” Such were the thoughts and expressions of a man who thought he had destroyed the Sacred Writings at a single effort of his so-called genius. Speaking in a human point of view, he had reason to think so; he saw the sensation that his works had produced; he saw that men believed every word of his “ Age of Reason ”—written, as he says himself, for amusement—as if they were given out by old Pythia herself. But he forgot something—he forgot that he was a man, a creature, who cannot destroy whatsoever has its foundation in God. Literature then has a wonderful effect on the mind of man, for which reason good literature may be justly considered the teacher of morals and civilization. For where can we look for information, the Church of God alone excepted,—where can we acquire that knowledge so essential to the promotion of man’s happiness here on earth, if the literary works of a country or nation do not afford it—do not afford a general knowledge of things, so that we may act well our part, know our duty, be dependent on no man—not in the sense, of course, that we can be altogether independent, but that we may be sufficiently so for establishing to ourselves a firm footing, know what we are, and the end for which we were made ?
It is also manifest that before the art of printing was discovered men on the whole were not so well informed as they are now; they generally acquired what knowledge they had by listening to the instructions of others, and from such manuscripts as they might have in their possession; a fact which goes to show how much the Press has enriched every written language and left access to those works which otherwise would never be seen or read by the majority of persons. As we generally get all our knowledge from books it necessarily follows that they are of inestimable value, and a good book is literally a fortune, whilst at the same time a bad one is a curse. Hence it is that the art of printing brought with it its advantages and also its disadvantages. How many a good soul have bad books allured from the paths of virtue and effected its eternal ruin! But there are always two sides to every question, and if disastrous consequences have followed they have been more than counterbalanced by good effects; these effects are made manifest by those whose moral training has not been neglected by those on whom that duty devolved of securing for all under their care such an education as becomes a Christian.
Can we compare, or is there any comparison between the state of society in our own day and that before the art of printing was discovered ? We see the progress that nations have made in science, art, and literature, penetrating
to the very depths of the earth and soaring aloft on the wings of knowledge even to the farthest stars in the realms of space—analyzing, generalizing, synthetizing, and experimenting, until in fact all they seem to want is, that-- Such then is the progress that nations have made within the last few centuries, and are still progressing rapidly in the way of civilization and enlightenment. We have some countries in which there is scarcely a single person that does not know how to read, write and do something at mathematics.
But science or art has by no means the same influence on men’s minds as literature, and in proportion as the literature of a nation is good or bad, the people of that nation may be considered moral or immoral, civilized or uncivilized. Where good books are circulated and bad ones repressed, where dime-novels and the trashy stuff that appears from time to time in story-papers, etc., are not allowed to enter within the family circle, but in their place are substituted books of piety, of religion, etc., there happiness exists and that home is a little paradise because the hearts of its members have not become corrupted by the reading of bad books, bad literature. Music, painting and sculpture have their refining qualities, and those who excel in them may be considered refined in a certain sense; but that refinement is not perfected—that intellectual culture which is so essential to the well-being of a people is wanting, and can only be acquired through the elevating and moralizing influence of literature.
A nation’s welfare depends, then in an especial manner on the way that its youth is trained and brought up, and training and bringing up depend almost solely on the influence of literature stamped with the genius of Christianity. It may therefore be very appropriately termed the promoter of a nation’s morals and civilization. Each one knows his duties, knows what he has to perform, what he has to shun. He clearly sees that the righteous shall be rewarded and that the wicked shall be punished, because God is just. He knows from what he has read that God has inflicted terrible punishments on the wicked ones of this world. It appears manifest to him, when considering and looking back on the history of ancient and modern times, what has been the cause of all the melancholy events, calamities, etc., with which the world is almost overwhelmed; beginning with our first parents in the garden of Eden, he can trace man’s ungratefulness to his Creator even to our own day. It is a principle that he who disobeys God’s laws should be punished accordingly, and in fact the Old Testament furnishes us with abundant examples, such as the deluge, the earth opening and swallowing down Dathan, Core and Abyron, and, above all, that awful example of divine justice, the destruction of Sodom and Gommorrah. Where are they now ? Who now walks their streets ? Who now stands and looks at the beautiful buildings, the gilded palaces of these once far-famed cities? It is all over with them now; they had their day, but that day is gone forever. It is evident that if we wish to die a good death we must lead a good life, and this duty devolves upon every people under the sun. Is it any wonder that nations once powerful, once the terror of the world, have gradually crumbled to the dust on account of their immorality? Their power, glory, honor and fame have vanished from the face of the earth, and all that is known of them is that they were, but are now no more. To give an example, let us turn our eyes on ancient Rome, and we will find this most powerful empire loosing its footing and giving way. Can
r
1


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	275
I
we wonder at this? She fell, not because she was weak, but because she was strong; but that strength was not of the right kind, for once a people give way to vice, once mor ality disappears from their midst, no matter how powerful or strong they may be, their downfall is certain, and nothing save a divine intervention can prevent it. The fall of the Roman Empire is still less strange when we consider and take into consideration the way in which the youth were educated: that moral training so essential to.a nation’s prosperity entirely neglected; their minds wholly occupied with worldly notions; their pride and ambition urged on and fostered by their own conceit; their animal nature appealed to by a beautiful literature in point of style, but void of truth, purity of expression and character, rendering it atrocious, degrading and far below man’s dignity to produce. It had therefore its due effect on the minds of those whose notice it came under, and who, like so many novel-readers of the present day, found in it all the delight imaginable, and all pleasure possible as far as it went, but it went far enough, too far, for what.it did not afford was proposed by it; and what it did not propose, of that there was no need.
. If bad literature has its effect on society, good literature most assuredly has its own peculiar effect; and that nation may be held up as a model to all others whose literary works are free from all loose and wanton passages so well adapted to degrade. Man by his nature is inclined to evil, and unless the proper remedies be taken for the bringing up of youth, for their education, etc., there is scarcely rea-.son to expect anything else than that they will fall a prey to the Evil One that seeks their soul’s destruction. Parents should be very careful in regard to looking after the moral training of their children, for it is their duty to do so, and in order to effect this they should be careful not to let into their hands any book wanting the proper marks or signs, the principal of which is truthfulness, and to provide them with such books and reading-matter as may instil into their tender souls sentiments of piety, a love of God, as well as the respect and honor which they owe to those who have given them birth and to whom they owe their existence next to God. How many there are who have been deluded and led astray by the reading of what may be called tertium quid! And whom will they blame for it in after-life, for remorse of conscience will surely come sooner or later? Most assuredly those who have allowed them to read such productions, whose authors did not know that Scribendi recte rapere est et principium et fans, which have now been the cause of their ruin. But on the other hand, what advantages are not derived from the perusal of good books, lit-erature;properly so called! what noble thoughts and reflections it engenders in the mind! what a change soon takes place in the person, interior and exterior! his mind becomes enlarged, he has extricated himself from the narrow and vague notions that overclouded his mental faculties, and he now sees himself as man; he knows God, and acknowledges that He is One, Omnipotent, Immutable and Eternal; he contemplates His immensity; he sees Him in all His works; his greatest delight is to serve Him whom he acknowledges as his God. Hence it is that the prosperity of a nation depends solely on the moral education of its subjects. This, then, should be the primary object in view, this especially should interest the government of every country that has its advancement at heart—to provide good reading, good moral training for the rising generation in order that they may know their duty to God
their neighbor and themselves. Then indeed will they be what they should be, an enlightened, glorious, free and in? dependent people, respected by all other nations of the earth. What a glorious work it would be to bring about such a change—such a change in society! Ignorance, prejudice and all such impediments to the well-being of a people would be removed. They would think of nothing nobler, grander and holier than to know the duties of their respective stations in life, and all would be calm and sunshine,—a change effected by literature, brought about by the prudence, foresight and fulfilment of duty on the part of authorities.	R.
Racine.
Among the French poets who have excelled in the dramatic art, Racine is one of its most famous. Jean Racine was born at Ferte Milon, the 21st of December, 1639. His family, which had obtained the rank of nobility as a reward for the conscientious fulfilment of a public office, had for their escutcheon a crane, and truly never were speaking arms better justified. An orphan at the age of three years, young Jean was placed under the guardianship of his grandparents. He studied first at Beauvais, then at Paris, and lastly at Port-Royal. Along with the taste for beUeslettres and serious studies, the teachers of Racine inspired their young disciple with those religious principles which never abandoned him, and which were the honor of all the illustrious writers, of all the great men, who lived during that ever renowned century. His first essay on poetry was the; Nymp7ie de la Seine, an ode which he composed on the occasion of the marriage of Louis the XIV, and which won for him the favor of the king, together with a pension of £600. Four years after, another ode, composed on the occasion of the establishment of the three academies, made him the recipient of a second royal favor.
A little anterior to this epoch, Racine had known Moliere, who gave him the plan of the Thebaide. This piece met with some favor, but Alexandre, played the following year, proved a complete success, and exhibited great progress in the versification of the author, then 25 years of age. But these verses, good though they were, as yet announced nothing of the future Racine. Engaged until then in a poor style, Racine took on a sudden a different one, unknown may be to Corneille himself. Corneille had astonished, carried away the spectator; his young rival sought to move and to excite him. It seemed to him that pity was a tragic spring, more active, more extensive, of a more penetrating effect and less transient than admiration. He studied the human heart, its passions and weaknesses, its most secret recesses. It is there that he dis. covered a kind of tragedy altogether new, the first and probably the inimitable model traceable in his Andromache, one of his tragedies, which, without being perfect, produces the most effect on the theatre, by the energetic and true expression of its characters, and by the happy alternation of fear and hope, of terror and pit;, with which the poet knows how to agitate our minds. T_ e representation of Andromache was followed by a new chef-Aauvre almost every successive year. • If the success of Andromache, equal by none except the Gid, had awakened envy, it may be also said that it had rendered the public harder to be pleased. Britannicus was received coldly, and reached with difficulty the eighth representation. It had not at first been understood what profoundness, what terror this his-

4
THE ItdfEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
toric tableau of Nero’s character and court contained. Boileau was almost the only one affected by it, and, running to embrace Racine, he cried out to him before all the people: “Valid ce quo vous aves fait de mieux!" “This is indeed your masterpiece.”
Briiannicus was followed by Berenice. It has been said, and zealous admirers of Racine have confessed, that it was not a real tragedy. But what matters the name you give it, whether tragedy or drama, provided you agree that it is a miracle of art, and that no one has ever had greater difficulties so ably mastered ? As to the style, we know of none more charming. llithridate, presented for the first time in 1675, is a work in which Racine seems to have written more particularly in rivalry of Corneille, by placing on the stage the great personages of antiquity, such as they are in history. However this may be, the dramas of Corneille present few characters more sublimely traced than the Mithridaie of Racine.
Iphygenie, which some critics consider as the chef d’oeuvre of dramatic literature, succeeded Mithridate. If you look for grandeur, you will find it in Achilles, but such as the drama requires it to be, necessary, passionate, without bombast, without declamation, you look for diplomacy, the part of Ulysses is full of it; it is shrewd, it is noble, it does not discuss, it increases terror. Clytemnestre is the model of the greatest pathos; Iphygenie that of noble and interesting simplicity, while Agamemnon is that which he ought to be. As to the style! “ tragedy of tragedies!” exclaims Voltaire; “ beauty of all times and of all countries! Woe to the barbarian who does not feel all its prodigious merit! ” There was to the great grief of Racine a goodly number of these barbarians at the time of the appearance of this chefdtauvre, to hear which however an immense throng nightly assembled.
Three years elapsed between Iphygenie and Ph^dre, 1677, but this new masterpiece was again assailed by critics, in consequence of which Racine became disgusted with the drama, and renounced it at the age of thirty-eight, that is to say in the full strength and maturity of his genius. It was not until after a silence of eight years that, at the request of Madame de Maintenon, Racine composed his Esther, for the school of Saint-Cyr. The success was marvellous.
Athalie, composed, like Esther, for the school of Saint-Cyr, had a fate altogether different. Envy, masked by a false zeal, hindered its representation: it was played at Versailles only, in a room without a stage, without costumes, by the ladies of the school of Saint-Cyr, and Racine without attempting to have it represented elsewhere caused it to be printed. But this masterpiece, than which there is nothing grander in all French literature, found no readers. What do I say! If we must believe certain memoirs of the time, some parties who styled themselves educated and refined prescribed its reading as a penance, so strange are contemporaneous judgments! We cannot in truth help being overcome by a feeling of sadness when we consider that Racine died beholding his century unwilling to recognize the worth of this immortal work. In vain did Boileau repeat to him: “ G'est votre meilleur outrage; le public y re-'oiehdraP “Itis your best work; the public will return to it.” it failed, and Racine almost sank beneath the failure. The voice of Boileau, so well listened to by posterity, was not heard during the lifetime of his friend. The success of Athdlie, composed in 1690, did not begin until 1716; but from that time it has increased and grown greater every
day. Voltaire has proclaimed it to be “ the most perfect work produced by the genius of man.”
If Racine had not the satisfaction of enjoying during his lifetime all the splendor of his glory, we must blame his contemporaries. As for himself, he sought consolation in God, and thereby allayed the bitterness of soul which the injustice of man must have naturally caused him. He . carried the indifference for his works so far as to refuse to review the editions made by the booksellers; and the author of so many masterpieces, solely occupied with the immortality of his soul, did not even think about that of his name. His end, which took place on the 22d of April, 1699, was painful, and borne with that fortitude which becomes a Christian.	P. M. J. K.
Origin of Gothic Architecture.
The dwellings of all nations in their infancy were constructed of wood,* except the Asiatic nations, where tents were used at first; the early Greek habitations were wretched huts devoid of glass or chimney, yet to such perfection did they afterwards arrive in their public edifices as to challenge the admiration of all succeeding generations in their own peculiar style. They reckoned three orders of architecture, distinguished almost solely by the peculiar form of the capital placed on top of the column, namely the Corinthian, Ionic, and Doric, to which the Romans afterwards added two others, the Tuscan and Composite, the latter the more light and graceful, the Tuscan the more solid and substantial. The angles of all these orders are square, and the mouldings and cornices straight; their columns were often fluted. They are admirably suited for legislative halls, banks and court-houses.
The Irish style is the converse of the Greek; the high and pointed gables and pointed arched windows, the tall and slender spire terminating at a point, with buttresses and flying-buttresses, pinnacles and numerous ornaments, acutely pointed windows and door-openings, columns constructed in clusters, supporting heavy pointed arches, these again supporting interlacing groins and tracing, whose symmetric beauty almost bewilders the eye, and naturally elevates the senses of the beholder, making it the more appropriate style for church edifices.
I know of nothing of which there is a greater or more general misunderstanding than of the true meaning of the word Gothic as applied to architecture. The general impression is that this style of building was introduced into middle Europe by the Goths, but that this idea is erroneous we hope to make clear in the following brief statement.
To understand fully the origin of this style of building we must take a glance at those ages which are generally known to readers as the “ Dark Ages,” during which it took its rise. The Northern barbarians began their incursions into Gaul about the close of the first century, and it required all the exertions of the Gauls themselves, aided by the Roman legions, to repel them, and throughout the whole of the history of those times the chief theme is the efforts of the Roman armies to protect her provinces against the savage hordes. In the year 222 the Roman Emperor Severus actually paid tribute to these tribes to induce them to keep the
* Pompey was the first to erect a stone theatre in Rome for the entertainment of the people, 55 years before the birth of Christ, but whether this was the first stone building in Rome I am unable to say.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	277
peace. In the year 426 the Romans were so pressed by the Huns and other hordes, from north of the Danube that they had to withdraw their troops from Britain to defend them-elves at home, which they were unable to do, for in 455 Gen-seric captured and plundered Rome. The same sad fate happened to it at the hands of Totila in 546. While Huneric, king of the Vandals, was persecuting the Christians in 484, Clovis, king of the Franks, defeated the Romans at Soissons in Gaul in 485. Clovis was king of Frankonia, and as yet a pagan, but his wife, Clotilda, was a Christian. During his wars with some of the German tribes, and when in imminent danger of losing a great battle, he promised his queen that if through her prayers to her God he gained the victory he would be baptized; the battle was gained—the king kept his promise—he was baptized in 496, and his whole army followed his example.
While the events related above were going on in central Europe, in 473 Evaric, King of the Western or Visigoths, then occupying the south of Gaul, crossed the Pyrenees into Spain, which he overran in a very short time, and in a few years later these same Goths were called upon to defend their newly acquired dominion against an invasion of the Moors from Africa, for in 522 they defeated and killed Trasumond, king of the Visigoths; and Spain was soon after about equally divided between Moors and Goths or Vandals, a continual war always existing between them, until the Moors were finally expelled.
The sixth century was a continued scene of war, famine, pestilence, conflagrations; there was a general outpouring of the Northern tribes upon the more genial countries of central Europe; each new host as it advanced seemed to feel it obligatory to exterminate every human being, to destroy every house, town and city that lay in the line of its march, in order to clear the way for its own occupation; the dead remained unburied and when the air became too foul for respiration they moved away to some other place to repeat over again the same horrors. Hence came the terms Goth and Vandal, the first synonymous with barbarian, the second with rapacity, which afterwards came into use.
Rome was destroyed several times; scarce a monument of its former architectural glory was left standing; what escaped one plunderer’s hand fell at the hand of the next successful invader, and the foundations of the present city of Rome are built upon the ruins of several former Romes, that were rebuilt and again destroyed. Similar events happened all over Northern Italy and Gaul. The civilization introduced by the Romans disappeared from the earth, and in the time of Attila, Gaul was strewed with the ruins of burned cities and the bleached skeletons of murdered humanity.
But this state of affairs could not last forever, and its change was hastened by the following causes: From the conversion of Clovis, and through the reigns of Pepin, Charles Martel, and Charlemagne, the condition of Western Europe was greatly improved. This in a great measure was due to the introduction of Christianity among the tribes of the North by zealous missionaries from Ireland, who spread themselves over that vast extent of country from the German Ocean to the mouth of the Danube. The blessed precepts of the Gospel showed them the evil of their former lives and the falsity of their pagan gods, and the Christian Northmen thenceforward not only refused to join in plundering forays on the Southern people but dissuaded their neighbors from them.
The introduction of the feudal system, which though giving to man a greater security for his family and property than was before enjoyed, with just enough of fighting to gratify his martial propensities, was nevertheless eventually the cause of numberless evils and much bloodshed until the institution of the 2Vwce of God, with its most salutary effects; it originated in France, and thence extended over all Europe, being supported by the Bishops and approved by the Popes. Experience having proved that no civil law could restrain the barons from exercising the right of private war, several Bishops ordered, under pain of excommunication, that, every week, during the four' days consecrated to the memory of our Saviour’s Passion, death, burial and resurrection,—that is, from the afternoon of Wednesday till the morning of the following Monday—all hostilities should cease, no matter what the cause might be. As this curtailed the fighting to only two and one half days in the week, men gradually came to the conclusion that it was more profitable to stay at home and attend to domestic business. The Crusades, next diverted the feudal lords from their intestine wars. These originated partly in the desire of preventing the destruction of Christianity in Europe by an inundation of the Mohammedan hordes from Asia, by carrying the war into their own country, and partly for the purpose of delivering the Holy Places from Mussulman sway, on account of the outrages suffered by the Christian pilgrims, and were partly successful. They failed in establishing a permanent Christian government in Palestine, but succeeded in arresting the threatened invasion of the Saracens and also in drawing off a multitude of warlike and turbulent spirits from every countryinEurope, —men who would consider it a disgrace to give up feats of arms and settle down to any civil pursuit, and thought it beneath them to learn to read and write. The first Crusade was preached by Peter the Hermit, a French priest, in 1095, and not until after eight different expeditions of a like nature did they terminate with the fall of Acre, on the 18th of May, 1291.
Britain suffered much less severely from the irruptions of the Northmen than the countries on the continent. After the departure of the Romans, in the year 426, the Picts and Scots committed great ravages in the northern part of England, but the native Britons, having been so long under subjection, were unable to defend themselves, and called in a body of Saxons, a fierce nation in central Germany. The latter having driven back the Picts, then turned their arms on the Britons, who after years of warfare were forced to submit, and the Saxon conquerors divided the country into seven kingdoms, called the Saxon Heptarchy. Most of the Saxons were converted to Christianity, and many monastaries and convents were founded among them by missionaries from Ireland. In the reign of Ethelbert. King of Kent, in the year 597, St. Augustine landed in Kent with forty companions; he was well received and succeeded in extending Christianity over the whole island.
About the middle of the ninth century predatory parties of Northmen, inhabiting the eastern shores of the German ocean,-began making yearly visits, plundering, burning and destroying everything within their reach, especially convents and monasteries, and then flying to their boats they escaped with their captives and plunder. In 867 they had conquered Northumberland. In 870 they had ravaged all Britain. They were called Danes in England and Northmen or Normen in Gaul, where they established, a little before this time, the kingdom of Normandy.
278
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Alfred the Great opposed them bravely till his death in 901, but Canute their king eventually became king of England. He proved a just and pious monarch, and becoming a Christian, all his countrymen imitated his example. He died in 1035. Harold and Hardicanute, sons of Canute, succeeded him, and afterwards Edward the Confessor, a truly good king, who died in 1066 and was canonized by Pope Alexander HI in 1166. As Edward left no children, several claimants to the throne appeared. Harold, of Saxon blood obtained possession, but William of Normandy, invading England defeated Harold at the battle of Hastings in which the latter was killed. William was then crowned king of England.
This much has been written with the view of laying before the reader the state of Europe in the middle, or as they are sometimes called the “Dark Ages,” in order to show more clearly the state of Europe when the Irish missionaries spread themselves throughout Germany, Gaul, England, and other countries, for the spread of Gospel truth. The missionaries being obliged to superintend the building of churches for their converts, very naturally adopted the style of architecture with which they had been familiar in their own country, and which was no other than the beautiful pointed style that we now have under the name of Gothic. Being new, and so much at variance with the styles in vogue in Rome and elsewhere, which had become a standard of taste, this pointed style was termed “ Gothic ” as a mark of contempt synonymous with barbaric, which name it retains to the present day. As to Ireland, whence this kind of architecture came, it is not known whether the Thuta de Danaans or the Firbholgs, were the first to inhabit this beautiful country. It was not till the settlement of the Phoenicians, a colony sent out from Tyre, itself a colony from Sidon during the reign of King Solomon, that anything authentic is known. Tyre was the chief seat of commerce, arts and science at that period, 1000 years B. C. If is natural to suppose that these adventurers brought with them men skilled in every art known to them at home, and to these is attributed the building of those wonderful round towers, which stand as firm to-day as when first built. In some of these the round and pointed arched windows are plainly to be seen.
Christianity was known in Ireland perhaps as soon as it was in Gaul, for it was Nial in one of his forays on the Gallic coast that captured the youth Phaudrig, or Patrick, whose great zeal was so successful, in a short while converting the whole island. With the introduction of Christianity, temples of worship were erected, and in a short while the whole country was covered with stone churches. In whatever wars or dissensions the native chiefs might be engaged, they always respected the persons of the priests and ecclesiastical property. As learning of every kind was encouraged, monasteries and convents, those great seats of learning, arose and were richly endowed. While the rest of Europe was torn and devastated, as I have before stated, Ireland enjoyed a peace unknown to the rest of the world. Crowds flocked to her schools and colleges from other countries, and monks and missionaries were sent to various countries to preach the Gospel. This state of things continued for many centuries, until the invasion in 794 by the Danes, whose sole object was plunder. They spared neither age nor sex; their attacks were sudden and uncertain, and could not be guarded against, while their departure was equally sudden. Churches and religious houses were the principal objects of attack, and like the Danes
in Britain blood, and slaughter was what they most delighted in. Their principal strongholds were Limerick, Dublin and Wexford, but there were many parts of the island they never penetrated. At length a pitched battle was agreed upon, to take place on the plains of Clontarf, just north of Dublin. The battle was fought on Good Friday, April 23, 1014. The Danes were cut to pieces, their power was destroyed, those who survived were disarmed, and afterwards became absorbed among the other inhabitants. Thus while	’
Swyne was trampling the Saxons under foot in England, the Irish had exterminated the Danes from their land.
When the Saracens overran Asia Minor, they destroyed every vestige of Christian architecture then. The Crusaders saw in Constantinople the square flat style of the Greeks carried to highest perfection, after which Europe had been copying for ages, and upon which Vetruvius, the Roman, was the first to write upon as a science. As Greece had	i
but little rain, its temples required very little carpentry,	j
no chimneys nor windows. They required only an awning	j
to protect them from the sun, as was also the case in Rome.	.
In Ireland, there was much rain, and it was necessary to elevate their roofs to cast it off, and hence the high roof and pointed gable were things of necessity. From this na-	i
turally followed the pointed or round-arched window, many	I
ruins of which, constructed in the days of St. Patrick, still	>
exist. Perhaps the most remarkable of these ruins are still	f
to be seen at Glendalough, or the Seven Churches, in the	i
County Wicklow. Churches similar to these were numerous throughout the country until they were destroyed by	fl
the Danes. The noble ruins on the Rock of Cashel, and	t
various others, attest the perfection of the Irish style of	1
architecture at this remote period. The wonderful stone	।
arched roof of king Cormac’s chapel, that nestles in under the mighty walls of the grand Cathedral, was built in the year 880 and is sufficient to prove the perfection to which the science of architecture had arrived in Ireland when the Continent of Europe was suffering all the horrors of barbarism caused by the devastations of the Goths.
But it was after the expulsion of the Danes that the Irish commenced the erection of those glorious edifices to the honor and glory of God that are to day the wonder of all who see them. Their name is legion. They nearly all date from the beginning of the twelfth century. Among these are Holy Cross, St. Patrick’s, Jerpoint, Sligo, Clare, Moyne, and Adare abbeys, the like of whose ruins are not to be found in any other country in Christendom, and the	K
beauties of whose mullioned windows are the wonder of	$
the most famous architects of our own day. These glorious	1
piles were not destroyed by Frank, or Hun, or Vandal, but	'
by the Goths of Henry VIII, of Elizabeth, of Cromwell,	I
and of William the HI, of England.	|
It was about the time of the erection of those venerable	|
piles, that, according to many authors, a number of monks,	I
assisted by laymen, formed those associations known as	»
Free Masons. Actuated by a high religious principle, they	I
devoted themselves to the building of churches, free of pay,	I
travelling from one place to another for that purpose and	I
asking in return only their subsistence. Their most prominent architect was Gubbaunseer, whose name is revered in Ireland even to this day.
With few exceptions the patron Saints of Northern Europe were missionaries from Ireland. St. Gallus or Gall gives his name to a province and church in Switzerland to this time. He was a monk from St. Columkill’s great Monastery of Iona. It was by the advice of an Irish monk,

THE^NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC].
279
a former teacher of Alfred the Great, King of England, who in his youth was educated at Armagh, that the king founded the University of Oxford. When the Christian Franks moved south under Clovis, the Irish monks moved with them, and these were the architects of the splendid piles of pointed Irish architecture that challenge the admiration of the world; and it is really the Irish style of architecture which in our day is known as the Gothic.
It is the Irish style alone that should be used in the erection of church edifices; the Greek style may be better suited for public buildings, such as state-houses, court houses, etc., a fact which is now recognized, while the Irish style is being generally used at this time in America, Ireland and England for church edifices, thanks to the taste and genius of that great architect, the late Mr. Pugin, of London, who, we are glad to see, is obtaining many followers in this country, among them Mr. Keeley of New York and Mr. Egan of Chicago.	J. F.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Dr. Bulow has entirely recovered his health, and is as fresh and as full of professional ardor as ever.
—Mr. Ruskin’s forthcoming book on Venice, where he is now residing, will be a kind of guide to the master-pieces of art in that city.
—Miss Minnie Hauck, the young American prima donna, has been singing in Pesth and Berlin, and has met with extraordinary success in both cities.
—The Chaucer Society of London, established in 1868, has been compelled to reprint its six-text edition of Chaucer, the demand having exhausted the supply.
—The art of being happy has formed the subject of many an essay, but it takes a Frenchman, Alphonse Karr, to wit, to produce a novel with the novel title, “ L’Art d’Etre Mal-heureux.”
—Prof. Dr. A. Reissman, of Berlin, well known as a musical historian, is now the editor of the “Musical Luxi-con,” which was begun under the supervision of H. Mendel, recently deceased.
—Herr Wagner’s “Rienzi,” to borrow the report of the Italian critics, has met with successo colossale at Bologna. The finale of the second act was encored—spettacolo stu-pendo—it is added in the notices.
—Carl Rosa is considered the wealthiest operatic manager living. Parepa left him a large fortune, and his own efforts have been a remarkable financial success. Report says that he is about to marry again.
—For the erection of a monument to Linnaeus 36,000 crowns have been received. The monument will be erected in Stockholm, and will be unveiled on Jan. 10, 1878, the hundredth anniversary of the death of the naturalist.
—A new composition by Anton Rubinstein, a sextet for string instruments in D major opus 97, was performed on the 7th of November for the first time in the quartet soiree of the Russian Musical Association in St. Petersburg.
—Oliver Wendell Holmes’ “Autocrat of the Breakfast Table ” is the first of a series of “ Philosophen der Neuen Welt” which Mr. Auerbach is publishing in Stuttgart. It appears under the German title of “The Table-Despot" (“Der Tisch-Despot").
—The first choice of a seat at Mr. Edwin Booth’s first performance iu San Francisco was sold, it is recorded, for $100. His first appearance on the stage was made before an audience of small girls and boys in Baltimore, who were admitted to the juvenile theatre for an enormous fee of two cents.
—Herr Von Flo tow, after the successful reception of his new three-act opera “Il Fior d’Harlem,’’ the libretto by M. Saint-Georges, was invited to a banquet at Turin, at which he proposed a toast in these words: “ I drink to Italy,
which will always remain the land of melody, and will, perhaps, be its refuge.”
—A very elaborate and important work on the “ Geometry and Optics of Ancient Architecture,” by Mr. John Pennethorne, will appear in London by the close of the year. It will be imperial folio in size, and will contain exemplifying illustrations from Thebes, Athens, and Rome, with 56 plates, many of them colored.
—“Rip Van Winkle” has been translated into French by a Maj. L. Du Bos, of Charleston, and will soon be published by Claxton, Remsen & Haffelfinger, of Philadelphia. The same house has also nearly ready “ K. K K. Sketches, Humorous and Didactic,’’ in which J. M. Beard discusses the leading events of the Ku-Klux-Klan movement in the South, with the social and political difficulties growing out of it.
—Royal authors are no longer uncommon personages. In our own days there are Victoria, Napoleon, the Shah, Dom Pedro, the Bourbon Count of Parisand now appears Louis I., king of Portugal, who says that he is at least capable of good scholarly work by seriously taking up the task of translating “ Hamlet ” into his own language. He is a man of good mind, and is said to know English as well as he does Portuguese.
—Herr George Ebers, the discoverer of the well-known papyrus that goes by his name and made a great sensation two or three years ago, has just written and published an Egyptian romance entitled “ Uarda.” It deals, “ in modem spirit,’’ with life in Egypt fourteen centuries before Christ, and is spoken of in terms of praise by well-informed German critics. Part of its modern motive is the showing forth of the conflict between the hierarchy and the state.
—The Paris correspondent of The flew York World writes: “Among the more costly books for the holiday season that are now announced may be cited the complete works of Albrecht Durer, reproduced by the best engravers of France, and costing from $50 to $120, according to the edition and the binding. Still more costly and equally attractive is the just completed “ History of the Painters,” by M. Charles Blanc, of the Institute. This important and extensive work, which has been in course of prepare-tion and of publication for some time past, is now terminated. It comprises 14 volumes, enriched with 3,000 engravings of the chefs d’ceuwes of the masters therein included, giving a complete history of painting in every country from the period of the Renaissance down to the present time. The Italian schools fill five volumes, the French three, the Dutch two, and the Flemish, English, Spanish, and German one volume each. Unbound, this important work costs $126: in fine half binding, $154.
—Mr. Longfellow pays a beautiful tribute to his fellowpoet, James Russell Lowell, in the January Atlantic Monthly. The elder, and, it may be, the greater poet, in passing Elmwood (Lowell’s residence at Cambridge) hears the cry of the herons, “ winging their way o’er the poet’s house in the Elmwood thickets,” and addresses the remote and melancholy birds:
Call to him, herons, as slowly you pass
To your roosts in the haunts of the exiled thrushes;
Sing him the song of the green morass, And the tides that water the reeds and rushes.
Sing him the mystical song of the hern, And the secret that baffles our utmost seeking;
For only a sound of lament we discern.
And cannot interpret the words you are speaking.
*♦♦*****♦
Sing to him, say to him, here at his gate,
Where the boughs of the stately elms are meeting;
Some one hath lingered to meditate, And send him unseen this friendly greeting.
That many another hath done the same. Though not by a sound was the silence broken;
The surest pledge of a deathless name
Is the silent homage of thoughts unspoken.
The last eight lines, which deserve a second reading, are nobly beautiful. The lives of great men here remind us, in their mutual respect and affection, that there are planes of life and thought so exalted that petty jealousies are unknown.—Boston Pilot.
280	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUw ^4trMf+
Notre Dame, January 6, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.	■
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our New Advertisers,
We call particular attention to the advertisement of Mr. John D. McCormick, of ’73, who is now practicing law in Lancaster, Ohio. Probably no city in the United States could, about thirty years ago, boast of such a number of brilliant members of the bar as could Lancaster, Ohio. There were Tom Ewing, Henry Stanberry, Hocking Hunter, and others, whose fame is coextensive with the noble State which they honored by their legal abilities. We do not wish to be considered guilty of any undue praise, but we can safely say that John D. McCormick will do much towards keeping up the reputation of Lancaster as the city of great lawyers. We commend him to parties having legal business in central Ohio, knowing, as we do, that he will give prompt and serious attention to all business entrusted to his care.
American Literature.
Who has not heard of the insulting taunt of the English critics given forth in their reviews, “ Who reads an American book?” In the time now happily gone by, it was thought that we could produce nothing worthy even of criticism, and the publication of an American work was hailed with keen irony and bitter sarcasm by our cousins over the water. If we were to judge by their writing, our nation could produce nothing worthy to be read by men of literary culture.	,
We were held up as a nation intent on mercenery gain and success, and having sketched our character as such a nation they boldly said that it was an impossibility for us to bring forth anything like a national character. We cared wholly, as they said, for our political and material advancement, and naught in a literary way should be expected from us. When any work was written in disparagement of our country (and how often have they not been written!), when
our political and social defects had been shown up to the gaze of the world, then was our paucity of literary characters commented on, and our literature was sneered at, and co'n-demned as the miserable imitation of third or fourth-। rate English writers. When we would attempt to defend j ourselves from such unjust attacks—when we would point with honest pride to our great advancement in everything which might concern material or social improvement, when we would show Washington, Jefferson, Adams, and Franklin as men of undoubted talent whom our country could boast of as her sons, and when we would show forth the military and naval achievements of our gallant countrymen,—then we would be met with the unfailing taunt with regard to the poverty of our literature.
In this taunt there was a slight grain of truth mixed with a large amount of falsehood. True, we had no literary geniuses, but the fact was overlooked that we were a young nation, just beginning to form in character, tastes, habits, and dispositions; and the critics never considered that from a nation passing through such a state, nothing in the way of literary talent could be or should be looked for. We in this are but like all other nations. Consider the nationalities of Greece and Rome, the most famous in ancient, and of England and France, the most renowned of the nations in modern times. ’Twas fully three hundred years from its rise as a distinct people that a Homer rose, and more than seven hundred before the noontide splendor of the age of Pericles dawned on Greece, after she had beaten back the might of the Persian invader at Marathon and Platsea, and showed her great skill in all martial affairs. It was after the names of Scipio and Caesar had carried terror to the ends of the world that the age of Augustus, over seven hundred years after the birth of Rome, was graced by the names of a Virgil, a Horace, a Livy, a Sallust, and a Cicero. ’Twas not till the reign of Louis XIV that the great names of French literature appeared, and that reign was in the eleventh century of the existence of the French nation; and lastly, in England, five hundred years had come and gone before the name of Shakespeare appears, and still later must we go to find those of Milton, and the brilliant galaxy of the reign of Queen Anne. A nation must first acquire material for history or poesy, and when these are procured you can then, and not till then, expect the birth of the renowned historian or poet.
These facts did our worthy cousins overlook when they made their harsh and unjust comments on our literature. Our nation was but young, and yet the first feeble sparks that glimmered from the lamp of our Union were taken as the full glow of its brightness. But one hundred years have passed away since first it was proclaimed that “ those United Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States,” and yet such stars of brilliant genius have risen in our literary firmament that we can well dispute the palm of literary excellence with the best writers of the European Continent. In the short space of one hundred years we have produced names worthy to stand by the greatest of the Old World, and not to suffer by the comparison.
In Oratory, the only branch of literature in which we had attained a standing in the days of the Revolution, we can point to the names of Everett, Clay, Calhoun, and Webster. Clay—brave, bold and chivalrous, who could rouse the passions and feelings of all his hearers, and whose productions are noted for magnificence of imagination, brilliancy of fancy and poetic thought; Calhoun, the acute, subtle, and keen debater, whose words, have been truly said to go
j
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
281
to their object as straight as a ball shot from a rifled barrel ; Everett, the erudite and versatile, truly called “a poet, scholar, and statesman,” all in one; and, Webster, distinguished for noble qualities of mind and heart, whose orations were “ majestic compositions, connecting the thought of the philosopher with the superb generalization of the best historian, and enriched with the flowers of fancy and poesy.” In History, Bancroft, Prescott, Irving and Motley have all brought to their renowned themes, “ a wealth of information, a discrimination in selection of material, a comprehensiveness and clearness of view, a fervor of treat, ment, and felicity of style which have rendered their works permanently valuable.” By their learning, philosophical treatment, and literary finish, their works have won for our Literature a lasting renown.
Fiction has but a slight foothold in a new country, owing to the want of association of a mythical, legendary, or even historical character attaching itself to the land and its worthies, and besides this want in our country it also had to contend with the gravely austere, and intensely practical Puritans, who were the leading characters in our early history. The first American novel of note was the “ Spy” of James Fenimore Cooper, who undoubtedly stands at the head of our writers of Fiction. He has given in his pictures of the wilds of America and their simple, untutored inhabitants, tales which have gained a fame which shall die but with the English language. Not even the marvellous tales of the Crusaders, arrayed in all the gorgeous coloring of the times of chivalry, make a deeper impression on the reader than the touching and simple tales of the “Last of the Mohicans,” the “Pioneer,” and the “Prairie.” Well has he deserved the title of the Walter Scott of America, for he has been quite as successful as the “Wizard of the North” in immortalizing the hills and forests of his native land, and his “Leather Stocking” tales are not unworthy of a comparison with the “Waverly” novels. Cooper has taken his place among the great novelists of the age; his works have been translated into almost every European and even into some of the Asiatic languages and have by everyone been admired and praised. Another name will I bring forward in this department, that of Nathaniel Hawthorne, whose works have been slow in eliciting the favcr of the public, but have still become more and more popular every day. He treats more than any other novelist of simple home scenes and lowly incidents, and his writings are rich in passages of genuine pathos and humor.
Among our Essayists, the most renowned are Irving and Emerson. Washington Irving is known as an essayist, a humorist, and a traveller; but it is in the first-named character that he is renowned, and the letters of Jonathan Old-style, Gent., have seldom been surpassed, and by their sentiment and humor of thought, joined to their clearness, polish, and harmonious diction of style, have deservedly won for their author the title of the “American Goldsmith.” Among his humorous attempts the “ Knickerbocker History of New York,” and his “ Rip Van Winkle” have never been surpassed for genuine humor, pathos, and sentiment: his “Granada” “Alhambra,” and “Conquest of Spain” bring back in fancy and cause to rise up before us “ a panorama of the life and pomp, the squalor, the festivity, the crimes, the anguish, and the possible vicissitudes of human experience that have, through the long past, swept in successive waves through the marble halls and gilded courts of Cordova and ‘Granada: and his “ Columbus,” and “Washington,” “ the de
light of readers and the despair of critics,” are truly as nearly perfect as any work can be. Ralph Waldo Emerson, is truly our philosophical essayist. Irving, it has been well said,* views the exterior of this world, and all his writings show the artist; Emerson takes his stand within, and views all with the philosopher’s eye. “His peculiar phraseology and his aphoristic style of thought and expression impart to bis writings an abruptness and profundity more peculiar than pleasing or edifying to the reader.” In all his writings we find deep thought, observation, and philosophical taste, joined with beauty and gracefulness of writing.
Among our poets, Holmes, Saxe, and Lowell represent the humorists, and their productions are also enriched with a mostgenuine pathos and sentiment. Holmes, the “ Pope of America ”—whose lyrics ring and sparkle like cataracts of silver; and whose serious pieces—as successful in their way as those mirthful follies of his muse for which he is best honored—arrest the attention by touches of the most genuine pathos and tenderness”: Saxe—satirical, humorous, sentimental and pathetic, by many thought our greatest humorist : and Lowell—with racy, hilarious humor, deep and rich, the most versatile of our poets, with his playful, pathetic and meditative verse, charming by “ the copiousness of his illustrations, the richness of his imagery, the easy flow of his sentences, the keenness of his wit, and the force and clearness of his reasoning.” Poe, “ the intensest and the most idiosyncratic ’’ of our poets, was truly a being of caprice and impulse, devoid of principle and sensibility; but his poems abound with passages of vigor and exquisite beauty, which win admiration even from those who clearly recognize underneath them the working of an erratic mind and a diseased heart. Whittier, the American lyrist, can be comprehended and accepted by those “ who have little of poetic culture or of fancy and imagination.” He is truly a poet, a lover of all humanity, and his burning lines address themselves more to the sound heart and the common sense of the many than to the cultured intellect and polished judgment of the few. Bryant, the American poet, loves to paint in words the woods, the fields, and the streams of his native land; “to describe in lifelike lines and colors the multiform features of Nature, and to interpret their speech and the lessons of beauty,s liblimity, and moral import ” which lie hid beneath them,—Longfellow, truly the poet of mankind, who addresses and considers all men as brothers helping in the one great work.—Longfellow is undoubtedly our greatest poet, and one who is not shamed by being ranked with the best of the Old World. His works are not prized for their artistic finish, or originality or boldness of conception, but for the “exuberance and beauty of his language, the harmonious flow of his verse, and the striking appositeness of his imagery.” His verses are such as will last forever, not renowned as works of art, but appealing to the hearts of all mankind.
Thus have we taken a cursory glance at our great literary names, and the list might easily be increased fourfold. When we consider them, and the youthfulness of our nation, we may well be proud, and, pointing to them, ask of any nation to show us such great names blazoned on the pages of the first century of its existence. Truly may we claim to be as progressive in literature as we are acknowledged to be in material affairs, and we can answer back the taunt of our cousins, given us one hundred years ago, by but adding two little words, and asking “ Who does not read an American book ? ”
282	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Habit of Procrastination.
“ Never put off till to-morrow what you can do to-day.” If we were to keep this maxim constantly before us, we should find at the end of our lives that we never lost a moment of that something which God has given us that we might make ourselves useful in doing good to our fellowmen and laying up a reward for ourselves in the existence that is to come.
There is not a station in life, be it high or low, in which there are not important duties to be performed, and a time allotted for their performance, and it is during this time and no other they should be undertaken. We should - never postpone the accomplishing of a task, saying: “ Well, I shall do this to-morrow, or next day, or next week.” Why is it, for instance, that we sometimes miss our duties in class, or fail to bring in our composition on the days appointed ? Is it because we have no time ? This is, no doubt, sometimes the case; but it is, generally, a lame excuse ; the fact is, we postpone the duty until the last moment, when, as is always the case with those who procrastinate, we find that there are several duties now on our hands, and, as a necessary consequence, some must be neglected; but we are not at all dismayed or ashamed; we go to class and give the usual, frequently untruthful, “ No time, Professor.” I was about to say that this excuse extends to more important things than our studies, but I think all will agree with me in saying that this would not be strictly true; for now is the time in which we should make our greatest efforts to form good resolutions and good habits; but assuredly a habit of procrastination is not a good one, for time lost can never be recovered.
Now is the time we should lay the foundation of our future lives. Is it to be expected if we are now negligent and dilatory, that we will, in time to come, be watchful and industrious? It may possibly be, but it would be the exception rather than the rule. “ There is no moment like the present; not only so, but, moreover, there is no moment at all, that is no instant force and energy, but in the present. The man who will not execute his resolutions when they are fresh upon him can have no hope from them afterwards: they will be dissipated, lost, and perish in the hurry and skurry of the world, or sunk in the slough of indolence." So says Maria Edge worth. And Tillotson: “ Is he not imprudent who, seeing the tide making haste towards him apace, will sleep till the sea overwhelms him ?”
An indolent man is always in trouble; he postpones his work until such time as he must perform it, when the task is really more fatiguing and irksome than if he had set about it in time. To say that a man has a habit of procrastination would be about as poor a recommendation as we could give him. No man who has work to be done will entrust it to a person whom he knows to be an idler, not only because he is afraid lest it should not be completed in due season, but also because he is fully aware that, if finished, it shall be in a most slovenly and distasteful manner.
No man who has this habit ever succeeds in business, or, if he does, his success is due certainly not to his own industry but to the overseeing of his business by some friend or relative; for what man engaged in active business life can expect his employees to be attentive whilst he is indifferent, watchful and saving, when he is negligent and prodigal. We see the effects of this habit painfully shown.
forth on all sides. We have, for instance, the story of the tortoise and the hare which ran a race for a certain prize: the hare, starting out swiftly, soon left the clumsy old tortoise far in the rear, and thinking that since it had so far distanced its competitor it might rest, accordingly laid down for a nap; but the tortoise kept steadily on, finally reached the winning-post, and, of course, won the prize. We have also the example of Belshazzar, King of Babylon, whom in his supposed security, we may imagine	(
to have said, “ I will feast to-night and prepare for a defense against Cyrus to-morrow.” But when to-morrow came it it was already too late. Now the former of these cases might be likened to two students, the one very bright, the other but moderately so; the one knows his talents, his lessons do not concern him, he leaves them till the last moment, then he studies them hurriedly, and, from the fact, not thoroughly. Now the other who performs his task at the proper time and gives it due attention will be the better rewarded; the former may make himself conspicuous by a ready and brilliant answer, but the more studious will bear away the prize, and will be, even if not the readier, the better informed. So with any case we may cite, the industrious man, the man who has a time and place for everything, and who keeps everything in its time and place, will succeed. He who never puts off till some future time what he can do now, is never behindhand, and is always ready to profit'by new opportunities which the wheel of fortune may chance to throw in his path.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received a copy of Bishop Gibbon’s “Faith » of Our Fathers,” which we will notice in our next.
—The January number of Church's Musical Visitor contains an excellent portrait of Richard Wagner.. The reading matter is fully up to the high standard aimed at by the conductors of the Visitor, and the music is good.
—The Chicago Specimen is the title of a handsomely printed quarto of 16 pages published quarterly by Marder, Luse & Co., the Chicago type-founders; The- number for October contains several articles of interest to printers and publishers.
The Illustrated Catholic Family Almanac for 1877.
New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Warren St. Price, 25 cents.
The number of this ably edited and handsomely gotten-up Annual now before us is, we believe, fully up to the standard of its predecessors, which is saying a great deal for it, as all who have seen the issues for previous years will readily admit. To those who have not as yet seen it we would say that the Catholic Family Almanac is one of the most recherche little annuals we know of in the English language; the Germans are far ahead of us in this line, as far as variety is concerned; they have many illustrated Almanacs, both serious and comic, and they seem to be well appreciated and well supported, a matter in which our English readers might very well follow their example.
Besides the usual almanac tables and matter, the Catholic Family Almanac for this year has a list of Roman Pontiffs from St. Peter to Pius IX, with date of accession, date of death and duration of Pontificate, as kept in the Basilica of St. Paul at Rome; a list of Centenarians; a table giving difference of time between Washington and other principal cities; distance from New York by water to principal cities of the world; a list of the Kings of Ireland from the Firbholgian Conquest to Roderick O’Connor, etc. The illustrations of this number are good; that of the lamented Dr. Brownson alone, with the accompanying sketch is well worth the price of the Almanac, not to speak of the other excellent illustrations and sketches—that of Pope Pius VII, Archbishop Connolly, Bishop Verot, Dr.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
283
Moriarty, etc., etc. The compiler of the Almanac has shown that he fully understands his business. He has given us an excellent little volume. It is the best in the English language.	■
iiWMggiii
Personal.
—	George Gardner, of ’61, lives at Hillsdale, Mich.
—	C. H. Ilgenfritz, of ’71, is doing well at Clarksville, Ill.
—	J. C. Lavelle, of’69, is practicing medicine in Southern Hlinois.
—	E. J. Nugent, (Commercial) of ’72, resides at Louisville, Ky.
—	Duke Weldon, (Commercial) of ’72, is living at Cov ington,Ind.
—David Fitzgerald, (Commercial) of ’68, is living at Kildare, Wis.
—	J. Langenderfer, (Commercial) of ’72, is living in San Francisco, Cal.
—	J. B. Comer, (Commercial) of ’73, is doing a wholesale business at St. Paul, Minn.
—	B. J. Baca, (Commercial,) of’74, is in business at San Patricio,- Lincoln county, New Mexico.
—	E. C. McShane, (Commercial) of’67, is living at Omaha, Nebraska. He served two terms as county treasurer of Douglas County.
—	David J. Wile, of ’72, has formed a partnership with Judge A. L. Osborne and W. H. Calkins, member of Congress from this district. The firm do business in Laporte, Indiana.
—Please give us a few personal items. It is very difficult for us to bunt them up, but it would not be difficult for any of our readers to send us two or three at least. Please do so.	.
Local Items.
—	To-day is the Feast of the Epiphany.
—	The new altar will be here in a few days.
—	Classes began as usual on Tuesday, the 2d. '
—	There was competition in all the classes on Thursday last.
—	There has been snow falling nearly every day the past two weeks.
—	The Band and Orchestra have begun their regular rehearsals.
—The bath-rooms at the steam-house continue to be well patronized.
—	The St. Cecilians are now in good running order after the holidays.
—	Rev. Father Zahm gave an entertainment to a select few on Tuesday, the 2d.	-
—	The Infirmary had few inmates up to the 2d. They have increased since then.
—	Some pretty good songs were sung while returning from Niles by the Juniors.
—	A. number of new specimens have been received by the Curator of the Museum.
—Never in the history of Notre Dame have Vespers been so well sung as at present.
—It would not be amiss were the walls of the Juniors’ refectory retouched by the artist’s brush.
—Notre Dame was well represented at the Matteson House, Chicago; during Christmas week.
—We call attention to the advertisment of John D. McCormick of ’73, which appears in to-day’s issue.
—Rev. Father Shea, we are told, is to go to Watertown to assist the Rev. pastor of St. Bernard’s church.
—For Vespers to-morrow see page 77 of the Vesperal. Every one should mark the pages before going to church.
—We have not been told the name of the play to be given
by the Thespians- on the 22d of February, but we know that it will be a good one.
—The boys who went to Niles on Saturday last are loud in their praise of mine host McKay, of the Bond House. He is an A No. 1 landlord.
—If each of our readers were to send us a personal or two every week, we would be saved a great deal of trouble and our personal column would be large.
—The ice which is being stored away this winter is of a superior quality. It is clear as crystal, and will, no doubt, do much towards quenching thirst next summer. •
—Messrs. Juergens and Anderson, of Chicago, do excellent work in the way of engraving. Every one having work in this line to be done should give them a call.
—The lecture by Prof. Stace in Phelan Hall, on the 4th, was an excellent one. We are unable to give an extended report of it by reason of our going to press earlier in the week.
—Mr. J. Lyons, so the reporter of the associated press says, escaped at the Ashtabula disaster with a black eye. There was great anxiety here about him until this news was learned.
—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library has added quite a number of volumes to his ever-increasing catalogue. All donations to this library will be promptly acknowledged in the Scholastic.
—The Minims received a visit from “ Santa Claus” on Christmas night. They did their best to keep awake to get a peep at him, but all were obliged next morning to acknowledge the attempt a total failure.
—It is very queer how some people persist in leaving doors open when they have passed out of rooms. Please remember that all doors should be closed when the thermometer is down in the neighborhood of zero.
—Rev. Father Czezewski sang his first High Mass in South Bend on New Year’s Day. He also preachedin Polish to the large congregation. Rev. Father Shea sang his first High Mass on the'31st of December.
—There has been excellent skating this past week. Were there less suow it would be much better for the skaters; but as it is, the work of scraping.the ice is good for the health and makes the skate more enjoyable.
—There has been a change of time made on the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago R. R., which will be noted in the regular advertisement next week. The slip was received too late this week to correct for this issue.
—On New Year’s Day, Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Louage, assisted by Rev. C. Kelly as deacon and Rev. J. O’Keefe as subdeacon. The singing was pure Gregorian. Rev. President Colovin preached the sermon, which was a fine one.
—The Scholastic Almanac for the year of our Lord 1877. Notre Dame, Ind.—This English Almanac contains . excellent reading-matter in prose and poetry, and is counted among the best works of its kind in the United States.— Katlwlische Volks-Zeitung, Baltimore.
—The Scholastic Almanac for the year of our Lord 1877 is out. It was prepared by Professor J. A. Lyons, and is from the Scholastic printing office of Notre Dame, Ind. It contains a good deal of information of interest and value to a devout Catholic. It is for sale by the Western News Company.—Chicago Evening Journal.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1877, published at the Scholastic Office, Notre Dame Indiana, has been received. Its contents vary from those generally found in Almanacs, and bespeak great care in their selection. We never tire reading and re-reading it. It is a book that recommends itself in a special manner to every friend of Notre Dame. —Catholic Columbian.
—Rev. Father Shea sang his first Mass at St. Mary’s, assisted by deacon and subdeacon. As the choir there have not yet joined in the reform of church music, one of Haydn’s Masses was sung with great effect. Rev. Messrs. Kelly and Walsh were deacon and subdeacon. There was no sermon in the morning, but Rev. Father Shortis preached an excellent sermon in the afternoon.
—The favor with which the first number of the Scho

284
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lastic Almanac was received last yean has encouraged Mr. J. A. Lyons to compile one for 1877 that in all respects is an improvement upon its predecessor.. Besides the usual religious intelligence, it contains the cream of the articles that appeared during the past twelve months in that well conducted weekly, The Notre Dame Scholastic, and is sold for 25 cents.—Catholic Mirror.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1877, published at Notre Dame University, Indiana, compiled by J. A. Lyons, and printed at the Scholastic Printing-Office, has been received, and proves to be a considerable improvement on the issue for 1876. It contains much interesting matter in prose and poetry, as well as full calendars and other matter especially valuable to Catholics. Typographically, it is one of the most creditable publications of the year. —Chicago Tribune.
—Professor J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame, has just issued the “Scholastic Almanac for 1877,” which is in many respects an improvement upon its predecessor, and that is according it high praise. Both in a literary and typographical sense it is creditable to the compiler and to the publishers. The volume contains a variety of entertaining selections and much useful information, and will be found an exceedingly handy book of reference. We cordially commend it to the public.—Chicago Inter- Ocean.
—On New Year’s Day the Minims had a grand sleighride to Mishawaka. During their stay they took occasion to visit St. Joseph’s Church, of which Rev. Fr. Oechtering is pastor. The outside appearance of the church is plain and unpretending, but on entering they were surprised to find it handsomely frescoed and possessing an altar and pulpit rich in carving and gilding. Both are masterpieces in the line of church furniture. The Minims were evidently well pleased and felt they were repaid for their visit. The representation of the Crib of Bethlehem excited their admiration also; it received a strict scrutiny from them before leaving.
—We have received a copy of the Scholastic Almanac for 1877, compiled by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, Ind. The reading-matter, of which there is a large quantity and a great variety, is taken from the Scholastic, the able weekly college paper issued from the University above mentioned. The first issue of the Scholastic Almanac was made in 1876, and so wide was the circulation, and so well was the venture received, that the compiler was encouraged to again come before the public with the present little annual. The printing was neatly and tastefully executed at the Scholastic Printing House. The price is 25 cents.—Catholic Visitor.
—Mb. Editor:—In your answer to correspondents in the issue of December the 30th, you tell “Astronomer” that Canis Major, the Great Dog, belongs to the breed of Skye Terriers. This is a slight mistake. Ganis Major is shown on the globe as a greyhound, which latter is descended from the Irish wolf-dog, therefore Canis Major must be of the latter breed instead of the Skye Terrier, and is the last of the breed now living. It is Procyone, or Canis Minor, the Little Dog, stationed 23 degrees northeast of his formidable companion, that is of the Skye or King Charles breed. It was the duty of Procyone when he would see this great star rise heliacally, or with the sun, to make a great noise, to wake up the big dog, when both would set a furious barking to wake up the Egyptians to pull up stakes, for the Nile was rising. It is the general impression among the best dog-fanciers here that the pretty little dog that runs with Professor Ivers’ carriage is of the same breed as Procyone, as the curls in their tails are exactly similar. That great star Sirius was worshipped as a God by the Egyptians, and named Siris.	P.
—The Juniors, appreciating the fine weather for sleighing, resolved to take a trip to some town in order to enjoy the Christmas holidays. On Saturday morning a committee paid a visit to the Prefect of Discipline to obtain permission,-which was granted, because, as he said, he had a pious regard for the Juniors. A collection was immediately made, and three large sleighs and a cutter hired. At one o’clock precisely the conveyances were ready and the boys jumped in with a determined will to have a good time. The sleighs headed their course towards Niles, nine miles distant, and they reached their destination at 2.30 p. m.
The boys amused themselves in various ways. They stopped at the Bond House, the proprietors of which are Messrs. McKay & Co., who are splendid Bonifaces. At 4.30 p. m., the boys sat down to supper, which was made up in good style, and partaken of with the best of appetite. At 6.30, when all were ready to start, three cheers were given for the proprietors of the Bond House. The boys left the place cheering, and well satisfied with their trip. They came home singing and cheering at 7.15 p. m., making nine miles in an hour and fifteen minutes. The prefects are perfectly satisfied with the conduct of the boys. The Juniors express their sincere thanks to the proprietors of the Bond House, the authorities of the College, and also to the prefects for their kindness to the boys.
BoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Cooney, J. D. Coleman, J. Coleman, D. Claffey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, W. Fowler, A. Hertzog, J. Hamilton, J. Krost, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, G. Laurans, N. Mooney, L. Murphy. J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, H. Maguire, W. P. McGorrisk, T. McGrath, J. Mc-Eniry, C. Otto, J. O’Rourke, L. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, T. H. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, J. Silverthorn, P. Tumble, W. Williams, G. Saylor, F. Vandervanett, J. Vander-hoof, T. Garso.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Brady, A. J. Burger, J. A. Burger, J. Boehm, G. Crawford, F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, H. Carroll, A Cougar r J. Carter, G. H. Donnelly, F. Ewing, R. French, C. Faxon, F.’Fischel, B. Heeb, J. Johnson, R. Keenan, M. Kauffman, O. Lindberg F. Lang, J. Lancaster, F. McGrath, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, T. Nelson, C. Orsinger, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Rothert, F. Rhein bold t, H. Rogers, P. Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, J. Schoby, A. Sievers, W. Taulby, L. Wolf
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson, R. Pleins, C. Reif G. Lambin, W. McDevitt, C. Long, J. Seeger, J. Scanlan, P. Heron, W. Cash, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Riopelle, A. Rheinboldt, C. Kauffman, F. Gafihey, A Sehnert, W. Coolbaugh.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING JAN. 14.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Seniors.—J. G. Ewing, C. Otto, N. Mooney.
Juniors.—J. Coleman.
Sophomores.—A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, J. McEniry.
Freshmen.—H. Maguire, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, J. C. O’Rourke, A Burger, P. Schnurrer.
—Washington was born in the year 1732. Washington was always “ on the square,” and the square root of 3 is 1,732—a remarkable coincidence. As a further proof we observe that 1732 is the sum of 1,296, 400, and 36, all perfect squares. Let ns give to each letter of the alphabet a number representing A by 1, B by 2, C by 3, and so on to the end. Then the sum of all the numbers belonging to the letters in the word Washington is 130. Similarly the sum of the numbers belonging to the word Columbus is 106. Columbus discovered America in 1492. The mest perfect square number is 4. Now add together 130, 106, 1,492, and 4, and you will get 1732, the year of Washington’s birth ,* and this is another coincidence. Logic is sometimes a strange thing. For instance, it is easy to prove that my cat Tabby has nine tails. Thus: No cat has eight tails; Tabby has one tail more than no cat; hence Tabby has one tail more than eight tails; therefore, Tabby has nine tails! This will be no puzzle to mathematicians, but to many politicians it may afford food for meditation. Speaking above of coincidences reminds us that there are many remarkable ones iu the theory of numbers. If you multiply 987654321 by 45, the answer will be a curious one, but the coincidence is not easily explained.—Ex.
trite KO^Hte I)AMe ScrioLASTiC. .	285
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER & MITCHEEL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS Gr« TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Boom No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
rPHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
J. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJN’NIBi’G- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Bandolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. McIIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MTT .T. A t-g.T> (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Bapids, Mich.
W' ILLIAMJ. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Booms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A.2 O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
The Scholastic Almanac FOR 1877.
Price 35 cts., postpaid.
The Scholastic Almanac, will contain, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It will be printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente--Student’s Triumph—H Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Bain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Gutzendorfs Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Gras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oration of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamishness—Kepublic of Plato—Father De Seille.
Orders should Be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RThLR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for 21 St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
THE SUN.
1877.	NEW YOBK.	1877.
Weekly Newspapers.
rpTTE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN.published X weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A? Clarke, of’70.
THE A.VE IMIABTA., a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.	’
E1-	Agent
FOB DOMESTIC AND Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND. Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago. '	s30-ly
The Bwtl aw,
A. McKay, Prop.,
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
The different editions of The Sun during the next year will be the same as during the year that has just passed. The daily edition will on week days be a sheet of four pages, and on Sundays a sheet of eight pages, or 56 broad columns; while the weekly edition will be a sheet of eight pages of the same dimensions and character that are already familiar to our friends.
The Sun will continue to be the strenuous advocate of reform and retrenchment, and of the substitution of statesmanship, wisdom, and integrity for hollow pretence, imbecility and fraud in the administration of public affairs. It will contend for the government of the people by the people and for the people, as opposed to government by frauds in the ballot-box ana in the counting of votes, enforced by military violence. It will endeavor to supply its readers—a body now not far from a million of souls—with the most careful, complete and trustworthy accounts of current events, and will employ for this purpose a numerous and carefully selected staff of reporters and correspondents. Its reports from Washington, especially, will be full, accurate, and fearless; and it will doubtless continue to deserve and enjoy the hatred of those who thrive by plundering the Treasury or by usurping what the law does not give them, while it will endeavor to merit the confidence of the public by defending the rights of the people against the encroachments of unjustified power.
The price of the daily Sun willbe 5 5 cents a month or $6.50 a year, post paid, or with the Sunday edition $7.70 a year.
The Sunday edition alone, eight pages,® i go a year post paid.
The Weekly Sun, eight pages of 56 broad columns, will be furnished during 1877 at the rate of $1 a year, post paid.
The benefit of this large reduction from the previous rate for the Weekly can be enjoyed by individual subscribers without the necessity of making up clubs. At the same time, if any of our friends choose to aid in extending our circulation, we shall be grateful to them, and every such person who sends us ten or more subscribers from one place will be entitled to one copy of the paper for himself without charge. At one dollar a year, postage paid, the expenses of paper and printing are barely repaid; and, considering the size of the sheet and the quality of its contents, we are confident the people will consider The Weekly Sun the cheapest newspaper published in the world, and we trust also one of the very best.
Address, THE SUN, New York City, N. Y.
286
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HOLIDAY, WEDDING, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.
Patented	7, 1871.
Price Complete $15.
More elaborate styles famished; also, Fountains for Counter use, with only silver-plated basin and jet in sight.
^^“Address for Circular,
J. W. TUFTS,
33 to 39 Bowker St., . . Boston, Mass.
M. Livingston & Co.,
-A-ZEdZE TZHZZEJ
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
Tliey Have the Best Cutter In tlie City, nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of ClotliLng, Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Burnishing' Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new s tyles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE,
84 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, UTO.
St,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph Biver, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modem languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instraction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and. for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with* the members of the Institution.
- The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem* nts of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
I
I
i
THE “AVE MARIA,” .A. CATHOLIC CTOLTmTA-X, looted to th ^onor of th Btsstd irjrn. (16 pp. Imperial 8vo.) Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AUD JMY EMNENT PRELATE
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned.
Aubrey de Vere, Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “ Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS :
One Year.........................................$	2 50
Five Years........................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)...20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
CANDY! CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
200 S. Clark St.,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Cross-Town. Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy.............................15c
Fine Mixed Candy.........................25c
Choice Mixed Candy.......................35c
Caramels.................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy.................25c
Proportionately Low Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
287
OUR COUNTRY I
What Will Become of It ?
Ib a question now agitating the public mind.
The grave issues before Congress; the final settlement of the late Presidential election; the incoming Congress; the new President; the Policy of the next Administration; and future welfare of the country and people, are matteis of great interest to each and every individual. Such a crisis has not been presented since the Declaration of Independence.
A Truthful History of events, and doings of Congress, will be given with impartiality and fairness in the	•
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER,
a public-spirited paper echoing the wishes of the people, advocating submission to the Laws, good Government, and the Kights of the People to be heard upon all matters that pertain to the country’s welfare.
The Tricky Politicians, always ready to organize trouble, but who never participate in danger, will be shown up in their true characters. By subscribing for the Enquirer, you will get a faithful record of events as they transpire, without Party Coloring and unbiased by Party feelings, as the true merit in a newspaper is its ability and willingness to give the
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
fatbick shickey,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
OTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
NEWS AS IT COMES
and not as it is prepared by party demagogues to mislead the people. Specimen copies free.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
Single Copy, one year Five Copies	“
Ten “	“
Twenty “	“
FOR WEEKLY.
.’ ’..." $i ‘75 each’.'. I ’. ’. ’. ’. ’. ’. ’. ’. ’.
...........1	60 “ ................
...........1	50 “ ...............
$2 00 8 75 16 00 30 00
FOR DAILY.
Without Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....$12	00
Six Months............ 6	00
Three Months...........3	25
One Month..............1	25
With Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year...$14	00
Six Months............ 7	00
Three Months......... 3	50
One Month............ 1	50
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to the ^National Hotel. and A <1-
jacent to the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Depot.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern De^ot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the atrons of Notre Dame and St. Mail’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Most liberal terms to club agents. Send for specimen copies and agents’ outfit.
Agents wanted at every post-office.
Address all letters to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, izsrzDiTAZisrjk.-Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
FABAN & McLEAN, Publishers,
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
dec 23-1 Ot
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	■
TERMS.
Michigan Central Railway
Matriculation Fee..............................       $5	00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music................................... 12	50
Time Table—November 21,1875.
	♦Mall.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson. ... Ar. Detroit ....	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ 6 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a.m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 0 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 00 p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
DJiles and South Bend Division.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “
GOING NORTH.
Ar. Niles—
9 00
7 15 p.m.
7 23 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Niles—
6 30
“ Notre Dame—7 07 Ar. South Bend—7 15 *Sunday excepted.
a.m.
GOING SOUTH.
4 20 p.m.
4 56 “
5 05 “
G. L. Elliott,
§9 0G 9 07 9 40
§8 00 8 32 8 40
a.m.
a.m.
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
§5 00 p.m
5 32 “
5 40 “
tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sunday only.
Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
Use of Piano.......................................
Use of Violin......................................
Telegraphy.........................................
— „ t	J General Class Principles..........
Vocal Lessons, ] Vocal CultTire....f...............
Elocution—Special Course...........................
Use of Library (per session).......................
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic.....................
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........
(Classical Course..................
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course................
(Commercial Course.................
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra.............................
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
10 00
2 50
10 00 '
10 00
15 00
5 00
1 00
15 00
5 00
10 00
10 00
5 00
40 00
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE. -Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
288	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MCDONALD,
THE PHOTOGBAFHEB,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
EDWARD BUYSSE dealer nr Watches, Clocks, A-asria jewelry.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
CALIFORNIA
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Bailway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Bailway for
S-AJST FRANCISCO,
Sacramento, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Binds, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette, Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth, well-bs lasted and perfect tr^ck of steel rails, Westinghouse a.r brakes. Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated oiullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i raveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars.between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.	-
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Bailroad for all points west of the Missouri Biver.
Por rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. .	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
-sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo..4	00	pm	12	30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas East Ex. via
Main Line..........................7	30	am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express...................4	00	pm	9	30 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	4	30 pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation........  .............. 5	00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
NightExpress...........10 00p.m. . 6 50a.m.
A, M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne 8g Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA B. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TINTS TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 187S.
TBAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars t	No. 2.	No. 6.	No. 4.
° NEW YORK.	Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	Pac. Exp. Daily.	Night Ex. Ex Sa & Su
Lv. CHICAGO				9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m. 11 25 “	10 00 p.m. 6 15 a.m. 5 54 p.m. 7 05 “
Ar. FT. WAYNE		2 10 p.m. 1 04 a.m.		
u Rochester				11 12 a.m.	
“ Pittsburgh.......			2 10 “	12 15 “	
Lv. Pittsburgh				2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
			
Ar. Cresson.			
u Harrisburg				11 30 a.m.	11 05 “	3 45 a.m.
.Baltimore		6 25 p.m. 9 07 “		7 35 “
“ Washington........'.......			9 02 “
“ Philadelphia.		3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
u New York.....			6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
u New Haven.........		11 52 “	10 40 “	3 26 p.m
“ Hartford .................	1 27 a.m.	12 11 p.m. 12 57 p.m. 3 48 “	
u Springfield	 ....I.	2 20 “		
“ Providence			5 10 “		7 4“
“ Boston		6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
			
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. MYEES, G-P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.	'
IO 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55p m;
Cleveland 9 45.	.
11 59 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10; Cleveland 9 45; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 1 O pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 110 pm. ’
4 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago • 6 30 a m.
5 38am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 8 20 p m.
405 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50;
Chicano, 8 20	'
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.	.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CABY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Oleveland-
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
-CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.