Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 16, 1878.
Number 29.
Sonnet.
The might of one fair face sublimes my love, For it hath weaned my heart from low desires ;
Nor death I heed, nor purgatorial fires.
Thy beauty, antepast of joys above, Instructs me in the bliss that saints approve;
For oh 1 how good, how beautiful, must be
’ The God that made so good a thing as thee, ■ So fair au image of the heavenly Dove.
Forgive me if I cannot turn away
■ From those sweet eyes that are my earthly heaven, . For they are guiding stars, benignly given
To tempt my footsteps to the upward way;
And if I dwell too fondly in thy sight,
I live and love in God’s peculiar light.
Michael Angelo.
Translation of J. E. Taylor.
Maurice de Guerin,
/ /
BY T. A. D.
Several years ago an eminent literary critic asked me if I had read Eugenie de Guerin’s Journal. To my reply in the negative he responded by advising me to procure an American translation, then just from the press, and to read it with care. I had no difficulty in procuring the translation, which I read and re-read with what wonder and pleasure I shall not here attempt to describe. To me it was the opening of a new mine, a mine of affection which poured forth its treasures with the strangest purity and simplicity. The writer’s soul was of no ordinary mould—it had the stamp of distinction—of genius, and all that pure, rich soul’s glorious wealth of affection was lavished upon her brother Maurice, who “ let what he did be lost with a carelessness so unjust to himself, set no value on any of his own productions, and departed hence without reaping any of the rich reward which seemed so justly his due.” He died at twenty-nine, without having published anything.
Eugenie de Guerin’s love for her brother was something wonderful—startling in its intensity and all-absorbing devotedness ; and when he died in her arms the wail of anguish which went up from her breaking heart is pitiable —touching,—and the reader, too, lays down her Journal and sobs in sympathy with the awful intensity of her grief.	'
“ 0 my beloved brother 1 can it be, shall we never see one another again on earth ? ”
And when her agony of grief has become less violent she says: “I will go and pray; prayer has been such «, power for me, and I will pray to the end. Prayer! oh! and prayer for the dead! It is the dew of purgatory.”
But even that consolation is denied her. “ Tout eat change," she says; “I am crushed by this misery which has nothing good in it, this tearless, dry misery, which bruises the heart like a hammer.”
And towards the end of the journal she wails out:
“ I am dying to everything. I am dying of a slow, mortal agony, a condition of unutterable suffering. Lie there, my poor journal! be forgotten with all this world which is fading away from me. I will write no more here until I come tolife again, until God reawakens me out of this tomb in which my soul lies buried. Maurice, my beloved! it was not thus with me when I had you! The thought of Maurice could revive me from the most profound depression ; to have him in the world was enough for me. With Maurice, to be buried alive would not seem dull to me.” And here the journal, as such, ends. Maurice died July 19th, 1839, and Eugenie’s journal carries us a little beyond that date; but ceases entirely with August 22d, 1845. In the silence and solitude of beautiful Le Cayla she faded away, like a rare flower, and died on the 31st of May, 1848. There is nothing overstrained, nothing morbid about the intense love of a gifted brother, of which Shakespeare’s Prince Arthur speaks: “ When I was in France, I have seen young gentlemen .who were sad from very uanton-ness" ; nothing of Heine’s painfully plaintive sorrow over his Mattraz-en gruft in Paris, “where no green leaves rustle; where early and late I hear nothing but the rattle of carriages, hammering, scolding, and the eternal jingle of a piano—a grave without rest, death without the blest privileges of the departed nothing of Hood’s sparkling essays to torture the demon, pain—only “this sublime sorrow which bruises the" heart like a hammer.’’ And yet Eugenie de Guerin had a genius superior to any of these, and suffered more exquisite torture.
But it is not of this gifted lady I would write. To speak of her at all would require more space than I have at the disposal of this brief sketch. But who can read her journal and not wish to know more of that brother whose very life seemed a part of her own—and yet, so distinct—so isolated ? Like two beautiful stars they seemed, so near and yet doomed to dwell apart, shedding their strange light upon an admiring world, and, like those remote stars, it required years to bring their light down to earthly eyes; but now their names and places are fixed for all time in the jewelled crown of literature.
Having read her journal, it was with no small anxiety I sought a companion work by the same devoted compiler, M. Trebutin, entitled Maurice de Guerin Rdiquia, and at that time not easily obtained. The work appeared in the winter of 1861, and has been translated into all the modern languages. In some respects it is a remarkable work, more perhaps for what it suggests than for what it accom
450	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
plishes. It is a collection of fragments, rare mosaics, sapphires, rubies, diamonds, to be read and never forgotten. The great French Academy critic, M. Sainte-Beuve, writes a preface glowing with eulogium for the bright young genius, and, at first sight it strikes one as not at all warranted by the pages which follow. But Sainte-Bsuve would not write it were he not profoundly impressed with the truth of his statements. Again the reader takes up the book, and this time scarcely lays it down till he has read every line of the two volumes, and, impatient still, sighs that there is no more. This is a work of genius; not of a great genius, perhaps, but of a most passionate and absorbing genius. De Guerin was not a worker in the literary mines of his day—the very intensity of his nature forbade it. What he did was only an archetype of what he might have done. His brief life was spent in cultivating the plants which never blossomed, and which never would have yielded an abundant harvest had he lived even to the age of Goethe. With a soul as sensitive, mobile, overwrought and unfathomable1 as that of Poe, he combined a melancholy intensity that chafed against restraint with all the fierceness of a newly chained tiger. His was an organization from which one might expect anything or nothing —saving only quietude—and not be disappointed. Nothing was sufficiently elegant in diction, original in conception or pure in thought to find favor in his eyes as a literary critic; and thus he could not persuade himself to write anything for publication. Few authors can ever afford such an exact taste, such a reaching after the unattainable ideal perfection, but with De Guerin it was a passionate •conviction, and he chose rather to starve than lower his standard. And it is on this very quality his fame rests. Every line of his composition shows the stamp of genius and culture. Everything he touched glowed under his vital pen. See how he describes himself:
“ My head seems dying, and when the wind blows I fancy I feel it, as if I were a tree, blowing through a number of withered branches in my top. Mental work brings on, not fatigue, but an irritable and nervous disgust which drives me out, I know not where, into the streets and public places. I grow old and wear myself out in futile mental strainings and make no progress. Study is quite intolerable to me, or rather it is quite out of my power. Craving, despairing, unquiet, seeing only by glimpses, my spirit is stricken with all those ills which are the sure premonitions of a youth destined never to ripen into manhood.”
This premonition was realized—he did, indeed, die young —all too young; the world cannot afford to lose such mental wealth. But his years ought not to be measured by days—his temperament was too intense—he used vital energy too lavishly, and payed the penalty in long days of torture and premature death.
De Guerin was born at Le Cayla in Languedoc in the year 1810, and received his early education at Toulouse, from whence he was sent by his father to the College Stanislaus in Paris to complete his education,—a feat which he never accomplished. Youth he seems never to have had. Disturbed by doubts he could not quell, tortured by thoughts he could not fathom, he fled from college as little prepared for the hard details of life as if the whole scheme of his education had been to unfit him for the business of the world. He was religious by nature and felt it his duty to study for the Church, the while bis whole fickle, unstable nature rebelled against everything which had the semblance of staidness and earnest work. To determine the
problem of his vocation he sought the society which the Abbe Lamennais drew about him at La Chenaie, a lonely oasis in bleak Brittany, and in the winter of 1832 was admitted to its charmed circle. So far as his religious convictions were concerned, this was the saddest mistake of his brief career. The grave, rigid, logical Abbe was destined to exert a too exclusive influence over the susceptible, delicate soul of his pupil. But the men who clustered around Lamennais at that time were all singular —gifted scholars all, and some of them destined to hew for themselves an imperishable fame on the monuments of . time. Among the most famous were M. De Montalembert and Lacordaire. It was about this time that the unhappy genius of Lamennais brought on his ruin. His famous essay had attracted the attention of the Holy See. The schools over which Montalembert and Lacordaire had presided in Paris were closed by the police, and sharing the common disgrace into which they had fallen, they retired to this lonely monastery in Brittany to consider their future course. These two gifted teachers were not prepared to follow their great master into rebellion against the Church, and thus the life at La ChGnaie was all doubt and uncertainty. De Guerin was enraptured with this place, and it is from his diary and letters written during his brief sojourn here that we gain the truest insight to his strange spiritual nature. In August of the following year he joined the religious house which Lamennais founded almost at the very time the Bishop of Rennes signed the order for the dismemberment of the society and the removal of the novices to PloSrmel. De Guerin went with the others, against his will, for he was still a partizan of Lamennais, whom the Church condemned. It is thus he writes in his diary: “ To-night there will go forth from Paris, with his face set to the west, a grand old man whose every footstep I fain would follow and who returns to the desert for which I sigh.” De Guerin could not remain at PloBrmel—he could not remain anywhere—and the teaching of Lamennais smothered the last gleam of his religious calling. He went to Paris and soon became a prince among the infidel literary chiefs, whose want of religion he often deplored and whom he really despised. Poetry was the one soul-gift he loved and never abused; but he was far too precise, too conscientious to win bread with his pen. He would not publish, and he was finally driven out of Paris by literal want. Situation's were offered him by the score on the journals .of the day, but he could not hind himself to write when not in the humor, and he threw them all aside. He finally procured a kind of supernumerary situation in the College Stanislaus, where he was educated, and here he continued to teach for four long, dreary years. He seldom complained, but the torture of his position goaded him at times almost-to madness. Finally in November, 1838, he married a young Creole lady of fortune, and she forced him to quit the schoolroom which was fast eating his bright life away. But it was too late; Death had already marked him. He was taken to his childhood’s home at Le Cayla—everything a sweet wife and adoring sister could do was lavished upon him, but to no purpose—he died on July 19,1839. While on his sick-bed, with ample time for reflection, he renounced Lamennais, was reconciled to the Church, and died a fervent Catholic. As a poet, he was a perfect zEolian harp of«nature; as a prose writer he was all that Addison could boast, and as a genius he excelled .the most renowned men of his age. I might quote pages from his Journal, and the
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	451
reader could not help admiring them; but to what purpose? You must read every line with the same spirit in which you read Shelley, never forgetting that these fragments are only indications of what might have been.
The Ante Columbian Discoverers of America.
(Continued, from No. 26.)
The chief obstacle to the credence of the legend regarding the voyage of St. Brendan is the supposition that there were no ships capable of making such a voyage in those days. It is the object of this article to remove that erroneous impression, by dates and facts regarding the advancement in arts and science that cannot be controverted.
If we look over the pages of ancient history, we will find that regular astronomical observations commenced at Babylon 2234 years B. C., and were continued without intermission till the taking of that city by Alexander the Great, 331 years B. C. The results of these observations were engraved on brick. On the death of Moses, 1451 B. C., the Israelites established themselves in Phoenicia or Canaan, now called Syria, where they built the city of Tyre on the sea coast, 1255 B. C. Tyre afterwards became the greatest maritime power in the world, and King Hiram undertook to furnish Solomon with a fleet to navigate the Indian Ocean in search of gold, subsequently obtained in Ophir. Wherever that place was, it took three years to go there and return, and it certainly required large and strong ships to carry the force of men and the amount of stores required for the success of the expedition. It must be about this time that the first canal was dug across the Isthmus of Suez, 1012 B. C.
About the same period Milesius, son of King Hiram of Tyre, having married Scotia, a daughter of King Solomon, set out with a large fleet towards the western seas, to discover new lands, where it was the intention to establish colonies. And just here is a fitting place to solve a problem that has given great trouble to the readers of ancient Irish history. In countless places the ancient inhabitants of Ireland are called Scots. These Scots were the descendants of Milesius and of the Princess Scotia, and were called so in honor of the daughter of the great king of Israel, her father. They were also called Milesians and Phoenicians. Milesius rested, some historians say, twenty years in Spain. Certain it is that the sons of the Princess Scotia, had ar-, rived at man’s estate when they accompanied their mother to the shores of Ireland.
It will be remembered that this voyage of the Phoenicians to Ireland took place about one thousand years B. C., and that the voyage of St. Brendan was made in the year A. D. 540, the space of time between them being 1552 years. Besides, we have it on record that the Phoenicians circumnavigated the great Continent of Africa 604 B. C., a voyage of over 14.500 miles, starting from the Bed Sea, and returning by the Straits 'of Gibraltar. From the time of the arrival of the first Phoenician colony in Ireland the mother country maintained intercourse with the western coasts of that island and Spain, having to traverse that most dangerous portion of the Atlantic. Ocean, the Bay of Biscay, which necessarily required well equipped sailing vessels.
The chief points raised in opposition to the voyage of St. Brendan are its length, and, as before remarked, the frailty of the ships of those days. But the distance from the coast
of Syria to Gibraltar is 2,800 miles, and from that to the Bay of Valentia, on the southeast coast of Ireland, 1,225 miles, total 4,028, while that from Ireland to the American coast is only half that distance, therefore the Phoenicians must have had much larger and better fitted vessels than is generally supposed in order to convey their colonies such an immense distance. They were a highly civilized and scientific people, and had no doubt, owing to their extensive commercial relations brought the matter of shipbuilding to an equal degree of excellence with other matters. They excelled in the arts and sciences, in the use of letters, and their literature was preserved by their descendants in Ireland down to the days of St. Patrick, who burned the books of the Druids after the conversion of the island. As their intercourse with Spain had been uninterrupted, there is no reason to suppose that they lost their knowledge of naval affairs; there is therefore little reason to doubt the ability of the Irish in the year A. D. 540 to make the voyage attributed to St. Brendan. That discoveries were more extensive in former times than is generally supposed is evident from the fact that there were charts in various parts of Europe on which the West India islands were very accurately laid down, and Columbus himself constructed charts on which St. Brendan’s Isle is marked, near the centre of the ocean, probably the Bermudas, for on arriving there the course of the Gulf Stream would have carried his ship towards that part of the great country in which he found ’“a large river flowing from the sea towards the west,” which must have been the Ohio.
The object of these remarks is to show that even St. Brendan in 540 followed the example of more early adventurers than himself, and of his own particular race, and that the teachings of St. Virgilius in 748 in regard to the rotundity of the earth must have been known to Columbus as well as his new system of astronomy, which was illustrated by the voyage of St. Brendan, and by the voyages of the Scandinavian navigators of earlier days. The discussion of the doctrine of St. Virgilius, which was reopened by Copernicus in 1473, must have been known to Columbus in 1492; but whether the latter intended to find a new course to the East Indies or to discover new countries, the pathway across the Atlantic had already been traversed by Europeans. Evidence of this was shown in the discovery of the burial-place and epitaph of the Icelandic Catholic woman, Syasa, in Virginia, bearing the date 1051, four hundred and forty-one years before Columbus set sail from Palos, and the Icelandic historians state that the Irish monks had reached this country before themselves.
At what period Greenland was first discovered by the Northmen is uncertain, but it was very remote. It is as much a part of America as is Newfoundland. After the return of St. Brendan from his transatlantic voyage, other Irish missionaries ventured out among the islands of the North Sea, as far as Greenland, where they found all the inhabitants pagans. One of the early missionaries, Eric, returned to Europe to give an account of his stewardship, and was consecrated Bishop of Garda by Archbishop Adzer at Lund, in 1121, the very year King John of England signed the Magna Gharta at Runnymede. Other Bishops succeeded to this American see, and as late as 1448, forty-four years before the first voyage of Columbus, Pope Nicholas the Vth issued a bull granting a Bishop and a supply of priests, in consideration of the piety of his dearly beloved children of Greenland, who had erected many sacred edifices and a splendid cathedral.
452
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In its present dress of eternal ice and snow, it is most • strange how Greenland could ever have received that name. At a meeting of the American Geographical Society in New York on February 27th last, Judge Daly suggested that the climate of those latitudes must have undergone a great change within the last thousand years, owing to a shifting of ocean currents. The increased rigors of the cold in Greenland caused the colony to decline, and it was finally destroyed by the Esquimaux. Recent efforts to identify the site of Garda resulted in discovering near Igalika Fiord (or bay) the ruins of what was once a substantially built church (identical in style, etc., with the ruins of the country churches so numerous at the present day in Ireland) with indistinct ruins of ten or twelve other buildings. Catholic relics, crosses, and engraved stones were found in several places, leaving little doubt that this was the Cathedral of Garda mentioned by Pope Nicholas V, and that here, from the twelfth to the fifteenth century, Catholic Bishops discharged the various duties of their high station.	B. P.
Herr Krupp, the Cannon Man.
Instances of persons raising themselves from an humble condition to a position of wealth and honor by their talent and energy are so common in this country that they cease to excite our astonishment; but in Europe the opportunities for such a rise are greatly diminished, and therefore when a man is found who is able by his genius to break through all obstacles, caste and conventionality he is deserving of no stinted measure of praise.
Herr Krupp, the now celebrated cannon manufacturer, of Essen, is perhaps the most remarkable example of a self-made man in Europe. From an humble blacksmith working at the anvil he is now the entertainer of emperors and kings at the palatial residence lately built by him at Werden, in Prussia. Diplomatic embassies are found there from every Government in Europe, for there is scarcely a nation of Europe which does not use cannon from his establishments. It is sad enough that so many are needed. The following brief description of these immense works is translated from the German correspondence of the Ohio Waisenfreuiid :
The establishments of Krupp, the “Iron King ” (Cannon King would be more appropriate), constitute a city in themselves; and a city in which one can scarcely see on account of the smoke and falling cinders, and in which the noise from the machinery is deafening. The annual report just issued gives the number of workmen employed at 8,500, but in more prosperous years it reached the number of 12,000. Of steam-boilers and engines there are 298, giving a total of 11,000 horse-power. There are 77 forge hammers, varying in weight from 200 to 100,000 pounds. The total number of cannon manufactured by Krupp since 1857 amounts to 15,000. They are now made at the rate 300 per month. In the space of twenty-four hours he can turn out rails for fifteen miles of railroad, besides wheels, axles and springs in great number. The daily consumption of coal is 1,800 tons; the number of gas-burners is 21,000. To transport the raw material and the finished work, a railroad is required of 60 kilometres, employing 20 locomotives and 700 cars. Telegraph stations to the number of 44 facilitate comunications between the various shops, and, to guard against a conflagration, 8 fire-engines are kept in readiness. Lately there was built at Meppen,
in the vicinity, a target with all the best facilities for testing the new cannon. To go into further details about this monster establishment would take up too much space; but it must not be supposed that all his works are in Essen. The production which supplies Krupp’s works with raw material is even greater in extent. He possesses mines not only in Germany but even in Sweden and Spain, giving employment to 5,300 men. To bring the iron ore from Spain requires five steamers, which carry 200,000 tons annually.
Herr Krupp has already built for his workmen 3,277 dwelling-houses, which are inhabited by 16,000 persons. He has besides 22 magazines, m which the laborers can procure all they require in food, clothing and furniture. The above gives but a faint idea of the extent to which this indefatigable man has pushed his industrial works, aided perhaps by circumstances, but still more by his energy and genius.
The Copernican System of Astronomy.
From the time of Noe it was the opinion of men that the world was flat and stationary, that the sun and all the heavenly bodies moved round it, and somewhere and in some indescribable manner joined it. It is stated that the Chinese have a record of the shadow of the sun having stood still for a certain time, which, probably, was the same we read of in Scripture in answer to the prayer of Joshua. From the time of the confusion of tongues till 556 years B. C. these opinions were unquestioned. At this time Pythagoras dared to broach a new doctrine in Samos, for which he was expelled his country—namely that it was the world that went round the sun. Pythagoras died, and with him his new-fangled doctrine passed away until the Irish monk Feargal O’Farrell, from the south of Ireland, afterwards Bishop of Salzburg in Bavaria, and known as St. Virgilius, in A D. 748 broached the theory of the sphericity of the earth and the existence of antipodes, being the first Christian who set forth and maintained these points. We find that the four first men who maintained the true system of astronomy were persecuted by the scientists of their respective epochs, namely Pythagoras in 556 B. C., St. Virgilius A. D. 748, Copernicus in 1473, and Galileo in 1610.
The old doctrine of the flatness of the earth was taught by Aristotle, 330 B. C-, and by the great Ptolemy of Alexandria, A. D. 130, without contradiction, till Copernicus, a Polish' priest at Frauenburg, got himself into trouble in 1473 by reviving the principles of St. Virgilius on the rotundity and motion of the earth, A D. 1500. Copernicus was supported by the Pope, but cried down by the Aristotelian and other philosophers of his day. A similar furor arose when in 1610 Galileo, one of the most illustrious philosophers and astronomers that ever enlightened the world, dared to revive the doctrines of St. Virgilius and Copernicus iu the schools of northern Italy; he met with the most determined opposition and persecution from the adherents of the old Ptolemaic system, and had it not been for the support afforded him by the Pope he would have been persecuted to death. The enemies of the Catholic Church try to make a point here, and ignorantly or maliciously avow that it was the Church, that persecuted Galileo, while inreality it was Pope Paul the Fifth who gave orders that he should be protected from the anger of those professors who during their whole lives had been teaching—and no
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
453
doubt honestly—the doctrines that were believed in by all the illustrious philosophers of Egypt and Greece. This foul calumny was reproduced only the other day, at a meeting in Chicago, by some spouter, who stated that Ga-Heo was even tortured by the Inquisition!
-	B.P.
Constitution of the Society of St. Gregory.
We have on several occasions published articles endorsing the Society of St. Gregory, and that our readers may fully know its aims we give the Constitu’ion of this Society, as sent to us by the worthy Vice President, Kev. Ignatius Trueg, 0. S. B., of St. Vincent’s Abbey, Beatty, Pa., to whom any communications concerning the Society may be sent.
No less than thirty eclesiastical dignitaries are already enrolled among the honorary members, and the list of regular members is daily increasing.
Preamble.
The celestial chant was heard by the divine Seer, the Blessed Apostle John, rapt in vision (Apoc. xiv. 2, 3), is here in this mortal life symbolized, and in a certain degree and sense imitated and echoed, by that chant which, in the celebration of the Sacred Mysteries of the Altar and in the solemn performance of the Divine Office, the Holy Catholic Church has ever made use of in her consecrated temples and in her courts of prayer and praise. And as no one has ever doubted that the Holy Spirit has guided this same Church in the choice which she makes of the inspired words of Sacred Scripture, and of the wise and devout sentences of the Fathers and holy doctors, which, joined with various prayers, and hymns, and anthems—no less the work of saints and of men learned in doctrine—together form the inimitable compilation of her Ritual Offices, aptly and most truly termed divine; so, also no one will venture to deny that she has accepted, confirmed, and in many ways sanctioned the use of a special and peculiar form and style of melody, called, after that great and holy Pope to whose labors is due the scientific arrangement of the same and much of its composition, the “Gregorian Chant.”	■	'
The testimony of tradition and an examination of her authorized books which contain the sacred offices, in which only this form of melody can be found, sufficiently authenticate this truth. Moreover, it is beyond dispute that the Church has never sought to replace this chant by any other chant or music; but that in all former times, as at the present day, this -sweet, devout, and intellectual chant has fulfilled and does fulfil all the uses which she has for melody in her solemn celebrations, and in every sense completely satisfies the mind of the Church, as may be known from the decisions of sacred Councils, and from the many pastoral instructions of Supreme Pontiffs and Bishops written and published concerning this matter. It may be justly supposed, and the testimony of the most skilled musicians bears ample witness to the truth, that, in this election and disposition that the Church has made and continues to make of this chant, the chant itself possesses in its very nature and variety of melody a fitness, as well of form as of expression, which comports well with the character of those persons who sing it, with the place where it is appointed to be sung, and with the word s which are sung,- so that by its modulations the minds of all who hear it are delighted, the indifferent are aroused
from their spiritual lethargy, sinners are excited to compunction and the worldly-minded to devotion, the sad are consoled, the people are instructed and confirmed in the truths of faith, the hearts of all prostrate before the altar of the living God are lifted up, and thus the whole assembly of the faithful, together with the blessed choirs of the heavenly citizens, are led to render praise and thanks to God.
But, what is greatly to be deplored, the study and use of this true chant of the Church have been notably neglected, and another system of melody, called modern music, has been introduced in the churches, to the great detriment of devotion among the people, and the bringing-in of many abuses, among which, not to mention many others, is the abolition of the schola, or chorus of select singers who, vested in cassock and surplice according to the requirements of the rubrics, should fulfil that offiie, and its substitution by a chorus of singers composed of men and women separated entirely from the choir, and placed in a gallery behind the people-and over the doors of the church, who perform none of the ceremonies required by the rubrics—nor, indeed, can do so—and, in fact, sing to their music, which reminds one rather of the theatre than of the celebration of the Holy Mysteries in the house of God, garbled, disjointed, and broken portions of what should be sung at Mass and Vespers, often introducing sentences and hymns and other songs not found in the appointed offices, or ridiculously out of season and inappropriate thereto.
So common and excessive has this abuse become, and so notorious is the distraction and disedification of the faithful resulting therefrom, that it is everywhere inveighed against; and the Bishops, the pastors of the flock of Christ, to whom it appertains to reform discipline, have earnestly sought for a remedy, lamenting the disuse of the ancient chant, and greatly desiring its re-establishment.
With the intent to serve the Holy Church, and all personal ambition, vainglory, and profit laid aside, it is proposed to make a combined effort towards the restoration of the Gregorian Chant.
Under the full persuasion that the use of this chant will completely fulfil all the demands which the Church has for melody in her sacred offices—and, moreover, that it alone can do so—many of the clergy and of the laity have determined to associate themselves together, and will give their labor, as an association, solely to the study and practice of the chant, uniting themselves in one Society, to be called after in name, and placing itself under the singular protection and patronage of St. Gregory the Great; which Society does hereby establish for its rule the following
CONSTITUTION.
ARTICLE I.
OF THE NAME AND PURPOSE OF THE SOCIETY.
The name and title of this association shall be “The Society of St. Gregory.” The purpose of this Society shall be to promote the study, both £esthetical and practical, of the Gregorian Chant, and the obtaining of its use in churches for all the divine offices.
ARTICLE H
OF THE MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY.
The Society of St. Gregory shall embrace three classes of members, viz : 1. Regular Members; 2. Honorary Members ; 3. Associate Members.
1.	Regular members may be priests and other persons, whether clerics or laymen, who by profession or office are invested with authority over, or have direction of, church
454	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
choirs or of conservatories or schools of music, or of musical associations, connected or not with church choirs; also those who have received an academical degree in the art of music; and also those men and boys who are members of any such church choir, conservatory, and musical school or association.
2.	Honorary members may be such persons, whether of the clergy or of the laity, who are in sympathy with the work of the Society, and are willing to lend the influence of their distinguished name or position to further the purpose proposed by it.
3.	Associate members may be such persons of either sex, and of any condition of life, who, zealous for the glory of God, will aid the Society by their pious prayers and offerings.
ARTICLE III.
OF THE OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.
The officers of the Society shall be—1. A President. 2. A Vice-President. 3. A Head Choir-Master. 4. A Secretary. 5. A Treasurer. 6. A Librarian.
The President, and in his absence the Vice-President shall have general control of and supervision over the Society, representing it officially when needed, and presiding at the General Annual Council and at other assemblies of the Society.
The Head Choir-Master shall have control and direction both of the preparation and of the performance of all chants to be sung at all assemblies of the Society.
The Secretary and the Treasurer shall perform the usual duties appertaining to their respective offices.
The Librarian shall have personal charge of all books or publications of whatsoever kind belonging to the Society. He shall prepare catalogues of the same, and shall loan books to members for their private use, and shall purchase new works as the Particular Council may direct or the President advise.
The aforesaid officers shall constitute the Particular Council of the Society.
ARTICLE IV-
OF THE PARTICULAR COUNCIL.
The Particular Council shall define all works to be undertaken by the Society, sanction all chant to be published by it, appoint the time and place for the meeting of the General Annual Council, and defray all expenses from the general fund contributed by members.
The Particular Council shall also be competent to amend, abrogate, or make additions to any article of this Constitution.
ARTICLE V.
OF THE GENERAL ANNUAL COUNCIL.
There shall be a General Annual Council of the Society, held at such time and place as the Particular Council may appoint, to which all the regular and honorary members shall be invited. At this Council addresses shall be made to the assembly, essays on chant and other cognate subjects read, and methods of teaching and of chanting discussed. There shall be also held exhibitions of chanting in concert. It shall be the duty of the Head Choir-Master to prepare the programme of these concerts, and he shall have the chief direction thereof. But at the divine offices celebrated during the session of the Council the choir-master of the church shall have the sole direction.
ARTICLE VI.
OF THE ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The officers of the Society shall be elected at the General
Annual Council, the right of voting being enjoyed by the following classes of regular members: 1. Priests. 2. Those clerics or laymen who have control or direction of church choirs, whether prefects, masters, organists or leaders. 3. Presidents of musical conservatories, academies, or schools.
4.	Bachelors, Masters, and Doctors of Music.
The President and Vice-President shall be chosen only from members who are priests. The Head Choir-Master shall be a priest, or at least in Holy Orders. The other officers may be chosen from among any of the regular members who have the right of voting. The mode of election shall be determined according to the By-Laws to be hereafter provided.
ARTICLE VII.
OF THE GENERAL FUND.
There shall be a general fund of money raised by common stipendiary contributions of members and by special voluntary offerings, of which the Treasurer shall have charge and render a report of his receipts and expenditures at each General Annual Council.
ARTICLE VIII.
OF THE PRAYERS TO BE OFFERED BY MEMBERS.
Each and all of the members of the Society shall make a special commendation in their prayers, daily, for the success of the Society, imploring the holy intercession of their Blessed Patron, St. Gregory, that Almighty God may of His infinite goodness bless the work of the Society, and thus ensure its prosperity, increase, and complete success.


Scientific Notes.
—It is expected that Prof. Alexander Agassiz, who has been investigating the fauna of the Gulf of Mexico during the past winter, will gather results of great scientific value. Prof. Agassiz received permission to accompany the Coast-Survey steamer Blake, which was detailed for service in the Gulf through the past season.
—The male of the Suri num toad carries its progeny, while they are in the egg state, in cells on its back. A toad (Rhinoderma Darwini) inhabiting the arid portions of Chili has a pouch extending over the under portion of the body and opening at the neck. In this the eggs are deposited, and remain until the young are free from the shell.
—Sir J. Lubbock recently read a paper “ On the Colors of British Butterflies,” before the London Entomological Society, in which he sustained the principle laid down by Darwin and others, that dull-colored,-green, and smoothskinned caterpillars are eaten by birds, etc.; while spiry, hairy, and brightly-colored species are rejected. The author stated that it was shown by the statistical method that no hairy caterpillars are green, while a large majority of black and brightly-colored species are hairy or otherwise protected.
—Mr. Isaman, of Bangor, Cal., gives the following account of the process by which the Trichostema lanceola-tum, a common Californian annual, secures cross-fertilization by the agency of insects: “ The tube of the corolla is bent upon itself when in its normal condition. On inserting a pin or a small splint, the tube is straightened, and the stamens and pistil are thrown forward, and strike very forcibly upon the back of any intruding insect. I have watched bees for hours, gathering honey from these plants, and have been very much amused by the performance.”
—One of the pair of chimpanzees at the Aquarium in New York has recently died of consumption, and a number of the leading physicians of the city assisted at its post-mortem examination. The chimpanzee who is left solitary by this loss of her mate is quite disconsolate, and, says Forest and Stream, “ would break her poor heart if not for the care and affection her keeper bestows on her. If she had her own way, she never would leave her attend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
455
ant. It is a weird kind of look Tuck gives you when you take her delicately-formed hand, as she gazes at you gravely with her soft brown eyes. Nothing could separate her from her keeper. One hand she gives to the curious, but with the other she holds tight to her friend. In order to put her in her cage, she must be cajoled by means of a bit of biscuit. When she is left alone, she throws herself on the ground, and cries like a disconsolate child. Then repressing her grief as with an effort, she looks with longing eyes for her friend.”
Art, Music and Literature.
—The early issue is announced of the life of Charlotte Cushman, by Miss Emma Stebbins.
—Prof. H. J. Child, of Harvard College, is preparing a new edition of his English and Scottish ballads, which appeared in eight volumes about twenty years ago.
—Mr. Swinburne is to collect his published and unpublished translations of Francois Villon into a volume, to which he will probably prefix a critical study on that poet.
—Four hundred and twenty choirs, in all 18,000 voices, fom eighty departments of France, have entered for competition for the prize for choral singing at the Paris Exhibition, July 14-16.
—If has been decided that there shall be no separate publication of Mr. Cobden’s correspondence, but much of it will be included by Mr. John Morley in his biography of the deceased statesman.
—A. Philadelphian, Mr. Thos. G. Gentry, has interested himself in that quarrelsome little fellow, the house sparrow, to the extent of preparing a monograph on his career at home and abroad, including a bibliography of house sparrows from 1400 to 1878.
—Stanley’s new book may be expected in May. He will call it “Through the Dark Continent; the Sources of the Nile; Around the Great Lakes and Down the Congo.” It will contain about one hundred illustrations from photo-graphs and sketches taken by Mr. Stanley.
—The veteran S. C. Hall is to edit a new English periodical to be called “ Social Notes.” Its purpose is to consider and discuss the several social topics that agitate or interest the public mind; and to do so by the aid of eminent writers, social reformers, and advocates of social progress who will be accepted as authorities.
—The prize essay on “ Tea Cultivation and Manufacture,” by Lieut. Col. Edward Money, which won the Grant gold medal in India, has been revised and much enlarged, and will be issued in England as a demi-8vo. volume of 200 pages, with tables and addenda upon the management of tea gardens and tea manufactories.
—Mme. Christine Nilsson has left St. Petersburg for Vienna. On her road thither she is to sing at concerts in different German towns. She was to appear on March 3 at the Imperial Opera-House, most probably as Marguerite in “Faust,” with Madame Trebelli as Siebel, Signor Massini as Faust, and Herr Behrens as Mephistopheles.
—Flotow appears to have brought a number of operas in his portfolio on his visit to Paris. M. Escudier some time since announced that “ Roseliana” was the name of the distinguished composer’s last work, and that it would soon be produced at the Italiens, but now he informs the public that another, called “ The Enchantress,” by the same author, will be substituted for it.
—Intellectual gifts and literary culture have long been exemplified in the family of the present Pope. In the fifteenth century Onorata Pecci of Siena was well versed in literature, and a pleasing poetess. Two of her sonnets on religious matters are found in a collection of poems edited at Naples in 1695. During the last century two other Peccis of Siena distinguished themselves. Giovanni Antonia Pecci, born Dec. 12,1693, and deceased March 3, 1768, was a chevalier of San Stefano, and very learned in antiquities, upon which he published several works. The Abbe Giuseppe Pecci, his brother, born in 1700 and deceased 1751, left some very clever books on law and Greek literature. The reigning Pontiff also numbers
among his ancestors a saint who founded a religious order. In 1373 Pietro di Fernando Pecci obtained from Pope Gregory XI, in Avignon, the sanction and the dress for the new order of the “ Hermits of San Girolamo ” in the two Spains. In 1839 Bernardine Pecci translated the “Life of St. Catharine of Siena” from the Latin of Blessed Raimondo of the Order of Preachers, and published it in Rome.
—The New York Tribune of the 4th says: “ The ‘ Siegfried Idyl,' by Richard Wagner, which was played at Thomas’ rehearsal, yesterday, for the first time in America, and is to be given at the Symphony Concert to-morrow night, has only an indirect and doubtful reference to the Siegfried of the Nibelungen Trilogy, its hero being Master Siegfried Wagner, the composer’s youngest child. It was written in 1871, as a birthday surprise offering to Mme. Cosima Wagner, and it has only recently been withdrawn from the privacy of the home circle and committed to the world in print. At the time of its conception the Wagners were living on the Lake of the Four Cantons, where from their ivy-covered villa they looked across the emerald waters to picturesque Lucerne, and saw the majestic outlines of the Rigi and Pilalus aud Burgerstock through the thick boughs of overhanging trees. It was here that ‘ Siegfried ’ and the ‘Gotterdammerung’ were finished, and here occurred the little domestic festival commemorated by this piece of music- Wagner had engaged a small orchestra from Zurich to perform it, and Hans Richter (who conducted the Bayreuth performances) held the baton. In the early morning the players ranged themselves on the steps of the villa and roused the household by these tender idyllic strains. The music is intended to be a poem of childhood, bright, .joyous, and natural, and admirers recognize in it, moreover, a picture of the pretty lake-side scene, with the waters dancing in the sun aud the branches casting their trembling shadows on the grass.”
Books and Periodicals.
—The Cacilia for March is a very interesting number. Among the numerous reports of the progress of the St. Caecilia Society we were much pleased to find one from Mr. Tauski, organist of St. Joseph’s, the Polish church in South Bend, Indiana, giving a list of the pieces already sung by the choir, and stating that they expect shortly to join the Society in a body. The next Convention of the Society is announced to be held in Detroit.
—Among the features of special interest in Church's Musical Visitor for March, the new “Life of Chopin” claims the attention of musical people, and the articles on “Expressive Piano Playing,” and “Friedrech Wieck, the great Music-Teacher,” are no less interesting. This number also gives full particulars concerning the approaching great Cincinnati May Musical Festival, and a good description of the new organ, which will be dedicated on that occasion. The editorials, correspondence and short notes are unusually entertaining, and the music pages give a very liberal supply of late music, both easy and difficult. Among the latter the “ Sketch of Festival Ode,” will interest musicians. It is from the work by Otto Singer, which has been written for the opening of the new Cincinnati Music Hall, and of which the critics have been lavish in praise. Every subscriber to the Visitor also receives a valuable premium, free. John Church & Co., Cincinnati, O., publishers.
New Music.
—We have received from Fischer & Bro., New York, a new hymn to the Blessed Virgin under the title of Our Lady of Perpetual Help. The music, by Prof. Singenberger, is good, and deserves to become popular. The English words are by Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly.
—“Pretty Little Blue-Eyed Stranger" is the title of a song by Bobby Newcomb, the minstrel professional. Price, 25 cents per copy. For sale by any music dealer in the United States, or can be had from the publisher, F. W. Helmick, 50 West Fourth Street, Cincinnati, O.
456
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Marell 16, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others,is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.30 Per A_iinunx, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Patrick’s Day.
The Feast of St. Patrick is the 17th of March, but as the 17th this year comes on a Sunday in Lent, the celebration of the Feast is transferred to some other day. According to the Ordo of the Congregation of Holy Cross, which is almost exactly like that used in the province of Cincinnati, the Mass and office of St. Patrick are read on the 20th still, however, most of the civic display will take place on the 16th or 18th. Here at Notre Dame the Entertainment usually given has been postponed until the 19th, when the Columbians will appear.
In connection with the Feast of St. Patrick, and that we may see why all Catholics in America should celebrate his Feast it may not be amiss to repeat at least in substance what we said a year ago in this connection.
There is much dispute concerning the country where St. Patrick first saw the light. It is said of Homer that seven cities contended for his birth, but nearly as many nations have contended for the honor of giving birth to St. Patrick. It is, however, a matter of little importance whether this honor should be enjoyed by either England, France, Scotland, or Wales; nor does it matter much in what year his birth occurred, or whether he was of noble birth or one of the people. These much disputed points may be left to the antiquarian or the student of history to solve; but for us it is sufficient to remember that centuries ago, before the North of Europe had been illumined by the light of Christianity, and England was yet ruled by pagan kings, there was a career begun which, it is acknowledged by all men, has been productive of those great and beneficent results felt in our day, and to be felt, perhaps, when time shall have changed the nations now ruling the destinies of the world. If Christian civilization is a blessed boon conferred by bountiful Heaven on the nations of earth, then, indeed, should our praise and honor be bestowed with no stint or
halt upon the memory of that man who, forsaking the pleasures and comforts of his home, carried this blessing of Heaven to a people not yet possessing it. Granting that many of the popular legends concerning St. Patrick may be exaggerated, no one can deny the main facts of his life and apostolate, that he devoted his lifetime to the conversion of the Irish people, and that from youth to old age he watered the land with prayers and tears with an unerring confidence that his labors would not be in vain, but that great fruits would be consequent to his work. How that confidence of St. Patrick has been vindicated and his labors rewarded are matters of history which all men know. For centuries, more than a decade, through prosperity and through adversity, the sons of Ireland have clung to the principles taught by St. Patrick with a tenacity which has commanded the admiration of the world. Persecutions the most cruel have only made their faith the stronger. Hunted by a brutal soldiery and oppressed by laws whose injustice has cried to Heaven for vengeance, they remain to-day as sincere and loyal to the Church as on the day when the last pagan on the island bent his neck to the sweet ycke of the Siviour; and this faith will still be treasured up by them when ages shall have passed.
The green isle was once independent, ruled by her own kings and for the best good of her people. Such she is no longer. She has been made the territorial appendage of an hereditary foe, and the Irishman has become an alien on his native soil and in the land of his forefathers. Gone now is her home government. Her society has changed, and war and revolution have devastated her fields and hills; her noble castles and abbeys, built far back in distant ages, have succumbed to the vandalism of the Saxon and the ravages of time; her children, deprived of education by brutal laws which decreed death to the priest or schoolmaster, were in the lapse of centuries dragged down from the high eminence of refinement and literary culture attained by their forefathers and forced into a state of direst poverty; but through all the terrible ordeals and degradation through which she has passed, Erin has still clung to the Faith brought her by St. Patrick. Rightly then do the Irish people and those descended of Irish stock offer up on St. Patrick’s Day their thanksgivings to Heaven, their sincere homage to the intrepid missionary who fixed in their fathers’ hearts this religion and bade it remain there forever.
But the seventeenth of March is not only the anniversary of a patron saint: it is more. It has become a national festival on which all the hopes of a people who love their native land with an ardor savoring of a passionate idolatry, make themselves known, and the aspirations of their patriotism are given full vent.
Recalling what Ireland has been under English misrule, her misery and neglect, and conceiving what his country might be capable of were justice done her, the Irishman cannot but exert himself on this day to make it known to the world. Reflecting on the greatness achieved by the exiles of those penal days when the swords of Irishmen flashed over the battle fields of Europe and aided in giving victory to other nations, be is forced while admiring their chivalry to drop a tear as he recalls the fact that for Ireland they could not strike a blow. Enshrined, then, in religion and patriotism, St.Patrick’s Day deserves to be honored, and that Irishman would be unworthy the name, nay, unworthy the name of man, whose boson? does not warm with the fires of love and affection on a day that was ever
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
457
a beacon of hope to the children of Ireland in the dark ■ days of her tribulation and woe.
And we, American Catholics who are not of Irish descent, we also should give our meed of honor to the great Apostle of Erin, for, under G )d, it is to the noble and self- j sacrificing efforts of her priestly sons, exiles from the land I of their birth, that we owe our return to the One Fold. These were they who ministered at our altars and attended the last hours of our sick and dying until we were in a condition to supply a native clergy, and who still form so large and devoted a portion of our American clergy and Ishierarchy. In our conversion to the faith we'may be said / to become, in a certain degree, Irish, for the words “ Irish ” and “ Catholic ” are used by our separated brethern to mean one and the same thing when English-speaking Cath-^olics are designated. St. Patrick’s Day is to us all, therefore a national Catholic holiday; and we, enjoying here as we now do, after the lapse of centuries, the fruits of the labors of St. Patrick, are in duty bound to honor and revere the great Apostle of Ireland. His festival has now been celebrated throughout Christendom for over 1400 years—in the early ages by the holy and learned monks and their disciples who evangelized Gaul, and Germany, and even Italy, and in these later times by the almost innumerable children of Ireland whom the tyranny of the penal laws and unjust legislation of England drove from their native land and scattered throughout almost every country on the face of the globe. That it may be so celebrated to the end of time must be the heartfelt wish of every Irishman and Catholic.
Personal.
—L. H. Steward (Commercial), of ’70, is in business at Clyde, Ohio.
—William Waldo (Commercial), of ’70, lives at Independence, Missouri.
—William R. Roy (Commercial), of !70, resides at Palmyra, Missouri.
—William Odenhall (Commercial), of ’70, is living at Carbon Cliff, Ill.
—Edward Sweeney (Commercial), of ’71, is in business, so we are told, at Erie, Pa.	.
—William M. Spalding (Commercial), of *68, is in business and doing well at Lebanon, Ky.
—Very Rev. President Corby was’ called to Chicago on business for several days this past week.
—We are glad to learn that Rev. Father Shortis, of ’49, is now entirely recovered from his sickness.
—Robert Crenshaw (Commercial), of ’71, is in business in St. Louis, Mo. We were not given his address.
—Marmaduke Weldon (Commercial), of ’72, lives at Covington, Ind. His brother Samuel, of ’61, is living in the same city.
—William Fogle (Commercial), of ’68, is connected with the editorial department of the Lebanon (Ky.) Times and Kentuckian.
—William Abell (Commercial), of ’67, is in the drug business in California. He spent several years in Europe after leaving Notre Dame.
—Rev. Fathers O’Mahony and Toohey arrived last week at Notre Dame from New Jersey, where they have been for some time past engaged on the missions.
—Letters from Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, report him in the of health. He is now in Rome, where he will remain for some time.
—John W. Buehler (Commercial), of’71, is doing a large business in Independence, Iowa. He shows the interest
■he takes in his old friends by renewing his subscription to the Scholastic.
—John J. Ney, of ’74, who for the last year has held the position of City Attorney, of Independence, Iowa, was at . the last election, held a few days ago, elected to the position | of Mayor for the ensuing year by a handsome majority. He ! has been the only candidate elected on the Democratic ticket.	.
Obituary.
It is our painful duty to chronicle this week the death of Brother Joseph Calasanctius (family name, Michael Mitchell), a native of Dublin, Ireland, but for the last seven years a member of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and a resident at Notre Dame. He has been for some years past the director of the bakery here, where by his cheerful, kindly disposition and unaffected manners he had endeared himself to all with whom he came in contact. Although not possessed of a robust constitution, this good Brother had until within a few days of his death enjoyed excellent health; a neglected cold, however, settled on the lungs, bringing on fever, and probably congestion, thus causing his almost sudden death at the age of 29. His father, a nonogenarian and until recently attending to business in Dublin, is a convert to the Faith, and has',had the happiness of sceingfour of his children devoting their lives in a special manner to the service of their Divine ’Master. One of the eldest of his sons is, we believe, Provincial of the Franciscans in Dublin; a daughter a professed nun of the Order of the Assumption, an educational community at Nice, in France, and another a professed member of the Sisters of Notre Dame in this country.
“Diverse though our path in life may be Each is sent some mission to fulfil;
Fellow-workers in the world are we, While we seek to do our Master’s will;
But our doom is labor, while the day Points us to our tasks with blessed ray, For the night cometh.”
Brother Joseph closed a useful and edifying life by a holy death, strengthened by the Divine consolations of our holy religion.	Requiescat in pace.
Local Items.
—The Minims all went fishing last Wednesday.
—The three contestants for “ the pie ” all lost it.
—We expect to put up a new engine in our office.
—The last call on the Campus is “ look out for thecurve."
—Kickbam says it rains every recreation day. Too bad.’
—It will soon be time to take down the double windows.
—The Novices are engaged in beautifying their grounds.
—The Minims have put their baseball grounds in fine order.
—The Entertainment next Tuesday will begin at 7 o’clock.
—More books have been added to the Lemonnier Circulating Library.
—The Columbians will appear Tuesday evening in Washington Hall.
—The Seniors are reading in their refectory the “Life of Archbishop Spalding.”
—Of course St. Patrick’s Day will be appropriately celebrated at Notre Dame.
—The Quicksteps beat the Eurekas at baseball on the Sth by a score of 8 to 3.
—Large flocks of wild ducks, wild geese, etc., are to be seen every day flying to the north.
—Bro. Peter is more than a month earlier this year than last in putting his garden in order.
—Next Tuesday is the Feast of St. Joseph, the Patron of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
—The boats will be launched next week. The Boat Club will then begin their regular practice.
458	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The bulletins for the month of February were better on an average than those of January.
—The Senior Archconfraternity numbers more members than any other society in the College.
—Master Charles Cavanagh presen’ed the Juniors with a foot-ball, for which they are thankful.	■
—There is a prize to be given to the Junior that receives the best bulletin for the month of March.
—We are authorized to state that our friend John’s return to Germany is indefinitely postponed.
—The Actives beat the Mutuals last Wednesday by a score of 11 to 5. The game was for “ the pie.”
—The crape has been taken from the large life-sized oilpainting of Pope Pius IX in the College parlor.
—Our astronomer sighs and says: “Poor Father Secchi has gone, and I am not feeling very well myself.”
—Vespers to morrow are of St. Gabriel, the Archangel, page 132 of the Vesperal. The Mass is Missa Parvulorum.
—Geo. Sugg, Captain of the Excelsior Baseball Club, is said to be the best general player in the Junior Department.
—The Juniors are under obligation to the teachers in the Scientific Department for favors shown them several days ago.
—Burket, of the Actives, made three base hits and brought in two men in the game with the Mutuals last Wednesday.
—The melodeon used at the meetings of the two Archconfraternities adds much to the beauty and decorum of the-meetings.
—Even the rain will not prevent youngsters from baseball for the pie—as for instance see the Actives and Mutuals last Wednesday.
—In a game of baseball played on the 6th, one of the clubs was “skunked,” something we never witnessed before at Notre Dame.
—A beautiful article by Henry Lasserre is being published in the Ave jifaria. for which it was sent from Paris by the talented author.	.
—A quartette of even voices has been started in the Senior department The Senior Orchestra will play the accompaniments for the singers.
—The Seniors have just finished reading in their refectory “What Catholics Do Not Believe,” by Right Rev. Bishop Ryan, of St. Louis.
—Mr. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., began last Wednesday his course of lectures on Biology. The lectures are very interesting, and quite a large class.
—On the 7th a game of baseball was played by the Excelsiors and Atlantics. The Excelsiors scored 20 and gave the Atlantics 9 goose-eggs.
—The mild weather has brought out the baseball players, and now the clubs have been reorganized and games are all the go on recreation days.
—We acknowledge the receipt of a chromo of Pope Leo XIII from the National Bureau of Engraving, 512 Pine St., Philadelphia. The price is 50 cts.	t
—The lilac bushes about the College are all sprouting and will soon be covered with leaves. Bro. Peter has a number of daffodils and other flowers ready to bloom.
—The new chapel at the Novitiate is very handsomely decorated. It certainly is a great improvement on the old one and reflects great credit not only on those who built the chapel but upon those who put up the decorations.
—We hear rumors that the pupils of the Manual Labor School, located near the College here, will have an Entertainment sometime after Easter. It will be given in their recreation-hall, and no one who is not invited will be allowed in.
—We are happy to be able to announce that the Boston Philharmonicswill be at Notre Dame on the 25th of April. All who remember the beautiful music given here by this organization two years ago will be rejoiced at this announcement
—The Quickstep nine for the 2d session is composed
of the following players: J. Seeger, c.; Wm. McDevitt, p.; G. Lambin, s. s.; J. Boose, 1st b.; Wm. Rheinhart, 2d b.; G. Rhodius, 3rd b.; Jno. Inderrieden, 1. f.; P. Fitzgerald, c. f.; O. Farrelly r. f.
—Last Wednesday afternoon there were a number of games of baseball played, although the drizzling rain that set in interfered with them considerably. The curved balls of Burns of the Excelsiors were at first pretty hard for the Universities to bat.
—At a meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, held last Sunday evening, Rev. J. M. Toohey gave the ten-minutes’ instruction, Messrs. Keenan, Walsh and Berteling read essays in reply to questions given out at the previous meeting. The usual hymns were sung.
—Under the energetic supervision of Bro. Raymond, the grounds about the missionaries’ house are being greatly improved. The house itself is undergoing renovation, and the Rev. Fathers residing there are loud in their praise of the excellent manner in which the custodian manages everything.
—The Feast of St. Patrick, according to the Ordo used at Notre Dame, takes place on next Wednesday. This is because the 17th is a Sunday, and the Sundays in Lent are what are called privileged; that is, the feast of a saint cannot be celebrated then, but the Mass and Office must be of the Sunday.
—Another row of trees has been planted along the shores of the upper lake. We understand that there will be many evergreens planted on the hill just above the banks of the lake, and we would recommend everyone to be careful and not injure them. In a few years we expect the upper lake to be more than beautiful. '
—A Sodality of the Blessed Virgin was organized at the Manual Labor School, Notre Dame, on the 13th. The following are the names of the officers: Director, Mr. P. Hurth, C. S. C.; President, Wm. J. Boulger; Vice-President, Anthony Spangler; Secretary,Patrick A. Donahoe; Treasurer, James Fenton; Censor, Hugh Deehan.
—The Columbians will give their yearly Entertainment on Tuesday evening, March 19th. As St. Patrick’s Day falls on Sunday this year, it was necessary to anticipate the celebration or postpone it; the latter alternative was chosen, and hence the celebration on Tuesday evening. We believe that the Columbians will give a good Entertainment.
—Some people have no gratitude. When he came back and found himself sick, his friends called on him with medicine. But though the mixtures were made with great care and by competent parties, he refused absolutely to take them and showed the visitors to the door. Well— we are determined to let him go without medicine hereafter. He has no gratitude.	.
—The 27th regular meeting of the Holy Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday, Feb. 27th. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. The President made a few remarks concerning .the Forty Hours’ Devotion. A recreation day was promised as soon as it could be conveniently had. Servers were appointed for the day, after which the meeting adjourned.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held their regular meeting on the 12th. Messrs.'McCullough, Murphy and Hertzog answered questions given at the previous meeting. Messrs. Regan and McCue declaimed. Messrs. J. J. Quinn and Ewing read essays. The debate for the next meeting is: “ Resolved that the granting of suffrage to the Freedmen was wise and expedient.”
—The Mutual Baseball Club held its first meeting Wednesday, March 13th. At this meeting Bro. Leander was elected Director; Bro. Paul, Honorary Director; C. Clarke, Captain; J. Matthews, Treasurer; G. Donnelly, Secretary; J. Doyle, Field Captain. The positions of the nine are.- J. Matthews, c.; J. Doyle, p.; E. Pennington, s. s.; C. Clarke, p. and cap.; G. Donnelly, 2 b.; J. Lumley, 3 b.; M. Burns, 1. f.; T. Nelson, c. f.; P. Nelson, r. £
—On Thursday, the 7th inst., the Philosophers’ Baseball Club was organized, and the following are the officers: Directer, Bro. Timothy; President, T. F. O’Grady; Captain, P. J. Cooney; Secretary, J. J. Quinn. The following
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
459
are the players and their positions: J. P. McHugh, p.; J. J. Quinn, c.; T. P. O’Grady, s. s.; P. J. Cooney, 1 b.; E. Arnold, 2 b.; J. P. Kinney, 3 b.; E. White, 1. f.; A. Johnson, c. f.; W. Arnold, r. f. Rev. Father Neyron was appointed surgeon.
—A meeting of the 2d nine Active Baseball Club was held March 10th, and the following officers were elected: G. Orr, Captain; J. Gibbons, Secretary; A. Burger, Jr., Treasurer; J. Scanlan, Field Captain; C. Van Mourick and H. Gramling, Censors. The members and their positions are as follows: G. Orr, catcher; A. Burger, Jr., pitcher; H. Gramling, s. s.; J. Gibbons, 1st base; T. Pleins, 2d base; A. Heitkam, 3d base; J. Scanlan, 1. f.; F. Weis-ert, c. f.; C. Van Mourick, r. f.
—A game of baseball was played between the Atlantic and Excelsior B. B. C. on Thursday, March 7th, which resulted in a score of 20 to 0. The Excelsiors have a crack pitcher, whose curve they were unable to hit. The positions of the players in Excelsiors are: Geo. F. Sugg, catcher; J. M. Byrne, pitcher; W. Cox, short-stop; M. H. Bannon, first base; W. A. Widdicombe, second base; W. B. Walker, third base; Chas. Walsh, left field; Chas. Hagan, centre base; Robt. E. Keenan, right base.
—Two law-students, one of whom is rather small but carries his head very high, and the other who is a six-footer, were in the Science Hall lately, when the smaller one seemed lost in admiration of a beautiful peacock before which he was standing; having an idea that he was considerable of a wit, he endeavored to get off something good at the expense of his companion. “Say, Sam,” said he, “can you tell me what that is?” “Well, I don’t know,” replied the latter, “ unless it be an emblem of your pride.” The little fellow collapsed at once.
—The Columbians will celebrate the fifth anniversary of their founding on the 25th of March. We understand that it will be duly kept. The officers elected at the meeting held March 25th, 1873, were: Director, Rev. A. Lemon-nier; President, J. A. Lyons; Vice-President, M. J. W-McAllister (at present Demonstrator of Anatomy in the Nashville Medical College); Recording Secretary, M. B. Torbett; Treasurer, E. M. Mullen; Librarian, J. B. Comer; Censor, M. P. Sullivan. All the members are now prominent business men except two, one of whom is a doctor and the other a school-teacher.
—The following is the score of the game of baseball played on Wednesday last between the Excelsior and the University nine:
EXCELSIOR.	R.	o.	UNIVERSITY.	R.	O.
G. Sugg, C		1	3	J. Deehan, e		0	3
J. Byrnes, p		3	0	E. McMahon, s. s		1	2
W. Cox, s. s		1	2	E. Maley, p		0	3
M. Bannon, lb		1	2	J. Fitzgerald, r. f		1	2
A. Widdieotnbe, 2 b		1	2	F. Hale, 3 b		1	1
W. Walker, 3 b		1	2	H Murphy, 1 b		1	2
C. Walsh, 1. f.		0	2	J. Cooney, 2 b		1	1
C. Hagan, e. f...		0	3	A. Hertzog, 1. f.		0	2
R. Keenan, r. f.		0	2	B. Claggett, c. f		0	2
	—	—			——
Total		s	18	Total		b	18
Umpire—J. Shugrue.
Scorer—0. McKone.
—It has always been a rule here that when a ball, either foot or base, went from one yard to another, it was thrown immediately back to the yard from which it came. It has always been looked upon as dishonorable not to live up to this rule. We are pained, however, to see that some few young men are inclined to break through it. Last fall a ball was destroyed, and now we have to record the fact that some young men, on finding a ball kicked over the fence, instead of returning it immediately, appropriated it to themselves, and it was some lime before it was returned. We would suggest, in order that a good feeling always exist between the two departments, that notes be given to any one breaking through the old rule. We are glad tore-cord the fact, however, that the large majority of the students, standing on their honor, live up to the rule. The breaking of it is left to a few without honor.
—On Thursday evening, Feb. 28lh, Rev. Father Zahm gave the third lecture of his course, the subject selected
being “Fire, and its Nature.” The lecturer first reviewed and criticized the opinions once held on the nature of this phenomenon. The olden schools considered it to be a primal element of nature, and some of them even placed it higher in the scale, as the primal element. Then he reviewed the steps leading to the discovery of the true nature of fire, showing the many and diverse turnings from the true path, especially that of the doctrine of Phlogiston, which so long held sway. Finally the modem theory, advanced by Lavoisier, was expounded and its development explained. The nature and properties of fire were then fully shown experimentally. The diverse products of combustion, and the diverse forms; the necessity of a supply of oxygen for ordinary combustion, and the absolute practicability of burning a substance under any circumstance if oxygen be present. The nature and properties of flame next were discussed, and the improvements in heating and light-giving flames explained. The convertibility of the terms combustible and supporter of combustion was brilliantly shown. Finally the lecturer traced the analogy existing between combustion and respiration and decay. At the close of the lecture the audience was favored with a splendid series of views of the great Centennial.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given in honor of St. Patrick’s Day, by the Columbians. The Entertainment will take place on Tuesday evening, at 7’clock, in Washington Hall:
PART FIRST. Music—“ St. Patrick’s Day ”.....................Band
Overture—“Peter Schmoll’’ (Weber)..........Orchestra
Oration...................................M. Bannon
Music......................................Orchestra
Declamation...............................A. Cougar
Address.................................J. Fitzgerald
Prologue................................J. Hettinger
Music—“ Wearing of the Green ”.................Band
PART SECOND.
THE COUNTRY ATTORNEY, Or Galway Practice in 1770. A Farce in Two Acts. Cast of Characters :
Pierce O’Hara.........................P.	J. Dougherty
Jacob Wylie............................ S. Spalding
Hawk.....................................A. Congar
Saunders.................................T. Fischel
Maldon...................................F. Luther
Charlcote................................B. Claggett
Fielding................................J.	Fitzgerald
Biggs....................................H. Murphy
Hilton (old Servant of Charlcote’s)..F. P. McMullen Sam..................................K.	Routledge
Ruggles................................G. Sampson
Miggs, 1st Farmer..........................J. Rogers
Declamation............................P. J. Hagan
THE IRISH LION.
A Farce in One Act. By John B. Buckstone.
Tom Moore................................J. Lambin
Squabbs..................................A. Keenan
Mr. Cei uleus Fizgig................... G. S. Walter
Wadds....................................C. Nodler
Capt. Dixon..............................J. Shugrue
Ginger.....................................T. Barry
Puffy....................................C. Devries
John Long..................................F. Keller
Mr. Echo?................................F. Hoffman
Mr. Crummy............................J.	McConlogue
Mr. Litter.................................A. Ginz
McKenzie.................................J. J. Houck
Mr. Partridge............................B. Claggett
Mr. Yawkins................................J. Houck
Mr. Jenks................................J. English
Mr. Slim ..................................J. Rogers
Mr. Shindy..............................L.	Eisenmann
Epilogue...................................F. Luther
Closing Remarks....................................
Music—“ Pat Molloy ”..........................Band
During the plays, music will be furnished by the Senior Orchestra, and between the acts by the University Orchestra and the Band.
460
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
E. F. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Congar, W. L. Dechant, E. Dempsey, E. C. Davenport, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, J. J. Fitzgerald, W. C. Farrar, J. Fuerstein, J. Garrett, S. Gooley. J. P. Hagan, M. Hogan, A. Hertzog, F. Hellman, J. Houck. J. 8. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, O. 8. Hamilton, F. B. Keller, J. F. Krost, Jas. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. C. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, V. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, AL McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, H. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn. J. P.’ Quinn, M. J. Regan, O. P. Rettig, J. Rothert, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, 8. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, P. Vogle, F. J. Walter, F. Williams, E. Ward.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, R. AL Anderson, J. G. Baker, AL T. Burns, M. H. Bannon,'J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, J. M. Byrne, J. B. Bertel-ing, C. J. Brinkman, J. F. Carrer, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh,* G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, L. H. Gar-ceau, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Halle, J. A. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, J. L L°marie, W. J. McCarthy, A. A. Miller, J. T. Matthews, T.E. Nelson, H. Newmark, F. T. Pleins, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, AL Roughan, K. L. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, F. J. Singler, C. Van Alourick, J. AI. Scanlan.	'
* C. E. Cavanagh was omitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. A. Seeger, G. Rhodius, A. Coghlin, O. Farrelly, W. McDevitt, J. Boose, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, W. Coolbaugh, J. Courtney, James Courtney, A. Hartrath, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, C. Garrick, H. Snee, G. M. Lambin, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, H. Kitz, C. Welty, J. Crowe, C. Bushey, J. AIcGrath, T. McGrath, F. Farrelly, J. Devine, T. O’Neill, T. Barrett.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, J. J. Coleman, W. L. Dechant, J. McEniiy, A. Hertzog, L. Evers, H. Maguire, AI. J. McCue, J. P, Kinney, J. A. Burger, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, J. D. Montgomery, P. W- Mattimore, P. F. AIcCullougb, J. J. Shugrue, F. W. Bloom, W. A. Widdicombe, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, J.
. Berteling, A. B. Congar.
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—J. G. Ewing, J.P. AIcHugb, F.W. Blocm, J. A. Burger, P. F. AIcCullough, J. Cooney, G. P. Cassidy, A. J. Hertzog, H. Maguire, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald ; Greek—J. McHugh, A. Hertzog, J. Healy, J. P. Kinney, F. Bloom, C. J. Clarke; Philosophy —J. G. Ewing, J.P. McHugh; English Composition—F. Ewing; Rhetoric—J. Fitzgerald, A. B. Congar; English Literature—L. J. Evers; Astronomy—J. Burger ; Analytical Alechanics—J. J. Coleman ; Linear Perspective—J. G. Ewing, J. J. Coleman ; Engineering—J. G. Ewing, J. J. Coleman ; Calculus—J. J. Coleman; Surveying—P. F. AIcCullough ; Trigonometry—A. Congar; Geometry—J. Fitzgerald, G. Cassidy, AL Regan ; Algebra—W. Alurphy; Physics—J. Burger, A- Hertzog; Chemistry-; Alineralogy—A. Hertzog, J. P. Quinn, P. Hagan, V. McKinnon, A. Congar, J. Shugrue.P. Alattimore; History—W. Alurphy, W. Arnold, E. Arnold, J. P. AIcHugh; Botany—J. A. Burger, T. F. O’Grady; Zoology—M. J. AIcCue, J. A. Burger, T.F. O’Grady; Physiology----------------------------------------Logic—S. Spalding, W. Ohlman, AI. Regan; Metaphysics—J. J. Quinn, E. F. Arnold, C. J. Clarke.
—No more hearty tribute was paid to the memory of th Holy Father than that of the Rev. M. W. Taylor (colored) a Methodist minister of Cincinnati. He recited the efforts of the Pope to ameliorate the condition of the Amei ican slave, and to educate promising youth of that race as pastors and instructors for their people, to lift them “ from the depths of ignorance and degradation to which slavery had plunged us.” To this work he contributed a share of the revenues of the Churchj adding funds from bis own purse. “The Sisters of Charity,” said Air. Taylor, “have gone even to the Bucktowns and the Five Points, and have accomplished wonders in the work of elevating our race. We ought to proclaim on the wings of the wind that we know these things and appreciate them. And then let our Protestant brethren command—as they may—the same gratitude from us by banishing from among them the prejudice that exists toward the black man.”

—The young ladies of the Chemistry Class return thanks to-AIother Superior for the beautiful picture, a copy of Murillo’s Immaculate Conception, which she presented to the Laboratory.
—On Sunday evening Aliss Russell read “Claribel’s Prayer” (author not given); and Aliss Thompson read “The Lenten Vigil,” by Eleanor C. Donnelly. “Der Kampf far die Freiheit des Vaterlandes ” was read by Florence Cregier; “Les consolations du Veillard,” by Anna AIcGrath; and “Curiosite et 1’indiscretion,” by Addie Geiser.
—On Wednesday evening Rev. Father Zibm, C. S. C., gave an interesting lecture on “Chemistry,” accompanied by experiments. At the close some excellent scenes from the late Centennial Exposition were given from the camera obscura, which proved very entertaining, especially to those who had visited them. The young ladies feel deeply obliged to Father Zahm.
—Very Rev. Father General sent a souvenir of “ Our Lady of Lourdes” to be given to the best Child of Mary. The only way to determine the best of those who are all good was to permit those to draw who had never lost their title to the First Tablet. Miss Perley and Aliss Foote, though not pupils, yet as Children of Mary drew for the prize, with the Alisses Aloran, Halligan, Alary Brown, Farrell, Rheinboldt and Pleins. Aliss Halligan was the fortunate one.
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Alisses J. Cooney, L. O’Neill, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds, A. Harris, M. Spier, M. O’Connor.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, S. Moran, E. Lange, I. Fisk, H. Russell, AL Ewing, B. Wilson.
2d Senior Class—Alisses B. Thompson, L. Keena, M. Birch, M. Danaher, N. AIcGrath, -M. Way, L. Kirchner, C. Silverthorne, M. Casey, 8. Hamilton, A. Wooten, M. Maloney.
3d Senior Class—Misses J. Burgert, M. Brown, H. Buck, E. Sehwass, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A Gordon, A. Morgan, E. Shaw, AI. Wagner^ T. Pleins, C. Hackett, A. Brown, J. Winston, AL Plattenburg, K. Lloyd, F. Cregier, L. Otto, E. Walsh, A. Cavenor, J.Kingfield, A. Ewing, A. Kirchner, M. Alulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Alisses M. Cleary, B. Parrott, M. Usselman, S. Rheinboldt, AL Hayes, L. Neu, M. Loeber, A. McGrath, L. Chilton, A. Geiser, E. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses E. Thomas, E Kelly, I. Richardson, M. Mullen, J. Kingsberry, AL Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McGuinnis, L. French, L. Wood, L. Van Namee, E. Hackett, F. Sunderland.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Butts, N. Lloyd, M. Cox, E. Wooten, J. Sunderland.
2d Jr. Class—Alisses P. Felt, B. Haney, M. Ivers, T. Haney. LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, AL Plattenburg, AI. Luce.	•	•
1st French Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, N. Keenan, Hope Russell, B. Wilson, N. McGrath, A. Hanis.
2d Drv.—Misses AL O’Connor, A. McGrath, A. Geiser, B. Reynolds, J. Cooney.
2d Class—Misses N. Galen, S. Moran, M. Ewing.
3d Class—Misses A. Ewing. L. Kirchner, M. Birch, M. Winston, M. Brown, M. Wagner, E. Mulligan, J. Butts.
2d Drv.—Misses M. Casey, M. Danaher, E. Shaw, F. King-field, M. Mulligan, M. Cox.
4th Class—Misses L. Neu, M. White, A. Brown, L. Wood, A. Cavenor, J. Winston, E. Foster.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Aliases A. Kirchner, A. Geiser.
2d Div.—Misses S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, L Walsh.
2d Class—Misses L. O’Neill, A. Henneberry, K. Barrett, F. Cregier.	‘
3d Class—Misses M. Way, 8. Hamilton, C. Boyce, M. Lambin, E. Miller.	..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
461
2d Div.—Misses N. King, M. Loeber, A. Farrell.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
1st Class—Misses A. Geiser, L. Kirchner, C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Misses M. Spier, L. O’Neill, N. Galen, A. Harris, N. Keenan.	1
2d Div.—Misses A. Gordon, H. Buck, M. Usselman, M. Kingfield.
3d Class—Misses L. New, J. Burgert, T. Whiteside.
2d Div.—Misses A. McGrath, A. Kirchner, N. McGrath, L. Walsh, E. Lange, A. Farrell, E. Foster, M. Brown.
4th Class—Misses A. Morgan, J. Cooney, K. Hackett, A. Maloney, P. Gaynor, N. King.
2d Div.—Misses E. Richardson, M. Winston, M. Way, M. Mullen.
5th Class—Misses K. Reardon, M. White, J. Winston, K. Barrett, M. Danaher, L. Papin, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, A. Cavenor, M. Wagner.
2d Div.—Misses L. Otto, M. Cleary, A. Ewing, M. Plattenburg, B. Thompson, L. French, N. Hackett, L. Wood, C. Van Namee, C. Boyce, E. Miller.
6th Class—Misses I. Fisk, 8. Rheinboldt, M. Mulligan, L. Fox, E. Thomas, M. Lambin, M. Ewing, M. Casey, M. Lauber.
2d Div.—Misses M. Hake, M. Birch, E. Kelly, E. Mulligan, E. Wright, B. Parrott.
7th Class—Misses A. McKinnis, 8. Hamilton, A. Barnes.
8th Class—Miss E. Wooten.
Harp—Misses N. Galen, L. Chilton.
Harmony—Misses Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser, C. Silverthorne.
Technical Exercises—Misses Wilson, Pleins, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser, C. Silverthorne, M. Spier, N. Galen, A. Gordon, H. Buck, L. Neu, L. Foster, E. Lange, M. Brown, A. K'rchner, K. Hackett, E. Richardson, A. Farrell.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.	'
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses D. Gordon, A. Brown, J. Winston, K. Hackett, L. Otto, K. Reardon.
2d Div.—Misses S Rheinboldt, A. Geiser, E. Richardson.
4th Class—Misses A. Farrell, M. Casey, A. Wooten, C. Silverthorne, M. Wins'on, J. Burgert.
5th Class—Misses E. Galen, M. Hake, A. Ewing, N. McGrath, M. Mulligan, L. Schwass, A. McGrath, M. White, A. Peak, N. Keenan, L. Chilton.
General Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee, L. Miller, L. Fox.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.	’
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Miss E. Lange.
3d Class—M'ss A. Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses M. Plattenburg, H. Buck, S. Hamilton, J. Burgert, A. Farrell, J. Butts.
5ru Class—Misses L. Otto, M. Way, E. Miller, H. Russell, L. French, L. Chilton, E. Mulligan.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Shaw, B. Thompson, L. Neu, L. Otto, M. Luce, K. Hackett, A. Thomas, M. Cleary, A. Morgan, M. Danaher, M. Sullivan, A. Brown, M. Mullen, L. Keena, A. Peak, N. King, E. Richardson, N. McGrath, B. Parrott, K. Llovd, M. Brown, D. Gordon, E. Foster, M. Birch, E. Wright, E. Thomas, M. Hayes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, L. Wood, J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, A. McKinnis. L. Van Namee, N. Hackett, E. Kingfield, M. Hake, L. Fox, M. Mulligan, M. Ivers.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses 8. Maran, N. Davis, B. Reynolds, M. Spier.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds.
3d Class—Misses N. Davis, L. Kirchner, M. O’Connor.
HONORABLV MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL .NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses L. Neu, M. Usselman, J. Winston, M. Winston, A. Farrell, M. Spier, B. Wilson.
2d Div.—Misses M. Luce, M. Hayes, I. Fisk, E. Richardson, K. Lloyd, D. Gordon.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M.
O’Connor, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds, 8. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, C. Silverthorne, M. Casey, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, N. King, M. Maloney, C. Riordan, M. Halligan, L. Otto, M. Brown, H. Buck, M. Wagner, T. Pleins, A. Cavenor, K. Hackett, J. Burgert, E. Schwass, M. Sullivan, N. Galen, M. Foster, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, M. Hayes, M. Cleary, B. Parrott, J. Barnes, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, A. Barnes, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Harris, H. Russell. M. Ewing, N. McGrath. M. Way, N. Keenan, 8. Hamilton, M. Birch, L. Kirchner, K. Barrett, F. Cregier, M. Plattenburg, A. Thomas, E. Walsh, C. Lloyd, A Farrell, D. Gordon, J. Winston, M. Winston, E. Miller, E. Thomas, M. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Kirchner, F. Kingfield, L. Chilton, J. Kingsbury, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, L. Van Namee, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses A. McGrath, A Geiser, M. Lambin, N. Hackett, L. Fox, F. Sunderland.
—The tribes of Ecuador known as the Zaparos formed the subject of a paper lately read before the Anthropological Institute, London. The Zaparos wander about in separate hordes, and have little if any union between the various bands. They have wonderful tracking power, and abstain from eating heavy meat. They seem to derive great enjoyment from the destruction of human or other life, but they will not touch the alligator. Courtship is sometimes carried on by a silent invitation by the suitor to his elect to cook his food; if she refuses he tries elsewhere.	.
—A good illustration of the equal power of two votes is given in a story, which seems to be common property, of Judge Story, which he was very fond of telling. One cold and stormy election day he felt it his duty, as usual, to go to polls. He ordered his carriage for this purpose, but just as he was getting in a sudden thought struck him. “ Have you voted yet ? ” he asked the driver. “ No, sir.” “Well,” asked the Judge, “and whom do you intend to vote for?” “I shall vote for A,” answered the driver. “Well,” continued the Judge, laughing, “I should vote for B; so you may put up the carriage again, and we will both stay at home and pair off our votes.” The coachman was of equal importance at the ballot-box with the learned Judge.
—Whilst walking one day alone in the halls of the Vatican, Pius IX perceived a young man contemplating with perfect delight a fresco of Raphael’s. The Pope was •careful not to disturb him, but the young man soon turned round and saw he was observed by an old white-haired man, with a sweet and intelligent smile. Pius IX guessed he was an artist. “You are an artist?” said the Pope. “Yes, Holy Father.” “ You have come to Rome to study ? ” “Yes, your Holiness.” “You are prodably a pupil at the Academy?” Alas! no.” “You study, then, under a master?” “No, your Holiness; I am too poor; I study alone and Raphael is my master.” “ If you wish to go to the Academy I will pay for you.” “Really—” “Da you not thank me?” “But your Holiness perhaps does not.iy know—that—” “Speak.” said the P.ipe, with kindness.^/ “I am a Protestant.” “Well, well,” said the Pope, laughing; “that is not the business of the Academy.” George Johnstone from that day became a pupil at the Academy.
—Pius IX visited one day, unexpectedly, the French military hospital. “ Oh! ’tis the Pope! Ah ! what an honor! ” exclaimed one of those bearded soldiers; “ I shall now die happier.” The Pope stopped at each bed, touched the poor patients, consoled them, blessed them and distributed amongst them medals of the Blessed Virgin. At the close of the visit an attendant in the infirmary, a native of Brittany, advanced towards the Pope and touching his hat attempted to speak, but his timidity was such that he could not articulate the words: “Pope, pardon me—but, this is, I have one thing to ask you.” “ And what is it, my friend ?” replied the Pope with kindness. “It is a great favor! I wish exceedingly to have a crucifix.” “ But I have given you one, and you have it in your hand.’’ “Pope, pray pardon me, this is for me, but I want another for my mother; such a good and fervent Catholic, I promise you, and she deserves it more than I do.” The Pope, giving him a handsome crucifix, said: “ Here is a crucifix for yourself; send the other to your mother, and keep this one in remembrance of me.”—Catholic Review.

462
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, NDIANA
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holv Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.	,
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.	.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.	.
For Catalogue, address:	'
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Name P. 0., Ind.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester.			12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,					3.10 A.M.	1250 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			446 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
MftTiRfifild.			7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline		.... Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,				9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,........ 				10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
PI v month..			3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,			7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.		- - - . -
Plvmonth			2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,								8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest-			10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline.			....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,					12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,....				2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester. 					6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 «
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. F. & T. A.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY,
Time Table, December 26,1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	NO. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		4.35 P. M	12.25 P. M.	7.25 A. M.
“ Kokomo		7.10 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Peru		8.10 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis....	5.30 p. m.	4.10 A. M.	9.10 A. M.
“ Kokomo		2.55 “	1.50 “	6.33	“
Ar. Peru		1.50 “	12.38 “	5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.	12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
A NEW SYSTEM
OF
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind,
Published by FB. PUSTET, 52 Barclay street, NEW YORK, ani 204 Vine street, CiNCINNATl.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.	'
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen. •
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
IJSTZDIA-lSrA-
Founded 1842.	- Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
.	Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
463
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05p m.
4	38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
5	2^ 43 a m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Oleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’c West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpl.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars,	•
The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono, A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ? Sonnet, Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LYONS,
IVotre Dame, JLnd.; or, The Scholastic Printing Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
ZPTVTIR/LOIC SHICKEY,
proprietor of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions._
P. SHICKEY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
' Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00 pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST; PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Ur,Mo. TYPE FOUNDERS, CHICAGO, Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metaL Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
Thb Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Lose & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	jan 5-3m
464
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BKOWN HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
I Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJSTNTNG «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ”741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	BODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’63), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty- Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the H. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
NIJITTILTA M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A- O’REILLY—of ’69—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy 11,1877.
	♦Mall	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 •*	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson....	3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.u	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55	7 40 “	10 30 *•	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 pm. “ N. Dame—8F2 •	6 38 Ar. Niles— 9 25 ”	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
• G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind. •	•
'Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COI/UMJBTAUV. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
•	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. V E M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation-of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND DERA.ED, published weekly’ by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) SI.50 per annum.	*
Hotels.
CHIC EE DOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
mllE BOND DOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles, MichI igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
TFIEM ATTESON DOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
ED NV ARD D. ELYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Qp' CALLING CARDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
Cl pt GENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic ZieJ Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. Bjr means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of al] the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number.’ The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more conveniet-t location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the prircipal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and m most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Hlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger	 Amateur’s size, 2)4 in. x VA-.. High School or Acad, size,2^x3 College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf sp	25 in box $ 50 1 50 &in.Eh( ecimens	50 inbox $1 3 slf epee 		inbox 1UU $1 50 | $ 1 6	1	5 	 1 10 imens 1 25 	|	500	200 $.2 10 25 50 100	300 $ 3 25 50 1 00 3 00
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Felloio of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Scie-ences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York,