The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS. x
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 27, 1873.
Number 18»-
Aaecdotes of Public Men.
BY JOHN W. FORNEY.
Although “Anecdotes of Public Men” Is rather long for the columns of The Scholastic, yet we think our readers will not grumble at us for republishing the article from the Horning Chronicle.
I was too young to witness the debate on Foote’s resolution in the Senate between Hayne and Webster, in 1830, and the almost equally interesting discussion on the Force Bill in 1833—described in No. 17 of these anecdotes; but I was present as an officer of the United States House of Repre-sentatves in 1854, when the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was passed, which obliterated the Missouri Compromise and established the following principle, on the motion of Senator Douglas of Illinois: That “ the true intent and meaning of this act is not to legislate slavery into any Territory or State, nor to exclude it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof perfectly free to form and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way, subject only to the Constitution of the United States.”
Far more important in its consequences than the Force Bill, it is not my purpose to examine into the motives which prompted this measure, but to refer to some of the actors in the memorable scenes in both houses before the final passage of the bill in the Senate on the night of March 3rd, 1854. Justice, indeed, requires that I should say, what history will approve when the time comes for impartial analysis and judgment, that from this principle Senator Douglas never swerved down to the hour of his death in Chicago, June 3rd, 1861.
There were some extraordinary passages in that great debate, and I have thought it might not be out of place to revive a few, simply to show the temper of the times, and the character of the leading minds. Douglas was in the prime of life, having just past his forty-first year, and was the leader of an enthusiastic party which longed to make him President. Though my preference was for Buchanan, and I enjoyed the full confidence of President Pierce, a candidate for re-election, my relations with Douglas were those of daily intercourse and intimacy. Three years my senior, our companionship was almost like the companionship of boys. He was generous, sincere, and candid—ready to run any risk to serve a friend, as unsuspecting as man could be, and never afraid to express his opinions. Instinctively a statesman, he was also instinctively a gentleman, and though he thought and spoke much on public affairs, he could throw off his cares with singular ease. There was nothing unnatural or affected in Douglas. He was a real man throughout, and rarely allowed a political difference to degenerate into personal alienation. Impetuous and rash sometimes, his anger bore fire like the flint, and soon grew
cold. He was not an ornamental orator, but his magnet- . ism was more successful than poetry, and his masculine * fervor more effective than ordinary logic.	. ;
Before his great closing speech.on the evening of the 3rd., of March, 1854, many exciting scenes had taken place in the Senate and the House.	.
. February 29,1854, Lewis Cass supported the bill. He was then 72, a great age, and yet he lived till'June 17,1866. His career resembles that of John Quincy Adams in length, and various vicissitudes. Born at Exeter, New Hampshire, he crossed the Alleghanies on foot when he was a poor boy of seventeen. He was in the Legislature of Ohio; was the author of the bill that stopped the conspiracy of Aaron Burr; Marshal of Ohio under Jefferson; an officer of the regular army in 1812; fought in the war against the British on the Canadian frontier; served under Gen. Har-. rison at the battle of the Thames; Governor of Michigan Territory from 1813 to 1831, in which capacity he laid the foundation of his princely fortune; Secretary of War under Jackson till 1837, when he was sent Minister to France from 1836 to 1842; a Senator in Congress from Michigan from 1845 to 1848; re-elected after his defeat for President by Gen. Taylor, he remained in the Senate till President Buchanan called him into his Cabinet, where he remained till Dec. 1860, when he resigned really in consequence of the evident defection of his colleagues. His purity of private life, his temperance, literary tastes, and philosophical tendencies, doubtless prolonged his years on earth, and always made him an object of interest. He was not a good speaker, but when he spoke these words he was heard with great respect.-	-
“ It requires but little exertion to swim with the current, while he who opposes it must put forth all his strength, and even then may become its victim; Popular feeling is a power hard to resist, and the reproach of being a dough-face belongs to him who panders to it, and not to him who strives to maintain the constitutional right of all, even in opposition to his own community, which holds in its hands his political life and death. This is precisely the condition which no Southern man has ever had to encounter in connection with this grave subject, and it is precisely the condition which he cannot comprehend, or will not do justice to, when the course of a Northern man is in question. It is not enough, with too many of the Southern politicians, .that public men from the free States maintain, firmly and unflinchingly, the rights of the slaveholding portion of the Union, and stand ready to meet the consequences, however disastrous to themselves, rather than participate in their violation; this, I say, is not enough; sometimes indeed, it is nothing, unless every opinion of the South upon the general question’is adopted, and unreserved allegiance professed to the declaration that slavery is the best condition of human society. Now, sir, I believe, no such doctrine, .and not believing it I will not promise to believe it, from whatever high quarter announced.”
An interesting episode took place during this historical
138	. THE SCH
O L A s TI C .
discussion, which, showed the broad difference between Northern and Southern Democrats on the subject of slavery. Albert Gallatin Brown, Senator in Congress from Mississippi, still living [69; May 13,1873,] in that State, is one of the best-hearted men I ever knew. His very looks indicate his genial nature. In society a great favorite, and always ready to do a kind act, he never touched the subject of slavery without saying the most violent things. Unlike most other Southern men of his school, it was impossible to believe that this natural gentleman in all his relations, this impulsive, whole-souled fellow, could seriously entertain the wild ideas that fell from his lips in the torrent of his talk. He replied to Gen. Cass, Feb. 24, and expressly to the purpose, I quote as follows:
“ Nowhere in this broad Union but in the slave-holding States is there a living, breathing exemplification of the beautiful sentiment, that all men are equal. In the South all men are equal. I mean, of course, white men ; negroes are not men, within the meaning of the Declaration. If they were, Madison, Jefferson and Washington, all of whom lived and died slaveholders, never could have made it, for they never regarded negroes as their equals, in any respect. But men, white men, the kind of men spoken of in the Declaration of Independence, are equal in the South, and they are so nowhere else. It is slavery that makes them so.
“In the South we have but one standard of social merit, and, that is integrity. Poverty is no crime and labor is honorable. The poorest laborer, if he has preserved an unsullied reputation, is on a social level with all his fellows. The wives and daughters of our mechanics and the laboring men stand not an inch lower in the social scale than the wives and daughters of our Governors, Secretaries and Judges. It is not always so with you, and I will tell you why. The line that separates menial from honorable labor with you is not marked by a caste or distinct color, as it is with us. In the South, as in the North, all the mechanics are treated as honorable, and they are not the less so because sometimes practiced by blacks. It may surprise our Northern friends, but all the South will attest its truth, that nothing is more common in the South than to see the master and the slave working together at the same trade. And the man who would breathe a suspicion that the master had sunk one hair’s breadth in the social scale in consequence of this kind of contact would, by general consent, be written down as an ass.
“ But there are certain menial employments which belong exclusively to the negro—these furnish a field of .labor that the white man never invades, or if he does, he is not tempted there by gain. Why, sir, it would take you longer to find a white man, in my State, who would hire himself out as a bootblack, or a white woman who would go to service as a chambermaid, than it took Captain Cook to sail around the world. For myself, in thirty years, I have not found a single one.
“Would any man take his-bootblack, would any lady take her chambermaid into companionship ? We do not in the South, for they are always negroes. Mechanics, overseers, and honest laborers, of every kind, are taken into companionship, and treated, in all respects, as equals. It is their right, and no one thinks of denying it.”
I was in the Senate when this rhapsody was uttered, and was not surprised when Senator A. C. Dodge, of Iowa, a young man not older than Brown, and a Democrat without reproach, took the floor in prompt reply. He was very much excited. His straight, Indian figure, his strong features, his defiant air, added effect to the loud tone which rang like a trumpet-call through the chamber:
Ms. President : I have heard with mingled feelings of astonishment and regret the speech which has just been made by the Senator from Mississippi [Mr. Brown]. No sentiments
to which I have ever listened during my senatorial career have ever made so unfavorable an impression as-those which have just fallen from him. With perfect respect for that Senator and the Senate, I desire that he and it shall know my opinions upon: some topics connected with the subject under consideration, and to which I think he has most improperly alluded. Upon those matters I wish to say, then, I differ from him as widely as. the poles are asunder; arid if anything were wanting now to satisfy me there is imminent danger that at some period in the history of this country it is to be brought to the shock of arms, the sentiments which he has avowed, and the antagonistic ones going to an entire equality between the white and black races, which have been uttered by Freesoilers upon the floor, would satisfy me of the fact beyond doubt. Sir, I tell the Senator from Mississippi—I speak it upon the floor of the American Senate, in presence of my father, who will attest its truth—that I have performed and do perform when at home all of those menial services to which that Senator referred in terms so grating to my feelings. As a general thing, I saw my own wood do all my own marketing. I never had a servant of any color to wait upon me a day in my life. I have driven teams—horses, mules and oxen—and considered myself as respectable then as I now do, or any Senator upon this floor is.”
Brown replied at once in his best temper, and the explanation was received. What added to the interest of the oc-. casion was the fact that as the son spoke these glowing words he called as his witness his venerable father, Henry Dodge, then Senator from Wisconsin, who could not have been less than seventy-five, and had been an Indian fighter in the Black Hawk war, a colonel in the army, Governor of Wisconsin, and delegate when it was a Territory. His romantic history, white hair, and Roman dignity, formed a striking contrast with the impetuous manner and vigorous eloquence of the young black-haired Senator, his favorite and devoted son.	.
Correspondence.
St. Laurent College, Canada, -December 15, 1873.
Editor Scholastic :—Rev. Sir,—While the residents of the great Republic are anxiously awaiting the termination of the present critical state of affairs, we of this snow-crowned land bask in in the sunshine of comparative safety, and pass the tedious hours of winter either among the monuments of Grecian and Roman genius or amid volleys of snowballs which fly at intervals from the Juniors’ recreation grounds, often to the imminent danger of the eyes and persons of the stately Seniors. As you very justly remarked in a recent number of your sprightly journal, the students of St. Laurent are of the “ go-ahead,” class, not only in the literary but also in the athletic world, where lord and serf meet on equal terms. I will not be accused of partiality when I affirm that the students of our Alma Plater excel in everything, for there are, abundant proofs to substantiate my statement. The unprejudiced visitor who strolls through our spacious grounds, even on the coldest day will depart from amid the active, -cheerful boys, satisfied that Sparta still , lives, and that effeminacy is a quality which is not cultivated at St. Lauxent. If he but enter the College parlor he will behold the base-ball trophies of Lower Canada, now in possession of the Concord Club, whose members wear laurels won on many a hard-fought field. To prove that the championship games were well contested I need only give the score of the last game, which at the close of the ninth inning stood 2 to 3 in favor
THE SCHOLASTIC.
139
of the Concords. The St. Laurentians plume themselves not a little over their victories, and often express a wish to meet their brothers of Notre Dame in a friendly contest. Of course such a thing is an impossibility.
A few words now concerning our recent literary entertainments. The members of the St. Patrick’s Society have added a new and interesting feature to their already varied programme, in the shape of a “ moot court.” The first case, one of murder, was tried a few days since, and literally took all by storm. The attorneys, John Burke and James Coyle, won golden opinions, as did the Judge of the evening, Thomas O’Gara, whose charge to the jury will long be remembered. But while the members of the Literary Societies are jubilant over their success, they cannot forget the kindness and ability of Rev. Father O’Mahony, under whose ausp’ces the entertainments were formed, and to whose tireless energy and versatile talent they owe not a little of their success. He will soon depart to a distant land, but still his name will not be forgotten in St. Laurent. It will long remain as a shining light to guide us onward over the narrow path which leads to immortality.
The Feast of the Immaculate Conception Was celebrated here with becoming pomp, and forty youthful lives were devoted, in an especial manner, to the service of the Mother of God. The banquet held on that evening may well be termed a<l feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
In all, Rev. Editor, I think the faculty of St. Laurent may feel a laudable pride in the achievements of the students, while they in turn can never forget the teachings of their cherished Alma Mater. In conclusion, the St. Laurentians wish their brother-students of Notre Dame a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.	Celt.
Another Year.
Another year has rolled away Into the gulf of time forever, Once more the sun of New Year’s Day Gilds mountain hoar and shining river.
Since last the yule logs graced our hearth,
• The hand of Time’s wrought changes dreary, War’s dreadful thunders shook the earth, Proud nations sunk, dejected, weary.
A banner bearing Satan’s name
Now floats in triumph o’er those towers Once blazoned with the Pontiff’s fame, Rome’s sacred, chaste, and sinless bowers. .
Vain man heeds not Religion’s wail, But raises shrines opposed to Heaven, The demons Gold and Lust prevail, The purest ties on earth are riven.
One bark alone dreads not the sea Now lashed to foam by winds of error, Before it sin and malice flee,
Its pilot knows nor fear nor terror.
On high it bears the flag of life
In glory from the masthead flying, Beneath its prow the waves of strife Grow quickly calm and undefying.
Change! change ! has marked the work of men, But thine, O God’s unmoved as ever I
She’s still opposed to pride and sin, -
The Mother pure of high endeavor;
Though traitors wound her virgin heart
And wring a tear from eyes so tender, Thy Voice can stili avert the dart, And punish too the proud offender.
Poor France, the faithful and the brave, No longer wears a badge of glory, ’
She weeps above each hero’s grave
Whose name is shrined in endless story I ;
Though conquered, still her valiant hand
Is raised to shield the spouse of Heaven,— O noble France! immortal land 1
Thou e’er for Christ hast nobly striven!
Far westward roams our Mother’s gaze, To Erin ’mid the breakers rising, .
There, there, a million voices praise
The ancient Faith, none e’er despising.
Unknown to guile, they ever prize
The pure old creed their fathers cherished, For which they left their native skies, And oft by tyrants’ orders perished.
The hands of faction rend no more
The garb of Erin brightly shining,
The beams of union gild her o’er, And light her features long repining.
The Cross illumes each ancient hill,
And lights the valleys clothed in beauty, .
By snow-clad mount, and gurgling rill
Her sons pursue the path of duty.
Beyond the main, Columbia rears
Her lovely head in sylvan splendor, She dried our weeping Mother’s tears
And vows to be her brave defender.
Young daughter of the word divine,
Well worthy of a wreath undying, O cherish e’er Redemption’s Sign
The scowls of earth and hell defying 1
And thou, O God! still guide thy Spouse Throughout the earth; assist her mission, Let every land her cause espouse,
And shield the pledge of man’s salvation!
Let us who sail in Peter’s bark,
Now join our hands, forget our quarrels,
Let union’s ray illume the dark,
And wreath our Mother’s brow with laurels.
Thus shall we pass this New Year well.
And ere again the yule logs brighten,
Dispersed shall be the friends of hell,	.
And justice fair the earth enlighten.	Cblt.
Catholic Fair.—The attendance at the Catholic fair last night was immense, and mirth and pleasure reigned, supreme, while votes for the favorite candidates for the prizes rained fast and furious. A whole column would not do justice to the gaiety of the scene or the elegance and tastefulness of the imposing and almost endless array of fancy articles. Among the many beauitiful things we saw, perhaps the most valuable and the one to be the most appreciated by the lucky person who shall draw it, was a large and elegant bronze medal, made of the purest metal, finely engraved, representing the (Ecumenical Council in session. It was presented by Rev. E. Sorin, of Notre Dame University, Indiana, brought by him directly from Rome, and now graces the table presided over by Mrs. Foote.—Burlington Baily Gazette.
Healey, the American portrait painter, has established himself permanently in Paris.
140
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Schulastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AU communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERM:
Oneyear..........................$1 00
Single copies (acts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’Office.
Death. of Sr. Benoit.
Another of the old pioneer band that came to Notre Dame in the first years of its existence has departed from the scene of his labors, well laden with good deeds and merits. Perhaps no one at Notre Dame will be longer remembered by the old students than Bro. Benoit, who for twenty years ruled as chief Prefect of the Senior Department. And we state what we know, as an old student ourself, that the announcement of his death will cause all the many men, now engaged in the busy pursuits of life, who were once under his control, to pause in the whirl of business, and say: “ God rest his soul!”—as we now do fervently from our heart; and many a pleasant recollection of bygone days, many a well-timed advice, many a trait of sterling worth, hidden though they were under a rough exterior, will come to mind, and the more successful those men have been in life, the more they have adhered to the strict rules of honor and Christian rectitude and avoided the vices and dishonesty that may have beset them, the more heartfelt will be the aspiration: “ God rest his soul! he was a good man; simple in his ways and thoroughly in earnest.”
Bro. Benoit for some years had been ailing, and had retired from the position of chief Prefect of the Senior Department. A few weeks before his death it was evident to those who knew him well that he was sinking; but on the morning of his death—last Saturday, the 19th—he felt better, and spoke cheerfully to those around, especially to his fellow-countiyman and old comrade, Bro. Auguste, who, despite the fact of Bro. Benoit’s feeling better, noticed a fearful change in him, and told him that he was near unto death. And so it proved. Bro. Benoit had received Holy Communion that morning, and just before noon it was evident he was dying,—there was time to administer to him the Sacrament of Extreme Unction,—and thus, in the 66th year of his age, strengthened by the Sacraments of our holy Mother the Church, and surrounded by his friends who were praying for him, he died the death of the just, and we hope his soul is at rest. He was buried in the graveyard of the Community, near the Scholasticate, at three o’clock Sunday afternoon, all the old students, the members of the Faculty and Community, paying him the ast tribute of respect by forming his cortege to the grave.
The letter of Mr. Forney was handed to us with a request to republish it. We intended to cut it down, the better to suit our narrow space, but when we set about doing so we found we had to print the whole or none; and though it is long, for our pages, we preferred .to print the whole of it—and get the thanks .of our readers.
Splendid Christmas weather.
We wish you all a Happy New Year, and plenty of ’em.
Hats sometimes get mixed, and then again they suffer an entire eclipse.
Several of our friends from South Bend and the neighborhood -were present at the Columbians’ Exhibition.
The Grammar Class (Junior Department) have a newspaper. Ten editors each week in rotation. An excellent idea.	' ‘
We had the pleasure of sitting near the Rev. Chaplain of St. Mary’s, Monday evening, and being edified by his-remarks during the Exhibition.
Notices of books and periodicals crowded out this week, besides several articles which have been received and which we would like to have published.
Quite a number of Students have gone home to spend the Holidays. Tnrough the kind courtesy of the officers of the Lake Shore road special cars for the Students were ready at the South Bend depot, Tuesday morning, at which time the greatest number left for home—sweet home!
We would like to mention the names of all the members of the Columbian Club who took part in the two plays, but we have not space. Without any invidious comparison we must, however, leave it on record that Mr. Rofinot fairly won our heart by the manner he showed the poetry of motion.
The new ’bus, which we mentioned last week, opened the Christmas Holidays by appearing promptly to take the first batch of homeward-bound youth in time for the train Monday morning. Mr. Shickey deserves the praise and patronage of all our friends for his enterprise; and we sincerely hope that he will soon realize a handsome profit on the considerable amount of money he has invested in this conveyance. It is the first vehicle in South Bend, and that is saying a good deal, for South Bend, unlike Laporte, that boasts of its solitary ’bus—has quite a number of hacks and ’buses for the accommodation of the throng of travellers who get off of almost every train of the three railroads that bring them to the city. Mr. Shickey will always be found by our friends at the Michigan Southern & Lake Shore depot, and he will bring them promptly, speedily, smoothly and gently, to the College and Academy, and he may be relied to be “on time” for any train they may wish to reach. Success to him!
The Columbianss’ Entertainment on the 22cL
The Columbians fully realized the expectations of those who knew what they could do, and went beyond all the anticipations of those who had no opportunity of knowing what the members of the Club could do when put upon their mettle.	.
Their Entertainment was original, unique and united from beginning to end. There was variety, and, at the same time, unity. The play, which in some respects was an extravaganza in form, contained within itself more merit and a greater amount of good sense and sound teaching than many far more pretentious plays. t We hope the author will give us another—nay, many more—without trimming his exuberant fancy, and keeping just the same proportion of the salt of thoroughly correct teaching and sound morality'that season the main play of the evening.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The second play was amusing, and in that was in accord with the first; the young men who took part in it, like those in the first play, performed their parts well.
We cannot pretend to give a detailed critical account of the exercises—we leave that to more competent hands. We simply record as a matter of history that at the close, well-merited praise was given by the Rev. President of the College to Band, Orchestra and dramatic performers.
Class Honors.
FRIDAY DECEMBER 19, 1873.
.	Commercial Department.
•	Senior Class.—W. Meyer, L. Loser, J. Bcegan, J. McGrath,
W. Ball; F. Buter, J. Browne, L. Sanders, J. McDermott, J.Fal-vey, J. Devine, A. Hess, F. Hubert, C. Fnhrer, P. O’Sullivan, B. Baca, R. O’Connor, C. Bardsher, E. Dunn, J. H. Gillespie, J. L. Gregory, J. O’Connell, F. Egan, J. Wolfe, E. Halpin, T. Flan-igen.
Junior Class.—J. E. O’Brien, G. Gross, J. Brophy, C. Otto, !	J. Soule, M. Keeler, J. F. Rudge, A. Horne, G. Amann, J. Lon-
i	ergan, A. Kreichgauer, J. Barry, P. Lilly, M. McCullough, M. Mc-
j	Govern, A. Martineau, J. Boyle. T. Cashin, H. Esch, H. Pendill,
J. Mathews, F. Pendill.
Holl of Honor.
I .	senior department.
.	W. Appleyard, F.Buter, W. Ball, J. Browne, J. Berry, C. Ber-
.	del, M. Bastarache, J. Brogan, J. Callery, M. Caldwell, H. Cas-	sidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, P. Cooney, E. Dunn,
1	T. Daily, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, B. Euans, J. Egan, H. Esch, T.
*	" Flanigen, J. Falvey, J. Fielding, C. Falvey, J. Gregory, T. Grier,
•	E. Graves,E. Gribling, C. Hess, V. Hansen, W.-Hughs, E. Halpin,
j	A. Horne, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, L. Hayes, H. Hayes, A. Kreich-
‘	gaur, J. Kennedy, J. E. Kelly, P. Lilly, J. R. Mullin, J. McManus,
•	A. Martineau, S. Marks, T. Morass, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis,
I	J. McDermott, J, Murphy, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, E.
i	McSweeney, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, J. Mathews.
:	J. McDonough, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, R. O'Connor, J.E,
O’Brien, J. M. O’Brien, M. O’Day, P. O’Sullivan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, M. Proctor, H. Pendill, F. Pendill, J, Rudge, T. Rourke, H. P. Small, H. T. Small, R. Staley, T .Trabbic, W. Van’t Woud, P. Van Dusen, J. Wolfe, J. Ward, H. Walker,' C. Walters.
JUNIORS.
F. Weisenberger, J. Golsen, Willie Allen, George Amann, William Ames, Joseph Bergan, Christian Burger, P. Breen, Louis |	Busch, Philip Corbett, James Caren, John Cullen, James Dore,
'	John Ewing, Frank Eg'an, .Charles Freese, Charles Furer,
■	George Gross, E. Gramling, Thomas Gallagher, Dennis Gorman,
i ,	Bradley Hersey, Charles Hake, Maithias Jeffers, Michael Kinsella,
1	John McGrath, George McNulty, Joseph McHugh, Charles
Meyer, James Minton, Joseph Marks, Frederick Miller, S. Munson, E. S. Ratigan, John Rider, Theodore Sauvageot, Frank Stamm, John Soule, William Schulthics, James Smith, Louis Smith, T. Solon, H. Shephard, Edgar Wood.
CHICAGO PATRONAGE OF NOTRE DANE.
" A fact worthy of notice is that the present Mayor of Chicago, H. D. Colvin, had two sons attending Notre Dame University for several years; the present Treasurer, Dan ;	O’Hara, had a son here a few years ago; Hon. S. S. Hayes,
the present Comptroller, has now two sons here in the Senior Class; J. McCleery, the present City Collector, has a son here; the present Superintendent of Police, J.
• Rhem, had sons at school here for several years; as had P
also the present Captain of Police, Mr. Gund; and, neither last nor least, Robert Pinkerton is well remembered as one of our best students.
For the Holy Father.
COLLECTIONS TAKEN UP IN THE DIOCESE OF FORT WAYNE IN AID OF OUR HOLY FATHER, PIUS IX.
Port Wayne, Cathedral...................... $295	45
Fort Wayne, St Mary’s....................... 155 15
Fort Wayne, St. Paul’s...................... 62 00
Fort Wayne, St. Peter’s....................... 20 00
Lafayette, St. Mary’s.............;......... 132 63
Lafayette, St. Boniface..................... 80 00
Logansport, St. Vincent’s..................	112 00
Logansport, St. Joseph’s.................... 61 33
Huntington.................................. 12515
Michigan City............................... 116 00
Peru........................................ 82 00
St. John’s.................................. 76 75
Mishawaka................................... 6518
New Haven................................... 57 56
Cedar Lake and West Creek................... 43 50
Crawfordsville.............................. 40 10
Hesse Cassel................................ 40 00
Leo......................................... 45 00
Delphi...................................... 35 00
Kentland.................................... .33 78
Decatur .................................... 32 00
Arcola...................................... 30 50
Avilla.......................7.............. 29 68
Columbia City.....................25 50
Union City.................................. 2475
Laporte (English)........................... 24 00
Laporte, St. Joseph’s....................... 12 00
Crown Point..........................;...... 21 39
Renssalaer........1.......1...... 1	2T 30
Attica and Missions........................ 20 15 •
Salem Crossing......... 1...... v............ 21 60
Dyer......................................   1910
Chesterton, St. Patrick’s................... 18 00
Oxford................... .................. 16 00
Besan^on.................................... 14 50
Pierceton............J.....   .............. 14 40
St. Vincent’s................................. 13 75
St. Anthony’s, Dehner’s Settlement.......... 11 05
Anderson.................................... 20 00
Blufton Roads............................... 24 00
& JOSEPH DWENGER, .
Bishop of Fort Wayne. .
A society has been formed in Belgium for collecting all
waste paper and selling it for the benefit of the Pope. The	. '
society has appealed to all the possessors of “ bad books, - . ?■ such as the works of Voltaire, Rousseau, Diderot, Volney	.t
and other detestable authors,” to hand them over-'as-waste
paper.	....... ~
. Sainte Marguerite, where Marshal'Bazainewill end ’ . his days, is a small island in the Mediterranean, off the -	’
southern coast of France. It was at Cannes, the point of . embarkation for this island, that Napoleon landed on his	<V
return from Elba; ■	------
142
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Our Holiday Eater taiament.
The Columbians’ Debut.
As we were very busily engaged arranging our much confused apartment, including book-case and wardrobe, a sudden rap at the door startled us, aud ere we could don our coat and smooth our hair for a presentable appearance to visitors, a respected and esteemed personage entered, at the same time pronouncing these words: “ I will depend upon you for a report of the Stacian Entertainment.” Before we had time to sufficiently recover ourselves, our friend disappeared, and we instantly called to mind the subtle schemes of “Mysticus.” The dust-brush fell from our hand, we shook like a cat that has just leaped from a tub of cold water, and our hair stood on end, lifting’ the very cap from our brow, as we thought of having anything to do with “ The Enchanted Hostelry! ” Summoning up all our courage, we grasped a pen mightier than a sword and determined to conquer or to die. Sorry are we that the task of recording the achievements and engraving the praises of the young Columbian Literary and Debating Club upon the tablets and monuments of their college career, was not reserved for an abler hand, especially as this was their first annual Entertainment. We, however, do not purpose to criticise in any acceptation of the word, for we entered Washington Hall ou last Monday evening with theintention of enjoying ourselves, and who will say that our expectations were not abundantly realized in the rendition of the following
PBOGBAMME :
Entrance March,...................N.	D. U. C. Band
Music,.................................Obchestba
THE ENCHANTED HOSTELRY;
Ob, The Adventukes of Seven Tbavellees.
A Spectacular Melo-Drama, in Three Acts.
Act I.—The Capture. Act II.—The Temptation. Act HL—The
Catastrophe.
Prologue (in Character)...........
Lord Aubrey,......................
Alovsius (his page)...............
Landlord of the Enchanted Hostelry, ;
Melaneardios (the Enchanter)
Peter, the Poor Scholar. Bill, the Blacksmith....
Jack, the Butcher.... Jem, the Gamekeeper
.F. C. St. Aubin
dbamatis pebson^: :
02 p ■
Tom, the Wagoner Joe, the Gardener.. Teddy, the Tinker.
J
.....Wm. Gravitt .....H. 0 Cassidy ......P. O’Sullivan . James B. Crummey ......J. F. Wolfe .......P	.G. Lilly .............J. S. Gregory .............W. Van’t Woud .............F. C. St. Aubin .............F. B. Sanders
_____j,_____________________ j ._____________G. W. Crummey Mysticus, Spirit of Unreality and Hallucination....A. Horne Fiends.............................................J. Rofinot,’W. Gaar, J. Burnham, J. Flanigeu
Musicians.....R. Hutchings, J. S. Gregory, E. Kimm, T. Cashin Ghosts......7................................!?!?!!?!?!?!?!
(	Intebludes :
Address and. Song [in Character]............Thos.	Cashin
Song and j^as &J)eux.........J.	C. McDonough, J. Rofinot
A Cotillon aux Parapluies will also be introduced at the end of
the First Act, .Music......
. N. D. U. C. Band
PABT second:
chAmJ ....T. Cashin, W. Gavitt, J. C. McDonough, Song and Chorus j.....$ Crummey, R. Hutchings, J. Rofinot Music.................Orchestra
Delineations of Character.J. C. McDonough, J. Rofinot Music................................................1.N. D. U. C. Band
To be followed, by a Grand Revival of the Ancient Grecian Drama, consisting of a Tragedy in the .classic style of Euripides, entitled
“ EICON MEIdENA.”
Pamphilus, (protagonistes)......................J. Rofinot
Andrias....................................J.	D. George
Geron.....................................J. F. Burnham
Hypergeron................................T. D. FJanigen
Callistus....................................W.	W. Gaar
Chreocopos.................................J.	AI. O’Brien
The whole to conclude with a magnificent Revolving Double-convex Cyclo-pyramidalPeripalema, entitled
" THE EXALTATION OF ANTIOCHUS EVERGETES.”
Antiochus Evergetes......................Geo.	Crummey
Closing Remarks.........................
March for Retiring......................N. D. U. C. Band
The above indeed was a most faithful exponent of the evening’s performances, and reflects credit upon all whose skill was brought into exercise in its preparation. The numerous opinions of the press, with which it was embellished, were very flattering, with the exception of two papers, which, however, are always repe?itant and do not properly belong to the press. The spirit of the audience manifested itself in the frequent rounds of applause that greeted the performers. One thing in particular attracted our attention, and it was the appreciation of the fine music by the orchestra, which was evident from the manner in which it was received. Bro. Basil, the Director, might well feel proud of his corps of musicians. The Band too deserves its share of compliment; for, though not having its full complement of members, it was nevertheless strong and harmonious, aud delighted us with its spirited music.
As to the play, “ The Enchanted Hostelry ”-a spectacular melodrama, in three acts,—we regret that limited time and space forbids our giving a synopsis of it. We must be content with reviewing the principal characters, without intending any slight to all those who otherwise aided, and without whom there could not have been much of an Entertainment. But those who by their impersonations were best able to make the most vivid impression upon us we cannnot easily forget. We will long remember Lord Aubrey, in the person of Mr. W. Gavitt, for he well understood the seriousness of the character he assumed, that of suppressing crime and waging a spiritual and temporal war-fiire against its many votaries, in which he was finally victor. Mr. James B. Crummey won a great deal of praise by his acting as Melaneardios, and afterwards, when he had thrown aside the disguise of Enchanter, and played the part of a warrior. His fall by a fatal thrust from the sword of Lord Aubrey, in the duel scene was, perfectly natural. Mr. H. C. Cassidy, as the innocent and unsuspecting page, Aloysius, was “ at home” in that character. His appearance is graceful and dignified on the stage, and he did amplejustice to himself in every scene. Mr.P. O’Sullivan in the role of the Landlord of the Hostelry exceeded our brightest expectations. He did admirably well, for his was a difficult part inasmuch as it was of a serio-comical nature and required the exercise of much judgment.
We have frequently heard of spirits being concentrated in a horn, but never before did we see the spirit of Unreality and Hallucination,—Mysticus,—so concentrated in any one individual as in Mr. A. Horne. We agree with the W. Y. Herald when it says, “He fully realizes our beau ideal of what an evil spirit ought to be.” We would gladly mention the others who played so well, but we must hurry on, as Mr. Thos. Cashin requires our attention. This young gentleman, though only a short time from Ireland, was the cause of much merriment by his address and song in the character of Pat O’Hara. He kept his audience in roars of laughter, receiving an encore at the end of his first song, when he again appeared and carried off the belt. Messrs.
THE SCHOLASTIC.	143
Rofinot and McDonough likewise afforded much .amusement in their songs and pas de deux.
The concluding Farce of the evening, remodelled for the occasion and named for the time “Eicon Melrnna” was calculated to throw the whole audience into convulsions of laughter. In this, Mr. J. Rofinot was undoubtedly the favorite. Messrs. Thomas D. Flanigen and J. M. . ' O’Brien sustained their characters well. The Exaltation of Antiochus Evergetes,—Mr. Geo. W. Crummey, very gracefully and handsomely balanced himself upon a re-!»	volving platform whilst several figures were danced about
L	him by all who.had appeared upon the stage. The curtain
dropped, and the President, Rev. Father Lemonnier, arose ;	to thank the audience on the part of the young gentlemen
and to echo the opinions of all with regard to the .music of the Orchestra and Band, which opinions we have already ex. pressed. He called upon Rev. Father Gillespie to supplement his sentiments, as he was suffering from the effects ofa cold.
We had not enjoyed such an exhibition for some time, and hope, that it will not be the last time this year that Prof Stace will bring out his band of talented an I progressive Columbians. Gentlemen, we thank you sincerely, and hope you may never become crusty, but always remain crummy with plenty ofcash in the treasury. If in planing off the edges you should run against a rough knot, let • it be said that you gave it up in a horn. If powder is necessary for you to make a noise in the world, use it freely, a cask a day if needs be. Turn aside from the evil '	tempter’s cup, as Aloysius has taught us, and always exclaim with your friend, “Not for	Joe.”
"	.	. All Around.
A happy New Yeas, to all our readers.
About half of the students are spending the Holidays at the University.
!	Christmas Boxes have arrived in abundance during the
past few days.
Prof. McAfferty’s rendering of the “ Famine of Hiawatha,” by Longfellow, was his best effort.
1	Tttf. most unpopular official at Notre Dame the week
|	before Christmas, was General Equations.
,	The clock in the steeple doesn’t strike one worth a cent
| ■	although it has been trying to for some time past.
Father Carrier’s canine is indeed a noble animal. 1	He far surpasses the “ dorg” of last year.
Rev. Father Toohey, with Prof. Lyons and Bros Marcallinus and Ildefonsus, accompanied the students Tuesday morning.
We are extremely grieved to announce the death of Bro. . Benoit this week. We refer the readers to his obituary in ।1	another column.
The programme of the Columbians’ Exhibition was a fine piece of work. It surpasses anything in that line that :	has been done by home labor heretofore.
Hat-Racks are a convenient affair, but we do not like to deposit our hat on one and when coming to look for it again find it non est.
It is reported that one of the Hotels in South Bend was so crowded when the students were going home that the ;	landlord was compelled to roost some on poles projecting
from the windows.
<? 1
Nearly one half of the students went home to spend the Holidays. It seems that there is no abatement in the homeward force; if anything it grows worse year after year. Some of the students will do no less than 1,000 miles of travelling before we see them again. May it do them good! May they enjoy at home all the happiness which fond parents are ever ready to bestow upon them.
“Ulen Spiegel’s” account of the Columbian Entertainment was received too late for publication.
Very. Rev. Joseph Salzman, D. D., Rector of the Seminary of St. Francis of Sales, has been lying dangerously ill at the Seminary during the past several days. At the time of our going to press, but little, if any, improvement in health has taken place. But slight hope of his recovery is entertained. Great anxiety prevails regarding his precarious condition.—Exchange.
DEATH OF THE FOUNDER OF THE REFORMATORY SYSTEM.
The venerable M. de Metz, the founder of the reformatory system, has just died in Paris. It is now nearly forty years ago since M. de Metz began his labors in the reformation of young criminals. In 1836 he came to the United States to study the penitentiary system, and in 1840, on returning to France, he resigned several lucrative employments in order to give himself entirely to the great work of his life. Soon afterwards, in conjunction with M. de Bretiguiere de Courteilles, he established the Reformatory School and Agricultural Colony of Mettray, near Tours— the model of all similar establishments on the Continent and in England. He began with 10 boys; at the end of the first year he had 300, and this number soon increased to 600. Since then many thousand children have passed under his fatherly care at Mettray. In these noble labors, so far as England is concerned, M. de Metz was intimately associated with Mr. Matthew Davenport Hill, and with other who laid the foundations of the English reformatory system. While’ the body of M. de Metz will be buried near the graves of his family at Dourdon, his heart will be deposited in the chapel of his beloved Mettray.
A chiropodist announces on his business-cards that he has “removed corns from several of the crowned heads of Europe.”
A member of Congress lately rose in his place and solemnly declared, “ Mr. Speaker, I cannot sit still here and keep silence without rising and saying a few words.”
“What should I talk about this evening?” asked a prosy speaker of one of his expected auditors. “About a quarter of an hour would be just about the thing,” was the reply.
Coming down the Hudson River the other day, passengers were attracted by a notice stuck up in a saloon, reading in this wise:—“ Lost a valise containing several manuscript sermons in writing, and other articles of clothing. Enquire of Rev. J. P., &c.”
A man with some wit and a very long nose met a neighbor one frosty morning, who sang out, “Halloo, Smith! I met the end of your nose back here a piece and saw it was completely frozen.” “No fault of mine,” said the undisturbed Smith; “I rubbed it as far as I could reach.”
144
THE SCHOLASTIC. <
THE SUN.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely known to require any extended recommendation: but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers, and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it. condensed when unimportant, at full length when of moment, and always presented in a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
It is a first-rate family paper, full of entertaiingaudinstructive reading of every kind, but'containing nothing tbat can offend the most delicate and scrupulous taste.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected and legibly printed in its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The most tresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics re gularly appear in this department.
It is an independent political paper, belonging to no party and wearing no collar. It fights for principle, and for the election of the best men to office. It especially devotes its energies to the exposure of the great corruptions tnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It has no fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially the cattle-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finallv, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a year will secure it for any subscriber. It is not necessary to get up a club in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.
We have no travelling agents.	.	,
THE WEESE'S" ST) Af.—Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only §1.00 a year. No discounts from this rate.
THE SEMI-WEEKIAr STjiv.-Saire size as theD-iuySun. S3.OOaye.ir. Adiscountof 2Oper cent.toclubs of JO or over.	‘
THE DAILYSUN.-A large four-page newspaper of twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 120,000. All the news for Scents. Subscription price, 50 cents a month-or §6.00 a year. To clubs of 10 or over a discount of 20 per cent. A.d.djcess, «THE SUIN', ’’New York City.
On and after Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows: .	.
GOING EAST.
2.32 a. at. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30: Cleveland, 2.45 p. ar.; Buffalo, 8.55 n. at.
10.10 a. at. (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, 10.50; Toledo, 5.10 p. at.	.
11.58 p. at. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. ar.; Buffalo 4.05 a. at.
9.11 p. ar. (No. Gl. Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 P. ar.
5.10 r- M. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST. -
7.05 a. ar. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago 11 A. ar.
5.20 a. at. (No 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago. 8 50 a. ar. ’	.
6.42 a. at. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7 35; Salem Crossing. 8.05: Grand Crossing, 9.37; Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. ar. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Main Line. Arrives at. Laporte, 6.40; Chicago, 9.20 p. ar.
9.10 A. at. (No. 51), Local Freight.	-	.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GEDDINGS, Freight Agent. "
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
THE OLD “RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CS1” Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15; East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhart without delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. m.. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at- 5 a. m., and 4.05 p. m., running through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Pass; engers for Detroit must take Nos. 2, 8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance Tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon-application to the Ticket Agent, or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at the head of Lafayette and Frank'in Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their Stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, 1
Captain MILLS, proprietors.
NILES = SOUTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles.
7.00 a m.
9.2j a.m.
- 5.20 p.m.
Arrive South Bend,
Leave South Bend.
GOING NORTH.
8.20 a.m.
11.00 a.m.
6 50 p.m.
Arrive Niles.
PE.OSILVAA1A CKJVTIIAL
DOUBLE TEAOK EAILEOAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three dally Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run . between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
'	York without Change.
. Isttra in leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m	'•	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train	“	•'	9.00 p. m	“	“	-	11.30 p. in*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
- J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
* D. M. BOYD, Jit., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
. F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C." CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
' * Second day.
XaOVISVXIsXifi N. ALBANT & CHICAGO R.R.
- On and after Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOING NORTH.
Pass........;....7.29 p. at.
Freight..........2.48 a. m.
Freight..........8.57 Y. at.
Pass.............9.21a. m.
GOING SOUTH
Pass................8	23 p.m.
Freight...........10 47 a.m.
Freight............4.45 a.m.
Pass...............11.23 a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, ‘	“	6.00 p.m. I -
7.35 a.m
9.55 a.m
5.55 p.m
- 8.50 a.m
■1130 p.m
7.20 p.m
- 10.30 a.m
7.00 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend..
Chicago Alton 'and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-l ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	’
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington^ 'Express (Western Division) j
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only ± Except Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train. ,
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J, C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.}	CHICAGO.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m]
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m. {,*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m,
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. }7:15 a.m.
:45n.m. S7:15 a.m