© 1) c	a 1n$t i c
PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T NOTRE DAJkTE.
fa flic fwhteste of th ^tuhnts.
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., APRIL 10, 1869.	- No. 31.
A Speech on Locomotion.
Delivered before the Senior Students, on Sunday April 3d, 1869.
By Thomas William Ewing.
We live in a fast age; we talk fast, write fast, read fast, break fast. We are a fast people, in a fast country, doing everything fast, except fasting. But it is sometimes well, as we hurry on in our rapid career, to pause and lo^k back to the times of our grandfathers, and consider the improvements that have been made since they were boys as we are now, and then turn our gaze upon the future, and ask ourselves the question: “What will be tile condition of things when we are old men, as they are now!”
When, for example, we are borne along in moving palaces, at the speed of Lightning, let us think of the time when ox carts were used in place of palace cars, and note with reverence the mighty geniuses who changed this order of things, and paved the way for the modern comforts of railway travelling.
This is an evidence of the fact that, in the lifetime of our grandfathers, more progress was made than in all the preceding centuries from the creation of the world. This may seem an exaggeration, but I feel certain that I can prove the truth of my statement. I limit the application of the word progress, of course, to things that can be improved, that is to the material condition of man.
Let us take, as an example of this progress, the improvements that have been made in the science of locomotion. Adam could travel just as fast as our grandfathers could nearly six thousand years later; that is at the rate of about ten miles an hour. Now we can travel upon some railways at the rate of ninety miles an hour.
There are few subjects so interesting to the great majority of men as the science of locomo
tion. It is of interest to the antiquarian and the man of science; to the man of business and the man of pleasure; to the young and the old; to the philanthropist, and the politician and political economist.
It is of deep interest to the antiquarian, because it is along the ruins of old roads that he finds most of the objects of his study. It opens an extensive field to the man of science, since the chief agents employed in locomotion are the proper subject of his investigation. It is of the utmost importance -to the man of business, as it facilitates the transportation of goods and economizes time, which to him is gold. It commends itself to the man of pleasure, for by means of the improvements made in-this department, the fatigues of travelling are lessened and his pleasures there- -by greatly increased. It gives gladness to the young, because they naturally like to travel as fast as possible. It is a comfort to the old, since it shortens the period of their fatigue and lessens the chances of accident. It opens a cheering prospect to the philanthropist, because he sees that by means of easy, cheap, and rapid travelling there is more intercourse between men of all countries, and the bonds of charity and good-fellowship are thereby drawn closer. Lastly, it is considered by the politician and political economist as a great power; because the roads of a country form the principal basis of his judgment in regard to the social condition-and character of a people. Thus, in savage countries they have no roads; half civilized countries have very poor roads; but we find in highly civilized countries very many good roads. The politician watches the gradual construction of roads for the necessary intercourse of life, and notes how they increase the demand which they supply. Hence he regards them both as a cause and as a consequence of civilization, and rejoices in the prosperity which they indicate and promote.	.

242	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
At the present day such is the vast improvement in roads arid other means of travelling, that one can make the tour of Europe and the East in less than one year, and at an expense of less than $1,000, and “swing round the circle” of the entire globe in less than two months. Thus, we could start from Notre Dame, after the Commencement-Day next June, to South Bend; thence to Toledo; on to the Forest City, Cleveland; still on to the Birmingham of America, Pittsburg; thence to the city of Brotherly Love, Philadelphia; next to the metropolis of America, New York, where we take passage for Liverpool, which we will reach after a nine days voyage. From Liverpool we proceed by rail to London; thence to Dover; over the straits to Paris; from Paris to Marseilles, where we embark for Bombay, India. Then across the Mediterranean, through the Suez Canal, down the Red Sea, across the Indian Ocean to Bombay. Thence by railway along the valley of the Granges to Calcutta, the capital of the British possessions in Asia. At this city we embark on a steamship for San Francisco, after crossing the bay of Bengal, sailing through the straits of Malacca; thence to the China Sea, thence into the broad Pacific; and after passing innumerable islands on our way, we at lust arrive at the Golden Gate, the harbor of San Francisco. We there take our place in the grand palace cars of the C. & U. P. R. R., and after a few days of easy travelling, and without change of cars, we reach Omaha, where we cross the Missouri, then across Iowa and Illinois to Chicago, the great and growing metropolis of the West; from Chicago to South Bend, and back again to Notre Dame before the first Tuesday of September.
The railroad being the principal means of this quick travelling, let us take a rapid glance at its origin. Like most inventions it was gradual in its development, and even yet is far from being in a perfect state. The germ of the modem railroad was in the old tram-way, which consisted of two parallel boards placed on an inclined plane, upon which cars filled with coal went down while those that were empty were drawn up, on the principle of the endless pulley.
General Outram, of India fame, was the inventor of the tram-way. It was named in his honor, arid first introduced into the celebrated coal mines of Newcastile. Simple as was this first change from the heavy mud road to the smooth tram-way, he was no ordinary man who, taking the laws of nature for his guide and her
operations for his rule, noticing that a rut in the common road lessened the labor of the horses, applied the principle to the reduction of labor and thus became the originator of the great system of railway that now intersects, like net-work, the greater part of Europe and the United States, and which will before the end of this glorious nineteenth century convey along its iron veins and arteries the life-giving blessings of civilization and religion to the uttermost parts of the earth. " Even now, every continent possesses a railway system more or less extensive. Europe and North America take the lead; Asia, Oceanica, South America and Africa, following in order.
When .Outram placed his wooden rails in parallel lines and carried the product of the mine to the places where it was needed, how great must not have been his joy at seeing that he had lessened his own and his country’s labor, and added to his own and his country’s wealth.	-
The earliest application of steam as a mechanical motive power, is attributed to Hero, an Egyptian philosopher, who lived more than two centuries before Christ. As I will not have time this evening to enter into details, I refer all those who may wish to see a description of the machine invented by Hero to almost any work on Natural Philosophy. It was never put to any practical use, but the circumstance shows how near he was to a great discovery.
It is to Watt, of England, that the honor of inventing the steam engine justly-belongs. Mr. Trevethick obtained, in 1802, a patent for the first locomotive, which was used two years later on a tram-way atMerthyr-Tydvil, in South Wales.
It would take too long this evening to trace this wonderful discovery, its improvements and its consequences, down to the present time. One more suggestion, and I will close. Railroads have produced actual results that the most vivid imagination could never have conceived. They carry millions, where before only thousands were carried, and at so low a rate as to compel trade where before none existed.
Indirectly, railroads^have created towns, erected manufactories, built churches, educated children, peopled villages, filled swamps with cities, like Chicago, Toledo arid Liverpool; literally “made the wilderness to blossom as the rose;” given to the poor man many of the luxuries of the rich, greatly aided the progress of civilization and evangelization, enforced a punctuality that was before wanting; taking men from
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
243
the over-crowded, cities to beautiful country placfes, they brought progress to many a country village and aided in giving homes to many poor emigrants in this western world.
Hence we may justly conclude that railroads are one of the very greatest material blessings yet bestowed upon us by the Giver of all good things.
Correspondence.
■<
Visits as well as letters from old friends are always welcome. Mr. Wm. Sutherland, formerly a member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, was at Notre Dame last Wednesday and seemed to be delighted at revisiting the familiar scenes of bygone schooldays. A letter from the sunny South has been handed to us. The substance of it is like that of many others coming from old students, and if we publish it, it is because we wish our good friends to understand that we treasure up their kind regards towards their Alma Mater.
New Orleans, March 18,1869.
Dear Brother :
Your kind favor of a recent date came duly to hand this morning, and I assure you afforded me much pleasure indeed. I am always pleased to hear from you, and more than glad to receive such an interesting letter as yours proved to be. I wish, time and again, to be at old Notre Dame, as my remembrance of the College is nothing but pleasant thoughts. I am delighted to hear of your pleasant occupation, and would have been so glad to have taken dinner with you the day you extended so many kind invitations to the oyster supper. William R------said it was just like Brother F to have every one share his goods: and truly, Brother,your liberality is one of your winning traits.
Brother, I cannot remain silent to your kindness to me when I was at school, and being well aware that flattery is but a passing shadow, I presume to ask of you another favor. You no doubt, will go travelling during the coming summer, and if there is nothing improper let me beg of you to pay me a visit.
I am in New Orleans at present, but will leave for home some time in June.
You must come, if only for a month. A pleasant trip on a boat, will do you good and in all probability you may engage a number of students. I will use my influence in assisting you. I wish
that H---could come with you. What a pleasant time would be in store for us.
I am so pleased to know that some one at school remembers me. I return my sincere love to Rev. Father Granger, and also to Rev. Father Corby; to all the good Brothers—Brother B-- andA---------------------------------------inparticular. RemembermetoN-; I like him very much. Love to all the boys. Now, Brother, I am compelled to close for fear it would fatigue you to read more. Please write to me soon, and a very long letter. When you write to H---------------------------------and H-, give them my best love. You must remember my invitation to come and spend your^vacation with me. Good-by, dear Brother, until I write again. Pray for me who still loves you dearly. Warren C. Kain.
Base Ball.
CHANGES IN THE GAME.
The chief points in which base-ball during the coming season will differ from the game as played last year, are as follows:	'
The pitcher is required to stand between two lines, six feet apart; but can take a step, or stand as he pleases, within these limits. He must, however, deliver the ball with a straight arrow.
Every ball which touches the ground before reaching the striker, or which passes on the wrong side, or over his head, must be called.
A striker, when striking, can step forward but not backwards.	.
No player, unless striking, can be caught out if the ball touches any object before reaching the ground, unless it be the person of a player.
No player can be forced off a'base, except when it is rendered necessary by a fair ball being struck which is not caught.
A player can be changed for another in a match game during the first two innings, but afterwards only on account of illness or injury.
When the game is called, the score must be that of the last completed innings; except when one nine shall have completed their next inning, and the other have played enough to have exceeded the score of their opponents.—Yale College Courant.
------- _
. The “ Jesu dulcis memoria” sung on Easter Sunday is a sublime effort of genius in composition, and those who rendered it did it full justice. We feel greatly indebted to Prof M. T. Corby, Prof. C. Von Weller, Masters V. Hackman and Thomas Ward for the pleasure we experienced whilst hearing them.
244	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
College BuiltletijV.
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame.
April 5th.
Charles A Cary,	Chicago, Illinois.
James Lavelle,	Black Oak Ridge, Ind.
Tables of Honor.
Senior Department.
April 2d.—J. Eisenman, J. Fleming, S. Harrison, A Chane, C. Stewart, S. Corby, L. B. Logan, T. Lappin, J. Zahm, J. Staley.
Junior Department.
April 2d.—F. Ingersoll, J. Dooley, J. Falley, P. Tienan, B. Roberts, W. Odendahl, T. Arrington, J. Thompson, J. Broderick, C. Cressner, J. Murphy.
Minim Department.
April 2d.—W. Canavrn, J. McDermott, M. Smyth, G. W. Trussell, J. Wilson, C. Jenkins.
Honorable Mention.
Geology:—A. Arrington, Frank*Crapsef, James Cunnea, D. J. Wile, D. Clarke.
Mineralogy :—F. Bodeman, J. Cunnea.
Botany :—F. Bodeman, J. Cunnea, D. J. Wile, John Coppinger, F. Bulger.
Zoology :—F. Crapser, A Arrington, D. J. Wile.
Physiology;—H. B. Keeler, D. Clarke.
Algebra.
First Class :—L. Dupler, H. Wrape, D. Clarke, D. J. Wile, H. P. Morancy, W. Rhodes, C. Sage.
Second Class :—Frank Crapser, C. Ilgenfritz, R. McCarthy, J. W. Coppinger.
Third Class :—J. Harrison, J. Eisenman, G. R. Hackett, John Alber, M. Carney, T. McKey, A. Hemsteger.
Fourth Class:—J. S. Smith, W. B. Small, W. O’Brien, E. O’Bryan, J. S. Gavitt, J. Vocke, J. Montgomery, F. Ingersoll, F. Heery, B. Gambee.
Geometry.
' Fird Class :—H. Wrape, J. McClain, J. Alber.
Second Class:—C. H. Ilgenfritz, W. Waldo, J. Gearin, C. Sage, T. Heery.
Third Class:—F. Crapser, J. Harrison, J. A Dickinson, J. Zahm, R. L. Akin, M. Foote, L. B. Logan, J. Montgomery, Geo. Hackett.
Surveying :—k. B. White, Ivo Buddeke, H. B. Keeler.
Astronomy :—H. B. Keeler.
Trigonometry :—W. Waldo, C. Sage, L. Dopier. Arithmetic.
First Class Sr:—B. McGinnis, J. O’Brien, E. O’Bryan, O. Moseley, D. J. Diemer, J. Alber, William B. Clarke, N. Mitchell, J. M. Grier, H. Schnelker, L. Wilson, F. H. Wood, C. Ilgenfritz, T. McKey, T. Heery, W. Lence, S. Corby.
Second Class Sr :—L. G. Dunnavan, L. Schmei-der, P. S. Rhodes, J. Vocke, A. Maierhofer, M. Dupuis, W. H. Sangster, G. Atkinson, J. Gar-hartstine, T. L. Watson, C. Stuart, J. M. Duffy.
First Class Jr:—V. Hackmann, A. Cabel, P. Cochrane, K Espy, G. McCartney, D. Hogan, R. Staley, F. Curtis, A. Wile.
Third Class Jr :—C. Berdell, G. Kahman, M. J. Ody, F. Spencer, J. Orb, J. Pfeiffer, C. Hutchings, J. Rumely, M. Wellington, H. O’Neil, C. J. O’Neil, J. Klein, L. Billings, G. Hug, H. Hug, H. Odendahl, J. Miller.
Fourth Class Jr:—G. Terrell, W. Nelson, J. Goodhue, E. Wile, R. Beygah, J. Morrison, W. Odendahl, E. Odendahl, R. Echlin, J. Echlin.
Book-Keeping Sr: L. Dupler, F. P. Wood, O. Moseley, H.Owen, S. Corby, E. Fitzharris, J. M. Grier, T. A Kinsella, A. Maierhoffer, J. Montgomery, B. McGinnis, T. Mcfcey, W. O’Brien, M. S. Ryan, B. Vocke, J. Wilson, H. Wrape, A. Beverly, W. K. Roy, G. Webb, J. Mulhall J. A. Fox, J. C. Leunig, W. Lence, J. Rhem, A. B. White, B. Mathers.
Book-Keeping Jr: D. S. Bell, D. Bland, A. Cabel, F. Curtis, S. Dum, J. Dooley, J. Falley, H. Morgan, P. O’Connell, W. B. Small, H. Beakey, J. Deehan, C. Marantette, J. McGuire, E. O’Brien, M. Branock.	'
The Music on Easter Sunday.
The College Choir comprises nearly all the old members of last year, with many additional and valuable voices in each part. The Mass rendered on Easter Sunday is known as Prof. Girac’s Third Mass in B flat, the same that was given last year, on the same occasion. It gives us much pleasure to record that this year we heard it to much better advantage, as the basses have made very important and efficient additions to their number ; the tenors are much more numerous and effective, and the sopranos much more powerful and confident. The choruses were vigorous and
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
245
evenly balanced; the solos, duets, trios and quartets were as usual delivered with accuracy and taste. One duet, however, may be considered rather unfortunate, as the first tenor part was, last year, sung too flat and this year too sharp; but it is very difficult, in the face of so many distressing circumstances, to be altogether natural. With this exception all passed off very smoothly.
This Mass may be considered the masterpiece of Prof. Girac’s sacred compositions. Having all the resources at his command which a thorough knowledge of music as a representative art, improved by a long experience, can give, he draws his tone-pictures with all the accuracy of a true and talented artist. If the subject is a Grucifixus, he presents to the mind all the impressive and solemn grandeur of the day of redemption, surrounds Calvary with mourning, and peoples it with weeping figures. Were the music not accompanied by the words, that very scene, or some other of a kindred nature would surely be called up from the recesses of the imagination. Who can say, with a will and intelligence predisposed, and with a proper understanding of the words, that there is any music more suitable to the purposes of public worship ? On the other hand, when a Gloria in excelsis is to be presented the composer draws from his richest stores and paints in golden colors myriads of heavenly beings joyfully shouting Gloria upon Gloria, with hearts overflowing with praise and gratitude. As these two grand ideas are treated, so are all the others of which the different parts of a Mass contain an abundance. The sorrowful are not clad in bridal robes sparkling with gold and precious gems; the joyful are not presented in garments of mourning; the kneeling penitent in the Kyrie and Agnus does not present his supplications in the voice of exultation, nor does the oveijoyed soul in the Gloria express its thanks and praise in mournful strains. Such is the just appreciation of varied religious sentiments, that each idea is clad in its own appropriate garb; and in doing this, so general is the delicate sense of the beautiful, that it supposes in the artist ahighly cultivated taste with many and varied accomplishments. i
Many parts of this Mass are very remarkable for their peculiar and striking effectiveness, but they are too well known to be named with interest. Many of the compositions of the present day, both sacred and secular, are written with a total disregard of the sentiments expressed by the words, and too many of the public have no
higher estimation of a musician than a tunemaker ; but music, like the rest of the fine arts in the West, is not supposed to be generally cultivated or appreciated, and we can only hope that the day may not be far distant when it will be otherwise. In the mean time it is the duty of the educator to furnish models worthy of imitation in all the departments of science and art.
In the evening, at vespers, was performed the Gloria chorus of Mozart’s Twelfth Mass with the words of the Magnificat adapted. This chorus enjoys the best reputation of the most celebrated sacred compositions, and is performed on occasions of great solemnity in all choirs where the singers are sufficiently competent. With English words, it is also used in the churches of almost all denominations, which fact is for this piece of music a glorious triumph.
The other music given us on Easter is well known: Rosci’s Tantum Ergo was never better rendered here; every voice seemed in excellent condition.	D. P. T.
Sliootism.
Multitudo pigeonum	’
Nil portendit nisi bonum, Stomacho dat rectum tonum
Et studeuti gaudium.—Almanac of Portents,1586.
Shootism has been active during the past week. Eccentric old arquebuses have been torn from their honorable seclusion in the college museum and made to do duty again in the service of their country. Some of them, sooth to say, did not relinquish their otium cum dignitate without sulks, refusing to “gooff” when required, and otherwise protesting against this encroachment on the privileges due to old age. Small shot, large shot, duck shot, grape shot and canister have pervaded the circumambient atmosphere in various directions. The upshot, however, was not always pigeons. Caps have been set in various directions and traps have been set in others. As far as our experience goes, the traps have been more effective than the caps, the mishaps occasioned by snaps excluded. Meanwhile, the pigeons have proceeded on their northward way, by their steady perseverance giving surer promise of the coming spring than the evanescent sunshine of an occasional fine day could do. What matters it that snow and hail and sleet raged and stormed throughout the first of April. It was only to fool folks, and make them think that winter was coming again. The pigeons have flown north —therefore it is spring.	-
■J i
i i

[
246
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
But what becomes of the pigeons when they go north ? How far do they go, and isn’t there any danger of their going a little too far? We can only answer in the classic language of a notorious shootist: Ne pxrticulum quidem differential fa-tit aut mihi aut tibi. Jfigaus porous, parvus por-cug, ruspa sus vel morere.	S.
An Explanation.
Editor or the Scholastic Year :
Bev. Dear Sir:—Ou reading your remarks in No. 29 of The Scholastic, in reference to the challenge given by the St. Edward’s Literary Association, and the communications received on the subject from other Societies, I was lead to infer that there is a mistake somewhere in regard to the true spirit in which the challenge was given; and as you appear to discourage further communication from the Societies on the subject, I feel called upon injustice to the young gentlemen of the Association over which it is my privilege to preside, to offer the following explanation, and I do this the more readily as I know the esteem in which you hold this Association, for the energy and good spirit which are its distinguishing characteristics, will render it a pleasure to you to insert an explanation of the misunderstanding.
First, with reference to the St. Aloysius Philo-demic Society, the challenge was inevitable, unless the St. Edward’s wished silently to acknowledge the claim of the former to be the “ leading Society at Notre Dame,” for the Philodemics not only advanced that claim but also declared in the same sentence that they were “able and willing to maintain it,” thus virtually throwing down the gauntlet to all other Societies. The St. Edward’s did not think proper to acknowledge that claim, and consequently challenged the Philodemics to a public contest for the superiority, and the fact that they did offer this challenge is the best proof that they did not consider the Philodemics as unworthy rivals, though they did not shrink from measuring their strength with them. Nor was the challenge given with a view to diminish any merit which the Philodemics lawfully may claim, for the members of the St. Edward’s believed then, and still believe, that whichever side gained the victory, the contest would be beneficial and creditable to both Societies. They had no idea of making it a mere “sqqabble” or “ wrangle,” for both Societies evidently possess sufficient talent to con
duct a serious debate, and sufficient good sense not to be led into any unbecoming display of temper. Had I supposed the case to be otherwise, I certainly would have discountenanced the challenge when it was first proposed.
With reference to the O’. S. A., it must be evident to all that the challenge was meant rather as a joke than anything else; for although some members of the St. Edward’s are in the most advanced Classes of the Scientific Course, still they knew that the objects of the two Societies are different, and expected a funny reply full of those capital hits which we all appreciate, rather than an acceptance of the challenge. Yet, in justice to the young gentlemen of the St. Edward’s, I must say that they were ready to stand by their challenge if it were taken in a serious manner.
Having now, Rev. Editor, sufficiently defined the position of the St. Edward’s in reference to the challenge, and shown that they were not actuated by any unworthy motive, I feel that I have done all. that is required of me.
Yours sincerely,
The President
of the St. Edward’s Literary Association
Mr. Editor: your Barmecide correspondent, like all those who make nonsense a profession, sometimes gets “ beyond his depth.” In his seven-line squib last week he attributes what he is pleased to term “ a gross violation of the rites of hospitality,” to “ a certain Literary Society.” Well, that “certain Literary Society” feels very much obliged for this and other underhand hits that have been made at it lately, for it knows that superior merit has ever been and ever will be an object of envy, and consequently of attack, to those who feel their own inferiority. Will “S” please take note, however, that “a certain Literary Society ” had nothing to do with the Feast in question. But I think I see the object of his “ cuthe would like to get some oysters, as he hints, by way of punishment. If that is all the “ certain Literary Society ” on being duly informed of his wish, will raise a subscription to supply his wants and gratify his appetite. But they disclaim any share in the Barmecide.
S. T. E.
Mr Claude Riopelle, of Detroit, of the Class of ’62, is now member of the Michigan State Legislature. He is probably the youngest member in the House.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	247
A'Protest.
Mr. Editor:—In all well conducted parliamentary assemblies, the most insignificant minority is allowed to enter its solemn protest against the decision of the majority. I hope therefore that I, a most insignificant minority of the corps of contributors to The Scholastic, will be allowed to enter this my solemn protest against some small c’s I occasionally see in our literary paper.
When I write big C’s I should be very much pleased if the Printers would not print little c’s. I do not wish to see my fine old Catholic Christians turned into miserable little catholic Christians.
Why should’nt a Catholic and a Christian have a right to his good-natured-looking, generous, old-fashioned C’s ?
The use of those lean little sickly c’s violates
The laws of beauty, The rules of grammar, and The respect due to the name of Every good
Catholic Christian.
The following Honorable Mentions in Arithmetic Jr. were inadvertently omitted in arranging the bulletin this week:
Fourth Class Sr:—Louis Gaynor, E. George, J. H. Ryan, Jno. Lacey, T. Garrity.
F<fth Class:—E. McDonough, A. Chane, F. Parker, D. Gitchel, Wm. Rowan.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
Notre Dame, April 7,1869.
Editor Scholastic Year:—At the twenty-sixth regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, held on Tuesday evening, 6th inst., the following question was debated: Resolved, “ That Poland has suffered more from oppression than Ireland.”
Mr. Waldo, first speaker on the affirmative, delivered a fine speech, abounding in pointed arguments. This gentleman is gifted with a fluent and pleasing style of address, well calculated to attract the attention of his hearers and produce a strong im-• pression on the mind.	.
Mr. Heery next took the stand, and in his usual able and forcible manner, spoke in behalf of Ireland, showing that for seven centuries she has been afflicted by the most galling oppression, lie manifested great skill in selecting arguments, and tact in refuting those of his opponent.
He was followed by Mr. Wrape, who spoke with pathos, showing how the dismemberment of Poland was effected, and its subsequent partition among its enemies, so that it exists no longer but in name.
Mr. Zahm, at the conclusion of Mr. Wrape’s remarks, proceeded to refute the arguments of the affirmative and to give additional reasons why the decision should be given in favor of the negative. Mr. Zahm acquitted himself very creditably and elicited considerable applause.
Mr. Buddeke was then called on, but, owing to an unfortunate
mistake about the time of the delate coming off, pleaded an excuse.	•
Mr.Morancy being absent, Mr. O'Reilly volunteered to fill hie place, which he did in a manner very creditable to himself.
At the conclusion of the debate the President expressed himself highly pleased with the manner in which it was conducted. He regretted that time would not permit him to review the arguments, and as he did not wish to render a decision without doing so, he would be forced to defer action in the matter.
The Librarian reported that he had received eight volumes of “ The American. Cyclopcedia ’’ (the number required to complete the set) from the committee appointed to purchase them.
No more business coming before the house, on motion the meeting adjourned.	A. J. Rkilly, Cor. Sec.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
The 24th regular meeting of the’above-named Society came off Tuesday evening, March 30th. Before carrying out the programme, consisting of reading Essays, delivering Speeches and Recitations, the members proceeded to elect a Vice President, the office being left vacant by the unavoidable absence of Mr. James Ryan, The election resulted in the unanimous choice of Mr. John W. Coppinger, who, on taking his place, was greeted with rounds of applause. Mr. Coppinger has proved himself worthy of being elected to this office, (the highest in the gift of the members), by his unassuming gentle manners, the uprightness of his character and by his being an energetic worker. Master James Dooley for gentlemanly deportment, promptness, and active exertion in the cause of the Association, was promoted to the office of Vice President of the “Dramatic Branch;'’ Master James Deehan, for good behavior, accommodating disposition, and fur being an enthusiastic laborer in furthering the interests of the Society, was raised to the office of treasurer. Master C Maniutette was chosen 2d Masterof Public Entertainments for his zeal in performing his duty in an inferior position and for displaying on ail occasions an amiable demeanor. Master Philip Cochrane, for marked improvement in his conduct and in preparing his exercises well, was elected First Censor. When the above-named successful candidates had taken the places assigned them accord ng to rank, they received “ three times three ” rousing cheers. The President then paid a well deserved tribute to Masters M. Foote, Recording Secretary, and Rufus McCarthy, Coresponding Secretary, saying that “ they are the right boys in the rigut pl.ice ” Master E. Bahm was then appointed Corresponding Secretary pro tern, in place of Rufus McCarthy, who would be absent for a few weeks. After this followed the regular exercises of the evening. Among those who excelled in declamation, it may not be out of place to mention the name of Mark Foote, who gave ns “ Bingen on the Rhine” in his usual pleasing and graceful manner. Hie voice (which seems to suit such pathetic pieces) was well modulated. I have often heard this piece given by persons having some pretensions to Elocutionary Art, but I must acknowledge that I have never heard it delivered with greater effect, clearly exhibiting the feeling and spirit with which the gifted writer had composed it. I really thought “ I saw the soldier of the legion lay dying in Algiers.” After the usual criticisms the President concluded the exercises by saying that although some of the members received duo praise in the criticisms (the usual office of the critic not being a recounting of mistakes, but an honest and liberal acknowledgment ot merits,) they should not on that account become proud, and be content with what they know, but should receive a new impetus to outstrip in knowledge their fellow-students. Then, “ let them be up and doing.”
“ Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, - And, departing, leave behind us Footprints on the sands of time.”
E. Bahm, Cor. Bee.
248	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
MaINT H|aRY'S JUademy.
St. Mary’s, April 3d, 1869.
Arrivals.
March 30th.—Miss L. Sprochnle, Chicago, Ill.
April 2d.—Misses J. and B. Wade, New Carlisle, Indiana.
April 2d.—Miss F. Woolman, New Carlisle, Ind.
April 2d.—Miss L. Martin, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses K. Livingston, L. and L. Tong, A. Radin, A. Cunnea, K. Young, A. M. Luse, N. Thomson, B. Gardiner, E. Lindsay, J. Dobson, N. Leoni.
Honorable Mention, Sr.
Graduating Class.—Misses A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea, M. Twoomey.
First Senior Class.—Misses A. Carmody, E. Kirwin, L. McManaman, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, A Mulhall, M.- Walton, J. Dobson, M. Claffey.
Senior Class.—Misses E. Lindsay, E. Carr, L. Chouteau, A. Bryson, E. Rogers, E. Livingston, L. Leoni, A. Walker, M. Kirwin, R. Leicher.
Third Class.—Misses M. Tuberty, E. Williams, N. Simms, M. Shirland, M. Dillon.
First Preparatory.—Misses M. Foote, E. Darst, M. Lasson, E. Henry.
Second Preparatory.—Misses J. Davis, M. Clune, K. Zell, M. Minor, J. Denny, K. Moore, N. Gree.
Third Preparatory.—Misses C. Hoerber, M. Coffey, A. Matthews, I. Byers, E. Spillard, F. and R. Fox, R. Hoerber, M. Randalls.
Class.—Misses S. Lafferty, M. Chouteau, M. Tuberty. Second Div.—M. Rogers, E. Ritter. Fifth Class.—Misses L. James, L. McFarland. Second Div.—Misses M. Dillon, M. Durand, K. Zel), R. Jolin, A. Mast. Sixth Class.—M. O’Mara, J. Denney, E. Seiler, J. Davis, N. Sherburn. Second Division.—Misses A. Longley, L. Jones. Seventh Class.—Miss A. M. Luse. Eighth Class.—Miss R. Fox.
Harp.—M. Shirlaud.
Guitar.—Misses N. Tabor, L. English, K. Moore, E. Williams, R. Hoerber.
German.
First Class.—Misses C. and R. Hoerber, M. Rumely. Second Class.—Misses L. English, B. Meyers, E. Henry.
French.
Fourth Class.—Misses E. Rodgers, R. Joslin, B. Gardiner.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses E. Wilder, L. McFarlane, L. Thomson, M. Letourneau, S. and. M. Hoover, N. Gross, A. Woods, B. Meyers, B. Frensdorf, M. Gildersleeve, N. Streiby.
Honorable Mention.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses N. Clark, L. Jones, L. Neil, R. Leoni. Third Preparatory Class.—Misses L. and. M. McNamara, L. James,' N. Robson, N. Metzger, A. Garrity, A. Byrne. First Class Jr.—Misses M. Nash, J. Burns, A. Longley, R. Can oil. Second Class Jr.—Misses B. Wilson, A. Garrity, E. Ransdall, C. Henry.
Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of Holy Cross, will leave France on the 7th of May on his way back to the United States.
Instrumental Music.
First Class.—Misses C. Foote, J. Hynds. Second Din.—Misses A. Mulhall, K. Livingston. Second Cass.—Misses M. Walter, N. Thomson, B. Lucher, A Ewing, C. Heckman. Second Div.— Misses K. Carpenter, T. Vanhorn, L. English. Third Class.—Misses S. O’Brien, E. Ewing, M. Edwards, S. Chouteau, E. Ruger. Second Div.— Misses E. Livingston, L. McManman. Fourth
Leave South Bend, 8:3o a. m.' “	“	11:10 a. m.
“	“	8:06 p.m.
M. S. & N. I. RAILROAD.
Going East:
Arrive at Toledo, 4:26 p. m.
“	“	5:00 p. m.
“	“	1:55 a. m.
“	“	6:15 a. in.
Going West:	‘
Teaie South Bend, 6:12 a. m. I Arrive at Chicago, 10:00 a.m. “	“	6:40 p.m.	|	“	“	10:00 p.m.
“	“	2:42 a. m.	I	.	“	“	6:30 p. m.
“	“	4:10 a m.	J	“	Laporte,	5:4S. a m.