
PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T IKOTXtJE DAME.
gmtd tu the ^uteresh af the Jtmlcuts.
“ LABOR O3JCj5FIA. VIXCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEESITY OE NOTEE DAME. IND., JANITAEY 16, 1869. No. 19.
Oar Obligations to Others.
In our intercourse with our associates perhaps the greatest injury that we can inflict, the one most insidiously destructive to happiness, is that of tacitly refusing to them the right to be kind, to us. The right to be'kind is the dearest of all, to a noble heart and can be infringed upon in various ways: as by .not responding to courtesy, by attaching evil motives to the actions of others, and finally, by never cordially forgiving an injury,
“To err is human, to forgive divine," t ' ■' but to freely acknowledge that you stand in need of the forgiveness of your fellow mortals is a virtue, so rare that it has not yet been qualified. It was characteristic of the ages of faith, but is quite at war with the spirit of our present times; and yet, who is there among us that can raise his hand to heaven and declare that he has never willingly or unwillingly inflicted harm upon others, either by bad example, bad counsel, or by neglect in imparting that which is good? Who is there standing without the need of forgiveness from his fellows; yes, in a special and particular and not in a general sense? A little child whose mother was a fashionable member of the Anglican Church, was j lining in the service and came to the prayer, “ Have mercy upon us miserable sinners/’ The Young American dignity of the little lady was aroused, and with a very unmistakable jerk of the head, she exclaimed in a startlingly distinct stage whisper, “I am not a miserable sinner." It was beneath her to acknowledge hu-£ .-'man weakness, for she was in possession of that dignity so common; that dignity which the possessor is bound to “support,” because if left to itself, it would perish at the first breath of opposition. She would compromise her “selfrespect” by consenting to call herself a “misera
ble sinner. Pitiful self-respect; ignoring the fall of man!
This false dignity is at the foundation of the above mentioned social plague. Those who are too prond to acknowledge a failing in themselves, are too proud to forgive the feelings of others however humbly confessed; hence we hear young ’ persons meeting the desire to make reparation on the part of one who haj offended, with expressions like the following: “ If he will own. that ... much, you may be sure there is plenty more of ’	’
which he does not speak;” hence, by admitting or by denying a fault, one is equally shut out of the pale of kindness. How many virtuous impulses have been crushed in this manner; how mnch good destroyed.
To bestow benefits, to cheer misfortune, to encourage others in the career of virtue, especially if this should cost a real sacr flee on the part of the benefactor, confers a most pure, because a most unselfish, happiness upon the human heart. Why then should we interpose barriers against the interchange of kindly offices? ,
Were there.no other proof of the existence, and constant interference of evil powers-in our affairs, the unnatural and circuitous means by which antipathies, detractions, slanders and misrepresentations are propagated, would establish the fact beyond question; but we, alas! too frequently give the precedence to rumor, that boldfaced emissary of darkness, and force modest ; — charity to be overruled in her claims, and to be ‘ ignominiously crowded into the background to await the final tribunal of justice before her cause can obtain a hearing.	’	k
To say, by either word or action, “I can for--. f ' give, but cannot forget,” is a virtual contradic- -tion. He who really forgives, at once forgets the injury cancelled^ ~	-	. .
The avaricious and puritanic, who confess to no ; -such weakness as that of possessing a heart, may ' " affect to scorn and despise the friendships con-

146
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.

tracted by youths during their university career; but go the world over and you will everywhere find men reverting to the associates of their school days, as dearer than those of any other period.
Youth is the time when friendships founded on virtue are particularly admirable. They partake of the buoyancy, freshness, and strength of that season. They are worthy to be cherished, and if the soul does not become sordid and cold in the allurements of worldly success or the oppression of adversity, such friendships at last will reveal their most exalted beauty in the land beyond vicissitudes and misunderstandings, ■where charity absorbs all other virtues, and integrity no longer stands in need of defence. ■ ----------------------------
Scientific department.
No. 2. Asbestus, Amiajxthus, ok Mineral Flax.
Etymology.—Asbestus is derived from the Greek asbestos {a, priv., sbennumi, to quench), incombustible ; amianthus, in Latin amiantus and in G-reek amiantos (a, priv., miaino, to soil, defile), unstained, pure. The last syllable of the latter word is, no doubt, a contraction of the word lithos, a stone—literally, a stone without, stain (I cannot otherwise account for the letter h in that word, which is found neither in the Greek, Latin, French, nor in the Teutonic languages). Asbestus and Amianthus are now generally considered synonymous terms; the latter word is usually applied by mineralogists to the finer and more silky kinds, especially to.the variety of serpentine rocks—the chrysotile (from the Greek chrusos, golden, and tilos, fibrous).
Definition.—Asbestus is a mineral substance greatly resembling flax in texture, color and feel, having a filamentous fibrous structure, and its threads or fibers being generally long, delicate, flexible and soft. It is moreover perfectly incombustible and insoluble in water; it fuses before the blow pipe, with much difficulty and only on its edges. Although it undergoes no perceptible change in the fire, yet when ex posed to a burning miror its threads become vitrified and form small globules. Its elasticity is but slight; several varieties of it are even quite • brittle. Luster, generally dull, satin or silky ; colors, whitish, olive, green, yellowish and brownish; translucent; taste, insipid; feel, unctuous. In popular language, Asbestus is oftentimes called
! mineral flax, earth flax, mountain cork, mountainleather, etc. This is the only mineral earth known which can be wrought into various textile . fabrics, or paper, and therefore a description of it here may not prove uninteresting to the curious student.
.Description.—There are three principal varieties of Asbestus, one of serpentine, another of pyroxene and a third of hornblende species. The first variety—the chrysotile—is a delicately fibrous serpentine (a metamorphic rock of various periods in origin, from the Azoic age upwards); its fibers collected in fasciculi, are extremely fine, nearly ten inches long, parallel, and easily separable by the fingers; it is somewhat elastic; color, olivegreen and yellowish; luster, silky. This variety is properly called Amianthus, and was the only kind of Asbestus known to the ancients, and was so termed by them. It is also the most valuable, both on account of its delicacy and beauty, and its various uses in domes! ic economy. The second variety is a pyroxene (fr. Gr. pur, fire and xenos, stranger; because this mineral is often found in 'lava or other volcanic rocks, and yet is not of igneous origin) Asbestus. It bears'a great analogy to the third varieties In fact, it is impossible, as remarks Dana, to distinguish the two varieties by the blow-pipe characters alone, as they have the same general formula. There is, however, this difference, that in the species of pyroxene Asbestus, lime constitutes ah important ingredient in the formula (nearly 13 per ct.), while this ingredient is wanting, or nearly so, in those of hornblende. The third species is the Asbestus proper, a variety of Amphibole (fr. Gr. amphi, and ballein, to throw; hence amphibolos, doubtful, equivocal). Its colors vary from whitish to green and brownish. Ligniform .Asbestus is hard, friable and compact; its fibers are not parallel, but interlaced ; it greatly resembles petrified wood (the College Museum possesses a very fine specimen of this sub-variety of amphibole Asbestus). Mountain cork appears in rather thick masses and is quite tough. It is so called because of its being nearly as elastic as cork itself. Mountain-leather is likewise pretty hard, but it occurs in thinner sheets than the preceding sub-variety. It looks and feels somewhat like leather. ~
Composition.—1. Serpentine Amianthus is a hydrous silicate of magnesia, of the section of margarophyllites, and of the greup of Unisilicates. Silica 43 50; magnesia 40; water 13 80; protoxyd of Iron 208; and a little alumina. Spec. Gravity 2 3; Hardness 2 6. The above pro-
I

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
147
portions are given by Kobell for the Chrysotile from Reichenstein.—2. and 3. The pyroxene and hornblende varieties of Asbestus belong also to the great division of Ternary Oxygen Compounds, but are anhydrous silicates of magnesia. Silica, 59 50; iron, 8’60; magnesia, 19 30; lime, 12.65. Spec. Grav., 3'2; Hardness, 5’6. These proportions are given by Murray for the Taberg Asbestus.
localities where found.—Chrysotile, or silky Amianthus, occurs in this country at Montville, Morris Co., N. Y.; New Haven, Conn.; Texas, Lancaster Co., Penn.; Oxford and Bolton, Canada. It is also found in Vosges, France ; in Germany, at Reichenstein (the locality where the original Chrysotile was obtained); in Savoy and in Tyrol. Pyroxene and Hornblende Asbestus is found in abundance on Staten Island (where Ligniform Asbestus occurs in large fasciculi of long fibers, resembling petrified dry wood); near the quarantine, Richmond Co., N. Y.; at Brighton, Mass. In Europe, large quantities are obtained from the coasts of Corsica, the Island of Corfu, the Pyrenees Mts, Savoy (at Modane) and Tyrol.
History and Uses.—This mineral, as we have already remarked, was well known to the ancient Greeks and Romans, and was employed by them for various purposes. Dioscorides, who lived in the beginning of the Christian era, and who is the oldest mineralogist but one on record, mentions, in his “Peri /ivies iatrikesf Amianthus among the minerals which possessed medicinal virtues (he supposed it to cure cutaneous diseases). Pliny also speaks of it in several places of his “Nat. Hist.f but, with his usual inaccuracy (Pliny is very unreliable on scientific subjects; he is, at best, but a mere copyist, and a very unfortunate one at that; he generally leaves out the sound views of his predecessors’ works, and readily credits the most absurd theories,) he supposed Amianthus to be a vegetable substance, allied to the flax, and consequently he named it “ Linum incomb u^tibile." There are also certain passages in Homer (see Odys. lib vii, xix) which would indicate that the property of Amianthus for weaving cloths was known to his cotemporaries (700 B. C., circiter) for in his Odyssey he speaks of ■ istos Utheos, web of stone, which Naiads wrought. Mme. Dacier and Landy think that this refers to woven cloth made of Amianthus. Let this be as it may, we know for certain that the Romans, in the time of Pliny, made use of this mineral to manufacture shrouds in which were wrapped the bodies of illustrious dead, emperors and opulent
patricians, that when about to be ’burned, their ashes might not be mixed with those of the wood that composed the funeral pile. It is true that the Roman historians never mention this practice when they speak of the funeral rites of their emperors, but that is, however, sufficiently proved by the fact that such shrouds have been found in several tumuli at Rome. A well-preserved, and beautifully-woven winding-sheet was found in 1702 near the Porta Nuova, and is now in the Museum of the Vatican. Table-cloths, napkins, etc., were also made of this mineral, and when soiled, were cleansed by means of fire: the action of fire consuming all oily and other vegetable matter, without altering the fibers of the cloth. It is undoubtedly from this circumstance that this mineral received the name of Amiantos, unsoiled, pure. Several ecclesiastical authors affirm (wide St. Damasus in his Vita Sti. Sylv., and later, Louis Vives in his Schol. in Sti. Aug.) that wicks of Amianthus were used in their time for sepulchral lamps. However, the use of Amianthus cloths was soon abandoned, both on account of the enormous prices such cloths commanded (much exceeding, in many instances, their weight in gold) and their frangibility. Moreover, it has been proved that lamp-wicks of Asbestus do not answer well that purpose, as they are liable to be soon out of order: they are certainly incombustible, but the action of the heat tends to contract the fibers, and so prevent a continuous ascension of the oil.
Asbestus being not only incombustible, but also a bad conductor of heat, was employed in modern times to make gloves and masks or headcoverings for firemen, but the scarcity of the suitable article and the great difficulty in working it into cloths will, we fear, prevent the extension of so humane an object. At the present time, Asbestus is almost exclusively used for lining iron-safes.	J. c. c.
Died.—At the residence of his father, near Notre Dame, on Saturday, Jan. 9th, 1869, Wiliae M., second son of Prof. T. E. Howard, aged 2 years and 15 days. The funeral took place-on the 11th, with the usual ceremonies attendant on infant obsequies, the pall being borne by four members of the Faculty. Rev. Father Granger, Prov. S. 8. C., took occasion to make a few beautiful remarks, comparing children who die young to flowers in the garden of the Church, plucked by the band of their loving Creator to adorn the halls of His heavenly palace.
148	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
The Study of Philosophy as an Element in Education,
BY FAKCIULLO.
■ TTo. III.—Physical Education.
The number of muscles in the human structure is upwards of five hundred, each having its own peculiar office to fulfill in the economy of life. All these, however, may be divided into four general classes, to correspond to the principal sections of the body, in winch they are located. 1st. the muscles of the head and neck. 2nd. of the -upper extremities; viz: the arms, hands and fingers; 3rd. of the lower extremities, or the legs feet and toes; 4th. of the trunk. This last division includes the dorsal muscles, or muscles of the back; the abdominal muscles, or those which extend from the lower ribs in front to that portion of the body where the lower limbs connect with the trunk; and muscles of the chest. Of these we will treat respectively when speaking of exercise. Let us, then, begin by understanding .the office of each of these diiferent classes of muscles:
The muscles of the head form the machinery by which the motions of the eye and its surroundings, of the nose, lips, jaws, etc, are governed, and hence are very important especially in the process of masticating the food, and in the modulations of the voice. Those of the neck are designed to support the head in its erect position, to govern its motions as a whole, and also to give firmness and vigor to the principal vocal organs in the performance of their functions. The muscles of the upper extremities govern the motions of the arms hands and fingers, and are, therefore, essential to all our employments and amusements, in which these parts of the body are used. Those of the lower extremities are necessary to support the trunk in a standing or upright posture, and also to give strength to the motions of these limbs, in walking, running, leaping, etc. The object of the dorsal muscles is to support the spinal column and prevent any deformity in that important part of our structure, and also to give elasticity and grace to the various motions of the trunk. The abdominal muscles sustain the digestive organs, and their action combined with the motions of the diaphragm stimulates these organs to a - healthy action. They also assist the respiratory organs in expelling the residuum of air from the lungs. The muscles of the chest protect the breast _ nd the delicate organs located within from ex-Cl
ternal injury. They also form the principal motive power of the respiratory organs, being the levers, so to speak, by which the chest is expanded and contracted, this influencing the elevations and depressions of the diaphragm, which, being thus influenced, acts in the double capacity of a suction and force pump in drawing in and expelling the air from the lungs. From this rapid glance at the uses of the different classes of muscles, we see how essential they are to all the important functions, employments and pleasures of life, and the consequent necessity of keeping thetn in a sound and healthy condition.
Now all these muscles require' to be- used, in order that their degree of development and strength may be adequate to the demand made upon them. It is a law of our physical nature, that when the muscles of the body are called into action, the circulation of the blood is increased, and tends, especially, to those parts in which these active muscles are located. This increased flow of the blood causes a more rapid deposition of the solid particles of matter of which the muscles are formed, and when the exercise is proportioned to the power of the system, the deposit of new material will exceed the quantity of particles removed, and thus the size and energy of the muscles are increased, and the body acquires an increased power of endurance. On the contrary, when the muscles are allowed to remain inactive, the natural waste exceeds the deposit of new material, and the muscles, consequently, become gradually smaller, weaker and softer, and, if this inaction continue too long, they finally become incapable of any efficient exertion. We, therefore, proceed to point out some of the exercises which are, generally, best calculated to develop the particular muscles which we are considering, and the influence which they exercise upon the general health. We will begin with the most simple.
Walking is an exercise which tends, especially, to develop and strengthen the muscles of. the lower extremities. The dorsal and abdominal muscles are also brought into some degree of action. If the movement be brisk and the arms swung during the walk, the muscles of these limbs, as also those of the chest, are beneficially affected ; for the exercise is hot so severe as to occasion any fear of injury from bringing so many muscles into play at the same time. Running serves the same purpose as walking, and, moreover, extends its influence to the muscles of the neck and head. The action of the mus-
4
5
■ I
I i
si
A
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	149
cles, however, is more- severe in this latter exercise than in the former, and, consequently, a heavier tax is levied upon the blond, to supply nourishment- to these various muscles. Hence more caution is necessary in the latter case, that the exercise may not be excessive, or taken at improper times. Leaping -is a still severer exercise than running, and affects the same muscles. Its influence upon the muscles of the neck and head, is, however, proportionately greater than upon the other muscles, as may be seen by the rigid neck and set jaws when about to make the spring, while the strike produces a shock which is sensibly felt in the muscles of the head. Exercising with dumb bells, or other weights, strengthens the muscles of the arms, neck, chest and back, and also extends its influence toother portions of the muscular system. Practice on the parallel bars is a most efficient exercise for the development of the chest mnscles. Persons have been known to expand the chest several inches in a very short time by this means. It is also good for the muscles of the arms, and neck. Swinging, especially in a standing posture, is also a good exercise for the arms and chest. It likewise serves to strengthen the muscles of the back a'nd lower limbs. Pitching gaoits exercise, successively, all the muscles of the body, as all parts of the body are to some extent, called into action. This is a good species of exercise, especialy for those whose strength is not sufficient for more serious exertion. A Iley Ball is an excellent exercise which calls all the muscels into action, and at the same time relieves them, to a great extent by requiring the spr cial exertion of each successively. The game of Base Ball is an exercise of the same character, although the running in some cases may be excessive and a wounded linger sometimes mars the pleasure oftthe sport. An excel lent exercise forthe muscles of the back is to carry a weight above the head (not on it) the arms being thus elevated and the shoulders thrown back the weight bears upon the muscles of the spinal column, and gives them a discipline which in a short time will enable them to bear up under very heavy burdens. These are some of the common exercises which may be made use of in physical education.
[to be continued].
■	*a»
He is a great simpleton who imagines that the chief power of wealth is to supply wants. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred it creates more wnats than it supplies.
College BuiLH-ETijNr.
Letter from Very Scv. Fattier Sorin.
Notre Dame de Ste. Croix, Dec. 10th, 1868.
To the Students of Notre Dame:
AIy dear young friends : The departure of one of our Seminarians, for America this evening, offers me an opportunity which I gladly seize to write you a few lines, were it only to show you that I have not forgotten you.
Indeed I have continually before me the touching sight you presented me when I took leave from our dear Notre Dame. The beautiful address in which you so felicitously expressed your kind regards towards me, I carried with me to Paris; and the young gentleman who will deliver you this, will tell you that he was chosen to translate it into French, af’er the young pupils of our College of Neuilly had heard me speak of it and of the fine music and splendid manifestation of your affection, when we were parting for a while.
I am happy to convey you, by this occasion, my best wishes for the New Year now dawning upon us; that you may continue to the end the present scholastic exercise as well as you have commenced it; that you may reach the end of this memorable year in a manner that may mark it as one of the happiest in the annals of Notre Dame.
I send you with Mr. Combel a beautiful velocipede, one of the largest and best finished in Paris. I wish I could have sent a dozen instead of one; but my income did not allow of more than this one for a model. That it will be a source of new and great enjoyments, I have no doubt; after you have tamed it, you will please give a ride upon it to Eddie, Willie, Charlie and Georgie, of the Minims.
I have spoken of the probablity of some of you coming to Paris to finish their French education. Our Rev. F. Champeau is delighted with your project. Decidedly, Paris is the place to finish.	Your friend,
E. Sorin.
The velocipede sent from Paris to the students of Notre Dame, by Very Reverend Father Sorin, is doing wonders of more than one kind, and it is hard to believe how many are the
150
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
ways whereby a rider can alight from the capricious machine. At least it does one thing well; it amuses immensely those who ride aud those who look on. A marked progress was made yesterday by some of the most persistent riders, and a distance of two hundred feet quietly gone over amid the cheers and hurras of the hundred standing by. A gold prize of some value will be awarded to the best rider as soon as a good track is laid out for a race. Another velocipede of American manufacture should be at once procured.
Answer of the Students of . otre Dame University (Ind.,)
TO A LETTER OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAMP. DE ST. CROIX (PARIS).
Notre Dame Du Lac, Indiana, Januaiy 12, 1869.
Gentlemen and Fellow Students :
It is with feelings of pleasure, that we acknowledge the receipt of your welcome letter of Nov.' 30th, 1868.
The generous and affectionate sentiments which you have expressed, inspire us with an ardent desire oi continuing the correspondence you have so happily opened.
Feeling assured that there are many among you who understand the English language well, we deem it best to correspond with you through it, as we can express our ideas much better in our own, than, in any other tongue. It is unnecessary for us to mention anything in particular concerning the University of Notre Dame du Lac, as Very Rev. Father General must have, ere this, given you a full description of it.
We are highly pleased with the prospectus of your University, which was received with the letter, and believe there are several young gentlemen here at present who will accept with pleasure your kind invitation to finish their studies at Notre Dame de Ste Croix.
We,were happy to learn, through you, of Very Rev. Father General’s safe arrival in France; and hope before long we will have the pleasure of greeting him once more at our beloved Institution, over which he has watched with solicitude more than parental for the last quarter of a century, and which is now considered one of the first universities in the country.
Notre Dame du Lac is attended by students of all nationalities, and we thiuk that those of you who
intend studying some of the English branches might spend a few years of their collegiate course very pleasantly and very profitably here, where they will find all the advantages of a first class institution.
We close this letter, hoping that it will add a new link to the chain of friendship which now binds us together.
In behalf of the senior students, Thomas A O’AIahony,!
D. A Clark,	I Committee.
J. P. Rogers, • f James Cunnea.	J
The same committee was requested to write an answer to the letter of Very Rev. Father Sorin.
Examination.
The examination will begin, according to all probabilities, on the 25th, and will end on the 30th inst. We need not say that each student should prepare himself very carefully for it, and make use of the few days yet remaining. This examination will be very thorough, and the real worth and proficiency of the student will be fuily tested. Still, let none be scared, for it is not a good omen. Cheerfulness and readiness to comply with all the requirements of the examination will secure to the students their own contentment and the good will and opinion of their Piofessors. Compositions will be written in each class during the coming week.
Base-Ball.
At last the Juniors are champions of Notre Dame! The first week of December witnessed an exciting game of base ball between two picked nines of the Senior aud Junior Departments. The very best players of each department were chosen, and after a close (?) game of over three hours duration, the Juniors vanquished the “ big ” Seniors, as may be seen from the following score:	-
Pos.[ Junior Nine. | o | r | Pos. I Senior Nine. | o | r
c , Wilson ------, - -
1	b j Marantette------
2	b | Ingersoll - ----
r f Coppinger--------- c f | Kelley ------s s I Murphy --------- -
p Biauiiuck-----------
3	b ii van -----------
1 f Bell...........- -
Total---------- 27 37
c I Towne	- --	-- -	I 4 |	1
p I Laue’-	 ---- -	J 2 |	2
s s i Watson	 ---|2	2
1 b I Hull...........  4	I 1
2 b | Nunuemacher	- -	| 4 I	1
3 b । Ryan----------J	3	,	1
1 f ’ White-----------13	2
c f i Wright	------ I 2	0
r f | Rhodes----------|3	1
Total........27	11
Innings 1, 2.3.4,5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Total
Juniors, 1,9, 6,2, 9, 0, 3.1. 5.	37
Seniors, 0, 2,1,1, «, 1, 3,1, 0.	11
Passed balls, Junior 4; Seniors T2.
Umpire L. Wilson.
_ " f A. Wetherbee, -Scorers ( 2. Vauderveer.
I
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
151
IX
Arrival of Students at IN". Dame.
!
January 9th.
Albert T. Stout • Napoleon, Ohio. January 11th.
William Fletcher,	Saint Louis, Mo.
John F. Mulhall,	“	“
January 12th.
Isaac C. Bennett,	Lincoln, HI.
January 13th.
John J. Flemming,	Burlington, Iowa.
William Emonds,	Iowa City, Iowa.
January 14th.
Leslie C. Hurst,	Versailles, Ky.
The Velocipede.

Ike’s Adventure.
The venerated founder of Notre Dame, Very Rev. Father Sorin, though called by duty to the other side of the Atlantic, has left the very best part of himself with us at Notre Dame,—his generous heart. Amid the cares and annoyances incident to bis present onerous position, he still finds time to think not only of the more substantial interests, but even of the enjoyments, of bis children in that Western Home of Science, which he has built.
The latest proof of bis unalterable interest in us is the splendid specimen of the famous Velocipede, which he sent directly from Paris for the amusement of the students. This magnificent present arrived here last Tuesday by the noon express, and has been a source of great amusement to the students, and all, ever since. The front wheel is three feet in diameter, and that in the rear about two and a half, but as the working apparatus is attached to the front wheel, we may form some idea of the speed of the little vehicle, when we know that it advances between seven and a half and eight feet at every revolu tion, and that a practiced rider can make it perform about one hundred and twenty revolutions a minute, or two every second. But we must suppose our readers already acquainted with the make and qualities of the velocipede; for we cannot refrain from relating a very amusing incident which attended its first appearance at Notre Dame.
Ike had been off “ to spend the hollnwdays,” and made his appearance simultaneously with the velocipede, but as luck would have it he came in at one side of the yard while velocipede came in at the other. The word soon spread that the velocipede, (whose coming had been announced by letter) had arrived. Some allied three cheers for Father General, others wanted “to see the Elephant,” others still insisted on “riding the French pony,” but one phunny phellow caught sight of Ike in the Omnibus and “hurrahed for Ike.” The latter (naturally enough, poor fellow,) thought that the demonstrations of universal joy were all in consequence of his return, and he rather dignifiedly stepped out of the “ bus” saying in an undertone: “Golly how glad the boys are to see me ! I just wish I’d—a—staid away two weeks more, and they’d be so glad they’d ’av just gone and went to kissin’ me, or somethin’ else.” With this little outburst of self admiration, Ike matched down to the yard to shake hands with “all the boys,” but he found himself handled, I fear, more than he anticipated. But previous to the “handling” the following scattered conversation took place.
A voice in the crowd.—“Ho! here’s Ike: he’ll ride the elephant—and bring him to time in less than three shakes”—
Ike.—“Yes, but I won’t do nuthin of the kind— I never rid an elephan’ in my life, an’ I ain’t a-goin’ to.Jiegin that there business now, you bet.— I got somethin’ else to think about.” (Then Ike looked very serious).
Another voice.—“Hello Ike, you can ride the French pony—can’t you ?”
Ike.—“Of comse I can—that is if he don’t kick—I rid one ’v Aunt Sal’s nags while I was home, and be hanged if he didn’t kick up quicker ’an lightnin’ and landed me as much as ten feet on ’tother”— Here Ike stopped to take breath and look around to see wha: effect his speech had produced. There was quite a commotion among the boys, and he had already begun to congratulate himself on his eloquence, when he was seized and lifted body and boots from the ground. It was evident that the boys were going to “put him through”; for he heard such expressions as these, as he was hurried along through the yielding throng: “ He’s got to ride the beast”—“ He’s always bragged about his riding,—we’ll give him a chance to tame the fiery little Arab”—“His neck isn’t any more precious than anybody else’s, so up-with him”; such and many other similar expressions greeted the captive as they hurried
152	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
him on towards where velocipede was very tamely awaiting them. Ike was terror;stricken—he struggled—lagged—cried—said a great many tender and moving things about his “grey headed old mother,” and how “unconsciously dislocated” she’d be if he g -t his neek broke, etc. But it was all no use—they bore him on amid loud cheers, and finally set him down beside “the elephant” and told him to “jump on.” Ike looked in utter amazement, first at the velocipede, then at the boys. At last his astonishment burst forth in words:—“Why, ye geese, that isn’t no elephant, nor poney neither—that’s a wheelbarrer, (aside) and a darned funny one at that. You’d ought to go and study farmin’ a while, you might learn somethin’ that’d do ye good. I don’t see what good it’s goin’ to do any one to know Greek and Jomitree if they don’t know the dtffetence between a horse and a wheelbarrer.” Ike was exhausted,—and the boys taking compassion on his weakness let him go'for that time. I must say, however, that Ike has since taken quite kindly to the “ wheelbarrer” and “thinks some of getting one to ride home on next June, to save railroad expenses.”	Buzfuz.
MaINT ^ARY’S JUademy.
Saint Mary’s, Jan. 12th, 1869.
Arrivals*
Jan. Sth.—Miss Jennie Kent, Jackson, Mich.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses A. and E. Ewing, M Foote, A. Cunnea, E. Kirwan, J. Dobon, R Rettig, E Lindsay, C. Foote, C. Carpenter, E. Plamondon, M. Dillon.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class.—Misses K Cunnea, and M.
Twoomy.
First Senior.—Misses A. Carmody, A. Darcy M. Alexander.	. •
Second Senior.—Misses E. Bland, L. Eno-lish. N. Leoni. A. Carpenter, M. King, N. Sherburn, M. Ogle, E Smith, K Young and H. Higgins.
Third Senior.—Misses M. Toberty,,E. Boyles, A. Wiley and R. Joslin.
First Preparatory.—Misses A'. Master, S. O’Brien, J.'Gittings,- E Dat st, M. Lisson and S. Coffee/
Second, — Misses J. Davis, N. Burridge, M. Vanhorn and M. Minor.
Third.—Mi-ses J. Denny, M. Clune, M. Coffey, A. Matthews, J. Davis and E. Leiler. .
Insti'mnentiil Music.
Piano.	.
First Class.—Miss C. Foote.
Second Div—Miss Ml Sbirland.
Second Class—Miss A. Ewing.
Second Div.—Misses E. Plamondon and A.
Darcy.	.
Third Class.—Miss E Smith.	. .
Fourth Class.—Miss H. Kiel.
Second Dis.—Miss H Higgins.
Fifth Class—Miss W. Corby.
S owl Div.—Miss A. Woods.
Sixth Class—Miss P. Smith.
Seventh Class.—Miss A. Byrnes.
Eghth Class.—Miss F. Taylor.	'
Harp.
Miss AL Shirland.
Guitar. .
Miss N. Taber.
French.
First C!ass.—Misses L. and L. Tong and A.
Carmody. <	.
Second Class—Misses M. Alexander, K. Young and M. Carraher. '
Second Div.—Misses K Cunnea, M. Twoomy, H. Kiel and M. Tuberty.	’
Third Class.—Misses A. Cunnea. N. Leoni, E. Smith, L. Corning and M. Chouteau.
Table of Honor, Jr. ~
Misses R. Leoni, A. Boyles, L. Jones, J. Wilder, A Woods, A. Metzger, B. Wilson, B. Henny and A Garrity.	.
Honorable Mention.
First Preparatory.—Misses A. Dunlap, and A.
McKinny.
Second.—Misses A. Durant and L. Kiel.
Third.—Misses M Letourneau and A. Robson.
First <Hoes—Mi>ses A. Byrnes, M. and L.
McNamara. M Roberts and F Taylor.
Second.—Misses M. Giidersleeve, ~R. Canoil, N.
Strieby and M. Reynolds.	_