
	••I.ABOK OAJQiTA. VINCIT."	*
Volume III.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER-18, 1869.	Number I.
[From the “ Silver Jubilee,” compiled and published by Joseph A. Lroxs, A. MJ
The True Education.
The orator and hia alternate elected at the last meeting of the Alumni having both been unable to meet their engagement, and there being no time left to select another orator, Professor T. E. HowaBDj of the University, furnished the following Oration. *
Gentlemen of the Alumni : Owing to the unavoidable absence of the orators chosen by you, I have been requested to address you on this auspicious occasion. I do this, with a double regret— that you are deprived of the pleasure of listening once more to their well-remembered eloquence, and that my hasty and feeble production must be altogether unworthy of this your first reunion and of the beautiful Silver Jubilee of our Alma Mater.
Deeply interested as we all are in the past history and future prospects of this young Western University, I know of no subject that can better occupy our attention for this brief hour than that which has occupied the attention of Notre Dame for the past twenty-five years, and which, we hope, will continue to occupy her attention many, many years to come—the great subject of properly guiding the ever-rising generation along the dangerous road that leads from childhood to manhood. I would, then, speak to you of the True Education— that education which Notre Dame aims to give to each one of her pupils.
Education, in its broadest and best sense, signifies the harmonious development of all the powers of man. Man, by his nature, consists of body, soul and mind (the physical, the moral and the intellectual,)—strength, love and wisdom. The mind forms, as it were, the link between the body and the soul, giving expression to the feelings, thoughts and aspirations of each, but partaking chiefly of the character of the soul, of which it is the intellectual manifestation—a triune nature, whose true culture forms the crown of the visible creation—a complete man. How important, therefore, that we should consider well by what means we may best premote the development of this wonderful organism given us by the all-wise Creator. Nor is it strange that good men in all ages have thought it their first duty and highest pleasure to provide for the education of their people.
As man is composed of body, mind and soul, so his education should be physical, mental and moral. He who is trained in one of these respects to the exclusion of the others is, properly speaking, not educated. The extraordinary development of the physical powers with little attention to mind or soul gives us the mere bully and prize-fighter. The extraordinary development of the mind with little regard to body or soul gives us the lean, lank infidel or the dreaming philosopher, turning the world upside down with their wickedness or nonsense, and leaving to sounder and better men the weary task of building it all over again.
While the extraordinary development of the soul with little care for mind or body gives us the simple enthusiast, whose mind and body are too weak to hold the spirit, which becomes au angel because he disdained to remain a man. Educating our lower nature only, makes us lower than men—brutes; educating our intellectual nature only, makes us worse than men—demons; educating our moral nature only, makes us better than men—angels. But if we wish to remain simply men, we must educate the whole nature of man. This education must be harmonious, moving together, all the powers receiving due attention in their turn. As the body acquires vigor, agility and grace, the mind must acquire strength, wisdom and knowledge, and the soul purity, truth and charity. Men thus educated are models of beauty, lords of wisdom and friends of God.
Such were Adam and Eve before the fall: perfect without education from the hand of their maker—Adam, type of manly strength and proportion ; Eve, fairest of women: whose minds were bright with intelligence and whose souls were pure as the morning dews of Paradise.
M Adam, the goodliest man of men since born Uis sons; the fairest of her daughters, Ere.”
They walked the groves and valleys, mountains and flowery fields of Eden, vigorous as the noonday, lovely as the morning. Looking out on all nature, they read as in a book; the green earth and the starry heavens were the bright, open pages on which the words formed into histories and poems more grand and beautiful than sage ever penned or poet dreamed. Day and night their hearts, not thinking evil, rose to God, an endless hymn of praise. But they fell, and ever since their fall the world has been educating in the sublime endeavor to return to those model types fashioned by the hand of Divinity.
Now we may see what is the real problem of education, at what end we should aim, what it is that we should desire to do. This is the question which the people should try to answer correctly: How shall our children become like those first children of the world,—strong, wise and good?
How many of our good fellow-citizens are at a loss to know why Catholics are so averse to sending their children to the State institutions of learning ! If they would but thus consider our human nature they would discover at once a solution to the mystery. The Christian Church never forgets her mission—to teach all nations, to instruct man in all that is necessary for his welfare. And well she knows that it would be of little use to instruct the mind if the soul were forgotten. Why cherish the lower nature and neglect the higher? We know that the best education is that'which trains the body, the’mind and the soul; but if one of these is to be neglected, who will hesitate in the choice? Who will forget that which distinguishes man over all the visible world, makes him king of the universe,—the immortal spirit dwelling within him ?
The good Christian is therefore unwillnig to send his child to a school or a college where the soul can receive no culture but that which is evil. Educate that boy’s mind and forget his soul, and who will answer for it that he will not become a swindler, a rebel—traitor alike to the laws of God and man? All great rogues have been well trained in the schools, but the influence of religion has not impressed them.
What is the state of education in our country? What means do we provide for the development of the youth of the land? -
Thank God, our beloved America, with little help from public or private charity, is rich enough to provide for the food and clothing of her children! Our lands are deep and broad, and the body is always sure of enough. There is plenty of toil, besides, to develop all our bodily powers; plenty to eat, plenty to wear, and plenty to do—the body is well provided for. The mind, too, has here all it can desire—complete liberty of action, a boundless field for the exercise of its powers; while in all that concerns the young, America has provided magnificently for the mental wants of her people. Each State has her famous schools, colleges and universities, where all the lore of ancient and modem times feeds the eager youthful intellect of the land. The press groans in the production of every celebrated work in literature, art and politics which the world has ever known; newspapers and periodicals fall in showers over the whole nation ; steamboats and railway cars rush hither and thither from city to city, bringing profit and information to all the inhabitants. And, as though all these were insufficient, the sacred fire of Jehovah leaps from heaven, and, quick as thought, darts along the continent, springing from wire to wire, charged with intelligence from every people under the sun.
As the result of so much that is great, joined with the blessed boon of freedom, the American people are the most intelligent of the human race. In other countries you may find wise men, great • statesmen, renowned warriors, but you must come to America to find a cultivated people.
For our physical and intellectual culture, then, our country supplies all that we can desire; and for this we can never be too grateful to the bountiful Providence which has appointed our dwelling-place in this garden of the world, this happy land of freedom and abundance.
But what of our moral nature; what of the soul ? Ah, my friends, here is our defect! Everything is provided for the sharp intellect, everything for the perishable body, but nothing for the immortal soul! Let us, however, be just States can provide nothing for the soul, except, indeed, to give a general encouragement to virtue and to frame just laws for the punishment of the guilty and the protection of the good.
What, then, is to become of the nobler part of man ? Is it alone to receive no assistance ! God
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
forbid! Every right sentiment of our nature forbids that the body which dies to-morrow, the mind which is so strong to guard itself, should fare better than the tender, easily-wounded soul, which is yet to live forever, giving life and grace to the body and lending holiness to the mind, over which it shall hold gentle sway, even as the Seraphim are above the Cherubim.
We have nothing to do with those muscular Christians who teach that man’s highest duty is to develop bone and sinew; still less with those others who teach that man’s mind is his god and man’s body but a higher degree of the worm. There is a God in heaven who has given us a soul like unto Himself, and the aim of the true teacher will be to-prepare this soul to return to the bosom of its Maker. This is the better education that teaches men to be better, to aspire after the good and spurn the evil; and, my friends, what can give a great and good heart more pleasure than this—to take the pure child by the hand and write upon the white tablet of its innocent soul the undying lessons of the true, the beautiful and the good ?
Once I saw- a wandering child in the street; it was yet too young to learn the language or the deeds of crime, but was fast travelling on the road to ruin. Two good men stood watching the poor little one; both felt that it was growing up to be a child of misery, and both in their hearts proposed a remedy. One hurried off to the State capital to secure the passage of severe laws deterring men from crime. New prisons were to be built, and all serious offences punished with death; the unfortunate offenders against the law were to fill the jails and lock-ups, and the State prisons to clank with the chains of life-long wretched convicts, while the scaffold would reek with the vile blood of blacker villains. In fine, the whole land should groan beneath the iron weight of force—all, that the little street child might be deterred from crime. The good legislator then hastened home to await the results of his benevolent labors.
But, alas for the uncertainty of human expectations, the best laid plans often come to nought through unforeseen causes! Our legislator’s more practical friend had long since taken the little one by the hand and led it on the road to virtue through the school-house and the church. Our little child had learned to love the right and despise 'the wrong. The prison and the scaffold had no terrors for it, and all the laws of the wellmeaning legislator were become quite vain and useless. But he learned this lesson—that it is easier to teach uprightness by love than to prevent crime by force.
A little reflection will show us that this good result cannot be brought about by intellectual education alone. • The chief propagators of infidelity and immorality in both ancient and modem times have been, in this sense, well educated men. Your Mahomets, Voltaires and Brigham Youngs have been men of bright, keen minds, but the culture of their hearts was quite forgotten, or, worse still, their moral nature was contaminated with all the evils of a false education. The most noted traitors and other criminals who have cursed the world have been men of fine natural intellects. All the philosophers, poets, historians and romancers who have corrupted youth and age with their foul lies or fouler truths have been men whose own souls were first corrupted by the evil trainings of their youth. Byron, the glorious bard, whose verse in his better moments flows pure as crystal, but whose lines, alas! more often wind along in the mire
of impurity, whose sad life was a losing'struggle between his’owmbetter’nature and the bias of a misspent youth; Torii Pained whose heart beat high for liberty and good to all ijen, but '^vhose poor soul had never been touched with^he^weet , influence of a higher..love; Gibbon, whose luminous page lights up the darkness of departed Rome, but with a glare too often luridly revealing him as a mocking fiend; all these, not to speak of the legion whose foul frothings float along the sea of literature—the scum of a corrupt civilization—all were men whose minds were ripe with the best culture of the intellect. But what could intellect avail, while their souls were tossed in the mazes of uncertainty ? From irre-ligion, from human pleasures and passions, and from their human intellects, they endeavored to draw their happiness. Such is the result of mere intellectual education, with a neglected or a false moral culture.
How refreshing to turn from these deplorable results of poor human nature to the same human nature made holy in the persons of those better and greater men who have adorned the history of the race!
[to be continued.]
Homesickness.
In the long category of human ills to which human flesh is heir, there is perhaps not one so intolerable as homesickness. There is quinine for the ague, opiates for the tooth ache, Hostetter’s bitters for dyspepsia, infinitesimal doses for headache, but alas, where is to be found the panacea for this distemper, the most painful of all,—uniting, as it seems to, the disagreeable features of every other disease ? Is it indeed to be found on this sublunary sphere? Undoubtedly it is, and consists in a proper combination of sound, good sense reasonable consideration, and a eery little foresight.
To leave home for college, especially if it be for the first time, is indeed no insignificant event in the life of a young gentleman; and the vivacious mind which has found superficial change so agreeable, experiences in this feelings of a more serious nature than it has ever before known. If in fact he be not^ entirely thoughtless, he will realize that he is now taking the first independ, ent step towards the establishment of his future claims to respectability and esteem. Truly, to relinquish the pleasures of home, and endearing social intercourse, is a great sacrifice; but it is to maintain the noble character of that home, and those associations, that you are here, young men of Notre Dame University. You have embarked on a voyage which will either shipwreck the high hopes of your parents and friends, or crown them with the .munificent fruits of your patient industry, obedience, and strength of purpose. To many, the present is the first time you have ever been subjected to the restraints of University life.
No one has assumed the right to say “Thus far, and no farther,” to your inclinations; but remember that she human will, like a fractious horse, must be brought under full subjection, to render the mind useful, the heart pure, and the soul worthy of its sublime destiny. For this end you have for a time cast aside the ordinary round of life at-home, and have taken up a course to impart strength and discipline to your mental powers, to gather correct and valuable information to serve you in the future; and the experience of those who are appointed to guide you will secure these results if you cordially respond to their control over you.
To yield to homesickness is to throw yourselves into the embraces of your greatest enemy. It is a virtual acknowledgment that you are unequal to the task of cultivating the higher powers of your being: that you have not the courage to give up a little selfish satisfaction for the present, in order to secure the more elevated satisfaction of a finished education: an education to render you the pride of your friends, and the benefactors of your country. Overpowered by a feeling which must in the very nature of things prove but of short duration, you will turn to your round of amusements, or light occupations, and be subjected to many dangers from which, had you been more courageous, you would have entirely escaped. We will not picture to you a mother’s tears, a father’s anguish of disappointment. The annals of modem times are covered with such pictures taken from real life: the results of long years of severe and tireless application to business, squandered by ignorant and dissipated young men. Slay you pever be one of their number. Regard Homesickness as a spy sent from the camp of the enemy to betray you. Treat him accordingly, and you are safe. Remember what you are here for, and set to work with a right good will. If perchance you are a non-Catholic and find the place strange, and perhaps uncongenial to your tastes, remember how many young men of the most highly cultivated families of America, have not only left home, but have crossed the wide ocean to remain for a long term of years in the midst of just such surroundings as you find here. Forget all else in the one absorbing determination to extort from the University aery advantage it possesses. Your Professors are “ tried and true.” Their aim is your advancement. Your parents and guardians have realized this, and have relinquished the enjoyment of your society to place you under their charge. Do not disappoint their confidence in you. Reflect that first days and homesickness will soon pass away, and that the abundant resources for amusement enjoyed by Notre Dame will not be slow in opening their charms to the employment of your leisure hours.
To descend from the morerefined and cultivated recreation of the Literary and Dramatic Societies, to the Boating and Foot-ball Clubs, you will find plenty to gratify your love for manly and vigorous physical exercise. The blue lakes, the green field, the cool forests, invite you to the enjoyment of the pure air and brilliant landscapes. It will not be long before the sound of the chimes will be music to your ears, and the signal for scholastic duties a most welcome voice. In proportion as you apply yourself, and disregard discouragements, your happiness will increase. There is this difference between the diligent and the indolent pupil. The first turns even his misfortunes to account. His homesickness is transmuted into a blessing, for he is not willing to lose the prize for which he has paid so dearly. If a science appears difficult and beyond his comprehension, it will only make him more determined to master it in spite of all obstacles. He may have to work harder than his more proficient neighbor, but he acquires the vigor of intellect from this very exertion which the boy with quick memory cannot attain; and so of every other adverse circumstance. His manly noble nature is proof against all opposition.
On the other hand, the indolent youth turns everything to bad account. If a little homesick-he takes to his heels. If a lesson is not comprehended at once, he pronounces it “ all nonsense,” and turns his attention to some frivolous diversion, forgetting all about the explanation of the
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3
f'
I_T4/J8> I
So. J'x 4 v-3-4 e. 4
1 $1^-71
Professor. He is fault-finding and unworthy. But the bright faces and fine intellectual heads of the young men now rapidly filling up the College give us little to fear from this unhappy class.
To The Scholastic Year’lings, Greetin;
By Coz.

il
0
Learned Striplings, and Scholastic Sms: Looking lately over the back numbers of your weekly Year, and seeing how many of my pleasing productions figure therein; some grave, others gay, many in poetry, and not a few in prose;— all, without a single exception, as I fondly hoped, “ sui generis,” that is, original; and written in plain, honest Anglo-Saxon-English, with a few Frenchified-Norman, or bastardized-Latin ornamentations—I began to think that I had my fill of fame, I could afford to repose upon my laurels for a time at least; when, to my great astonishment, and utter dismay, suddenly appeared at my elbow, the printer who dispelled my bright day-dreams of glory, lowered my lofty pride ‘ a peg or two,’ and withered the imaginary bays that bloomed on my classical brow, by screeching, as Shakspeare says, ‘ into the hollow chambers of mine ear'
"Poetic Coz, by Styx I swear, That on my way to upper air
“I heard a Minim hint, that—a Junior told him, that—he heard a Senior say, that—one of the Professors said, that—another told him, that—he thought, that—Coz copied every blessed copy of the copy that he gave to be copied into The Scholastic, out of an old copy of the Poets, that he once saw up in the Library, whence it had lately and very mysteriously disappeared! ”
Eh ?—I ?—oh!—Ah! And that is fame / With more truth, then, than grace, did old Bobby Burns growl “Man’s inhumanity to man,” and-so-forth! Without a word, but with a most emphatic look, given free, gratis, to the graceless hear-er of this long and crooked tale, I rushed to mine room—took off mine coat—rolled up mine sleeves—spat on mine hands—grabbed mine pen—thrust it, lance-like, into mine inkstand —grit mine teeth—rolled mine eyes—fiercely scratched mine head—and groaned—and—
Determined to write a satire on the whole human race—on big and little, old and young, black and white, rich and poor; on men and women, boys, girls and babies; on Tom, Dick and Harry,—on everybody, from Adam down to Mr. Z. Finis!
Yes, I did: a satire, so perfectly universal, that my bare slanderers could not escape; so perfectly original, that their occupation (like Othello’s} would be henceforth and forever gone-up; and so perfectly in-ter-min-a-ble that the poor printers would never again have to ask for what they so earnestly insist upon having—“ more copy.” That these good resolutions of mine were not, like those of so many other (Ahem!) great geniuses, “ vox et praterea nihilf may be seen by perusing, and, of course, admiring, the following Virgile classical and free-and-easy invocation to the goddess of Liberty—the beginning of my universal satire!
A1
Pen, Ink and Paper.
“ The pen is mightier than the sword.” Ah, Liberty! bewildered Dame, What damning deeds are in thy name By man enacted! Tyrants, fools, The demagogue’s deluded tools,
And fickle mobs, with traitors foul, Wide ope their grinning gobs, and howl In mockeiy of high heaven’s lord Thy hollow praise, with loud discord, Like crafty fox in lion’s skin Their spotted treachery within Thy stainless robes they cunning veil And leave thee naked, crying “ Hail 1 ” The while they pull thy statues down, And drag them thro’ the filthy town, Fast followed by the rabble rout, Whose drunken frenzy swells the shout; Aid, and inspire, while, fired with rage, I seize the pen, and blot a page Of foolscap o’er with murky ink, Thy wrongs to right. 0 Goddess! think How shameless liars slander thee— Then grant this boon, fair Liberty.
Dr. Bogglcsby’s Bear.
Chapter L
Sheweth how the Bogglesby Family went Huckleberrying; and furthermore furnisheth Particulars concerning the Supercilious Behaviour of Miss Matilda Jane Bogglesby, and the Speedy and Condign Punishment Thereof
Now the huckleberries, (or as some would have us call them, whortleberries), were very plenty this year, although the marshes were wet; and such being the case, the Bogglesby family unanimously resolved to go out huckleberrying. So the boys went down to the livery to hire a rig.
“We want a light wagon, of sufficient capacity to accommodate a small huckleberrying party of fifteen, and two horses.”
“ Sorry for it, sir. Wagons all engaged long ago.”
“ We’ll take a buggy then.”
“ Buggies all engaged too.”
“Well then we’ll take anything in the shape of vehicular accommodation.”
“Everything engaged, gentlemen, everybody going huckleberrying. Not even a wheel-bar-row left. Nothing with wheels to it of any kind—except the hearse.”
“ Why, then—we’ll take the hearse.”
“ The hearse ?! ?! ? ! ”
“ Why, yes—just the thing to go berrying in, you know. Have it ready for us as soon as possible.”
“ Very sorry, gentlemen, but we haven’t any horses. However, if you can get horses you are welcome to the hearse.”
So the boys went around town to borrow horses, and after many and strenuous exertions they succeeded in obtaining Mr. Sparkins’s mule. They were at a loss for a long time how to complete the span, when Bob remembered a tame zebra which had escaped from a menagerie some time previous, and which they had secured down in the lot. So they all piled in and drove to the marsh.
Now the marsh was surrounded by a deep drain, which was full of water, and extremely wet They walked around for some time seeking in vain for a mode of ingress, until Mr. Long, who was very flexible and accommodating, formed himself into an arch across the drain, over which the whole party thus passed dry-shod, and commenced picking at once.
The best pickist among them all was Matilda Jane. She had three quarts picked before her uncle, old Mr. Goggles, had decided which bush to begin with, and the other children had only enough to cover the bottoms of their tin pails. So whenever she passed the rest to empty her
pail into the big barrel, she began to sniff and to sneer, and to make insinuations about how lazy some people are, and so forth. Once she upset Little Joe Bogglesby’s pail; and when he commenced to cry and try to pick them up again, she said it didn’t make any difference, as all the huckleberries he picked wouldn’t amount to any-thing anyhow.
At last she even went so far as to begin to whistle. She had heard the proverb about “whist-ling girls and crowing hens” very often Her aunt Sarah had frequently striven to impress upon her how highly improper it was for a young lady to whistle, a Bogglesby, too, which was never heard of before. The Bogglesbies as a family always held their heads high and occupied a front pew in meeting, and instead of that here was Matilda Jane beginning to whistle.
She was soon awakened to a sense of her error, however; for a large black snake, startled by the unusual noise, poked his head out of a huckleberry bush and upset at the same time her equanimity and her five-quart paiL So she not only lost the huckleberries on which she founded her arrogant claims to superiority over her brothers and sisters, but was also frightened into fits, and had to be carried out of the marsh by her uncles and deposited in the hearse, where she remained for the rest of the day eating ice-cream and fan-ning herself, a warning to all not to indulge in the fatal habit of superciliousness, especially when there are snakes around.
So the rest of the party continued pinking until evening; and then, after standing on their heads to let the water out of their boots, they departed home without further accident, except that the tame zebra tried to run away, but was counteracted by the obstinacy of the mule; and the bear will be introduced in a future chapter.
S.
[to be CONTINUED.J
The following is a copy of an order issued by the General Pass. Agent of the Illinois Central B. R. (St. Louis and Chicago Through Line), to the agent at St. Louis, in relation to arrangements made with that Company for the transportation of students of this University.
Illinois Central Railroad, General Ticket Office, Chicago, Sept. 1st, IS 69.
I.	F. Randolph, Ticket Agent I. C.
(St Louis and Chicago Through Line),
192 North Fourth st^ St. Louie. Mo.
According to arrangements made here, with Prof J. A. Lyons the students of Notre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy, at South Bend, Inch, will be carried from St. Louis to Chicago and return at one full fare. They will pay full fare going to Chicago and be returned free.
To the parents and friends who will acccompany, or from time to time visit them, you will sell excursion tickets to Chicago and return, limited to twenty days at twelve dollars.
W. P. Johnson, General Tfas. Agent,
Wedding Cake.—Our kind friend, Capt O. T. Chamberlain, has had the good fortune of uniting to himself a gentle helper through life, in consequence whereof we were made the participant of the wedding cake. Many thanks to the Captain and his amiable wife. May they enjoy all the bliss of which they are so worthy, and be exempt from the many ills which so often darken this shore of life.
A plan for the church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, to be erected at Notre Dame, is confided to that eminent architect, Mr. Keely, of New York. The work on the church will begin this fall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
®HE ^OTRE JaME ^CHOLASTIC.
Published Weekly al Notre Dame University, Indiana,
TERMS:
One year..........................................$2	00
Five months..................................     1
Clubs of five, in the University, one yea^................ 1 00
Single copies....................................... 5
The Noros bare Scholastic can be obtained at the Students’ office.
The form which our publication now assumes for the first time was contemplated nearly from the creation of our College paper. Several motives afterward led its originators to adopt the royal-Svo, size which was also that of the Ave Maria, published at the same office. Expense was thereby avoided, and the labor of our printers but little increased. We were making a trial, and, as a matter of course, wished to do so at as small a cost as possible. After two years trial we are convinced of the great advantages attached to a weekly College paper, whose special aim is to interest the students, and give to their parents a frequent bulletin of news. Although we dare not say that our incipient paper has been in any manner a model of its kind in the past, and, even have to apologize for many of its shortcomings, still we may say that it has elicited an earnest interest in its welfare from patrons both here and abroad.
We have therefore been led by these and other reasons to change the former diminutive form for one larger and better adapted to our wants. Without losing sight of the special object which originated our paper, we intend to raise its standard and give it a wider scope in the field of literature, and do away as much as possible with crude and hastily-written articles. We r do not mean, however, to reject the humorous, nor sacrifice wit and interest to philosophical speculations, but rather to blend the two, and thus render our weekly worthy of its readers and of its publishers.
Two elegantly-written addresses read to the Most Rev. AucuBisnop Purcell, respectively by Miss Genevieve Arrington in behalf of the Senior Department, and by Miss Nellie Gross, in "behalf of the Junior Department, on the occasion of his visit to St. Mart’s Academy, were received too late for publication. We regret to have to omit these gems of poetiy, as well as the appropriate remarks which they elicited from his Grace.
We have furthermore to apologize to our kind friends of St. Mart’s for postponing to our next number the long list of names of their newly-arrived pupils. We are forced to this by want of proper types. Next week we will give them the precedence. We are delighted to see1 the Academy so prosperous.
The Opening of the Session.
The new session of the scholastic year 1869-70 was formally opened on Tuesday morning. At 8 o’clock the students were called to form ranks and proceed to the church, where the imposing and Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered to secure upon the University and its inmates the blessings of Providence for the ensuing year. The full peal of bells, in unison with the grand notes of the big bell, seemed to understand, as it were, that it was performing an office of unusual importance on that Tuesday morning, and the long files of Juniors and Seniors proceeding silently to
the nave of the church appeared unusually silent and grave. No doubt all present entered into the spirit of that religious ceremony by which the labors of the students of Notre Dame have been, year after year, dedicated to God, the Giver of lights. If it is true, in the poet’s own words, that “All ends well that begins well,” what may we not expect of the end of the new year, after such a beginning ?
Rev. Father Corby, President of the University, celebrated Mass, assisted by Rev. A. Lemonnier, (Vice-President) as deacon, and Rev. D. J. Spillard (Prefect of Discipline) as subdeacon. Rev. Father Corby addressed the students from the altar, and in his own good and practical style made them such remarks as were called for by the circumstances. He told them how just it was to offer our own works and future welfare to God, from whose hands everything comes. He assured them that at Notre Dame they would find a safe oasis, free from the temptations and dangers of the world, yet eminently appropriate for progress in learning and virtue; that the twofold education of man,—that of his mind and that of his heart,— were the special objects aimed at by the instructors at Notre Dame, and consequently the students might expect to find their moral aud mental education trained simultaneously. As a conclusion, he said that good example on all sides would be given the students, and that they might look to the faculty as models of polite and high-toned manhood; as also they might expect that delinquencies on their own part, offences of a serious kind against morals or rules of good breeding, would be promptly and severely punished. He begged them to confide in the good-will and readiness of the officers and professors of the University, and trust that the year, which opens under such bright auspices and with such a large number of students, will be one of happiness and general contentment.
The propitious and impressing “ Mass of the Holy Ghost” with which the scholastic year always opens, has been sung. It was announced by the rich chime bells heard for many miles around: classes are in full operation, and the prospect of a happy year was never greater.
May the salutary influence of the University be felt with a thousand times augmented force, and may every name entered on the list of 1869 shine as a bright star in the history of our beloved country. The consummation of this wish depends in a measure upon the recipients of the advantages offered by the College.
At 9:30 on the same morning the faculty held a meeting at which the classes for the ensuing session were assigned to each professor. Professor L. G- Tong was elected secretary of the special meetings of the Faculty, for the year, vice Prof. Win Ivers resigned.
The classes were awarded to each Professor as follows:
Dogmatic and Moral Theology, Rev. T. D. Darcy, S. S. C.; Eclesiastical History, Rev. F. P. Battista, S. S. C.; Moral Philosophy, Rev. M. Hallinan; Mental Philosophy, Rev. M. Hallinan; Logie, Rev. M. Hallinan; Modern History, Profi T. E. Howard; English Literature, Rev. M. Hallinan; Second Rhetoric, Prof. T. E. Howard; First Greek, Rev. TV. Ruthman, S. S. C.; Second Greek, Mr. J. O’Connell, S. S. C.; Third Greek, Profi A J. Stace; Fourth Greek, Profi TV. T. Johnson ; Fifth Greek, Profi M. A. J. Baasen; First Latin/Prof. J. A Lyons; Second Latin, Profi J. A Lyons; Third Latin, Profi IL A J. Baasen. Fourth Latin, Mr. Jacob Lauth, S. S. C.; Fifth
Latin, Prof. TV. T. Johnson; Sixth Latin, Mr. F.. X. Derrick, S. S. C.; Seventh Latin, Prof. TV. Ivers; Astronomy,Prof. T. E. Howard; Chemistry, Rev. T. Vagnier, S. S. C.; Anatomy, Rev. L. Neyron; Physiology, Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.; Geology, Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.; Mineralogy, Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.; Zoology, Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.; Botany, Rev. J. C. Carrier, S. S. C.; Analyt’l Geometry, Prof. A J. Stace; Surveying, Rev. T. Vagnier; S. S. C.; Trigonometry, Profi T. E. Howard; First Geometry, Prof. TV. Ivers; Second Geometry, Prof. A J. Stace; First Algebra, Prof. T. E. Howard; Second Algebra, Prof. A J. Stace; Third Algebra, Prof. TV. Ivers; First Grammar, Senior Department, Prof. J. A Lyons; Second Grammar, Mr. F. X. Derrick; Third Grammar, Profi C. J. Lundy; First Grammar, Junior Department, Bro. Benjamin ; Second Grammar, Bro. Philip; Third Grammar, Bro. Camillus; First Arithmetic, Prof. TV. Ivers; Second Arithmetic, Profi A J. Stace; Third Arithmetic Prof. TV. T. Johnson; Fourth Arithmetic, Bro. Philip; First Arithmetic, Jr., Dep’t. Bro. Philip; Second Arithmetic, Bro. Benjamin; Third Arithmetic, Prof. TV. Ivers; Fourth Arithmetic, Bro. Camillus, First Orthography, Senior Department, Bro. Philip; Second Orthography, Bro. Philip; First Orthography, Jr., Bro. Benjamin ; Second Orthography, Bro. Emmanuel; Third Orthography,Bro. Camillus; First Geography, Sr., Mr. T. Ewing; U. S. History, Mr. T. Ewing; First Geography, Jr., Bro. Benjamin; Second Geography, Bro. Camillus; First Reading, Sr., Profi J. A. Lyons; Second Reading, Bro. Emmanuel; First Reading, Jr., Prof. J. A Lyons; Second Reading, Bro. Benjamin; Third Reading, Bro. Emmanuel; First Penmanship, Sr., Prof. C. J. Lundy; Second Penmanship, Prof. C. J. Lundy; First Penmanship, Jr., Prof. C. J. Lundy; Hebrew, Rev.-- --------------------------------------------; First French, Rev. A. Lemonnier; S. S. C.; Second French, Rev. A. Lemonnier; Third French, Mr. J. O’Connell, S. S. C.; First German, Sr., Rev. P. Lauth, S. S. C.; Second German, Prof. M. A. J. Baasen: Third German, Mr. Jacob Lauth, S. S. C.; First German, Jr., Rev. P. Lauth, S. S.,C.; Second German, Prof. M A J. Baasen; Third German, Mr. John Lauth, S. S. C.; Italian, Rev. F. P. Battista, S. S. C.; Irish, Bro. Simeon; Vocal Music, Prof. M. T. Corby; Drawing and Painting, Profi C. B. Von TVeller; Instrumental Music, Bro. Basil, Director; Prof. M. Girac, LL. D., Bro. Leopold, Prof. C. B. Von TVeller; Brass Band, Prof. L. Kingfield.
Commercial Department.
Book-Keeping will be taught, as formerly, by Prof. L. G. Tong, assisted by Bro. Camillus. Four classes are now in operation, with nearly sixty students.
The Class of Medical Anatomy will begin next week under the direction of Rev. L. Neyron. TVe need not say that young gentlemen intending to follow the medical profession will derive the greatest advantages from a few years attendance on the lectures of the Rev. Professor.	■ •
The Class of Law will also begin next week. The Law Course promises to be well attended this term.
TVe look for an early reorganization of the Choir, Profi Max Girac, LL. D., its director having now returned. The young gentlemen who possess a good voice should avail themselves of the great advantages offered by the Choral,Union for their vocal culture.
Baseball Club meetings have been held generally this week by the members of our old clubs. The baseball grounds are in splendid order for |( good match games.,	A,
					
IY	the	NOTRE DAME<SCHOLAS		TIC:;	5		
Arrival of Students at Notre Dame. From September 1st, 1869. . William Carson,	Mexico, New Mexico. John E. Garrity,	Chicopee Falls, Mass. John E. Shanahan,	Pittsburgh, Pa. Denis Tighe,	Toledo, Ohio. Martin Smyth,	Cairo, Illinois. William K. Roy,	Palmyra, Missouri. James J. Dooley,	Chicago, Illinois. Charles Hutchings,	Williamsburg, N. Y. Reuben Hutchings,	Williamsburg, N. Y. J. Louis Marshall,	Louisville, Kentucky. St. Mark G. Melancon,	Donaldsonville, La. C. J. O’Neill,	Notre Dame, Indiana. George J. Gross,	Philadelphia Pa. John D. W.' O’Hara,	Chicago, Illinois. George Lyons,	New York, N. Y. Ernest Lyons,	New York, N. Y. Willie Canavan,	Chicago, Illinois. Thomas Dillon,	Notre Dame, Indiana. Eddie De Groot,	Notre Dame, Indiana. Frank Butters,	Chicago, Illinois. John Wilson,	Aspinwall, S. America. G. W. Trussell,	Notre Dame, Indiana. Wm. McKernan,	Indianapolis, Indiana. Alfred W. Arrington,	Chicago, Illinois. John Coffey,	Chicago, Illinois. E. C. Davis,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin. John P. Wey,	Green Point, L I. Edmund H. Campau, Spring Wells, Michigan. Oliver Tong,	South Bend, Indiana. William P. Treon,	Dayton, Ohio. Henry W. O’Neil,	St. Louis, Missouri. J. Francis O’Neil,	St. Louis, Missouri. Zach Vandervcer,	St. Louis, Missouri. John E. Dwyer,	Chicago, Illinois. George F. Dwyer,	Chicago, Illinois. Louis A. Roth,	Cincinnati, Ohio. Selim W. McArthur,	San Francisco, Cal. Lewis L. McArthur,	San Francisco, Cal. Ferdinand A. Whitte,	Cincinnati, Ohio. Maurice Moriarty,	Ottumwa, Iowa. Joseph A. Taylor,	Chicago, Illinois. Harvey A. Taylor,	Chicago, Illinois. Lambertus B. Logan,	Cleveland, Ohio. Charles Carey,	Chicago, Illinois. Sands W. Hopkins,	Kansas City, Missouri P. H. Clarke,	Wickliffe, Iowa. Francis Browne,	Wickliffe, Iowa. James McGlinn,	Toledo, Ohio. . David Fitzgerald,	Kildare, Wisconsin. John Zahm,	Huntington, Indiana. John M. Gearin, '	Champoeg, Oregon. Thomas Burns,	New Britain, Conn. Sylvester Burns,	New Britain, Conn. Charles W. Swenk,	Chicago, Illinois. Thomas Murphy,	Kalamazoo, Michigan. Andrew J. Reilly,	Fort Dodge, Iowa. Joseph Frank,	Kalamazoo, Michigan. Denis A. Clarke,	Columbus, Ohio. Anthony Mooney,	Green Bay, Wisconsin. George G. Green,	Chicago, Illinois, William E. Kellogg, ' Waukegan, Illinois. John P. Canavan,	Chicago, Illinois. James H. Robinson, Harrodsburg, Kentucky. John W. Coppinger,	Alton; Hlinois. • Thomas H. Coppinger, Alton, Illinois. John Nash, .	Rockford; Illinois. Bruce P. Kidder,	Laporte, Indiana. Martin Nolan,	Columbus, Ohio. John D. Klein,	Mansfield, Ohio. Bernard Luhn,	Cincinnati, Ohio. James W. Weldon,	Covington,' Indiana. )	Marmaduke Weldon, Covington, Indiana.. John McCormack,	Nashville Tennessee.	Michael McCormack, Oscar Baker, Thomas J. Foley, James Kilcoin, Joseph C. Page, Robert Smily, Eugene Ottenville, Leo McKernan, John Gwinn, Charles Duffy, Edward Shea, Joseph Shanks, Emil Schuster, John McGinnity, Otto B. Saiter, Thomas M. Johnson, Thaddeus McNamara, Leo McOsker, David B. Miller, William F. Miller, Eber B. Gambee, Jacob Eisenman, Joseph F. Cassella, Edward Sheehan, Bernard J. Vogt, Henry Barlow, Stanislaus Le Gault, John Staley, Robert Staley, John B. Goodhue, Richard M. Robinson, Seth B. Rowland, Judson A. Fox, Charles Berdel, Lee Boyles, Eugene C. Bucher, Henry W. Ackhoff, John W. Buehler, Louis S. Trudell, William Dolamore, Philip Dolamore, Robert Crenshaw, William Fletcher, John F. Mulhall, Joseph Mulhall, Paris Mulhall, William Mulhall, James W. McBride, William Fitzgerald, Michael Fitzgerald, Juan Montoya, James McGuire, William P. Nelson, James H. Ward, Hugo Hug, George A. Hug, William Roberts, William Roney, Adam Hoerber, August Thaler, Frank L. Karst, James F. Edwards, Chester Tucker, W. C. Hunt, Patrick Ryan, • M. Frene, Homer Wright, P. W. Rose, Fred Kaiser, Henry Wrap, Willard'S. Banister, Thomas Armstrong, Charles H. Vinson, ■ William H. Robb, Charles Marantette, Franklin P. Dwyer, Edwin Hathaway, •	Nashville Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Indianapolis, Indiana. . South, Bend, Indiana. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Henry, Wisconsin. Darlington, Wisconsin. Marion, Ohio. Sedalia, Missouri. Elgin, Illinois. Elgin, Illinois. Plymouth, Indiana. Plymouth, Indiana. Adrian, Michigan. Louisville, Kentucky. Louisville, Kentucky. Louisville, Kentucky. Louisville, Kentucky. Dayton, Ohio. Sheboygan, Wisconsin. Sedalia, Missouri. Sedalia, Missouri. Jeffersonville, Indiana. Springfield, Illinois. Olney, Illinois. Aurora, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Cedarville, Illinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Dubuque, Iowa. Chicago, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis. Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. St. Louis, Missouri. Chicago, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Indianapolis, Indiana. Indianapolis, Indiana. Pekin, Illinois. Pekin, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Chicago, Hlinois. Finley, Ohio. Toledo, Ohio. Lima, Ohio. St. Charles, Illinois. Delevan, Hlinois. ' -Notre Dame, Indiana. Detroit, Michigan. Brownson, Michigan. Pittsburgh, Penn. North Vernon, Ind. • Napierville, IU. Lyons, Iowa. • South Bend, Indians. West Lyons, Hl. Mendon, Michigan. Chicago, Hlinois. ■ Chicago, Hlinois.	William J. Browning, Indianapolis, Indiana. James Walsh,.	Greenfield, Indiana.. Charles Walter,	Fort Wayne, Indiana, . William C. Byrne,	St Louis, Mo. Alphine Barth,	South Bend, Indiana... Jacob F. Rehm,	Chicago, Hlinois. John A. Thomson,	Chicago, TBinnia James P. Harper,	Minden, Louisiana. r John Bracken,	Chicago, Illinois. James W. Sutherland, Chicago, Hlinois. Louis Hibben,	Chicago, Illinois. John Harnett,	Chicago, Hlinois^ Robert Echlin,	Chicago, Illinois. JohnEchlin, '	Chicago, Hlinois. William B. Clarke,	Chicago, Hlinois. Charles F. Clarke,	Chicago, Illinois. Jerome Hurley,	Mount Carroll, HL Charles Campau,	Spring Wells, Mich William H. Patton,	Canton, Ohio. Edward N. Mullen,	Watertown, Wia. Thomas F. Heery,	Clarksville, Iowa. Charles F. Morgan,	Marco, Indiana. Robert H. Delahay,	Leavenworth, Kansas. John C. Doherty,	Memphis, Tennessee. Scott Ashton,	Leavenworth, Kansas. August L. Fox,	Fort Wayne, Indiana. Henry Quan,	Chicago, Illinois.' James Cunnea,	Morris, Illinois. Henry 8. Terry,	Crescent City, Iowa. William G. Whittle, Buffalo, Illinois.	- - Richard E. Beam,	Mount Pulaski, HL Boon Mathers,	Elmore, Hlinois. Daniel Egan,	Chicago, Illinois. Knud L Espy,	Fort Madison, Iowa. James Hand,	Lyons, Iowa. Johnson J. McFarland, Boonesboro, Iowa. E. W. McFarland,	Boonesboro, Iowa. Frank Crapser,	Lyons, Iowa. Nat. S. Mitchell,	Davenport, Iowa. Gregory Watson,	Bay City, Michigan. Nicholas Watson,	Bay City, Michigan Thos. W. Newland,	Aurora, Hlinois. Richard P. Carton,	Ottawa, Hlinois. G. Wilson Holeman,	Sebastopol, Indiana. Omer H. Bell,	New Boston, Hlinois. Wm. Odendahl,	Carbon Cliffe, Hlinois. John W. Murphy,	Little Rock, Arkansas. Charles Jevne,	Chicago, Hlinois. Herman Trentmap,	' Fort Wayne, Indiana. Michael Branock,' ' Chicago, Hlinois.	i John D. Hogan,	Chicago, Hlinois. Denis J. Hogan,	Chicago, Hlinois. Henry A. Jones,	Fort Wayne, Indiana. John R. Orff,	Fort Wayne, Indiana. Reason C. Holmes	Fort Wayne, Indiana. William Taylor,	Chicago, Hlinois. Harold Hayes, -	Chicago, Illinois. Lewis S. Hayes,	Chicago, Illinois. H. H. Owen,	Dixon, Kentucky. Edward Fitzharris,	New York, N. Y. Charles J. Dodge,	. Burlington, Iowa. William W. Dodge,	Burlington, Iowa. Wm. H. Chamberlain,	Burlington, Iowa.. William H. White,	Burlington, Iowa; - ■ Frank Bodeman,	Burlington, Iowa. George McAtkinson,	Henderson,’Ky.	r.'. William Waldo,	Independence, Mo. ’ Gabriel Summers,	Notre Dame, Ind. ..'Z J. V. Bowen,	Chandlersville,HL	'• T. H. Gner,	Geneva, Wisconsin.	Z Samuel E. Dum,	■ Amanda, Ohio. . T William Dum,	Amanda, Ohio. .'	r Alexander Leslie,	Petersburg,. Indiana,	.i. John Thiel, -	Cincinnati, Ohio.	■	’ John C. Leunig, .	. Mount Vernon, Ind.' - Gustave A. Scheeffer, •- Mount Vemon,-Indr.-.I-Amos G. Stevens,	' Mount Vernon, Ind. zZ	i J	•i 1 1
				-	1	— 'jgjifl		
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thomas Hughes, Michael Mahony, Joseph Clarke, James Clarke, William Delahanty, Samuel D. Morrison, John Duffy, Levi Gibson, James Hannaher, Joseph F. Looby, Marshal B. Green, Henry Schnelker, Philip Federspiel, Thomas Garrity, Joseph J. Rumely, Joseph McCallister, R. L. Akin, Charles J. Forestal, Ernest P. Goffinet, David Harding, Richard Newman, John McMahon, Thomas Watson, James Welsh, James S Glynn, George R. Hatchett, John P. Kenrick, Jesse Clarkson, Leslie C. Hurst, Levi C. Taft, George W. Ford, Jr., H. P. Morancy, Thomas Harley, Charles Dexter William H. Murphy, George Breunig, Fred P. Hoover, Joseph Fleury, Joseph A Roberts, Henry E, Potter, Thomas Lappin, Peter Hoehler, Philo J. Hall,
• Augustus Yore, David J. Brown, Grover IL Webb, Eugene B. Jamison, Price H. Davis, George F. Berry, Beny F. Roberts, Josiah Evans, Henry Goddard, R. B. Coddington, John P. Broderick, E. Blane Walker, William S. Mayer, Lewis B Magwire, James F. Wilson, Laurence Wilson, James Deehan, James A Dickinson, Michael Carney, Henry Wolf, John McCall, Geo. L. Riopell, Arthur W. Riopelle, Horace Clayton, Eddie J. Haydel, James Finley, Mordochai Richardson, Thomas W. Duvall, Frank J. Obert, J. Walter Wilstach, James A O’Reilly, Terry Meehan, James McK. Murphy, Francis B. Shephard,
Peoria Illinois. New York, N. Y. Notre Dame, Indiana. Notre Dame, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois.
Fort Madison, Iowa. Watertown, Wis. Peoria, Illinois.
Lyons, Iowa.
Salem, Massachusetts. Sumption Prairie, Ind. New Haven, Indiana. New Haven, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois. Laporte, Indiana. Henderson, Ky.
Evansville, Indiana. Philadelphia, Pa. Detroit, Michigan. Columbus, Ohio. Louisville, Ky. Covington, Ind. Henderson, Ky. Philadelphia, Pa. Kalamazoo, Mich. Henderson Ky. Charleston, Mo. Charleston, Mo.
Versailles Ky. Pontiac, Mich. St Louis, Mo. Versailles, Ky. Dowagiac, Mich. Evansville, Indiana. Brooklyn, N. Y. Jefferson, Wisconsin. Lafayette, Indiana. Amanda, Ohio.
Columbus, Ohio.
Alden, Iowa. Chicago, Illinois. Monroeville, Ohio. Albian, Mich.
St Lous, Mo. Rockford, Hl. Peru, Ind. Peru, Ind. Milwaukee, Wis. Chicago, Ill. Independence, Mo. Lincoln, I1L Marion, I1L Lincoln, HL Cairo, Hl.
St Paul, Minn. Portsmoutn, Ohio. St. Louis, Mo. Trenton, N. J. Trenton, N. J. Philadelphia. Pa. Freemont, Ohio, Toledo, Ohio. Ottumwa, Iowa.
Detroit, Mich. Detroit, Mich. Detroit, Mich. Chicago, Ill. St. Louis, Mo. Pana, Illinois. Crawfordsville, Ind. Paris, Illinois.
Reading, Pa. Lafayette, Ind. Reading, Pa. Boxley Town, Ind. Erie, Pa.
Jerseyville, HL
Commercial Department.
This department opened with a number of more proficient students than the preceding years. Judging from the spirit evinced by the new students, this bids an unusually fair year for those pursuing the Mercantile Course.
The progress of the country now demands an increased number of young men, well qualified, to fill the various positions in mercantile, banking and manufacturing houses.
Special facilities exist at Notre Dame for acquiring whatever appertains to business.
The course will be even more thorough than last year; new forms have been introduced, and Commercial Law will receive more attention than before; the text-book on the Law of Business will enable the student to complete the entire course in a comparatively short time. To enter this department, a fair knowledge of the primary branches—Arithmetic, Grammar, Reading and Penmanship—is required. No one will be entitled to a diploma who shall have failed to complete the entire course as laid down in the Catalogue.
In Memoriam.
At the first regular meeting, for the Academic Year, of the St. Edward’s Literary Association, of the University of Notre Dame, the following resolutions expressive of the feelings of the Society upon the death of one of its most beloved members, Henry L. Eisenman of Louisville, Ky., were read and adopted:
Whereas, The Almighty Being, who knows all things and who regulates the affairs of this world for the best, has in His Providence removed from our midst our beloved fellow member, Henry L Eisenman ; therefore be it
Resolved, That while bowing to the stern decree which called away our companion, and while obeying the lesson of resignation taught by Christ in the golden words, “Thy will be done on earth as it is in Heaven,” still we cannot repress the grief that fills the heart, when we realize that our associate has closed his eyes'and folded his arms in the quiet rest of eternity.
Resolved, That we can point with pride to the virtues of our departed brother, and can confidently recommend his conduct as a model worthy of imitation. "
Resolved, That in his death the University has lost a student of no ordinary ability, one, who had he been spared, would have reflected honor upon his Alma Mater; this Association, a zealous and faithful member, and his parents an obedient, affectionate and virtuous Son.
.BeaoZmi, That we convey to his bereaved parents, our heartfelt sympathies in this their hour of
parental angush, and bid them hope that God in His mercy has rewarded his virtues with a happy eternity.
Resolved, That we furnish his parents with a copy of these resolutions and also have them published in the Notre Dame Scholastic and Catholic Advocate.
J. E. Shannahan, Preet.
D. A Clarke, Sec.
Simonoseki, Japan.
visit to the governor.
The afternoon (Dec. 14) was ocupied in coaling ship, and it was an agreeable thing to get away from the dust. A lot of officers went ashore, and after considerable walking around looking at the curiosity shops, we finally brought up to the front ofthe Governor’s residence. After passing through a terrace walk, or rather a macadamized road, we came into a room with no furniture whatever therein. Leaving this room we entered another, also unfurnished, except a thick covering composed of matting. Leaving this room we came into the presence of the Governor and officers of a foreign vessel, who were seated around a table discussing the flavor of Japanese fruits. Having been comfortably seated, the usher of this royal establishment attended us in the way of beverage and condiments (where in the deuce he got them I can’t imagine). "While the servant (with his forehead shaved and his “ back hair” done up), was procuring and emptying Champagne bottles in our behalf, the Governor himself was busied in helping us to a saucer of mixtures (I wonder where the old chap got these—and so far from anything like civilization ?) Rather humble of his highness ! His Excellency was also either humble or polite enough to help us to pears and oranges. (We found him so humble we were tempted to ask him to peel them for us.} It coming on late, we were obliged to take a hasty departure, before which all united in partly filling a canvas bag with Mexican dollars, as the Governor said in exchange for them he would give us the currency of the country. For our round money we received the oblong four-cornered Japanese itzboo—taking three of them to equal a dollar. Whilst going through the formality of leave-taking, a good opportunity was offered to observe the interior of this reception room. It was remarked the floor and ceiling were the counterparts of each other. In fact, had the top and bottom of the apartment changed places there would have been no difference under foot, although gravitation would be inclined to keep its own place. The ceiling and floor were smooth polished planking, and the sides of the room were in some places painted, some grained and some parts covered by very inferior wall-paper. After thanking his highness for the reception given, we walked around the streets for the purpose of seeing the curio shops and were accompanied by the Governor. He is of middle age and passably goodlooking for a Japanese, who are generally homely and coarse. His demeanor and language indicated his position much better than his dress, he being very modest in the latter respect Before returning on shipboard we purchased an abundance of provisions which will relieve us from “ starvation allowance ” for a little while at least Dried apples for breakfast—hot water alone for dinner, to swell the apples eaten in the morning, may be dispensed with for the present Bonne nuit.
G. F. B. C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Sleep!”
« Life’s fitful fever over, they sleep well.”
B¥ COZ.
“ Here rests in peace,” upon, its mother’s breast, A rosy-fingered infant, tired of play— By thronging sister-cherubim caressed, While golden rays beam mildly from the West, Kissing the flower that fades with dying day.
Sleep on, sweet babe!
“ Here rests in peace,” upon the stricken field, A hapless chief, whose blood-stained, broken sword
Bespeaks the hero who to arms appealed— Too weak, alas, to win, too brave to yield, Dying, he kept intact his plighted word.
Sleep on, brave chief!
“ Here rests in peace,” with queenly crown on head, A monarch’s bride, whose clay-cold, throbless breast
Confirms the truth by hoariest sages said— “ The happiest hours of life are quickest sped It’s sunniest day soon shrouded in the West! ”
Fair dame, sleep on!
“ Here rests in peace,” the bold, the fearless one Who bore his leader’s standard ’mid the strife— Christ’s toiling husbandman, whose task is done,— The runner in the race, whose prize is won, Who bounds thro’ death’s dark portals into life.
Ye Blest, sleep on!
“Here rests in peace,” the weary slave of woe, By weight of years borne downward to the grave— Time flies apace—Death spares no friend nor foe, And soon—full soon—the tufted grass shall grow O’er childhood, youth, and age—the lovely and the brave—
And thee, 0 man!
.	[From Macmillan’s Magazine.]
Children’s Literature of Last Century.
BY MISS YONGE.
■ I.—Nursery Books of tee Eighteenth Century.
“Books for children,”—the press groans with their multitude, and their illustrations have absolutely become exquisite works of Art. Each risen generation repeats to the rising one, that there was nothing like it in its departed childhood, and each mourns over the dissipation of mind created by the profusion of reading, till we are sometimes startled to find that the same things were said of us that we are now saying of our children.
The fact is, that infantine literature, as indeed all sorts of class-literature, is a recent production. Up to the Georgian era, there were no books at all either for children or the poor, excepting the class-books containing old ballads, such as “ Chevy Chase,” “ Fair Rosamond,” “ Jane Shore,” “ The Children in the Wood,” and short tales such as “ The King and the Cobbler,” “ Whittington and his Cat,” “Robin Goodfellow,” “The History of the Seven Champions,” “The Seven Wise Masters,” “ The Nine Worthies," all told without any endeavor to simplify the language, but rather dealing in grandiloquence. Little gilt books, the covers clouded with scarlet and blue, with a running pattern of gold creeping over all, and probably representing the last tradition of illumination, appeared at fairs in company with gilt gingerbread equally gaudy, and when the gentlefolk paced through the booths in stately graciousness, were often bought and conned by the young
people, pleased to exercise the powers painfully acquired upon hornbook or primer.
Nor did their elders trouble themeselves with scruples as to the ideas they might derive from their studies, nor. think that they would be corrupted by the tears plentifully bestowed on Rosamond in her bower, or Jane in her white sheet. A book was a book in the eyes of squire and dame, let it be what it might; and Master Jacky’s “bookish turn” was thought to mark him as a a scholar and parson, whether he read “Tom Jones,” “Robinson Crusoe,” or “The Pilgrim’s Progress.”
For after the gilt-book stage, or indeed during it, the child, if he read at all, read the books provided for the grown-up part of the family. Evelyn’s wonderful boy, “Master Clench,” read history and classics in their ponderous folios, and even later than this, children still depended on the odd, worn volumes of the “ Spectator,” or any other book that chance consigned to their hands. Hannah More’s father repeated the lines of Homer and Virgil in the original, to please his own ear and hers, and then translated them; and Mrs] Trimmer (then Sarah Kirby), when only fourteen years old, carried about “ Paradise Lost ” in her pocket as well as in her head, and was presented by Dr. Johnson with the “Rambler,” in testimony of approbation. Some years later the solace of Walter Scott’s long illness was acting over the sieges and battles in Orme’s “ War in Hindostan.” There can be little doubt that those who read at all in those days must have done so from genuine taste for literature, and that though an idle child could not be safely disposed of by setting it down to a baby book, yet the real power was cultivated, and the memory provided with substantial stores, at the time when it is most retentive; and as there was no harassing the young mind by examinations, and requirements of all being comprehended and immediately reproduced in words, the brain was not overwrought, but left free to assimilate what it could or would.
Already, however, these days of comparative neglect—shall we call it wholesome ?—were fast waning. The spontaneous manufacture of the little books of mere amusement had received a great impetus from France, by the translations of the Comtesse d’Aulnoy’s and M. Perrault’s adaptations of the mythic lore common to all nations. A queer book, indeed, is Mme. d’Aulnoy’s, where the immortal fairy tales stand imbedded in a course of lengthy romances of the Italian or Spanish order, but where predicaments occur in which the heroes and heroines sit still to tell and *hear their tales with exemplary patience, or use them to lull the jealous guardian till the elopement is ready. Some unknown caterer for English readers imported the choicest of these tales separately into their little books, and the “Contes de Commfire 1’Oie” alone seem to have continued in their unbroken condition. “ The White Cat”—her previous and subsequent history judiciously shorn away—“The Sleeping Beauty,” “Beauty and the Beast,” and “Puss in Boots,” “ Cinderella,” and “ Fortunio,” then took possession of the British mind in their present shape— the more completely, perhaps, for meeting with some more old homely forms of the same tradition, which it must have since absorbed. Poor authors were employed by the booksellers in the translation of these, or in original composition, and thus “ Goody Two Shoes” came forth as a bit of hack-work, but sparkling all over with brilliancy, a true grain of gold among the sand around her, and winning tender remembrances from many an admirer who never suspected her
of being a chip from the wheel of a veritable Goldsmith (if the pun be allowed us). Do the present generation know Margery Two Shoes, and Tommy her brother ? How well we remember our own old copy, a small square paper book, with a frontispiece in which Margery elaborately displayed her new-shod feet in the first position, and where the eagerness of the parish to receive her instructions must have been taken from Trish eagerness rather than English stolidity. Then there is a chapter fully worthy of its quiet humor, of “The Vicar of Wakefield,” entitled “How the whole Parish was Frightened.” “Who does not know Lady Ducklington, or who does not know how she was buried at this parish church ?” Alas! in the last edition that fell into our hands, the ghost had been exorcised as a concession to . the theory that children are never to hear of ghosts. Margery is by chance shut up in the church, and rings the bell to procure her release, but the disturbance is taken to be “Lady Ducklington’s ghost dancing among the bells.” “A ghost, you blockhead,” says Mr. Long, in a pet; “did either of you ever see a ghost, or know anybody that did?” “Yes,” says the clerk, “my father did once, in the shape of a windmill; and it walked all around the church in a white sheet, with jack-boots on, and had a gun by its side instead of a sword.”
Margery’s own account of her sensations is very simple and sweet, and stamps the authorship upon the tale.
Mr. Marshall, “at the corner of Saint Paul’s Churchyard,” commenced a manufacture of little, books of which some have a real merit, independent of the curious pictures they give of manners. We know a few of them in a reprint already forty years old, and confess to still loving them much. There was the “Village School,” to which the clergyman’s, farmers’, and laborers’ sons and daughters all came on perfect equality. Good Mrs. Bell does not scruple to put Miss Polly Right into a corner with a surreptitiously introduced doll’s tea chest suspended from her neck, though Mr. Right marches through the playground in shovel, hat, wig, gown, and bands, looking the picture of ancient orthodoxy; and Roger Riot, the squire’s son, is always far subordinate to the pattern Frank West, child of a cobbler, whose companion in perfection is a young lady called Miss Jenny Meek1 in long gloves, and a little flat shepherdress’s hat. Was this a Utophia, or were village schools thus really univi rsal and impartial? We suspect that they did in truth collect all those capable of payment, and that the children of the better classes frequented them while the lowest class of all run utterly wild.
University of Notre Dame, Ind., August 27th, 1869.'
The following is a copy of the Circular issued by the General Ticket Agent of the Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Railroad Co.,, in relation to arrangements made with the above Company, for the transportation of Students of this University:
CHICAGO AND ALTON RAILROAD CO, General Ticket Office,
Chicago, Aug;. 16tb, 1S69.
J.	L. Downs. Agent, St. Louis :
According to arrangements made here, the Students of the Notre Dame College, and St. Mary’s Academy, South Bend, Tnd.* are to be carried over our road from Chicago to Altonand St. Louis, and return at one full tare. Profi J. A. Lyons will furnish you with a catalogue, giving the names of the Students entitled to return tickets.
The parents and friends of some of them intend going from time to time to the College on a visit, and return to St. Louis in about twenty days; sell them tickets for the round trip at the same rate.	- -	A-Newmax,
General Ticket Agent.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ Archconfraternity.”
31b. Editob The first regular meeting of this Society was held last Sunday, for the purpose of reorganization, under the guidance of Very Rev. Father Provincial.
The election of officers by ballot for the ensuing year then took place, and resulted as follows: Director, Very Rev. Father Granger; President, Denis A Clarke; Vice-President, John Zahm; Recording Secretary, A. J. Reilly; Corresponding Secretary, Denis Tighe; Librarian, Jas. Edwards.
D. Tighe, Cor. Sec.
St. Cecilia Philomathcan.
"■Excelsior!" in deed and word;—
“Thepen is mightier than the sword;" Wouldst thou receive the starry crown ?
In tuneful contests seek renown;—
“ United,far eternity !"
Ceciliaks, such our motto be!
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the same time a Debating, Dramatic and Musical Association. Its exercises include Public Reading, Declamations, Essays and a Moot Court. It has a good library,, and numbers forty members—the elite of the Junior Collegiate Department. The plays acted on the stage for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers of its members are written especially for them, and are intended to increase the love of virtue and righteousness. Their highly moral plays will soon be published by the St Cecilia Society for the benefit of other societies and institutions which may be in need of such plays.
OFFICEBS:
Rev. A Lemonnier, S. S. C., Director.
Pro£ J. A Lyons, A 3L, President.
Profi C. A B. VonWeller, F. R. A, President Dramatic Branch.
The first regular meeting of the St Cecilia Philomathcan Society was held Tuesday evening, Sept 14th, 1869, at which time the following officers were elected:
J. W. Sutherland, Vice-President
R. Staley, Vice-President Dramatic Branch. Vice-President Historic Branch. Vice-President Orpheonic Branch.
M. Mahony, Recording Secretary.
W. B. Clarke, Corresponding Secretary.
F. Kaiser, Treasurer.
C. Marantette, Librarian.
J. McGuire, Assistant Librarian.
C. Berdel, First Conductor of Public Entertainments.
C. Hutchings, Monitor. . ’ J. Nash, Assistant Monitor.
C. Dodge, Sergeant-at-Arms.
This Society bids fair to excel all others in the College, both literary and dramatic, this year, as there is an unusual amount of talent among its members.
W. B. Clabke, Cor. Sec’y.
Tables of Honor.
Seniob Department.
Sept 17th.—D. A. Clarke, F. Crapser, James Edwards, Wm. Waldo, D. Tighe, J. Eisenman, A J. Reilly, A. W. Arrington, J. Shanahan, James McGlynn.
’ Junior Department.
Sept. 17th.—C. Hutchings, Z. Vanderveer, Jas. McGuire, Hugo Hug, J. Nash, D. Egan, C. Walters, Wm. Dum, S. Dum, J. L. Marantette, John Klein.
Minim Depabtment.
Sept. 17th.—H. Trentman, O. Tong, M. Smyth, H. Jones, C. Campau, H. Quan.
The Phtlhabmonic Society, we hope, will reorganize at once, and recruit new members among the newly-arrived students. This year, more than ever before, classical music will be demanded from our musicians, and dilettanti will be the more exacting that they have placed greater expectations in them.
Navigation.—Boating being one of the best exercises and amusements at Notre Dame, we trust that new rowing-clubs will speedily be formed and new boats procured during the fall. We will have yet three months of fair weather before the winter sets in. Let our enterprising Seniors look to it. Good rowing-boats can be procured for §40 or §50; a sail-boat would not cost over §100.
At this particular time of the year we take the liberty of calling on the secretaries of our societies and clubs for complete reports regarding the actual state of said societies and clubs, their ob-
Uuimsifi wf Notice game, gufliaua.
TERMS:
00 1^
0 I? p
0
0
&
Matriculation Fee......................§	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition
(Latin and Greek included); Washing and 3Iending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and - Medicine, and attendance in sick-
ness, per Session of five months....... 150 00 French, German, Italian, Spanish, and ■
Hebrew, each.......................... 10	00
Instrumental Music....................... 12	50
P iyments to be made invariably in advance.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the second on the 1st of February. For further particulars, address
Rev. W- CORBY S. 8. 0., President.
ject and means, members composing them, libraries, etc.	'
We hope that our various literary, scientific, dramatic and musical societies will favor us weekly with reports of their meetings.
A few copies of the “ Silver Jubilee Book” still remain on hand, and may be obtained at the students’ office, by those who desire it.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY,
Notre Dame, Xnd>
Sr. Mart's Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
"We are happy to inform our patrons that we have, at lengtd been able to realize a long cherished desire of opening a School of Design, where choice models in busts, chromos and oil paintings in the different schools have been collected, and where full courses will be given by efficient teachers in all the various departments of Drawing and Painting.
For Catalogue, address Motheb M. Angela, Superior, St Mary’s Academy, aul-63	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
p
Use of Piano........................... 10	00
Use of Violin........................... 2	00
Drawing................................ 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus ............................... 5	00
Graduation Fee....Com’l, §5; Sc. §8; Cla. 10	00
Students who spend their Summer vacation at the College are charged, extra................................. 35	00
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.