The Scholastic.
JDeVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 22, 1873.
Number 24.
Cramming in College.—III.
* _____________________
BY 0. 8.
The two pet studies of the present age are Natural Philosophy and Chemistry, of which the object is the investigation of matter, its phenomena, properties, changes, etc.
The great distinction, according to Prolessor Liebig, between Chemistry and Natural Philosophy, is that the one weighs, and the other measures; or the one investigates the composition of bodies, and the other its phenomena without regard to composition. We have, then, to weigh, to measure, to make observations and experiments; and considering that the sixty-two simple bodies called elements will combine into endless varieties of compound matter, every one of which is to be examined, we see at once that if we would learn the results of all these investigations and be well posted in regard to facts, we must resort to cramming. Then only can we proceed to profound thinking aud reasoning, to combining, inventing, and turning our knowledge to a useful account. Then also may we help to explode old theories, and set up new ones; substitute oxygen for phlogiston; prove that hydrogen is a metal; turn lead into gold, and charcoal into diamond ; increase the queer number of the elements, or diminish it, by transmutation; explain what light is, what heat, what electricity, and magnetism; and find out, with Prof. Faraday, that the more we study these subjects, the more mysterious do they become.
Still, if we should, by all means, wish to become benefactors of the human race (not forgetting to keep a watchful eye upon our own interest) by making some useful invention,—as did, for instance. Prof. Horse with his telegraph, —we must recollect that he and the like men succeeded only after years of toilsome cramming, during which they had to gather up and scrape together a thousand scattering facts and results of science, obtained and known before their time, but not yet successfully applied.
Some one might perhaps say that for the Languages, for History, Geography, etc., it was all very well to insist upon cramming, but not so for Astronomy and Mathematics. Although we are not very strongly posted in the science of the stars, yet, from w’hat little we do’ know’ about-the matter, we think we can show that here also the concrete comes before the abstract, and patient cramming before profound reasoning. Or, is not Astronomy a science based altogether on observation, quite as much so as Chemistry or Physics? Does not the very aspect of the starry sky overwhelmingly convey the idea of cramming to the mind of the student who wishes to find his way through the millions of twinkling stars ? Does it not take many a sum
mer’s and many a winter’s night of steady and patient observing, viewing and reviewing, to get through the constellations of the zodiac only, and some of the leading constellations of the northern and southern sky; to fix in the mind their relative positions, their constituent parts, the names, numbers, and letters of the individual stars belonging to them? Must not the notions of planets and their revolutions and velocities; of orbits and their planes and eccentricities; of equator ecliptic; of longitude and latitude, of altitude, amplitude and azimuth; of right ascension. and declination; of occultation, conjunction, apposition and quadrature; of Earth diameters, parallaxes, Sun and Sirius. distances,—and a thousand other bewildering facts and definitions,—be carefully and accurately cmmmed into the mind, before any attempt at demjnstratiou aud calculation can be made ?
And so it is also in Mathematics. Reason, in the investigation of the properties and relations that exist between quantities and magnitudes, cannot perform its functions without the use of numbers (as in Arithmetic), figures (as in Geometry), and symbols (as in Algebra). Notation then, or the conventional method by which numbers, figures and symbols are used to represent quantity and magnitude, and by which signs are made to stand for certain operations of the mind, to be 'performed upon numbers and magnitudes; next, axioms; and definitions, from w’hich the demonstrations have to start; as well as the many rules and theorems at which the demonstrations will arrive,—these make up the ever-recur-riug cramming material of Slathematics; and, generally speaking, whenever the mind has well grasped this material, we may consider the work half done,—the remaining half following suit almost spontaneously. And the reason why so many are failing in their demonstrations and argumentations is that they forget that which they want to prove, and that from which it is to be proved. But these elements can only be acquired by cramming: hence in Mathematics we cannot do without cramming.
And as the most skilful musician must have his daily practice of scales and elementary exercises, so the man of science must stick to his cramming. We trust to have now proved to the satisfaction of the young gentlemen at college that they cannot afford to do without cramming; and hope that no one will ever try to become a profound thinker and benefactor of the human race without being willing to sacrifice himself at least to the extent of a four years’ cramming process at college.	.
Aud if, in conclusion, some poetical genius would condescend to render our prose into rhyme, singing the praises of cramming, and this school hymn were placed in the hands of every student-entering college with the prevailing
186	' THE SCHOLASTIC.
notion of an empty space somewhere in the head, we should should feel the sweet satisfaction of having promoted a good work, and should subside for awhile into silence and obscurity.
Essay,
Read the First Day of the Second Session.
For us this day forms a sort of focus into which are collected rays from the past and future. From the achieve-ments-of the past five months we should be able to judge how much may be accomplished in the remaining half of the scholastic year; from the test we have had of our own abilities we should know how much or how little to attempt and how to dispose of our time to the best, advantage. Im-• portant as this knowledge certainly is to us—for with the darkness of the future illumined by those rays of light from the past we are enabled to traverse more directly and securely the road to success—yet there is something upon which the success of our actions is still more dependent— namely, the motives which produce those actions. It is of these motives I would say a few words. I consider this an appropriate theme for the present occasion, because the position which we nowT occupy is such as to render reflections on this subject highly beneficial.
Although there are among my hearers persons of very different dispositions, destined to occupy very different positions in life, yet what I am about to say will, I think, be found equally applicable to all. No matter how different our positions in life may be, we have one common object in view—which is, to obtain happiness—and it is with the hope of attaining this object that all our actions are performed. Since, then, our actions tend to the attainment of an object common to all, they should also spring from a common motive. It is acknowledged that to be good is to be happy; to be happy is the common desire of all—there-. fore' to do good should be the common motive.
Sian’s life has been compared to the flowing of a stream. I would carry the figure still farther, and compare the conscience to the bed over which this stream flows. In order that an act may be considered successful it is necessary that it disturb not this bed; for no matter how much wealth, fame or knowledge an act may procure us, if it disturb the conscience it cannot render us happy. On the other hand, no matter how complete the failure of our actions may appear to be, if we were actuated by good motives we shall experience an inward peace which deprives failure of its bitterness and enables us to listen with patience, if not with pleasure, to the taunts and jeers of rivals. Nor is this true with regard to spiritual matters only: it applies with equal force to our temporal success. There is for us no greater assurance of the success of our actions than the approbation of our fellow-beings. To prove that success is dependent upon our motives, let us take two great names with which the world is familiar. That Napoleon as a leader of a nation possessed abilities superior to those of Washington can scarcely be denied. But while Napoleon was actuated by motives at once selfish and ignoble, Washington acted ■ from motives the most pure and patriotic; and the respect now paid to his memory is far greater than that paid to the' name of Napoleon.
It is true that men sometimes win an immortal name by acts lor which they really deserve no credit, but such fame is seldom of a very enviable character; and he who stands
waiting for the wheel of fortune to raise him to eminence stands an overwhelming chance of sinking into that oblivion which his inactivity deserves. If we desire to have our actions lauded by our fellow-beings we must perform actions worthy of their encomium, and none such can proceed from other than worthy motives. We should, therefore, at this propitious time, when we are about to enter upon a new campaign after having undergone a thorough inspection, examine the motives from which we are accustomed to act, and, if they are not commendable, endeavor to amend them. If we succeed in this, we shall have secured to ourselves a powerful aid to success in all our undertakings, and we may rest assured that in whatever sphere of life our lot be cast, we shall find friends worthy of that sacred title; we shall do honor to ourselves, our societies and'to our Alma Hater.
P. J. O’Connell.
The Literary Entertainment.
“ Be just.”
On the evening of the 4th inst. we were invited by the Literary Societies of the University to attend one of those Entertainments which are so rare and pleasing—nor did the one of.which we speak want this second and all-important part: The Entertainment was pleasing, and doubly so. The speeches, essays, aud music, all contributed to the pleasure of the evening. And, of course, the scene from Shakspeare’s “ Julius Ctesar ” met with great applause from the audience. But, no doubt, you expect us to say a word with regard to the' various speakers, etc., of the evening.
The Band greeted us with some of their choicest music and in praise of them we must say that we never heard the Band do better. But when you read this, gentle reader, do not think that we are “ puffing ” or “ soft-soaping,” for such is altogether foreign to our intention. After the sweet notes of the Band had died away, Mr. Charles Dodge stepped forward and announced the programme. The first who made his appearance was Mr. P. J. O’Connell. The matter of his discourse was excellent, but the composition was not for an address, but suited rather to an essay. His delivery was pleasing, yet he' lacked some of the fire of an orator; this is something that must come by practice. Upon the whole, however, we were well pleased with Mr. O’Connell’s address.
Next followed an essay by Mr. J. E. Hogan, but-Mr. Hogan being unwell the essay was read by Mr. J. Kelly, who had not had suffi3ient time to look it over so as to read it well. The essay itself, however, seemed very well composed, though we do not think that Bismarck is a very ignorant man.
Mr. W- Breen then came forward, and read a very pleasing essay, one indeed far above his years. Mr. Breen pleased us very much, and we congratulate the " Standard” on having so worthy an Editor-in-chief. His essay was among the best read, and one of the most original.
Then came Mr. E. Ohmer, with an essay on Music, which was also good, especially the first half. We like Mr; Ohmer’s style, but it needs to be cultivated. Yet we must remark of him as of Mr. Bieen that his production was far better than his age would lead us to expect.
Here followed a vocal duet, which was praiseworthy'; after which Mr; E. McSweeney stepped forward and ad-'
THE SCHOLASTIC.
187
dressed the audience upon a legal subject. His. speech was animated, and he at times rose to eloquence; however, his gestures were not in keeping with the matter and rendition of his speech, they being rather stiff and awkward. Mr. McSweeny’s speech was among the most pleasing features of the evening.
Mr. J. B. Crummey’s essay was flowery, and of course pleasing, though we are inclined to think he offended against unity. This young gentleman will with a little practice make an excellent speaker; he has a splendid voice. Then came an instrumental duet by Messrs. R. Staley and W. Campbell, two very fine pianists, and of course they did justice to themselves whenever they appeared.
In the scene from “Julius Casar,” we could not refrain from admiring how well Messrs. Hibben and Waterman played their parts. We regard these two as the stars of the Junior Department.
Mr. W. J. Clarke, whom we. are almost inclined to call the orator of the evening, so well did he deliver his address, has an excellent delivery; his gestures are easy, his voice clear. In our opinion his speech was too short. We hope to hear him again soon.
Mr. P. O’Meara followed Mr. Clarke with an essay upon . “ Civilization,” after which Mr. T. J. Murphy came forward and in a very pleasing manner addressed the audience. The only fault with Mr. Murphy was that he did not feel sufficiently confident; yet we enjoyed his address very much.
Music now intervened, and prepared us for the poem of the evening, by Mr. J. D. McCormick, which was a fine production; the scene which he pictured was truly affecting. Mr. McCormick’s descriptive powers are good.
Thus ended the Entertainment, and if what Shakspeare has said (“All is well that ends well”) be true, the Entertainment was “ well ”—which indeed it was. The Band played the march for retiring, and soon Morpheus had us all in his gentle embrace. We subjoin the
PROGRAMME : Music.....................................N.	D. IT. 0. B
Speech....................P. J. O’Connell
Essay...................................... J. E. Hogan
Essay.......................................W. Breen
Essay.......................................E. Ohmer
Vocal Duet.........................W. Ohlen, 0. Burger
Speech..................................E.	McSweeney
Essay.....................................J.	Crummey
Music (Instrumental Duet).....; ...R. Staley, W. Campbell
SCENE FROM CJESAR : Ctesar......................................L. Hibben
Marc Antony...................................W. Ball
Brutus....................................L.	Whitaker
Cassius.................................  O.	Waterman
Casca.....................................E.	Dougherty
Music....................................N. D. U. C. B
Speech.................................'....	W. Clarke
Essay.......................................P. O’Meara
Music (Instrumental Duet)........R. Staley, W. Campbell
Speech................................;... .T. J. Murphy
Music (Instrumental Solo).................W.	Campbell
Poem.................................J. D. McCormick
Music................................N.D. U. C. Band
.	*	G.
Mr. Editor : What is the reason we have had no notes for Penmanship ? We should like to see them in The Scholastic next week. .	.	S.
Ths St. Cecilians.
The 2ath regular meeting was held February Sth, 1873, at which the election of officers took place, resulting as follows:
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier, C.S.C.
President—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A.M.	-
Dramatic Instructor—Prof. A. J. Stace, A.M.
Judge of the Moot Court—Prof. L. G. Tong, LL.B.
Assistant Director of Entertainments — Prof. J. F. Edwards. '	.	.
Vice-President—L. O. Hibben.
“	“	Dramatic Branch—0. Waterman.
“	“	Orpheonic Branch—E. Ohmer.
“	“	Historical Branch—J. Stubbs.
Recording Secretary—W. Fletcher.	’
Corresponding Secretary—W. Breen.	’
Treasurer—R. Hutchings.	'	■
Librarian—F. McOsker.	.
Assistant—J. Quill.	'
Clerk of the Moot Court—W. Meyers.	.
' Sheriff cf the Court—J. Devine.
Prompter—R. Egan.	’ ’ -	.
Monitors—J. Ewing, W. Ball.	. -
' Censors—V. McKinnon, W. Gross.	-
Charges-d'Affaires—H. Hunt, W. Kinzie, D. O’Connell,
J. McGrath.	•'
Sergeant-at-Arms—W. Morgan.
W. Breen, Cot. Sec.,
The Boat Club. .
Mr. Editor : A meeting of the Notre Dame Boating Club was held Monday, the 17th inst., for the purpose of electing officers for the coming session. Rev. A. Lemonnier and Prof. M. A. J. Baasen were elected by acclamation to the offices of Director and President, respectively. The minor officers were elected by ballot, and are as follows:
Recording Secretary—J. D. McCormick.	.
.Treasurer—P. J. O’Connell.	.
Commodore—D. E. Maloney.	.
Captain of Pinta—H. W. Walker.
Captain of Santa Maria—D. E. Maloney.
Since the ice has yet full possession of the lake, at least so far as boating is concerned, we are unable to do anything but plan; and since our plans may be frustrated ere the weather will permit of their execution, we deem it best not to make tliem public. This accounts for our short communication this time, but as soon as our plans are in a condition to assume something like reality you may expect to hear again from Yours respectfully,
. J. D. McCormick, Rec. Sec.
Lost.—As we were coining up stairs the other day we espied a slip of paper lying on the floor, which some one had evidently lost. We picked it up, and, in our endeavors to find the owner’s name, read as follows: “Lost, somewhere between twelve and one o’clock P. M., in the refectory, an appetite. The finder will be liberally rewarded with a square meal upon returning the same to---— here was the name, which we failed to decipher. If the loss was as great as we imagine, the“square” meal in se would be a very liberal reward, and we have no doubt the finder would not hesitate to give it up; he shouldn’t.-.
188
SCHOLASTIC
4
The $chnla$fic+
Published every Weeh dzorine Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: .
One year........................$2 00
One session (5 months).......... 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Morgan, E. Milburn, F. Miller, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, F. Mulligan, N. Mooney, J. McGinniss, L. Munn, D. McAndrews, H. Nirdlinger, D. O’Connell, J. O'Connell, E. Ohmer, C. O’Con- . nor, W. Pollard, J. Quill, H. Quan, A. Ried, C. Ried, J. Stubbs, D. Salazar, A. Schmidt, F. Sweger, H. Schaller, F. Smyth, W. Schulthies, T. Sauvageot, P. Tansey, J. Tobin, 0. Tong, N. Van-amee, L. Van’t Woud, S. Wise, J. Wanbaugb, O. Waterman, J. Williams, F. Wittelsperger, C. Clarke, H. Zuber.
Minim Department.
H. Faxon, A. Wetherbee, E. Raymond, E. Cleary, C. Faxon, C. Walsh, J. O’Meara, J. Cooney, T. Nelson, C. Parker, G. McCollum, A. Murphy, F. Carlin, W. O’Hara, K. Haley T. Hooley.
.	J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
The Exhibition.
The Entertainment given on the evening of the 21st, in honor of Washington, drew a great number of people from many miles around. The oration, by Mr. E. McSweeney, was in good taste and well delivered. The Orchestra and Band did their share to perfection, and with the Thespians were applauded enthusiastically by the large and appreciative audience. Among the guests we noticed two old stu’ dents, Rev. Father O’Sullivan, of Laporte, and James’ Howard, ofLogansport. Rev. John Oechtering, of Laporte Rev. A. Oechtering, of Mishawaka; Messrs. Trainor Howling and Breen and other citizens of South Bend, Laporte and Mishawaka were present. We expect a full report for next week.
Boll of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week peceding the given dated
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1873.
Sextos Department.
A. Allen, B. Alford, F. Buter, W. Briant, C. Berdel, H. Beckman, M. Bastarache, V. Baca, W. Bartlett, G. Brown, J. Brown, M. Brown, J. Brogan, Valerio Baca, J. Begue, M. Bannon, P. Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, J. Comer, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, L. Campeau, J. Claffey, E. Chalfant, B. Dorsey, J. Devine, J. Donnelly, C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dundon, C. Dulaney, H. Dulaney, T. Flannigan, M. Foote, J. Flynn, J. Ferry, J. Gillen, E. Gambee, E. Graves, T. Hansard, E. Halpin, J. Harrington, F. Hamilton, G. Hale, A. Hess, J. Hamilton, J. Ireland, P. Jacobs, J. Hogan, T. Keenan, J. Kelly, E. Kimm, P. Lilly, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, D. Maloney, E. Monahan, J. Murphy, J. McAlister, T. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. McSweeney, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, J. Noonan, P. O’Meara, P. O’Connell, J. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, F. Phelan, C. Proctor, G. Ruger, J. Rofinot, J. Schmidt, E. Spitley, G. Stack, F. Scraf-ford, G. Summers, C. Spears, J. Scherei, P. Sullivan, G. Tobin, M. Torbett, A. Taggart, S. Valdez, W. Van’t Wood, C. Vinson, T. White, L. Watson, C. Walter, H. Walker, J. Wolfe, H. Zeitler. ~
Junior Department.
F. Austin, G. Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, C. Black, P. Brosseau, C. Burger, J. Burke, H. Bennett, J. Carmody, J. Caren, J. Campbell, P. Corbett, M. Casey, B. Casey, J3. Callaghan, E. Dougherty, J. Devine, W. Dexter, Jas. J. Dunn, J. Daly, F. Egan, H. Enneking, J. Ewing, W. Fletcher, C. Furer, G. Frauenknecht, G. Gross, W. Gross, J. Graham, J. Golsen, R. Golsen, H- Hunt, E. Holt, W. Haney, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, M. Hilliard, L. Hibben, R. Hutchings, J. Jepson, A. Kleine, W. Kinzie, L. Loser, R. Lewis, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, T. McGee, J. Mullarky, W. McMahon, J. McNally, S. Marks, J. Marks, W.
The University Orchestra is in full blast under Bro. Basil’s direction. It never had a better organization than at present, and we anticipate rich musical treats during the session.
Prof. Van de Velde has decided to go to London and finish his musical studies under the direction of Piatti, the famous violoncellist. Prof. Van de Velde was expected to appear in Chicago in conn ection with Thomas’Orchestra, but yielding to the suggestion of eminent artists, he has deferred appearing in the musical word for two more years.
The Drawing Class.
This Class did very well the past session, if we judge from the specimens exhibited at the Examination. We are glad to see Drawing in all its branches taught in the fine studio of Bro. Albert, whose industry is remarkable. He has the genius of inspiring his pupils with bis own love for the beautiful art which he teaches so well. Between thirty and forty students attend his Classes regularly every day, and among them there are several young men of real talent.
Among those whose work we remarked are Master L. Munn, in .Landscape; E. Ohmer, in Figure; W. Van’t Woud, W. Schulthies, E. S. Monahan, L. Van’t Woud, in Architectural ;.and J. Schmidt, J. Porter, and W. Rumely, in Machine Drawing. Quite a number of others might be mentioned whose works attracted our attention, and we hope to do them full justice in a future report.
The following letter has been handed us. by the Rev. President of the College.
Burlington, Iowa, February 18, 1873.
Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C.,
President of Notre Dame, Indiana. •
Rev. and Dear Sir:—I am gratified at the receipt of your polite circular-letter of the 13th inst., covering a yearly ticket of admission to the College Exercises at Notre Dame, for which I beg you to accept my thanks.
Few things, I assure you, would afford me more pleasure than to attend the celebration of Washington’s Birthday at Notre Dame on the 21st inst., but other engagements will prevent my doing so...........
I am your obliged friend and the friend of your flourishing and admirable University, - r ’
’ A. C. Dodge.
P. S.—Though absent in person I shall be with you in spirit on the 21st inst., and I beg to offer the following sentiment :
May success arid prosperity continue to attend the Uni-
T H E S C H 0 L A S T I C .	189
—-------------------;------------
versity of Notre Dame: and may its distinguished founder and his worthy and able associates be'blessed with long life, health and happiness. Their good works will live long after them, and bear their names to a grateful posterity.
Host truly yours,
A. C. Dodge.
The Bhilodmics.
Mr. Editor : It has-been our good fortune to be present at the regular meetings of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association for several years, during which time we have witnessed many outbursts of gratitude towards those who have, exerted themselves to promote the interests of the Association. As we have said, those occurrences have been frequent, for the Society has many friends, but never have we witnessed a demonstration of this kind so unanimous 7 and enthusiastic as that which took place on last Tuesday evening, on which occasion the President opened the exercises of the evening by reading a spirited epistle which accompanied a beautiful aud appropriate present from the worthy Director, Rev. J. C. Carrier. The burst of applause which followed the reading of this note was spontaneous, and the happy feelings awakened in the breasts of each member by this manifestation of paternal regard was portrayed in the actions and words of all during the evening. The vote of thanks returned to the Rev. Director were but a very inadequate expression of the sentiments with which this kindness has inspired the Association. Maj’ his present reputation for goodness and wisdom prove but the herald of his future fame, and
“ When his summons'comes to join the innumerable caravan
That rolls on to the pale realms of shade,”
may the photosphere of worldly esteem which now surrounds him be replaced by a crown of eternal glory. The sincere wish of his devoted Philo,
An Old Member.
The Philopatrian Association.
This Association, whose object is the study of Elocution, held its first regular meeting, this session, February 1st, 1873, at which the following election of officers took place:
; President—WDexter.
Hee President.—E. Holt.
Secretary.—T. McGee.
Librarian.—F. J. Weisenberger.
Treasurer.—C. V. Reid.
Censor.—A. Schmidt.
The 2d regular meeting was held on February Sth. The following delivered declamations: W. Dexter, E; Holt, T. McGee, F. J. Wiesenberger, 0. V. Reid, and A. Schmidt.
T. 8. McGee, Sec'y.
Very Rev, Father General left for the South last Friday. We wish our very dear Father a prosperous journey to the sunny clime.
A Literary Society ought to be started in the Commercial Department. There is plenty of genuine talent there to whom a good drilling in the debating-room would be of infinite value. We understand that Prof. J. A. Lyons will undertake the conduct of such a Society.
Our Music Boz.
It may not be uninteresting to the readers of The Scholastic to hear now and then what we are doing in “ the musical way,” and also that we take a deep interest in this very important branch of polite and ornamental education. We do not however intend to confine ourselves altogether to Notre Dame, but may “ soar abroad ” and occasionally note what is going on in the world. It shall be our endeavor to be interesting rather than original in all we say, and you must not understand that we are not going to make use of the “ inverted commas.” With this brief prelude, we enter upon the duties of our department, hoping you will
“------not view us with a critic’s eye, But pass onr imperfections by.”
"The Grand Italian Opera, at Chicago, is a success. Madame Lucca and Miss Louise Kellogg have won their way into favor among our music-loving people, in spite of their bad support. Lucca as Gerlina in uFra Diacolo” gave us a new revelation of the character, singing it magnificently and acting in the most captivating style. Her Margarita of “Faust,” and Mignon in the opera of the same name, were never surpassed. Miss Kellogg achieved a great triumph as Donna Anna, singing superbly; but her acting was cold.
Blind Tom is at Cincinnati. ■
Our Musical Organizations seem to be at a standstill. We have heard from none except the Band, to which too much praise caunot be. given. We understand that the Orchestra is practising and rehearsing some fine music; so our friends may expect quite a treat when it makes its appearance ; that is, if there is less noise than usual in the Hall.
“The Rubenstein Troupe gave their farewell concerts at the Academy of Music, Philadelphia, on the evenings of the 14th and lath of January—Winiawski, as usual, eliciting a greater share of applause than Rubenstein.”
Vocalists.—What has become of our singers ? Nothing delights us more than a nice song, and that we have not heard in a long time. Has vocal music taken its exit from Notre Dame ? 0 popoi forbid it!
Theodore Thomas’ unrivalled orchestra is to be in Chicago next week, to give four concerts. We believe Prof. Van de Velde belongs to that organization. All his friends wish him all manner of success.
Soiree.—The first soiree of the season took place Wednesday evening, February 12th. The exercises were opened by Mr. Hugo Hug, an old student of Notre Dame. He played a fine“Valse de Concert” from Tito Mattei. His execution was excellent. He was followed by Masters W. Owens and C. Burger, in the duet, “There’s a Sigh in the Heart.” This was followed by Mr. W, Campbell with the “ Galop de Bravure.” Mr. Campbell’s knowledge of music is very good, but his execution might have been improved by a little more practice. Then Master Owens rendered a piccolo solo, with piano accompaniment by C. Burger, in a manner truly praiseworthy. This was followed by a violin solo, by Master Burger, whose execution was really remarkable, especially as he has taken lessons but for a short time. The Minims were well represented by Master Eddie Raymond,- who favored us with a piano solo. His perform
190
THE SCHOLASTIC
ance was far above his years, and he did credit both to himself and his Department. The Quintette went off all right. The piano duet might have been bettered by a little patient practice. Sir. Hug’s last piece, “ Grand Galop de Concert,” by Eugene Ketterer, was very fine. It is quite a difficult composition, and we must say Sir. Hug did it full justice. We remember to have heard the late Prof. Regniers play it, and it reminded us of old times.
Though there was much room for improvement in this the first soiree of the season, still it was a good beginning, ■which greatly enhances our expectations of the future. Slay these entertainments be of frequent recurrence.
----------- o »	%
Navigation is expected soon to open. The Boat-Club have organized.
The steam-pipes in the new study-hall look rich, having been bronzed. It seems that no pains or expense is being spared to.render this place truly comfortable and beautiful.	•
Stone-Cutting.—Since milder weather has come around the stone-cutting has been going on very rapidly. A great number of cut and rough stones are to be seen about the steam-house, and many loads have been drawn away of late. .
The Collegiate Department has become thoroughly settled, and all things are moving on smoothly and pleasantly indeed; it seems like retiring to private life to those who are there. But summer will make it even more pleasant than it is at present.
Our Bat has had many a swing of late, it being the only bat “ up stairs.” It seems to be considered the foundation of a forthcoming nine. Indeed a nine has already been organized. But perhaps we are saying too much about base-ball for these times.
Whiskers.—Some may think it an easy task to write locals for The Scholastic, as indeed it generally is, but then it sometimes happens that one is called upon to speak of delicate matters; then it is another thing, and we regard this as a very delicate and thin subject.
Milder Weather is coming by degrees. We notice that almost each succeeding day is more promising of Spring. -Now is the time for coughs and colds. The sleighing is “ played out,” and we think no more can be expected before another winter. “Snow-squalls” no doubt will cheer us occasionally.
Valentine’s Day was unusually quiet this year; of course there were some jokes, but yet the valentines received were comparatively few, and did not attract as much attention as in former years. The Minims signalized the day by returning to the Seniors’ refectory, and we by a little sleighride on the lake.
Rather Slippery.—Quite to our surprise, as we glanced towards the lake we saw several forms swiftly gliding about on its surface. There was skating. But this is not the only icy locality hereabouts; indeed the roads to the church and to the yards have been very slippery for the past few weeks, and many a one “ has. had his bottom tested.”	‘
Congratulations.—As several new reporters have of late been appointed, we take this occasion to offer them our warm congratulations. Of course we shall get along well together, and all things will move harmoniously with
us. We will all unite our strength to make The Scholastic as interesting as possible, while at the same time we make it a “ living history of the University.”	s
Skating has had a partial recovery of late, yet it has by no means been restored to good health. Some of the students betook themselves to the lake last week, and enjoyed themselves for a few hours in attempting to find skating, a piece of which they found on the other side of the lake; it answered for a little exercise and amusement, yet was far from being complete. The skating season is over.
The Busts in the Collegiate Study-Hall are the property of the St. Edward’s Literary Association. They have consented that these busts, which formerly adorned their room, should be taken to decorate the new Study-hall. The busts are those of Shakespeare, Milton, Sir Walter Scott, and Byron. Pictures also adorn the Hall. We take this opportunity to express our thanks to the Association.
Rehearsals.—Not long since, we attended one of the rehearsals of the Thespians, ’ and though the plays which they were preparing were both interesting and amusing in themselves, and pleased us very, mu ch, yet the original afterpiece that Harry and Pat are always ready to put on the stage makes the rehearsals very entertaining, serving as a happy finale to the exercises of the evening. They have a change of programme every evening. .
Boat-House.—Consideradle discussion has been going on among the members of the Boat Club in regard to enlarging the present boat-house. Whether the poles which are to serve as posts should be of tamarack or some other species of wood has been warmly discussed. The thickness of the ice has been brought forward as an objection: it is generally thought that this new .boat-house might winter all right, but the trouble would be to spring it.
Soiree. — One evening last week the music students gave a very pleasing entertainment in the parlor. The Collegiate Department was invited, and of course we followed along. The entertainment was given chiefly by Juniors, who did remarkably well. But no doubt our music reporter will have something, to say about this, and as we did not have the pleasure of listening to- our favorite instruments, the hand-organ, and dinner-bell, we forbear further remarks.	,	.
. Moustaches.—Again we have to touch upon a political subject, and one too which is of “ grave moment ” but not foreign to the desires of mankind, which carries its desire so far as to have recourse to the buffalo (of course I mean the hide of the animal) to furnish the requisite number of hairs. But it appears to us that like other trees they flourish best on native soil, and when transplanted are apt to wither and die. . We forbear further remarks, as we have no metaphors, similes, or any of the other figures, to adorn the subject.
Lectures on Natural Science.—The students of the Natural and Physical Sciences were very much pleased by the announcement to them that their Professor, Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S.C., would lecture before them every week on the subjects which the Classes had gone over, thus rendering the facts better fixed in the mind. Great interesfr-has been manifested in these studies and the lectures cannot fail to increase it. The matter of the lecture is gone over in Class, and after the students have acquired a cursory idea of it, further explanation is made in the manner above noted—by lectures.	.	' .
SCHOLASTIC
; 191
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, February 18,1873.
The sunny sky now casts a cheerful glow over the winter scenery, giving to the late weather-bound young people the privilege of inhaling copious quantities of fresh air without fear of painful consequences. During recreation hours the piazzas present an animated appearance, and morning walks again form part of the programme of the day.
The sleigh-ride to Niles on the 6th inst. was enjoyed by all who participated in it. Many of the prudent ones preferred to remain at the Academy and enjoy the luxury of a quiet day.
The indisposition of Very Rev. Father General during the past two weeks has caused “ The Gossip ” to be silent, and “ The Merry Chimes ” to be very still, for the Editors are so anxious to have the benefit of his comments on their editorial efforts that they have deferred reading their respective papers till he could honor them with his presence. His appearance here last Sunday was the signal for many warm congratulations onhis recovery, and now “The Gossip” and “ Chimes ” will try to be heard.
Washington’s Birthday will be celebrated with becoming patriotism by our very patriotic young girls, who delight in getting up demonstrations that give them an extra chance of giving vent to their superabundant hilarity.
ARRIVALS.
Miss Cora Lee;
“ Belle Turnbull, “ M. Heckman, “ M. Kaeseberg,
Muskegon, Michigan. Muskegon, Michigan. Indianapolis Indiana. Chicago, Illinois.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct
Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t.), Feb. 16,1873.
Misses Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Lizzie King, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, Annie M. Clarke, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Rose Mary Spier, Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Mittie Ward, Emily Haggarty, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Bay Reynolds, Mary Wicker, Lettie Ritchie, Bridget Grace, K. Finley, M. Letourneau, Agnes Church, Julia Voorhees, Josephine Locke, L. Dragoo, Esther Boyce, S. Shipley, Julia Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Jennie Noonan, Addie Hambleton, Nellie Foote, Lou Beckman, Annie O’Connor; Annie Ried, Nellie Heedy, Mary A. Roberts, E. and B. Wade, R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, C. Germain, Flora Rush, Lizzie Ritchie, Emma Ives, R. Rosesco, Mary E. Roberts, E. Quinlan, Mary McGuire, Nellie McEwne, Agnes Cona-han, Ella Howell, Sarah Chenoweth, Mary White, Anna Belle Stockton, Josie Connors, D. Simonds, Livinia Forrester, Katie Wickham, Rose Klar, Joanna Valdez, Romu-alda Manzanares, Lizzie Schieber, Fannie Snouffer, T. Heckman, Katie Isman, A. Monroe, Mary Lyons, H. Miller, N. Hinkston, Mary E. Black, Louisa Lilly, M. Kane, B. Turnbull.
Honorably Mentioned in Studies.
Graduating Class—Misses Katie Zell, Mary Lassen, Alice Mast, Alice Shea, Katie Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class—Miss Lizzie Niel, Annie M. Clarke, Nellie Gross, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Daisie Green
Lillie West, Mary Comer, (Libbie Black,) Nellie Langdon, Emily Haggarty.	-
Second Senior Class—Miss Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Bay Reynolds, L. Ritchie, Maggie Letourneau, Esther Boyce.
Third Senior Class — Misses G. Walton, J. Fanning, Amelia Keeline, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Lou Beckman, Annie O’Connor, Nellie Heedy, Annie Ried.
FirstPreparatory Class—E. and B. Wade, R. Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Clara Germain, Ettie Burney, Flora Rush, Mary Quill, Lizzie Ritchie, Emma Ives, Bell Gaffney, R. Rosesco, Mary E. Roberts, Ella Quinlan, Neilie McEwne, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahah.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses E. Howell, Sarah Chenoweth, Mary White, L. Forrester, Rebecca Marr, Katie Wickham, J. Valdez, R. Manztnares, Lizzie Scheiber, Fannie Snouffer, Tillie Heckman.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses Nora McMahon, Angeline Monroe, Henrietta Miller, Mary E. Black, Rose McKeever, Louisa Lilly, B. Turnbull.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t), Feb. 18,1873; i
E. Richardson, A. Smith,' K. Joyce, L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Marlin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, B. Quan, N. Vigil, E. Orton, T. Schulte, S. Lilly, M. Walsh, K. Smith, J. and M. Thomson, R. Hooley, C. Smith, L. Schuerle, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, A. Burney, M. Booth, M. Carlin, K. Lloyd, M. Ewing, M. Hildreth, M. DeLong, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Follmer, A. Paulsen, E. Lappin, E. Lang, A. Ewing, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, M. Ware, L. Walsh, E. Jackson, S. Lynch, M. Kaeseburg, A. Green, J. Tailman, A. Green, N. Lloyd, M. Green.
Honorably Mentioned in the
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—K. Joyce.
First Preparatory Class — L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, A. Walsh.
Second -Preparatory Class—M. Hepp, -M. Martin, G. Kelly, A. Lynch, B. Quan.
Third Preparatory Class—N. Vigil, E. Orton, T. Schulte, S. Lilly.
First Junior Class—N. O’Meara, M. Walsh, K. Schmidt, C. Smith, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, M. Carlin. K. Lloyd, M. Ewing, C. Walker, A. Koch, K. Follmer.
Second Junior Class—A. Paulsen, K. Hector, E. Lappin, -E. Lang, A. Ewing, E. Hassler, L. Walsh, M. Ware, E. Jackson, M. Kaeseberg.
Third Junior Class—A. Green, J. Tallman, A. Green, N. Lloyd, M. Green.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE. THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVSEY MONTH. $1,00 PER AJCNTTM. Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
. lining
Which will he read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873- Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar to the Editor, . ■ REV. WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
192 j
THE SCHOLASTIC.
L. 8. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN PREmiums, for Distribution among the • $2 00 Subscribers of the
CINCINNATI
AUTUMIN ARR1SGEMEXT.
7
IN APRIL, 1873.
The number of Premiums are always increased when the number of names exceed the number calculated upon.
We now offer the following:
1 Cash Premium of -	-	-	$1,009
20 Cash Premiums of $100 Each, -	-. 2.000
60 Stem-winding Watches, $80 Each,	4,800
100 Cash Premiums of $20 Each,	-	2,ooo
200 Cash Premiums of $10 Each, -	- 2,ooo
100 Cash Premiums of $5 Each, -	-	-	5oo
100 Cash Premiums of $3 Each,	-	- 3oo
loo Cash Premiums of $2 Each, -	-	-	2oo
1279 Miscellaneous Prem., $2 to $10 Each, 7,2oo Making a Total of TWO THOUSAND PremTim?.
’ Worth TWENTT THOUSAND DOLLARS.
Every subscriber who remits .$2.00 for a year’s subscription will have his name registered, and will be furnished by return mail a receipt giving the dale and number to which his name is registered, said number being represented by a duplicate iu the distribution.
Agents sending 10 names and §20.00 at one time receive a free paper one year and have their names registered as participants for premiums.
Specimen Copies, Posters, Premium Pamphlet and Subscription Blanks sent free to persons desiring them. Address'
3P-A.IXJL1V & MeLEAN,
fJIRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING	BAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. in.	Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.m
“	“	12.25 p. m.	,	“	P 4 05 a. m
“	“	9.15 p. m.	“ -	“	135 p. m
“	“	12 35 a. m. '	“	“	5.30 p. m
“	“	S.2o p. m.	Runs to Elkhart. ,
“	“	4.35 p.-m.	■	
GOING	WEST.	.
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.	Arrive at Chicago. 8.20 p. m
•“	“	2 55 a. m.	’	’• .	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	5.00 a. m.	“	“	8.20 a. m
“	“	[605 p m.	“	“ ■	9.40 p. m
“	“	6.37 a. m.	'	“	“	10.30 a. m
“	“	8.20 a. m.	“	12.30 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.	•
X®- For full details, see the Company's posters and time tables at the depot anil other public places.	'
J^- Crains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.	•
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J W. Cari*, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S.Nellis, ’ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Ageut, South Bend.	•
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. tn.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29a.m.
Freights, 6.39 a. in.; 8.06 p.m.	.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a.m.; 9.25 p.m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. tn.	II. N. CAN1FF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
(JEfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:	.
nlSw6
Cincinnati, Ohio*
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R.
Leave Niles, -si ll
Leave South Bend, 4.	4.
Arrive South Bend, 4»	ll
GOING SOUTH.
6.50 a m.
9.35 a.m.
4.59 p.m.
Arrive South Bend, 41	4.
GOING NORTH.
6 30 p.m.
SUNDAY TRAINS.
9.33 a.m. I Leave South Bend,
5.30 p.iu. |	“	“
-	7 30 a.m
10.15 a.m 5.30 p.m
- 9.20 a.m 12 25 p.m 7.10 p tn
- 10.00 a.m 6.30 p.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, III., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Maiii Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, I1L, and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
46:30. p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
117:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
UKIVEESITY OP K0TBE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered, in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1811, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
* Except Sunday. t_pn Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday, t Dail y. § Except Monday.	'
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
j. c. McMullin, Gen’l Superintendent.
CHICAGO.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	$5 00
Board, Bed and Beddiug, and Tuition iLatin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, ' -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, ---------	12 50
Use of Piano, ----------	- 10 00
Use ot Violin, --	----	-	-	-	-	-	2 00
Drawing. -	•	-	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,	-	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee— Commercial. So; Scientific, $8; Classical,- - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra. -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class B >oks. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; ths Second on the 1st of February.	.
For further particulars, address	’
PEOSILVAiUA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE.AND CHICAGO.
ft Rev. A; LSBIONNISR, C.S.C., President.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run' between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p.’m i Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m*
2d i rain	“	“	5.15 p. m	'■	,6 41a. m4
3rd train	“	‘‘	9.00 p m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mahnsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad,
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistant-Superintendent, Pittsburgh. ’
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. .	.
F. R. MYE'is. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh
W. C. CLEELAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass.- Agent; Chicago.
* Second day.	.	’