
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturvis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 14, 1877.	Number 32.
Home.
[The following beautiful lines were written by Janies Montgomery, the well-known Ayrshire poet. The poet, whose smaller pieces are considered nearly equal to those of Moore, was born at Irvine, in 1771:]
There is a land of every land the pride. Beloved by Heaven o’er all the world beside; Where brighter suns dispense serener light, And milder moons emparadise the night; A land of beauty, virtue, valor, truth, Time-tutored age, and love-exalted youth.
The wandering mariner, whose eye explores The wealthiest isles, the most enchanting shores, Views not a realm so bountiful and fair, Nor breathes the spirit of a purer air;
In every clime the magnet of his soul, Touched by remembrance, trembles to that pole; For in this land of Heaven’s peculiar grace, The heritage of nature’s noblest race, There is a spot of earth supremely blest, A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest; Where man, creation’s tyrant, casts aside His sword and sceptre, pageantry and pride, While in his softened looks benignly blend, The sire, the son, the husband, brother, friend.
Here woman reigns; the mother, daughter, -wife, Strew with fresh flowers the narrow way of life! In the clear heaven of her delightful eye, An angel-guard of loves and graces lie; Around her knees domestic duties meet, And fireside pleasures gambol at her feet.
Where shall that land, that spot of earth be found ? Art thon a man?—a patriot ?—look around: O, thou shalt find, howe’er thy footsteps roam, That land thy country, and that spot thy home.
Constitutional Government.
BY JOHN G. EWING.
’Tis a question now much mooted in this country, whether our Administration should be made responsible to the Legislature, and the voice and wish of the people thereby expressed. The great power of our Administration, and the impossibility of restraining it from unlawful use of that power—as was experienced under the last Administration __has turned the attention of the country to what is known as responsible government, and has disposed our people to think favorably of it. A few days ago, we had the pleasure of hearing a lecture, most instructive and entertaining, in which the worthy lecturer told in his own beautiful way how, when, and_where Free Institutions took their rise,
It is the design of this essay to treat of one of those free institutions, Constitutional Government, its kinds, their respective advantages and disadvantages, and of the question given above: Which is best suited to us as a free nation ?
The end of Government is to protect man in the lawful use of his liberty; and Constitutional Government is now generally conceded to be best calculated for this purpose, because it restrains the rulers from unjust exercise of their power, and secures and retains to them the. obedience and affection of their subjects. Such being the case, the question now naturally arises: What kind of Constitutional Government is best adapted to fulfil these ends, and thus render itself most beneficial to the nation which is by it governed ?
A Constitutional Government is a government in which both rulers and ruled are bound to obey a certain Constitution, or set of laws, which lays down the mutual obligations of rulers and ruled, and defends the rights and privileges of both in like manner. When considering the kinds of Constitutional Governments, we must remember that a name is naught, for the power alone, which it represents, is to be considered. Laying this down, we can divide Constitutional Governments into two great classes, responsible and irresponsible governments. A responsible government may be defined to be one in which the Administration is subservient to the Legislative branch of the Government and in which the Legislature can at any time change the Administration so as to make it conform with the views of the legislative majority. An irresponsible Government, on the other hand, may be defined to be a government in which the Executive and Legislative branches are wholly free from one another, and in which the Executive can only be changed at stated intervals, greater or less. As a representative of the latter class, we may take the United States; of the former, either England or Switzerland. The origin and history of what I here call irresponsible Constitutional Government is well known; but it might be apropos to state in a few words that of responsible government. It took its rise in England, and was founded on the sole power of the Commons to originate bills for raising revenue and for impeachment of the Crown Ministers. It was more fully developed by the acknowledged rights recognized in the execution of Charles I, the war of Parliament with and the deposition of James II, and the election, in 1688, of William and Mary to the throne. From that time forth, the present form of responsible Government may be said to be a reality, and since then it has been introduced in many countries of the Christian world, notably Belgium, Austria, and France.
In comparing these two kinds of Constitutional Government, let us take our country, and see the formation of the
498
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Government, and the powers of the two branches. The Executive consists of a President with his advisers, known as the Cabinet, appointed and removable by himself with the consent of the Senate, a consent rarely refused. He is elected for a term of four years by stated electors, and can only be removed before the end of that time by impeachment and conviction for treason, bribery, or other high crimes. He has full control of the army and navy, and of the State militia when called into service, has the power of appointment of nearly every officer of the United States, can call Congress when he deems it necessary, and veto any law passed by Congress; and, lastly, must see that the laws are truly and faithfully executed. The Legislature consists of the Senate and House of Representatives. The House is chosen directly by the people, for the term of two years. It has sole power of impeachment, of originating bills for raising revenues, of electing a President when the electors fail to do so, and co-ordinate power with the Senate in general legislation. The Senate is chosen by the Legislatures of the respective States for the term of six years. It has co-ordinate power with the House in general legislation, and sole power of confirming or rejecting all Government appointments, and of trying all impeachments brought by the House. Looking at the rights and privileges of both branches of our Government, as here set forth, we can plainly see that the two branches are totally distinct and independent, and that the power concentrated into the hands of one man, the President, is very great, and such as would be dangerous to our liberties, if ever wielded in favor of self or party.
Choosing England as the example of a responsible Government, let us examine into the power and relations of the Administrative and Legislative branches of its Government. Legislation is there carried on by the Parliament, which consists of the Lords and Commons. The House of Lords is a permanent and hereditary body, possessing the power of our Senate, excepting that of confirmation of Government appointments. The Commons are elected every sevenyears by the voters, and possess the power of our House, with the addition of certain rights by means of which the Administration is made responsible to them. In this responsibility consists the distinction, and the whole practical distinction,between the two Governments. The Administration consists of a certain number of Ministers, forming the Ministry, at whose head is the Queen, who, though in theory she commands them, yet in practice is commanded by them. These Ministers have seats in either House of Parliament, and through them the Crown takes the initiative in legislation. As long as the bills and measures of the Administration are passed by the last elected House, it is supposed to be in accordance with the will of the voters. The whole responsibility of executive and legislative measures, both those which they bring forward, and those which they fail to bring forward, is thrown on the Administration, and they cannot shirk their duty by attempting to throw the blame on any one else. They cannot say: “ We suggested such and such a policy, but you would not carry it out ”; they must, and do, carry it out themselves. Whenever the Commons will not pass the measures of the Administration, it is a sign that they want a new one. Parties array themselves, first in the Commons, then in the country at large, for or against this living measure. Here begins the contrast with our system, where the Administration has naught to do with legislation except when it suggests measures in a vague manner by way of
Messages. When a measure is presented, it is as the work and the measure of a member, not of a party, unless it be agreed on in party caucus, which it will not, except it be germane to and in furtherance of the idea on which that । party was founded. A war or anti-slavery party would split on any question excepting that to decide which it was formed; if it were called on to decide the question of hard or soft money, it would assuredly fail to agree. Yet this caucus support is the nearest approach which we possess to the making a party responsible for a bill, and it but represents the vis inertia which impels a party to move in a set direction because its way is there laid down, not because the country does or does not require that it do so. The Ministers of the British Government, as I have said before, have seats in either the Lords or Commons, generally in the latter; and they must always be of the same political faith as the majority of the last-mentioned body. They introduce all measures for the consideration of Parliament, and defend these measures on the floor of the House; while the leaders of the Opposition, as the minority is called, simply criticise the measures brought forward, unless they have others which they think would be more acceptable to the Commons. If a government measure be defeated in the Commons, one of two courses can be chosen: either the existing Ministry resigns, and a Ministry composed of the Opposition comes in, or the existing Ministry advises the Queen to dissolve Parliament and to appeal to the voters. If the latter course be pursued, and the voters sustain the Ministry, a House will be returned favorable to the law opposed by the last one. In such a case, the existing Ministry remains in power, and the leaders of the old minority are still in opposition. If however the voters oppose the existing Ministry, the new House will be of the same complexion as the old, and the Ministry resigns to avoid impeachment. The -leader of the Opposition is invited by the Queen to form a new Cabinet, which he does, selecting the members from his own party. In such a Government the House is supreme; the Queen has but the right of vote, and of dissolving and calling Parliament. A system of this kind gives us the ablest advocacy of government measures, and the most scrutinizing criticism; retains statesmen in complete independence of party, and yet keeps the Administration responsible to and in harmony with the Legislature, and both of them responsible to and in accord with the people.
[to be continued.]
The Flute.
In connection with the article on the Flute which appeared several weeks ago in the Scholastic, we judge that the following article on the same subject will be acceptable to our readers. It has been arranged in its present order from several articles in Moore’s “ Encyclopaedia of Music,” a work containing much information on all musical questions and subjects.
The Flute is a common and well known instrument, which has always held a high place in public estimation, its tones being exceedingly rich and musical, affording a beautiful accompaniment to the human voice, piano, guitar, etc., and an indispensable auxiliary to the orchestra. It has existed in many forms. The Latins called it fistula, and sometimes tibia or pipe; from the former of which some derive the word fiute, though Borel will have it derived
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
499
from flutta, thus called afluitando influviis; inasmuch as a flute is long, like the lamprey, and has holes all along it, like that fish. The ancient fistula, ar flutes, were made of reeds; afterwards they were of wood, and at length of metal. But how they were blown, whether as our flutes, or hautboys, does not appear. It is plain some had holes, which at first were but few, but afterwards increased to a greater number, and some had none. Some were single pipes, and some a combination of several, particularly Pan’s syringa, which consisted of seven reeds, joined together sidewise. These seven reeds had no holes, each giving but one note—in all seven distinct notes; but at what intervals is not known. Perhaps they were notes of the natural or diatonic scale. The fistula, in ancient music, was an instrument of the wind kind, resembling our flute, or flageolet. The principal wind instruments of the ancients were the tibia and fistula; though how these were constituted, or wherein they differed, or how they were played on, does not appear. All we know is, that the fistula was at first made of reeds, and afterwards of other matters. The flute has had many names, as fiauto, flautino, fiauto tr aver so, flauto tedesco, flautone, fluta, etc.
The flute-Abec, or fistula dulcis, was once a common flute, and was blown at the end; it was also termed the English flute, and by the French la flute douce. The flute-a- ■ bee was held perpendicularly to the mouth like the clarinet.
The ancient flute, which had some sort of mouthpiece, was double as well as single. It was often composed of two tubes, both played together, which would seem to show that the enlightened nations of antiquity possessed some knowledge of harmony
The Boehm flute was completed by M. Boehm, of Munich, in Germany, in December, 1832, and Mr. Badger, the American manufacturer, claims for it—perfection of tune, because every aperture is in its proper and natural position; equality of tone, because the holes are equal in size and distance, relatively, to the conical form of the instrument; superior quality of tone, because the bore of the instrument is not sacrificed (as in the ordinary flute) to a false arrangement and size of the finger holes; greater susceptibility of sweetness, because every note can be produced without exertion or difficulty; increase of power, because every hole is enlarged to the most available extent consistently with purity of sound.
The common flute consisted of a tube about eighteen inches long and one inch in diameter, with eight holes disposed along the side, by the stopping and opening of which with the fingers, the sounds were varied and regulated. This was an improvement on the flute-Abec, which name came from the old Gaulish word bee, signifying the beak of a cock, because the end at which it was blown is formed like the beak of that animal. The common flute is still so called to distinguish it from the German flute. Lucretius says: “The common flute had its origin from the breathing of western winds over certain reeds ”; and thus, he tells us, was suggested to man the rural pipe, the simple tube which the ingenuities of later ages have improved into one of the most fascinating instruments of which art can boast.
Tm?. German Flute is a wind instrument of German invention, consisting of a tube formed of several joints, or pieces, screwed together, or into each other, with holes along the side, like those of the common flute. It is stopped at the upper end, and furnished with movable brass or silver keys, which, by opening and closing certain holes
serve to temper the tones to the various flats and sharps. In playing this instrument, the performer applies his under lip to the hole about two inches and a half from the upper extremity, while the fingers, by their action on the holes and keys, accommodate the tones to the notes of the composition.
The flute was held in much esteem in days of antiquity; it filled an important place at festivities, in the service of the temple, in triumphant strains, and in the sadness of funeral obsequies. It was deemed so essential to oratory, that speakers regulated their discourse, and poets the rhythm of their verses, by its sounds. It was invented at a very early period, and passed through many changes; but only in modern times has it obtained that degree of perfection which we may be justified in terming its culmination point. The flute has become a new instrument. Not only is its treatment and mode of performance altogether different in our days from what it was formerly, in respect to its being more free and more decisive, but the taste for this instrument has become more extended and more refined, and the important part which has been assigned to it in the modern opera has so far extended the circle of its utility, that the flute may be almost said to rival the violin. In a word, such is the degree of perfection to which it has attained, that all the acquirements of our ancesters on this instrument would now appear mean and contemptible. This most delightful of wind instruments, and which, of all others, is thought to approach the nearest to the human voice, is, however, sometimes misemployed by players, in forcing it to produce a kind of trumpet tone, instead of its natural mellifluous sound. This tone is quite foreign to the character of the flute, and has, in a great measure, been the means of strengthening the prejudice that prevails against it, and which will not allow it to be a proper instrument for concertos. This prejudice is still more confirmed by the generality of compositions of this kind, as they are, in many instances, much too uniform to keep attention alive, or to interest strongly the hearers during any long series of passages. If players were more studious to imitate the varied and more delicate bowings of the violin, and particularly its effects in legato, and above all in staccato passages, then the flute concerto, instead of resembling, the tones of a musical clock, could not fail to touch the heart, and to produce the powerful effects of the human voice, to which the sounds of this instrument so much assimilate. The virtuoso, who, to justify his very name, ought to be one who prizes excellence only, is, according to the tatse that now prevails in the musical world, rather solicitous to excite surprise by the powers of execution, and by artificial difficulties, than by simplicity and purity of taste; he considers that which costs the most the most worthy of attention. Art is now everything; and, as this always stands opposed to nature, the virtuoso who studies only to excite admiration and surprise frequently exercises his powers at the expense of the ear, to which he ought always to pay the greatest deference, and without whose approval all music is vain and ineffectual. The true master of his instrument is able to show on that alone all the power which music possesses of touching the heart, of unlocking all the sacred sources of the feelingi and will require nothing from his instrument that is contrary to its genius. Real art is only from within; where she reigns, mechanical art must always yield due submission. She holds the command over the powers of execution, and creates a language peculiar to herself, in order to give utterance to deeply-seated feelings, and to impart them to
500
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i i
i
i
others. Devoutly is it to be wished that those performers who are ambitious of drawing from the flute the tones of of the bassoon or the clarinet would well consider this, and be governed by the predominant character of their instrument, which is confessedly the elegiac—a character of the greatest sweetness, and of that pathos which goes at once to the heart. Within a few years, Mr. A. G. Badger, of New York, has commenced in this country the manufacture of the Boehm flute, which he considers an improvement on all others. In his “ History of the Flute,” he says: “ At the commencement of the last century, the German flute, which, in allusion to the position in which it was held, was also termed the “flauto tramrso," or transverse flute, began to divide the public favor with the the flute-Abec. The superiority of the German flute over the flute-a-bec consisted in its improved quality of tone and somewhat better intonation. On the flute-a-bec no skill of the performer enabled him to vary, to any extent, the quantity and quality of its tone, or the pitch of the notes, owing to its being voiced with the tongue, like the pipe of an organ, or like a common whistle; but on the German flute the notes were produced by the immediate agency of the lips; comparatively a greater variety of tone, and certain improvements, even as to intonation, were consequently obtained. At that time the German flute had but six holes, which were stopped by the first three fingers of each hand. From these holes, combined with the note given by the entire tube,—that is, when all the holes were closed,—was produced the diatonic scale of one key or mode, that of D major. Shortly after, how. ever, an additional hole was made by Phillibert, a Frenchman, stopped by a key, (D sharp, or E flat.) This, which constituted the one-keyed flute, or flute with seven holes, as seen in the one-keyed flute of the present day, was a death blow to the flute-a-bec. It improved the quality of some of its tones, and extended its compass upward. Many a kindly prejudice, many a grateful recollection of past enjoyment, was enlisted in favor of an old servant, and lingered to the last, but in vain. The flute-Abec is now among the things that were, or is to be met with only in the hands of the antiquary. The flute remained in this state until the time of Quanz, who flourished from about the year 1720 to 1770, and was celebrated as a performer upon the flute, and as a composer for that instrument. He was also celebrated as a manufacturer of flutes.. He added another D sharp or E flat key and contrived a method of lengthening and shortening the head joint, so as to raise or lower the pitch half a tone. The discovery of this additional key was made in 1726, and the new head joint in 1752. The use of the latter is obvious; but it has puzzled the critics to divine what could possibly have been the object of this additional D sharp key, which, in conjunction with the new turning head, were said at the time to have corrected “ all the imperfections of this instrument in point of bad notes and false tuning.” They could not suppose it intended to make the enharmonic difference between D sharp and E flat. This would have been attributing a refinement of perception to Quanz utterly inconsistent with the obtuseness of ear which could endure the extreme imperfection, not only of the chromatic, but of the diatonic intervals of his instrument. We know by the flute music of his time, that sev. eral of the scales nearest related to that of D major were then employed, as well as the chromatic scale; but we know also, by a reference to the one-keyed flute of the present day, how grossly defective all these were, all the notes not belonging to D major having been produced by what
may be termed artificial fingerings, and the scale of D major itself having been also very imperfect. That it afforded no great advantage, may be concluded from the fact that the application of it was ultimately discontinued. The next great improvement was the addition of three other holes, stopped by three additional keys, constituting the four-keyed flute, that is, the flute with ten holes. Some difficulty has been experienced in ascertaining the exact time of the introduction, and the name.of the originator of these keys; but the most approved authorities among the Germans give the honor of this contrivance to Joseph Tacet, an Englishman, who was popular both as a performer on and as a manufacturer of the flute, in London, about seventy years since. This was really a great step in the progress of the flute. The notes G sharp or A flat, A sharp of B flat, and F natural, were, by means of these keys, produced upon the same principle as the D sharp or E flat, which had been obtained by the first key and the notes or the original six holes; and thus all the notes of the chromatic scale in the fundamental octave, excepting the C natural, were each produced by opening its legitimate hole and the artificial fingerings, for these notes, which produced tones of wretched quality and intonation, were no longer necessary. This improvement, great as it was, made its way at first but slowly. It was not until the beginning of the present century that the four-keyed flute began to be ' generally adopted in the English orchestras. After this the attempt was made to obtain a C natural by means of a key, the artificial C of the four-keyed flute, fingered thus, 0 2 0 | 12 3, being very imperfect. For this purpose a long key, acted upon by the first finger of the right hand, known as the C shake key, was added; but although a good note was thus produced, it has been of little use, excepting in the shake.with B, owing to the necessity, when using it, of moving the right hand. About the same time the tube was lengthened, and two long keys were added at the foot of the instrument, giving the two additional low notes, G sharp and C natural. This was the seven-keyed flute. The duplicate long F key, acted upon by the little finger of the left hand, was next added, to facilitate the execution of the notes D natural or E flat, in connection with F natural; and thus was completed the ordinary eight-keyed flute. As many as seventeen keys have been added to some flutes, but the standard number has long been eight. Attempts were also made, from time to time, to improve the tone of the instrument, by enlarging the holes, and by variations in the bore. Joseph Tacet, before mentioned as the originator of the four-keyed flute, made experiments with large holes, as also did the late Mr. Nicholson. But these efforts, both as to the size of the holes and the variations in the bore, could only be partially successful, owing to the radically incorrect position of the holes and the erroneous principle upon which the keys were constructed.
Ancient Irish Literature.
, A gross slander, and one easily refuted, is that the Milesians had no alphabet or knowledge of letters until St. Patrick introduced the Boman alphabet, A. D. 432.
Cadmus, in the year 1493 before Christ, brought with him from Phoenicia or Tyre, the alphabet into Greece. Tyre was then the most refined city in the world; the most advanced arts and sciences were practiced there, and 493 years after the time of Cadmus, King Solomon obtained front

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
501
Tyre the artificers who erected the famous Temple at Jeru-|	salem. It was at this time, 1000 years B. 0., that Milesius led
his expedition westward in search of new lands. Milesius was the son of Hiram, King of Tyre, and son-in-law to King Solomon, and it would be unreasonable to suppose that such a man rejected all learned men, all skilled artificers, and chose for his companions and advisers the poor and illiterate, those only fit to hew wood'and draw water.
Plutarch calls the island discovered by them “ Ogygia,” or very ancient; “the inhabitants draw," he says, “their history from the most remote antiquity, so that that of other nations is new when compared to theirs." Camden says: “ From the deepest sources of antiquity, the history of Ireland is taken; and in comparison to theirs that of other nations is but a novelty and a beginning.”
The Psalter, or records of Tara, Cashel, Inisfail, and Clonmacnoise, are written in the Ogham or Scoto-Milesian character, which is much older than the Latin. The late lamented Eugene O’Curry has left stored away piles of f	volumes written in those characters, on the shelves of the
j	Royal Irish Historical Society of Dublin, nor is there any
■	extensive library in Europe that does not contain volumes
!	' of such, left there by their Irish patron saints or by those
who in the time of Henry the Eighth and his daughter Queen Elizabeth had to flee for their lives, carrying with
I	them those precious relics of their persecuted country’s for-
mer literary glory, which extended back to the time of 01-r	lam Fodla, the Ard-Ri, or King of all Erin, who reigned
J.	about 700 or 800 years before Christ. He was the first Irish
)	king who gave his subjects a code of written laws. These
1	statutes were written on parchment at each triennial council,
*	held at Teamore or Tara, and hence called the Psalter of
Tara.
The Phcenicians brought with them a knowledge of all -	the arts, sciences and literature then known in the world,
j	in their own original language, 1000 years before Christ,
/	while the Britons first heard of letters only after they were
|	enslaved by the Romans 50 years before Christ.
)	St. Partick met King Laghaire, or Laogare, at Tara upon
|	his first landing, A. D. 432, and found him and his council
I	engaged in revising the codes of written laws, many of them
I	centuries old. The Saint afterwards obtained such influ-
J	ence with the provincial kings as to induce them to order
|	'	the burning of all the books of the Druid priests, which
j	must have been very ancient.
f	St. Patrick died in 493; he found Ireland all pagan', he left
i	it all Christian ,• and at this present hour, that particular
;	form of faith then established in Erin is to-day growing,
t	flourishing in every section of the earth, the same in Aus-
tralia as it is in America. Ireland never produced a here-j	siarch, and the descendants of those very people whose an-
>i	cestors were baptized by the blessed hands of St. Patrick
■,	may be seen all over the world to-day—their priests preach,	ing the same articles of faith, directing the erection of new
churches in the same style of architecture which was adopted by the Saint himself; while their Brothers, scattered over the great cities of these countries, teach the boys the faith of their forefathers by the tens of thousands, and the blessed daughters of St. Bridget vie with the priests and j	brothers of the same nationality in their labors for the
same ancient faith, the former, amid the smoke of battle .	and bursting shells during our late war offering the
last rites of the Church to the dying soldiers on the battlefield—the latter binding up their wounds in the hospitaltents upon the field, in the great depots of misery on land,
or in the floating hospitals on the Mississippi, as did the devoted Sisters of the Holy Cross—now dressing some fearful wound, now holding with devoted care the cooling drink to the feverish lips of friend or foe. Then, after having softened the heart of some scoffer at all things holy, who never mentioned the name of God but in blasphemy, he humbly and devoutly receives the water of baptism at her hands —in the absence of a priest—when his soul was about to pass to its last judgment. In times of peace we see them in the orphan asylums, attending with more than mother’s care the poor forlorn little orphan child, boy Or girl, whom the death of its parents left upon the cold charities of the world, or presiding over seminaries or select schools which cultivate the highest branches of female education; these devoted friends of suffering humanity are to be met with from the Atlantic coast even to Salt Lake, alike in academies or seminaries requiring the highest culture or gratuitously giving their priceless labor to thousands of the children of the poor who are unable to pay for a higher course of education. These are some of the means used by the sons and daughters of the Island of Saints to draw back to God and His Holy Faith all the stray sheep who may have wandered from it, to strengthen those who remain in it, and induce strangers to enter within its fold. And, the Almighty seems to have allowed the direst oppressions to be inflicted on them in their own country to com-pd them to scatter over the earth, as missionaries, to propagate the saving truths of His Gospel, as taught by His chosen apostle St. Patrick and his no less sainted daughter St. Bridget.
Unless a person compare the events which transpired on the Continent of Europe in the 5th century with those which occurred in Erin during the same epoch, it will be difficult to realize the fearful contrast. It was in this century that the most frightful irruptions of the northern and northeastern hordes occurred; they crossed the Rhine and the Danube and precipitated themselves upon what was then known as civilized Europe; Rome was taken and plundered four times in this century, first by Alaric in 410, then by Genseric in 455, by Edoacer in 476, and by the Ostrogoths in 493, the year in which St. Patrick died. Twelve Popes filled the chair of St. Peter, all of whom suffered martyrdom, from Anastasiiis I to Anastasius H, from the year 393 to 493.
It was of importance from the first introduction of Christianity in Erin to procure a sufficient number of Bishops and ordained priests to attend to the spiritual wants of the numerous converts and administer the Sacraments of the Church. The Latin language had therefore to be taught extensively to the young ecclesiastics, in all the monasteries and schools. It was common to write in those days one half a page in the Gaelic language and the opposite half in Latin. Crowds of young men flocked from the Continent of Europe to attend these schools, where only on earth could an education be obtained, and where only on earth could be obtained such an education free of all expense to all applicants, with food, clothing and books! free to the word! free alike to Hun, Goth, Gaul or Saxon, Christian or pagan. Such hospitality has never been practiced in any other country either in ancient or modern times. It must have been an inspiration from the Almighty that drew these students to this chosen island, that on their return to their own countries they might assist in imparting the knowledge of Christ and of the arts and sciences to their own peoples.
502
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Milesius departed from Tyre on his western voyage at the same time that King Solomon’s fleet—built, commanded and manned by Tyrian seamen—left the Red Sea for Ophir,—a three years’ voyage,—in search of gold for the Temple,—one hundred years before Homer wrote his poems, —247 years before Rome was founded by Romulus and Remus, as a shelter for their robber-bands. In the year 753 B. C., 011am Fodla, of the royal race of King Hiram of Tyre, descendant of Milesius and King of Erin, was compiling his laws and statutes in peace, for the government of his subjects, at Tara, his royal residence; and nineteen hundred and sixty-eight years later, when King John of England, on the 15th of June, 1215, granted Magna Charta to his barons at Runnymede, scarcely one of them was able to write his name! When these great nobles were not able to read or write, id what a state of ignorance must have been the commoners!	B. P.
Seientifie Notes.
—A. great loss for science is the death of the French West African explorer, the Marquis de Compiegne. His death was caused by a wound .received in a duel at Cairo.
—How much the beautiful public gardens of Kew, near London, are appreciated, may be judged by the statement recently made that 60,000 persons often visit them on a holiday. The collection of plants and exotics is unsurpassed, and the curator, Sir William Hooker, stands at the head of botanical science.
—The commonly accepted idea has been that the pearl is the result of some accidental deposit or extravasation of the liquor secreted by the animal in the gradual enlargement of its shell, slight in the first instance, but.increased by successive layers of pearly matter. According to a paper read before the London Linnaean Society, the production of pearls in oysters is simply due to the irritation occasioned by the attacks of the minute entozoon known as di-toma. The author of the paper held that, by artificial means, the abundance of this parasite might be greatly increased and made profitable in a pecuniary sense.
—One of the first astronomers of the age, the renowned -Father Secchi of Rome, has just published a very noteworthy letter in the Voce della Verita, in which he complains that he is persecuted by three sorts of assailants. Some tell him coarsely that, being an astronomer, he is consequently an Atheist. Others accuse him of making the true Science of Nature serviceable to the cause of superstition. Others blame him for departing from the traditional physical science of St. Thomas Aquinas. The Father replies to all these: “In the realm of faith, I hold fast to the teaching which proceeds from the Vicar of Christ; in the realm of physics, I hold fast to the teachings of nature and experiment.”
—The important discoveries of Prof. Marsh, of New Haven, are the subject of many complimentary notices abroad. The Geological Society of London has recently put some of these compliments into tangible shape by awarding to Prof. Marsh the Bigsbj’ medal, accompanied with appreciative remarks. The researches of Prof. Marsh are referred to in some detail, and several of the fossil vertebrates whose forms he has described are mentioned by name. The resolution says: “ He has distinguished himself by studying the fossil remains of nearly every great group of the vertebrata from the palaeozoic, cretaceous, and cainozoic strata of the New World. The field of his research has been immense, but it has been very correct; and his descriptive and classificatory paloeontological work indicates his effective grasp of anatomical details, and his great power as a comparative osteologist.”
—The notion of voyages around the world for scientific study has extended to France. A society has been organized to carry out this object. The President, M. Emile Levasseur, is a member of the Institute. The board of directors also includes a viscount, a baron and a naval lieutenant. There is attached a consulting committee, of
which the chairman is Ferd. de Lesseps, of Suez Canal fame. The other members of the committee are the naturalist Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire; the botanist Du Chartre; P. Sehwaeble, the director of the Paris High School of Commerce ; the physicist and astronomer Janssen; and Dr. Liouville, an expert in hygiene and climatology. The intention is to get everything in readiness for a voyage to last a year. The expense is to be paid by the tourists who subscribe, and is estimated at $5,000 to $7,000 apiece. It is supposed that the honor of going under such distinguished auspices will have due weight. Doubtless the society will be able to furnish unusual facilities for scientific investigation as well as for the pleasures of sight-seeing and extended travel.
—At a late session of the German Institute of Archaeology, held at the rooms in the Palazzo Caffarelli, Cam-pidoglio, the learned mem bers criticised severely Dr. Schliemann’s excavations in the Acropolis of Mycenae, or, more properly speaking, they criticised his conclusions. Prof. Helbig proved by various interesting and profoundly learned reasons that Dr. Schliemann has been too credulous in baptising his discoveries with such ambitious and poetical names as the tombs of Agamemnon, of Cassandra, and their companions killed by Clytemnestra and Egisthus. Helbig reminded us that the Greek historian, Pausanias, on a passage on which Dr. Schliemann rests his belief, does not determine the precise place, nor the form nor structure of those celebrated tombs, the existence of which was only a tradition even in Pausanias’ day. Helbig then proceeded to examine critically the report of the objects found by Dr. Schliemann in the tombs. The skeletons, the stone arrow heads, vases, bronze swords with gold handles, etc.- Of the five skulls covered with golden masks he said this habit of covering the faces of the dead with masks was transmitted by the Egyptians to the Phoenicians, and from them to the Greeks. Bodies have been found belonging to the Xlth dynasty of Egypt with ebony masks. Helbig concludes that the tombs are anterior to the Homeric poetry. The objects in the tombs are of different epochs. The stone arrow heads and hand-made vases are not of the same date as the bronze arms and the turned vases. The stone arrow heads, however, do not establish any great antiquity. Prof. Michele Stefano De Rossi, that prince of geologists, added his authority to Helbig’s, and told us that stone arrow heads are employed by the shepherds of Calabria at this very day, and stone arms were used for the hunt in the Ptolomies’ time. A great quantity of stone arms were found on the field of Marathon.
Art, Music and' Literature.
—The second edition of “ A day of My Life at Eton,” a small work by an Eton boy, is in the press.
—Rubinstein was blackballed on his being proposed a member of the Berlin Imperial Academy of Science.
—“Harry,” a new poem by the author of “Mrs. Jerning-ham’s Journal,” is announced for publication in England.
—Mr. E. A. Freeman’s forthcoming work on “ The Ottoman Power in Europe; its nature, its growth and its decline,” will match his “ History of the Saracens.”
—Two works under the title of “Kismet” have recently appeared in England; the one the Nile Novel in the “NoName Series,” the other a story by Mrs. Newton Sears.
—Two small but very interesting pictures have just been bequeathed to the Louvre. One is a sketch by Ruben of “The Resurrection of Lazarus,” the other a “Head of Christ,” by Quentin Matsys.
—The Abbe Liszt was to have appeared “ for positively the last time” as a pianist at a concert in aid of the funds for the Beethoven monument, at Vienna. He was to play in the “Emperor” concerto and in the choral fantasia.
—Notwithstanding the dulness of the book-trade, Murphy & Co., of Baltimore, have sold over ten thousand copies of Bishop Gibbons’ “ Faith of Our Fathers,” within three months. The third edition of this excellent work is now out.
—Five times in her life, said Miss Martineau, she had to publish books which she expected to ruin her in public
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
503
opinion, but the expectation was in each case erroneous, and she never repented her exercise of the masculine virtue of courage.
—There seems to be no limit to the absorbent power of the book-buying public as regards Dickens. Of the new Chapman & Hall edition no less than forty-two thousand copies of the “ Pickwick Papers” were “subscribed ” for by the English book trade before publication.
—Dr. Schlieman’s recent enormous “Finds” at Mycenae will have an authoritative examiner in Mr. C.T. Newton, of the British Museum, who has gone to inspect the collection at Athens. The charges of modern gold and filagree work and “Brummagem” ware will now be sifted.
—The anniversary of Goethe’s death, March 22, was to be signalized at Stuttgart by the publication, under the Cotta imprint, of the poet’s letters to Friedrich Soret. The collection, edited by Dr. Uhde, consists of one hundred and six letters on scientific, literary, and social topics.
—Gounod was leaning out of his box at the Theatre Lyric, in Paris, a few evenings since, at the first representation of the “Timbre d’Argent,” and was following the music so intently, with his eyes fixed on the score, which he held in his hand, that the audience began watching him. Suddenly a voice in the gallery said: “That fellow in the box wants to make us believe that he can read music.”
—The school-book publishers are quite generally changing the basis of their prices to a wholesale price list which averages 30 per cent, off the previous retail prices. A new retail price is made by adding 25 per cent, to the wholesale rate. The change was brought about largely to obviate the prejudice against the old retail prices, which had become in great measure nominal. The new retail price is about one-eighth off the old.
—Mr. John Oxenford, the eminent dramatic author and critic, who was born in 1812, was originally intended for the legal profession; but the success of his early literary efforts encouraged him to devote himself entirely to literature. He was the author of numerous translations, dramas, melodramas, comedies and farces, and the manner in which they were constructed bore evidence to his comprehensive knowledge of the languages and dramatic literature of France, Germany, Italy and Spain.—American Art Journal.
—The Bodleian Library has just acquired the Hebrew . translation of a part of the problems (books I to III of the Berlin edition) attributed to Aristotle. The translator is the famous Moses ibn Tibbon, of Montpellier. He finished it in the year 1261, from the Arabic text of the well-known Honein ben Ishaq, where the three books are divided into four. The Arabic text being lost (it is mentioned as Qucesita Physica, Libri IV, in Casiri’s “ Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana Escurialensis,” p. 307, from an Arabic biography), the Hebrew translation, which is the unique MS. known, is of great value.
—We recently discovered an infant musical prodigy in a charming little girl of five years. She is the daughter of Mr. Edouard Matott, of Lester Junction, Vt. Nearly three years ago, before she began to prattle, this little thing would be placed at the piano and showed a remarkable musical instinct, playing correctly nearly every popular melody she had heard. Since then she has learned the notes, and plays gracefully anything placed before her. She is undoubtedly God-gifted, for her talent is not imitation but real intuition.—American Art Journal.
—An examination of our numerous exchanges published at the different points along the route where Miss Abbott has been giving a series of concerts, gives the most gratifying demonstration of her popularity among the people, and almost unprecedented success. In Chicago she received a tremendous ovation, and the receipts were §1,700. In Milwaukee she is declared to have received more than an ovation, “ an old Roman Triumph,” 2,500 tickets being sold for her first concert. And it gives us genuine satisfaction to chronicle her successful tour.—American Art Journal.
—The sale of the collection of the late Firmin Didot, the famous Paris publisher, begins on April 16, and is expected to last three weeks. This collection includes over 400
• Rembrandts (drawings aud etchings)', all but 12 of the 270 woodcuts, and all but one of 109 engravings on copper of
Albrecht DQrer; over 100 specimens of the work of the old. Italian engravers; drawings by Holbein, Burgmair, Meur-ling, Lucas van Leyden, Quentin Matsys, Baldung Grun, C. Visscher, etc.; and one Raphael—“ The wife of Noah with her two children,” part of the composition engraved by Marc Antonio.
—The valuable picture gallery belonging to the Duc d’Aumale has arrived at Chantilly from Twickenham. It is said to be worth about §1,000,000, aud will shortly be thrown open to the public. It consists of 3,953 subjects, besides a large number of engravings. The Rembrandts are said to be the finest in existence. Among them are “ Night Patrol ” and the “ Resurrection of Lazarus,” which the Czar offered to purchase a few years ago for §140,000. That portion of the collection known as the “Gallerie des Conquetes ” is alone worth §350,000. Many of the pictures now belonging to the Duc d’Aumale were formerly the property of the Prince de Salerna, his father-in-law, from whom he inherited them. They formed the nucleus of the entire collection, which has been gradually increased for the last five and twenty years.
Books and Periodicals.
—Church's Musical Visitor for April is up to the usual standard. The articles are carefully written and make good reading. The music is good. Published by John Church & Co., Cincinnati, O.; price, §1.50 per annum.
—Mr. D. A. Nolan, 173 E. 33d-st., N. Y., has published a beautiful engraving of Our Lady of Lourdes. It is wellworth the price asked for it, §1, and we can recommend it to the favorable consideration of our readers. We understand that he intends publishing in a short while an engraving of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—Bohrer’s Automatic Piano Hand Guide is a pamphlet setting forth the advantages of an invention of the same name, together with numerous testimonials from the most celebrated pianists in Europe and America; a glance at which will be sufficient to convince the most skeptical of its utility. Gounod, the famous composer of “Faust,” goes so far as to say it is non settlement un “perfectionment" mais une “perfection." C. H. Weegman, of Indianapolis, is the agent.
—The April number of the Musical World is on our table, and is the most attractive number of this favorite monthly we have ever seen. The music consists of a charming new song and chorus by Geo. W. Persley, “I will return to Thee,Love”; a beautiful ballad by Jules Lafort, “Aileen Aroon”; “Hold the Fort Grand March,” by Th. Bendix; “Song of the Rose,” Fanttsia, by Th. Oesten, and “Little Finger Redowa,” by E. Mack, three elegant piano forte pieces. These five pieces of music alone would cost in usual sheet form about §2.00, while the “World" is furnished to subscribers at §1.50 per annum, or single copies 15 cents. The literary contents are fully up to the hign standard of this excellent journal, and we advise all, in any way interested in musical matters, to send for the Musical World. Address, S. Brainard’s Sons, Publishers, Cleveland, O.
The Faith of Our Fathers: Being a Plain Exposition and Vindication of the Church Founded by Our Lord Jesus Christ. By Rt. Rev. James Gibbons, D. D., Bishop of Richmond and Administrator Apostolic of North Carolina. Third Revised Edition. Baltimore: John Murphy & Co. 1877. Cloth, Price, §1; paper, 50 cts.
This third revised edition of the “ Faith of Our Fathers ” is printed and bound in a far superior manner to the first edition, and makes a handsome volume. Of the merits of the book we have already spoken, and we need now only state that the praise given by us has been reiterated in every Catholic paper in the land. That the book is worthy of this praise is proved by the fact that within the last three months, notwithstanding the general dulness of the booktrade, ten thousand copies have been sold. Every Catholic in the land should possess a copy of this truly valuable work; more especially do we recommend it to all who are engaged in teaching Christian Doctrine in our Sundayschools.
504	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC;
Notre Dame, JVprll 14, 1S77.
TEtE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, . Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O JE*er Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Jiotre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Russian Peasantry.
In 1872 an imperial commission was appointed to investigate the condition of agriculture in Russia. The result of these researches, with the necessary commentaries, have been submitted to the general Government at St. Petersburg. Besides a general review, it contains a number of interesting details concerning the condition of rural populations in the Empire. The most remarkable feature of this report is the frankness evinced by the members of the commission, for which they are highly deserving of praise. In general it can be said that the observations set down and the conclusions to be drawn therefrom, establish the fact that while the emancipation of the serfs, due to the generous initiative of the Emperor .Alexander, has on the one hand suppressed many abuses, it has on the other been the source of a great many evils. The peasants have passed too suddenly from one extreme to the other—from serfdom to liberty. The laws of transition have not been sufficiently observed. They were dependent on thousands of petty monarchies which of a sudden were transformed into as many petty republics. Incapable of self-government, the peasants became an easy prey to anarchy and to the excesses of their unbridled passions. The revolutionary tide of 1793 seems flowing back, and ready to sweep over the immense plains extending from the Arctic Ocean to the Caspian Sea. Where is the man to calm the coming storm ?
But let us examine the report of the imperial commission. Our extracts are taken at random, and are reduced to a small number for want of space. We will commence with the provinces of Simbirsk and Kasan, where, it is said, “ the population is entirely given to drunkenness. The people are so corrupt that it is impossible to trust them in the least. They have not the slightest regard for their neighbors’ property. The practice of larceny is increasing every day; horse-stealing has taken alarming proportions.”
Of the province of Moscow the report says: “The churches are empty, and the grog-shops are full. The in
fluence of the clergy is fast declining; the clergymen [schismatical] themselves have become strangers to the sacred character of their ministry. They are generally drunkards, and do not care even for the most essential prescriptions of their Church. Thus it frequently happens that the sacrifice of Mass is omitted. In the lives of the peasants the complete absence of such moral elements as are indispensable for the development of a nation is a deplorable fact.”
Speaking of the province of Tula it reports: “ The standard of morality is considerably lowered. The peasants -rarely go to church. Stealing wood is not considered a sin. New feasts, which have scarcely any religious origin, are constantly being added to the already countless number of holydays. To sum up, the demoralization has become general.” Of the. province of Jaroslav the report states that “ drunkenness does not cease progressing. . . . The clergy are unfortunately below their mission. It not unfrequently happens with the village priests that they perform their sacred functions in a state of intoxication.” Of the province of Kostroma: “ The new feasts and drunkenness are the causes of moral degradation. Theft is developed to such a degree that wives defraud their husbands, children their parents, and the stolen goods are carried to the owners of the grog-shops.”
Of the province of Kief or Kiew it is reported: “ The peasants are impoverished by their intemperance. The population can be fairly divided into two classes, those selling liquor and those drinking it Anarchy is rampant. All is done for voodky [whiskey] and by voodky." Of the province of Voronez and Jambof, we are told: “The mayors of the villages are absolutely swayed by the populace, who have no confidence in them. The mayor is powerless in presence of a village mob, and is sometimes forced to follow his subordinates to the tavern, to transact business there. The crimes against property are not daily but hourly increasing. The number cannot be estimated by the cases bound over to the courts, since the difficulty of ' obtaining witnesses is a deadweight to the course of justice.” In the province of Cherson it is-said that “larceny, arson and other crimes are committed with impunity. The peasants have no other regard for the rights of property than the fear of being fined.” In the province of Kursk, we are told “the peasant does not drink wodky every day, but when he does drink it he continues his libations until he is deprived of reason. In order to give himself up to his favorite vice, he spends his last copek (cent) and pawnsail he has.” In the province of Vladimir we are told that “it is well known that the lower classes observe only the exterior forms of religion. What they have heard in the church is soon forgotten. It may be remarked here that the clergymen (or popes, as they are called in Russia) confine themselves only to the performance of the rites of the Divine Service. Their mental capacities do not in the least surpass those of their people. They are guilty of all the repulsive vices common to the peasants.”
In the Province of Ekaterinoslaf the inspectors report : “Our priests are even less cultivated than our peasants. Like them they are given to intemperance, and in a high degree they are eager for material gain,” etc. Such is a glimpse at the endless tableau of depravity among the Russian peasantry and clergy. Such are, as officially stated, the morals of the nation which some wish to make the regenerators of the Orient! Does it not seem as if Divine retribution is visibly overtaking the persecutors of • the poor Catholic Poles and Ruthanians? There is a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	505
. striking analogy between the present condition of Russia I and that of France before 1789. The late Emperor Nicholas, the father of the present Emperor, may in some respects be compared to Louis XIV. Like this great'king of France, he was the first monarch in Europe until the outbreak
• ~ of the Crimean war. Poland was crushed in 1830, the Ottoman Empire had received a staggering blow some years previous. When the great revolution of 1848 broke • out, all the monarchs of Europe, with the exception of the Queen of England, looked upon the great Emperor Nicholas as their protector from the fury of their own enraged populace, which had been kept too long in the leadingstrings of feudal and official tutelage. And the hopes of ’	these sovereigns were not doomed to disappointment. The
■	powerful insurrection in Hungary, which hitherto had
baffled all the attempts of Austria to conquer it, was soon crushed by overwhelming hordes of Muscovite soldiery. And when in 1850, by the machinations of the German “Liberals,” who wished to create the well meaning but weak-minded king Frederick William (the elder brother of King William) the fourth Emperor of Germany, to be anointed with the oil of radical democracy, things were ripe for civil war, it was again the Russian Czar who acted as umpire between Prussia and Austria, when the arrangement at Olmutz was made, satisfying both parties. The defeat of his armies at Sebastopol, however, broke k	the heart of the mighty Emperor. The prediction of the
late Pope Gregory XVI, in a personal interview with the Emperor, was verified; he stood before the judgment-seat of the King of kings. The present Emperor, Alexander II, over whose private life we are obliged to throw a ‘	charitable veil, may be compared to Louis XV of France.
Like him he is only a puppet in the hands of his ministers. The present chancellor, Gortcbakoff, bears in many respects a striking resemblance to that powerful minister, Choiseul. Some analogous events, such as the emancipation of theserfs and the war of independence waged by the Oriental Christians, have already transpired during the reign of Alexander II, whilst the serfs of France were only emancipated by the unhappy Louis XVI, in whose reign the war of American independence was carried on and ended. The leader of the Servians in their late struggle, General Thernajeff, has by some, not unjustly, been compared to General Lafayette. As the French in the past century hastened to assist the struggling Americans in their battle for freedom, so many Russians have hastened to the battle-fields of Servia to assist their brethren in religion against the Mussulman oppressor. The continuation ' of this historical analogy belongs to the future. It is said the Russian crown-prince resembles in many respects, especially in his virtuous private life, the unhappy Louis XVI; may a merciful Providence save him from the lot of this unfortunate prince. May he see, even in this hour, what will best serve him for peace, namely a restoration of religious sentiment, which alone can be affected by a sincere return to Catholic unity under the paternal guidance of the Vicar of Christ. We, and more particularly the nations of Europe, have all reason to pray for such an event, since otherwise it is almost beyond doubt that the progress of Russian society and government will take exactly the same course as that of French society in the last century. And when, if this should come to pass, the heads of the last of the Romanoffs has fallen beneath the heads-■ man’s axe, and the future Russian Republic, far more ferocious than ever was that of the French sans culottes,
is exhausted from her bloody orgies, who knows if a Russian Bonaparte may not rise out of the scum of the rabble, to execute the vengeance of an outraged God on the guilty nations of Europe ?	.
Personal.
—Joseph Kelly, of ’64, is in business at Joliet, Hl.
—John Broderick (Commercial), of ’68, resides at Cairo, III.
—John J. Ney, of ’75, is practicing law at Independence! Iowa.
—George Noon, of ’61, is Collector of Internal Revenue at Warsaw, Ind. •
—Denis J. O’Connell (Commercial), of ’75, is living in New York city.	.	.
—J. P. Quinlan (Commercial), of ’73, is in business at Cleveland, Ohio.
—F. J. Weisenburger (Commercial), of ’74, is in business at Defiance, Ohio.	•
—R. H. Clarke (Commercial), of ’61, is doing a lucrative business at Wickliffe, Iowa.
—Robert Lang (Commercial), of ’72, is in the coal and—■ wood business at Muskegon, Mich.
—Isaac Dryfoos (Commercial), of ’75, has taken a position in a wholesale dry-goods house, Cleveland, Ohio.
—Among the visitors at Notre Dame during the past week were Mrs. Thos. Calkins and Miss M. Casey, both of Toledo, O.	-
—F. H. Lang, of ’72, having attended the lectures of the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Pa., has had his name decorated with an M. D.
—James L. Taylor, of’59, and of the well-known “Taylor’s Battery ” in the war of the Rebellion, is in the Government service, in Chicago, Ill.
—Reverends F. JEgidius Hennemann, 0. S. B., of Crown Point, Ind, and P. Behr, of San Autonio, Texas, were visiting Notre Dame on Wednesday last.
—Among our visitors the past week were L. J. B^nch-ard, Esq., of Pittsburgh, Pa., John Krost, of Crown Point, Ind., and Messrs. Turnbull and Lanigan of Chicago, Ill., and Mrs. Duronane, of Philadelphia, Pa.
—We had the pleasure of a visit on Wednesday last from Rev. Father Behr, pastor of SS. Peter and Paul’s Church, New Braunfels, Texas, who is stopping for awhile at Notre Dame in order to recruit his health, impaired somewhat by the arduous labors of missionary life. Besides New Braunfels, we see the Catholic Directory also places him in charge of the stations of San MiJrco, Valzens, Blanco, Honey Creek and Venzel.
—The Rev. Father Hannemann, O. S. B., who visited us on the 11th, was at one lime President of the Benedictine College at Munich, Bavaria. Fearing that his Order would be expelled from the country, he with others came to the United States for the purpose of founding a college. He is now stationed at Crown Point, Ind., where he is universally respected for his great learning and worth. We hope to have him call at Notre Dame frequently.
i
J
I
In Memoriam.
THOMAS J. CUNNEA.	.
The people of this city were shocked to hear of the death of this estimable young man, which occurred Saturday afternoon about 3 o’clock.	_
Thomas Joseph Cunnea was born in Reed township, Will County, Ill., in 1853, and consequently at the time of his death was nearly 24years of age. He was the third son of James Cunnea, Sr., President of the First National Bank of Morris. Up to within five or six years he was unusu-' ally healthy, and seemed to be of a rugged constitution. Soon after the family came to live in Morris, Thomas was taken down with ague and fever, which assumed a chronic form and defied all remedies. In 1875 he was sent abroad with
508
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• I
his sisters as travelling companions, all seeking health and recreation in the healthful breezes of a foreign clime, visiting Ireland and the scenes of their parents’ early years. Thomas recovered from ague, yet was taken violently ill while at Belfast, and nearly died, but rallying he regained much of his old-time vigor. Returning to this country, he has ever since been subject to attacks of inflammation of the b') wels, which came upon him whenever he took a slight cold. Last week, Tuesday, he was taken very ill with his old malady, and in spite of all that medical skill and tender care could afford him he rapidly sank under the disease.
In contributing our hurried sketch of this young man, we feel that a brief mention of his manly character and high sense of right ought not to be overlooked as an example to others. He was, in many respects, an exception among the hosts of young men whose lives are aimless and who live along mechanically, opening their mouths for others to feed them and enjoying the earnings of their indulgent parents, as though they w.ere ornamental figure-heads in society. We say, when we find a young man who is reared to a sense of honor toward his parents and respect for his own abilities, it is a pleasure for us to point him out and extend to him our praise: and such a young man was Thomas Cunnea. Even when so feeble as scarcely to be able to write, he attended to his duties at the bank, and manfully strove to overcome with his will the iron hand of the disease too heavily laid upon him.
We have referred to his traits of industry.and his respect for his parents, and will now mention other qualities of his nature. He was as gentle as a child; his disposition, naturally ardent and demonstrative, was tempered with all the modesty of a woman. He gave offense to no one and thus provoked none of the coarse jests and merciless censure accorded to most men. His troubles of frame seemed to have purified his spirit, as though fitting it for other scenes more sacred. His smallest obligation was discharged with rigorous promptness, and his whole desire seemed to be to do as nearly right as possible for any mortal.
We have heard him spoken of by former schoolmates and acquaintances as a kind boy and a perfect gentleman.
For some time past, Thomas has appeared in better health than usual. In fact, when asked as to his health he has assured his friends that he felt very well. But people who have known him for years have always felt solicitous for his health, and to some it has not been a sudden shock to learn < f his death.
The funeral took place on Monday, from the Catholic church. High Mass was celebrated on the occasion. The church was filled with friends who came to express sympathies for the mourning relatives and do honor to the memory of the departed. He was laid to rest in the Catholic cemetery. May he rest in peace.—Morris (III.) Reformer.
Local Items.
—He had a fearful tussle with those pig’s feet.
—The autograph fiend has begun operations.
—The gardeners are about commencing their spring work.
—The lecture of Rev. T. E. Walsh will be given the last week in May.	,
—The weather about the beginning of the week was really delicious.
—The double windows will be removed from the College in a few weeks.
—The Philopatrians have been busy in Washington Hall the past week.
—Already the promenades around the upper lake are becoming enjoyable.
—The carpenters are making improvements in the vestibule of the new church.
—B. Robert began work on his garden, back of the Infirmary building, on Wednesday.
—On the Sth inst. the “Young Americas” beat the Excelsiors with a score of 20 to 24.
—Additions have been put to the carpenter and other shops at the Manual Labor School.
—The members of the Junior Choral Union are engaged in rehearsing a number of choruses.
—Just nowadays the weather is all smiles and-tears; the smiles, however, seem to predominate.
—The winter being over, the storm-doors are being removed from the many doors on the different buildings.
—The old pier at the upper lake is no longer handsome, and should be removed. A. new one might take its place.
—The disciples of Isaac Walton were out enjoying conquest-sport on Tuesday last. Their luck was only ordinary.
—Now that spring has set in in earnest, shovels and rakes and all like implements are being brought into requisition to clean up the premises.	•
—The new pulpit for the church will be similar to that of the Cathedral of the Holy Name, Chicago. It will be constructed in New York.
—The small organ now in the transept of the new church is for sale. Anyone wanting a good organ for a small price has a chance for a bargain.
—A greit many trees were planted about the Manual Labor School a few days ago. They will do much to improve the looks of the place.	'
—We hear some talk about increasing the number of the bath-rooms, because the present number is not sufficient to accommodate all the students.	.
—There were six games of baseball going on at one time on the Campus last Tuesday. This does not show any falling off in the love for the game.
—We would suggest that the different societies make all arrangements for Society Day. They should not put this matter off until the last few weeks of the year.
—Matters and things in the classes go on as usual. There seems to be a feeling among all the students to improve all their time between this and the Commencement Day.
—The Surveying Class were out on Tuesday last. They wound up at the shoemaker shop .where they occupied several hours in taking the measure for the “Irresistible’s” shoe.
—The Star of the East B. B. C. played the Juanitas a game last Tuesday. At the Sth inning, when the game closed, the score stood 28 to 27 in favor of the Juanitas.
—We would suggest that the banks of the upper lake, near the boat house, might be improved by filling up and planting trees, etc. It is the only part of the scenery about the lake which does not look well.
—Vespers to-morrow are of St. Frances of Rome, pages 131 and 54 of the Vesperal, with a Commemoration of the second Sunday after Easter, page 89. Every one should mark the pages of the Vesperal before going to Vespers.
—The following are the members of the Excelsior Baseball Club: W. Ohlman, c.; C. Larkin, p.; N. Vannainee, s. s.; Gr. F. Sugg, 1st b.; M. B. Kauffman, 2d b. and capt. ; J. Phelan, 3d £; J. English, 1. f.; E. Moran, c. f.; R. Price, r. f.
—The Nimrods took a trip to St. Joe Farm on Wednesday last. They took their lunch with them, and report that they had an A No. 1 time of it. It was a long promenade, but it was enjoyable, and considerable game was bagged.
—Every one should make it a point to attend the Scientific Soiree next Thursday. The original Rip Van Winkle alone will repay their visit. From what we know of the matter, we can assure our readers that it is simply sidesplitting.
—The following are the positions of the 2d nine of the “Young Americas”: E. J. Pennington, c. and capt.; W. Jones, p-; K. Scanlon, s. s.; C. Johnson, 1st b.; R. Johnson, 2d b.; M. Condon, 3d b.; A. Sievers, 1. f.; F. Lang, c. f.; J. Burger, r. f.	.
—The 29th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place on Friday, the 6th. The weekly reports were handed in; declamations were delivered by Messrs. A. Burger, M. B. Kauffman, J. Healey, A. Widdicombe, 0. Lindberg, T. McGrath, and T. FischeL
—The Ave Maria this week publishes a supplement containing the Allocution of our Holy Father the Pope. We

i '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	507
would recommend our readers to procure a copy and read the eloquent words of the Pope; by doing so they will obtain a true knowledge of the persecutions to which he is subjected in Rome.
. —The following is the programme of a Seance to be held in Phelan Hall next Tuesday evening:	■
Address......................................Carl Otto
Chrystallography.........................H. C. Cassidj'
Optics.......................................W. T. Ball
Rip Van Winkle...........................N. J. Mooney
—A meeting of the Eureka B. B. Club was held on April the 8th. The following officers were elected: Pres’t., W. Healey; Capt., M. Buchmeier ; Sec’y, J. Ward; Treas., G. Bauman; J. Ward, c.; J. Thompson, p.; T. O’Hare, s. s.; ' G. Bauman, 1st b.; J. Fenner, 2d b.; A. St. Mary, 3rd b. ;
M. Buchmeier, 1. f.; C. Brehmer, c. f.; W. Healey, r. f.; Censor, T. O’Hare; Field-Director, C. Brehmer.
—The Young America B. B. C. held a meeting on the Sth inst. The following officers were elected: Director, B. Leander; President, G. Crawford; Treasurer, F. McGrath; Secretary, 0. Lindberg; Capt., B. Heeb; Field Captain, R. French. The following are the positions: C. Faxon, c. ;'B. Heeb, p.; L. Frazee, s. s.; 0. Lindberg, 1st b.; J. Lumley, 2d b.; F. McGrath, 3rd b.; L. F. Nelson, c. f. • R. French, r. f.; G. Crawford, I. f.
—On Wednesday afternoon the members of the Lemon-nier Boat Club sat down to a well laden table at Mr. Chearheart’s. The dinner was well served, and when the party arose there was every evidence that the boys had done good work. Among the invited guests were Rev. President Golovin, Fathers Zahm, Walsh and Bigelow. The afternoon was pleasantly spent on the grounds adjoining Mr. Chearhart’s residence, and in singing and dancing.
—The 25th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held April 7th. Rev. P. J. Golovin was present at the meeting and delivered a few remarks concerning the play given by the Society on March 16th. The President, Prof. Edwards, called a special meeting April 10th. The following subject was debated: Resolved —That Ireland has been more tyrannized over by England than Poland by Russia. On the affirmative were P. Hagan, W. McGorrisk and M. Regan; negative: W. Arnold, J. P. Kinney and D. Leary. It was desided in favor of . the affirmative. .
—At the meeting of the Mutual B. B. C. the following officers were elected: Chas. Walsh, Capt.;*A. J. Burger, Pres’t.; W. A. Widdicombe, Sec’y.; J. Ingwerson, Treas.; W. Nicholas, FielcT Capt. The following shows the pos iton of the players: W. Nicholas, c.; W. A. ^iddecombe, p.; J. Mungoven, s. s.; E. Poor, 1st b.; L. Sievers, 2d b.; C. Peltier, 3rd b.; Chast Walsh, 1. f.; A. J. Congar, c. f.; R. Ke.enan, r. f; The following are the positions of the 2d nine Mutual: J. Bell, c.; Chas. Hagan, p. and capt.; Geo. Donnelly s. s.; J. Rothert, 1st b.; J. Berry, 2d b.; J. Boehm, 3rd b.; J. Ingwerson, r. f.; P. Gibbons, c. f.; L. Wolf, 1. f.
—In answer to a correspondent asking information concerning colleges, Pomeroy's Democrat says: “We have no hesitation, however, in saying that the University of Notre Dame, near South Bend, Ind., is a really excellent institution. It is conducted under the auspices of one of the orders of the Catholic Church (Society of the Holy Cross), but students of all denominations are taught there without the slightest distinction or partiality on account of their various religious beliefs. The standard of studies compares fovorably with that of leading American universities, and the cost of tuition, board, lodging, washing, etc., is very reasonable.”	.
—The Minims, judging by a communication received from them, felt exceedingly flattered on the receipt of the “ respects ” of their old and esteemed friend the “ Astrologer” in the last number of the Scholastic. They were astonished to find themselves significant enough to cause feelings of indignation in the bosom of so learned and witty a gentleman for doubting his astrological predictions. They say, however, that he is laboring under a “ hallucination ” if he supposes they ever doubted his ability to see into the future. Their object in voting him a medal of such an inferior grade was simply to let him know how unwelcome to their sport-loving minds was the idea of having a white
St. Patrick’s Day. In their youthful memories that Feast is generally celebrated by a display of green and the inauguration of field-sports after the confinement, in the recreation halls by the frost and snow of a long winter. The Minims’ mind being somewhat aesthetic, they have a pretty good idea of what constitutes harmony in nature and art, and therefore it is not to be wondered at if they are opposed to associating together green and white, baseball and snow-fields. Knowing his sympathy and affection for the young, the Minims hope this explanation on their part will remove all doubts from the mind of the “Astrologer” as to the respect they have for his astrological predictions. They call his attention to the fact that he was treated better in this region than weather prophets generally are, according to what Josh Billings says on the subject, namely that when their prophesies are fulfilled no one remembers they prophesied at all, but if they are not verified no one appears to forget the fact. In conclusion they thank him for the predictions for 1878, made for their especial benefit, and they intend to repair to the banks of the St. Joe River (it being the only stream of any consequence in this neighborhood), on the first of January, to observe if any “grindstones are floating up stream,” and if this wonderful sight greets their eyes they will patiently wait for six weeks’ sleighing in March. If the aforesaid predictions are not verified the Minims will charitably suppose it is owing to some “electrical phenomena” or “optical delusion.”
—On Thursday, the 5th inst., a most wonderful gem of art, a marvel of skill in needle-work and painting, passed into the hands of Very Rev. Father General, G- S. C., from St. Luke’s Studio, St. Mary’s Academy. It is a box to be sent to our Holy Father, Pope Pius the Ninth, as a gift, on the Golden Jubilee of his “ Preconization,” May 21st; and of his Consecration, June 3rd. It is made of white satin, embroidered with yellow silk floss, thus presenting the Papal colors. It is diamond in shape, and on the cover in an octagonal form is presented a most exquisite symbolical painting in water-colors. The picture represents a table in front of an altar. On it lies a purple velvet cushion, where the Episcopal insignia rest; the whole overshadowed by the Celestial Dove. The following inscription in beautiful letters surrounds the picture:
“QuiNQUAGEsninji Anniversarium Episcopale SS. D. N. PIL PP. IX.”
“Fiftieth Episcopal Anniversary of our most holy Father Pope Pius IX.” Above the inscription is painted the Tiara; beneath is the Triple Cross; and the Keys of St. Peter are on either side. Upon opening the box an excellent photo, oil miniature of Very Rev.-E. Sorin, Superior General 0. S. 0., meets the eye. It is encircled by the following request: “Benedic mihi meisque, Sanctissime Pater / ”—“ Bless me and mine, most Holy Father! ” Below the miniature is the date—,
3 Jvnh, 1877.
Raising a white velvet lid, beneath, is found five compartments, destined to receive ten twenty-dollar pieces in gold. The sum, amounting to one thousand dollars, is to be a donation from the Congregation of the Holy Cross, including contributions from the students of Universities and Academies belonging to the Congregation, and from the children of the various institutions under the charge of members of the Holy Cross; also offerings from intimate friends, etc. The charming little casket is composed of forty-three separate pieces, all elegantly embroidered, and is something of which every donor may well be proud. Each line of the pencil reveals the rich devotion of a loving heart, and the skill of the artist is even less admirable than the deep faith which permeates the work. This filial offering of genius and affection will find a warm response in the heart of our glorious Sovereign Pontiff, and will, we are sure, draw special benedictions on American Art, special graces on •all those who are so honored as to be represented in the gift-
—On Thursday evening., the 12th inst., Rev. Father Zahm concluded his course of Science lectures by giving a lecture on “The Lantern as an Instrument of Scientific Demonstration.” After a brief introduction the Rev. lecturer spoke of the history of the instrument and educed a number of reasons for believing that it was very probably known to, and used by, the ancient Egyptian and Greek
508	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC*
priests, particularly in temples famous for their oracles, and by the magicians and necromancers of the middle ages. He described briefly the magic lantern constructed by Father Kircher, the reputed inventor of the instrument, and spoke of the many improvements in construction made since his time and of the various kinds now in use. He exhibited several forms of the instrument, from the simple oil lantern, including the recently invented sciopticon, to the most improved oxyhydrogen stereopticon. Among others he pointed out a beautiful lantern with a vertical attachment and other accessories, which he stated were awarded the first premium at the Centennial. After speaking of the various forms of the lantern and explaining their modus operand!, he told us of its usefulness as an instrument of demonstration in almost every department of Science and Art, remarking that it was par excellence the instrument of the lecturer on science. After this he gave an account of the various kinds of slides used, and showed experimentally during the lecture the improvements made in this respect by throwing on the screen samples of slides such as were first employed to the most finished and artistic now in use. He next called attention to the vertical lantern, spoke of its convenience and usefulness, and gave us an idea of its efficiency by projecting on the screen a number of Chladni figures and a galvanometer designed for that purpose. He also showed experimentally how effective the lantern is in illustrating spectrum analysis, and what an aid it is in studying the phenomena of reflection, refraction, interference and polarization of light. He exhibited the principal accessories of a first-class lantern, among which was a fine photo-electric microscope with which before the close of the lecture he exhibited a number of beautiful and interesting objects. After showing us the working of a number of chromatropes with which could be beautifully shown the phenomena of the recomposition of light, complementary colors, and by means of which could be experimentally illustrated the theories of color advanced bi' Newton, Young and Brewster, he made a number of curious and amusing experiments with the eidotrope and stroboscope. He concluded his lecture by projecting on the screen a number of the smaller animals, in glass tanks made for the purpose. In appearance and rapidity of movements, particularly when stirred up, they far surpass the most ingenious and complicated rack-movement slide ever devised. For the number, variety and novelty of the experiments made during the evening, the lecture was pronounced the most interesting of the course. Before dismissing his audience, he thanked them for the attention paid during the evening, the and lively interest manifested during the entire course, and expressed a hope that he would again have the pleasure ot speaking to them on kindred subjects on some future occasion.
BoH of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Ball, J. Burke, M. Caldwell, H. Cassidy, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, T. Garso, A Hertzog, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, W. Keily, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, G. Laurens, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, V. McKinnon, J. McEniry, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, C. O’Donald, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, J. Silver-thorn, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A Bergck, T. Barry, W. Brady, A J. Burger, F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, J. Caner, W. Champlin, M. Condon, J. English,?. Frane, R. French, L. Frazee, L. Garceau, J. L. Healey, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G. Ittenbach, Otto Lindberg, A. Miller, E. Moran, R. Mayer, C. Orsinger, F. Pleins, E. Poor, R. Price, J. Rothert, H. Rogers, P. Schnurrer, J. Sill, W. Taulby, C. Taylor, C. Van Mourick.'F. Rheinboldt, T. Wagner, L. Wolf.
Note.—Kickham Leander Scanlan was omitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson, Geo. Lowrey, P. Heron, R. Pleins, J. Seeger, W. Coolbangh, W. McDevitt, J. Scanlan, C. Reif, G. Hadden, A. Coghlin, H. Riopelle, C. Kauffman, F. Gaffney, F. Carqueville,
W. Carqueville, A Sehnert, A Rheinboldt, J. Inderrieden, Jos; Inderrieden, Harry Kitz, C. Lang, W. Coghlin, E. Carqueville.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
. FOR MONTH ENDING APRIL 12TH.
G. Laurens, G. Saylor, F. Vandervannet, T. Garceau, M. Williams, J. Vanderhoof, O. Hamilton, J. Burke, J. Fitzgerald, F. Schlink, G. Lonstorf, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, F. Garrity, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, J. F. Krost, J. Hagerty, W. Brady, G. Cassidy, G. Sugg, E. Sugg, S. Ryan, L. Wolf, J. Silverthorne, E. Hynds, C. O’Donnell, J. Kuebel, G. Saxinger, W. Dodge, W. TurnbulL	.
J. McEniry, for Surveying, was omitted last week.
Iiist of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING APRIL 5.
COURSE of modern languages.
German—P. Schnurrer, F. Cavanaugh; French—G. Saxinger, M. Kauffman ; Catechism—W. Hake, W. Ohlman, J. English, P. Gibbons, F. Cavanaugh, J. Perea, F. Rheinboldt, A. Bergck, G. Ittenbach, J. Bell.
competition.
2nd French.—E. J. Pennington.
4th German.—A. Widdicombe.	’
G. Ittenbach is best in Competition in 2nd German.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
- SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
MissesL. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall,M. Walsh, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neil, M. O’Connor, J. Cooney, A Henneberry, A Reising, H. Russell, C. Boyce, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins, K. Kelly, M. Dunn, L. Tighe, M. Pomeroy, G. Conklin, M. Smalley, M. Coughlin, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, L Cooke, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Byrne, L. Kelly, M. Spier, C. Morgan, H. Hawkins. A. Cullen, E. Lange, B. Wilson, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, D. and A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, G. Breeze, B. Siler, E. McGrath, A Cook, K. Burgie, M. Ussel-man, AL Hungerford, J. Burgie, N. Johnson, L. Forrey.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3d Class—Miss J. Cronin.
4th Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Spier, A. Williams and A. Getty.
5th Class—Misses K. Gibbons and J. Butts.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses M. Smalley, A Cullen, L. Kirchner, M. and E. Thompson.
4th Class—Miss S. Moran.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses L. Ritchie, C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses E. Lange, A. Koch, M. O’Connor, D. Cavenor, M. Schultheis.
LATIN.
Misses Cravens, Rodinburger, Cooney, Russell, Carroll and Hawkins.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, A O’Connor, M. Julius, H. Julius, L. and A. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, L. Weber, H. Dryfoos, L. Kelly.
2d Class—Misses A Harris, M. Usselman, D. Gordon, A Reising, S. Rheinboldt, L. Johnson, M. Spier, S. Hennebery, A Koch, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, L. Walsh.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
509
, FRENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall. M. and. E. Thompson, P. Gaynor, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, A. Harris. ■
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, J. Burgert, L. Rodinburger, C. Silverthorne, M. O’Connor, A. McGrath, J. Bennett, A. Walsh.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Walsh.
4th Class—Misses S. Moran, A. and M. Ewing, E. Mulligan, A. Williams, A. Getty, J. Butts.
FANCY-WORK.
Misses M. Faxon, H. Hawkins, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, M. Halligan, M. Usselmann, A. McGrath,- H. Dryfoos, E. Koch, E. Pleins, M. Spier, A. Byrnes, G. Conklin, K. Burgie, E. Forrey, B. Siler, S. Cash, J. Burgie, L. Johnson, K. Gibbons, S. Rheinboldt, K. Martin, C. Correll, J. Kingsbury, A. Morgan, M. McFadden, L. Vannamee.
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses L. Ritchie, L. Johnson, L. Beall, A. O’Connor, M. Brady, M. Cravens, J. Nunning, A. Byrnes, L. O’Neil, M. O’Connor, M. Spier, M. Walsh, S. Hennebery, J. Cooney, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, A. Cullen, E. Lange, E. Thompson, L. Rodinberger, S. Moran, C. Morgan, H. Hawkins, M. O’Mahony, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, A. Cavenor, N. McGrath, J. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Pleins. ^.Cavenor. L.Kirchner, M. Schultheis, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, 1 x'iRhe, K. Burgie, S. Cash, A. Koch, M. Pomeroy, K. Gibbons, ,1. Halligan, I. Cook, M. Hungerford, L. Brownbridge, J. Burgie, N. Johnson.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses E. O’Connor, and B. Spencer. 2d Div.— Miss D. Cavenor
2d Class—Misses A. Byrnes and C. Morgan. 2d Div.—Misses L. Kirchner, A. Reising, A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, B. Wilson.
3d Class—Misses J. Bennett, D. Gordon, A. Walsh, B. Siler, M. Walsh, S. Cash, L. Walsh, H. O’Meara. 2d Div.—Misses L. Weber, N. Johnson and S. Rheinboldt.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses E. O’Connor, B. Spencer, H. Julius and J. Nunning.
1st Class—Miss B. Wilson. 2d Div.—H. Hawkins, C. Silverthorne, M. Cravens.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, M. Julius. A. Byrnes, L. Kirchner. 2d Div.—Misses L. O’Niel, M. Spier, A. Koch^C. Morgan.
3d Class—Misses G. Kelly, D. Cavenor, B. Siler, A. Hennebery, M. Usselman, M. Pleins. 2d Div.—Misses J. Burgert, A. O’Connor, D. Gordon, M. Redfield.
4th Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, J. Bennett, K. Burgie, L. Walsh, E. Thompson. E. Lange, M. Thompson, L. Johnson, L. Forrey. 2d Div.—Misses A. Walsh, N. McGrath, A. Reising, A. Cullen, M. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses A. Morgan, H. O’Meara, K. Martin, M. O’Connor, H. Dryfoos, E. Forrey, P. Gaynor, L. Weber, M. Walsh, J. Burgie. 2d Div.—Misses M. Robertson, G. Conklin, A. Woodin, I. Cook, L. Wier, M. Getty, A. Cavenor, C. Ort-mayer.
6th Class—Misses M. Brady, L. Beall, C. Correll, N. Johnson, A. Ewing, S. Cash, M. Ewing, K. Gibbons, M. Mulligan, L. Kelly, L. Brownbridge. 2d Div.—Misses L. Davenport, N. Hackett, C. Boyce, C. Vannamee, M. Halligan, M. Coughlin, A. Peak.
7th Class—Misses L. Cox, L. Lambin, M. Davis, E. Wright, L. Tighe, N. Black. •	•
8th Class—Misses M. and R. Cox, E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury. 9th Class—Misses L. Ellis and E. Wooten.
10th Class—Misses M. McFadden and S. Rheinboldt.
Harp—1st Class—Miss E. O’Connor.
2d Class—Misses D. Cavenor and B. Wilson.	.
Organ—Misses M. Usselmann and B. Spencer.
Guitar—Miss A. Woodin.
Private Harmony Classes—Misses J. Nunning, E. O’Connor, H. Julius, B. Spencer.
—A celebrated vocalist, whose demeanor and acting were as awkward and ungainly as his voice was beautiful, said one day to Charles Bannister: “Do you know what made my voice so melodious?” “No” replied Bannister. “Why, then, when I was fifteen, I swallowed by accident some train oil.” “ I don’t think,” rejoined Bannister, “ it would have done you any harm if, at the same time, you had swallowed a dancing master.”—Musical World.
M. Livingston & Co.,
.A_ZE2>ZE3 TZEHZZE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend, 94 MICHIGAN St, SOUTH BEND, IND-
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Indiana in the interests of the Irish race, will be furnished at
One Year -	-	-	- $1 50
Six Months -	-	-	-	90
Three Months	-	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
Address
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS. IND.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 ajn. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express................... 10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
. Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CANDY! CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
200 S. Clark St., CHICAGO, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy...................................15c
Fine Mixed Candy...............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy.............................35c
Caramels.......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy.....................   .25c
Proportionately Low Prices to 'Wholesale Cash Buyers.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOG-BAPHER Comer Michigan and Washington Sts., SOTTTZEZ ZBZEZESTZD, ZEZSTZDZE-AZISJLA.-
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in-former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrABS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE.”
@4 Washington Street, SOUTH BOP, IND.
510
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SI»EETl	MITCHELL [N. S. -Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Boom No 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend. Ind.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
1 Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FADONTING «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Latv, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JO TUN F. MeHU&H [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGJE dt DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a* Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office. 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Bapids, Mich.
\ * / iJcZLTA NT J. CL X RHE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Booms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.NTTSS A. O’REILLY^-of ’69—Attorney at Law,
527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN I>. McCORMICK-of ’73-At*omey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM?. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A ITT AT (J Lt J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLEMBIAIN.pub'ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, or ’70.
THE AVE NT ALITA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5".
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND. published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiuo, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.	’
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 25 cts., postpaid.
Orders should be sent to •
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 35 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
10 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; Cleveland 9 45.
IT 59 am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10 p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 a m: Cleveland, 7 <5 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4= 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4,5 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 630 a m.
5 38 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20 p m.
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporfe 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’I Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHABLES PAINE. Gen’I Supt.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
•A. CATHOLIC JO’UTaisrA.l!
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PHIS IX., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may bs mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserbe,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor 0. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
„	TEHMS:
One Year.........................................$	2 50
Five Years.......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)..20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.	-
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
[
THE KOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
511
C. & N.-W. LINES.
* /
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. .Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its '
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its "
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOOTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of all cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin' Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Deprr, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo.......4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8' 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
■ Main Line...........................-7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton,;Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the_ immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IK
Watches, Clocks,
J" ZE W ZE L ZE?/ YL
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING W EST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,....	. .Leave	11.30 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	2.00 p.m.	6 00 AM.
Rochester,			12.40 AM-	10.15 “	3.14 “	7.45 “
Alliance,			305 “	1250 p.m.	555 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			447 “	232 “	742 u	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,			6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,		Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	10.30 “	3.50 “
Crestline, ....	..Leave	7.50 a.m.	540 p.m.	10.35 p.m.	_ . * * A A * * *
Forest,			925 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima,			10.45 “	9.35 “	1.05 A.M.	
Ft.Wayne,			1.20 PAT.	12.10 A.M.	3.25 “	
Plymouth,			345 “	3 20 “	5.49 “	
Chicago,		.Arrive	7.20 “	7.20 “	9.20 “	
GOING EAST.					
		No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,		..Leave	10.40 p.m.	8.20 am.	5.35 p.m.	
Plymouth,			2.40 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 pm.	11.45 “	
Lima,			8 55 “	4.05 “	1.39 AM.	
Forest,			10.10 “	5.20 “	2 50 “	
Crestline,.......	.Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 11	• -- • ••••
Crestline,		.Leave	12.05 P.M.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 am.
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	650 “
Orrville,			2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	1120 “
Rochester,		. ....	6.22 “	1.20 AM.	11.06 “	2.00 pm.
Pittsburgh,		. Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 pm.	3.30 “
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at aU principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
B. MYEES, G. P. & T. A.
512
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STBEET, CHICAGO, ILLinSTOTS.
Michigan Central Railway
ZFA.T2RTOKZ SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, "by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Time Table-November 31, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson. .. Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ (i 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a.m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 “ 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 0 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30 “	10 05 am 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 “	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Wiles and Son til Bend Division. GOING NORTH. Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9 00	a.m.	§7 00 p.m “ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23	“	9	07	“	7 07 “ Ar. Niles—	9	00	“	8	00	“	9	40	“	7 40 “ . GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20	p.m.	§8 00	a.m.	§5 00 p.m “ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56	“	8	32	“	5 32 “ Ar. South' Bend—7 15 “	5 05	“	8 40	“	5 40 “ ♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted §Snnday only. G. L. Elliott.	Wm. B. Strong, Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago. B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.					
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates' or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.	’ •
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.’’
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged ine about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spec’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Belies and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200,
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
ZE1. ZMZZEY’IEZEd, Agent
FOK
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-ly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
' TZTZDIAHSTA-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee.................................... $5	00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music................................... 12	50
Numbee of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox
$ 50	SI	$1 50 I
1 50	3	6
100
Crystals and fragments... Students’ size, larger... Amateur’s size, 2*4 in. x 1*4—
High School or Acad. size,2*4x3 *4 in shelf specimens
College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens...
$ 1 5 10 25 500
200
300
$ 2
10
25
50
100
S 3
25
50 100
300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D„
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
Use of Piano........................................ 10	00
Use of Violin........................................ 2	50
Telegraphy.........................................  10	00
Vocal Lessons J General Class Principles............ 10	00
vocal Lessons, j Vocal Culture.................... 15
Elocution—Special Course............................. 5	00
Use of Libraiy (per session)......................... 1	00
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic...................'.. 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........ 5 00
( Classical Course................... 10	00
Graduation Fee, 4 Scientific Course.'.............   10	00
( Commercial Course.................. 5	00
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra............................. 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J.-Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.