I The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE JStUDENTS
Disce quasi semper -victui’iis; vive quasi eras moriturus
r.
’ Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 26, 1874.
Number 14.

JNO.HAGERTY, City Judge.
•L. G.TONG, Notary Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
118 MICHIGAN St.,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block.
South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
- Before going elsewhere, go to .
fu, ’	’ Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cob. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
o24-tf
South Bend, Indiana.
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., o24-tf
jy N1CAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. - ’	■	oM-tf
J£RS. 0. S. STOVER,
MHHjUSTEP.
JQ J- HOLLAND, & Co., ' Wholesale Manufacturers of	•
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
' ’	—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS
IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St.,
SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST
Mo. 96 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)
o24-lm
129 Michigan, Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc. '
^“The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their
advantage to give her a call.
PLIGHT & FAIRFIELD,
South Bend,
Indiana.
oil-Jan 1
Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's CONFIDENT IN	'
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, .
None Can Fail to be Suited.
Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and
Watches.	•	o24-3m
*	Do you want a drive ? Go to
J^EN COQUILLARD’S
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, ■	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
M. A. SMITH.
^UTHE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^
WHOLESALE AND EETAIL DEALER IN
n
r CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc.,
Na'o. 54 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. &o24-tf ’
QEORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
’	. AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and- Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Staiis.)	%o24-tf
B. ?■-Halloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,	-
,	Dealers in	.
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, To vs and Musical Instruments.
NoiTl, Washington St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND. " ‘	' s jaeeSJtf 3m

178
THE SCHOLASTIC
jjalmer & Vanwinkle,
• - Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,',’
Musical Instruments, Gold. Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
• JRELAND & SON, ' •	-
PROPRIETORS OP
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE
No. 51 MICHIGAN St,
SOUTH BEND, IND..
(.Opposite the Dwight House). ---------------o----- HACK JUINZE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City,
and to the College and St. Mary's.
^o24 2m
^"Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER.
71 Wathington St.,
South Bend, Ind.
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
--0---
DROP IN AT
“THE NIKE CENT STORE!”
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
J~JR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana. o24-tf
JgDWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
- WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. JJ-tf
A. HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
’	’	South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
.	STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
Al! goods sold are guaranteed.
; Students wishing well made Clothing should go to
. gUZBY & GALLAGHER,
CLOTHIERS,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
AND DEALERS IN -
Gents’. Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Miohigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. JjO24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furuislied it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best account odation. .	_
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hon e durinsr their stay,
JERRY KNtGHT, lProDrietorB Captain MILLS, j1 r°PrietorB-
o24-tf
69 WASHINGTON St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
o24-tf
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
OP THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Brackett & Boyden's Hand and Machine sewed Goods, THE Largest Stock In The City.
Give us a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
We would call your attention to our immense Stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3m
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
BD. GILLEN’S BEST AUBANT
99 MAIN STIiEET,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
105 Michigan St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-^tf.
By Fresh Candies Made Daily.
MoS-US!
The Scholastic’
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victux-iis; vive quasi eras moriturus
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 26, 1874.
Number 14.
The “Burning Babe,” by Southwell.
[Ben Jonson in his conversations with Drummnond of Hawthornden, said Southwell ‘had so written that piece of his, The Burning Babe, he (Jonson) would have been content to destroy many of his’.]
As I in hoary winter’s night
Stood shivering,in the snow,'
Surprised I was with sudden heat, Which made my heart to glow;
And lifting up a fearful eye To view what fire was near, A pretty Babe, all burning bright, Did in the air appear;
Who, scorched with excessive heat,
Such floods of tears did shed, As though His floods should quench His flames Which with’His tears were bred.
“ Alas ! ” quoth He, “ but newly bom, In fiery heats I fry,
Yet none approach to warm their hearts
Or feel My fire but I;
My faultless heat the furnace is, The fuel, wounding thorns;
Love is the fire, and sighs the smoke, The ashes, shames and scorns ; ' The fuel justice layeth on, And mercy blows the coals, The metal in this furnace wrought
Are men’s defiled souls:
For which, as now on fire I am To work them to their good, So will I melt into a bath, To wash them in My Blood !”
With this He vanished out of sight',
And swiftly shrunk away, And straight I called unto mind That it was Christmas Day.
. Innocent III, and his Tinies.
BY G.
The crowning act of this great Pontiff was the assembling of the fourth Council of Lateran. The East and the West, represented by four hundred and twelve Bishops, besides heads of leading orders, abbots, deputies from collegiate churches, ambassadors from the Emperors of Germany and Constantinople, and from every sovereign of Christendom, in short the light and learning of the Christian world, had met under the presidency of her illustrious Pontiff. Anathemas were hurled against the Albigenses, the Waldenses, the Putarini and their errors. Raymond of Toulouse made his submission and was pardoned, and received back his domain. The policy adopted by the
great Pontiff, in all parts of Europe, was approved and confirmed in every particular. The second rank among the Patriarchs was assigned to the Bishop of Constantinople, (the Bishop of Antioch holding the first). But the most remarkable work of this twelfth General (4th Lateran) Council was the promulgation of the disciplinary canons which in one complete body of regulations meet every want of the Church. The groundwork of the great reform undertaken by Gregory VII received a new consecration, and the genius of that great Pontiff may be said to have inspired the august assembly through the voice of Innocent III. The disorders of clerics were solemnly branded by a special canon, which commands ecclesiastical celibracy as the bulwark and support of faith and morals, simoniacal and the abuses still extant in ecclesiastical tribunals were severely condemned, and their recurrence prevented by wise regulations. Paschal Communion was commanded, and many other wise regulations framed.
The Pope directed the labors of the Council with his wonted energy. He seemed eager to finish his work, nor did he outlive this last act of a Pontificate so fruitful in great deeds. “ All Europe recognized his authority.” He had bestowed the title of king upon the chief of the Bulgarians, Princislas, and upon Peter of Arragon. Never did the Papacy shed such a lustre over the world, and the death of Innocent HI (July 16,1216) was an occasion of universal mourning.
His Pontificate, says Darras, forms one of the most important epochs of modern history. He knew how to make his own the lofty conceptions of St. Gregory VH, and to give them splendid development, by the aid of his own -great mind. At a distance of three centuries, we find again the same principles which underly all the great works of Gregory VII, and Sylvester II. This wonderful unity stamps the Papacy with a character of lofty grandeur unattainable by any human institution. Forms of government pass away with the generations that make them; like them they are borne onward by the stream of time. The unchangeable design of God alone stems the ever flowing tide, and is reflected upon the Pontifical power, which stands as firm as when it was founded eighteen centuries ago. The greater any Pontiff has shown himself by the power of his intellect, the more closely has he joined his works to those of his predecessors. The only way to appreciata the history of the Sovereign. Pontiffs is to follow up the admirable succession in men, principles and events. The true glory of Innocent HI (•ike that of our Holy Father Pius IX) is founded upon this rule. Going back to the fountain-head of Christian w morality, he carried on the work begun by Gregory VII.
ISO
THE S C H 0 L A S TT 0 .
Like him Ke devoted bis life to the realization of three ideas: the development, within the Church, of a spirit of faith and piety, by winning respect for discipline and canonical regula'ions; the freedom of the spiritual authority, from all the bonds of the temporal power; the introduction of Christian civilization into the East by means of the '-Crusades. This threefold design guided all his actions and forms the glory of his reign.
■	Music.	'
• One of the most pleasing arts is that of music. It is a Succession of sounds pleasing to the ear, caused by the voice -or by a musical instrument. It is composed not only of sounds of different pitches anddifferent degrees of intensity, hut also of those of different lengths, and even of measured spaces of time in which there is perfect silence. These pauses in music serve to rest the ear and render the following phrase more striking, as such pauses in speaking serve to rest the mind and make the succeeding words more emphatic.
• Music has been appreciated in every age and by every nation, and at present the knowledge of it is considered an important part of a polite education. The savage enjoys the noise of his tomtom or gong much more than he would the execution of one of the most classical ‘'overtures” by one of the best orchestras; yet the love for music is in him, though in a very low form. There is no one who has not some love for music, and therefore we may safely say that the love of music is universal.
We have no record of harmonized music among the Greeks and Romans, and it is generally supposed that theii knowledge of music was limited to a few melodies, with perhaps a kind of accompaniment in octaves. The mosi prominent of early Christian musical authors was Pales trina. He wrote most of those sublime chauts which' are still retained by the Church. But the most noted- authors did not appear until the last two or three centuries, in which the art reached its present perfection. The most prominent of these were Mozart, Beethoven, Mendelssohn and others, and later, Bellini, Rossini, and Auber. At the present day we have no very great composers. Wagner, who writes what he calls, “ Music of the Future,” Suppe
• and Verdi are the principal ones.
Classical, music is that which is built up from a simple theme and turned into an almost endless variety of forms to express the various emotions which the composer desires to convey. -Such music does not please at first, but grows more beautiful at each hearing; but the ordinary popular music, on the contrary, tickles the ear at first, but if heard often, soon becomes insipid.
Classical music is to the ordinary popular airs as solid reading is to trashy novels. The former does not please at first, but when one is through he has ideas which he bad not before; but the latter please for the moment, and when one has finished he has no new ideas. On the contrary, his mind is enervated and is less capable of appreciating what is really good.	,	■
• The voice is the most perfect of musical instruments, but it is more liable to injury than other instrument. In its compass the voice is more perfect in execution than any other instrument, because one key is as easy for it to express as another—six flits or ..six sharps, being as easy as. the natural key. Next as an instrument comes the violin, aii'd
its cousins the viola, violoncello and bass. The members of the -violin family, and especially the violin itself, are more prefect than other instruments because they approach so near to the tone and quality of the voice. The piano stands next, but is a mechanical intrummt, and is not capable of expressing the finest shades of feeli.ig. It is capable of a great variety of effects, however, inasmuch as both air and accompaniment can be performed upon it at the same time. Mozart recognized the value of this instrument,
though it was very imperfect in bis time, and wrote several of his finest pieces for it. Horns, clarionet tes, flutes, etc., are much below these principal instruments, though they add much to the-general effect of an orchestra and are very acceptable in an occasional solo. The unsympathetic
nature of their tone and the difficulty in varying it, and-in continuing the use of them for any length of time without rests, prevent their rising as high as me first-mentioned instruments.	•	,
G. R.
.	■ Kindness.
Of all the virtues which adorn the human character, none is more beautiful in itself, or more worthy of respect and admiration, than the virtue of Christian kindness. We can scarcely imagine bow much happiness has been caused in this world by words and acts of kindness. And yet, how few people there are who really possess this bi autiful virtue! The spirit of pride and arrogance seems to have obtained dominion in the minds of men. The man of today has no care but for the accumulation of wealth and the gratification of bis own .selfish passions. Not a word of encouragement for those who are struggling with ad' vi-rsity escapes his lips; not a hand is raised to help the poor and unfortunate who everywhere meet his stony gaze. There are some, it is true, who are exceptions to the general class; men, who have always a smile and a kind word for everybody. How we love and respect such persons! Their presence always brings cheerfulness and contentment, and their magic influence is like a ray of sunshine. Adversity may come upon them; sorrow may have chastened their hearts, but still they find means to encourage those less cheerful and less patient than themselves. If w*e would only consider our own failings and imperfections, we would not speak and act so unkindly to others. For' while we are alive to their faults, we are forgetful of those errors into which we ourselves have fallen. Many a fault, committed by another, has been caused by some motive power which even the best-of us might not have been able to resist if likewise tempted. Who shall justly say that we, who in our boastful-strength hurl contempt and disgrace on others, might not have succumbed in the same way, if we bad been placed in like circumstances? Humanity is created in one likeness and similitude, and the variety of results is only caused by contact and association. If then our life has been comparatively free from troubles and misfortunes, let us try and cheer on those whose lot has been less fortunate. For while scorn and contempt only excite the unfortunateto despair, or even greater excesses, kindness leaves its heah inginfluence on the soul, and often proves the-source, of future improvement. '	-
“ Speak kindly to the erring; know
They may have toiled in vain, Perhaps unkindness made them so ;	.
' Oh ! 'win them back again.”	'	- -
THE S 0 H O L A ST C*> 7
The Force of Habit-
It. is an old saying that the child is father to the man At first, hearing, this expression seems queer, even absurd, but nevertheless it is true. The child acquires habits that be as a man will cling to.
When a child hears something for the first time, whatever it is, it will make an impression on his mind. This .impression is more lasting on the mind of a child than that of a grown person. Word or action’, whichever it may be will generally be repeated by the child again arid again until it becomes a habit which grows stronger as the child grows older.
Habits which grow up with the child require more self denial to be broken off than the man will generally give them. All of our.habits however do not originate with the child. Indeed the majority of our bad ones are acquired during manhood. The society a man moves in will generally control his habits. If he has bad habits and moves in good society they will soon be broken off If on the contrary, he is continually in bad company his habits will also soon become very bad ones. Still the habits acquired by a man are more easily broken off than those aquired by the child and which grow up with him. So it is necessary that the greatest care should be taken to secure good company for the child, that he may acquire good habits. Both at home and in other places he should continually have good examples before him, and then it is at least probable that he will grow up a virtuous man.	W. J. R.
Aivaafcaggs of a. Good Education.-
Education consists not only in literary' knowledge, but also in the acquisition of such habits us form the character; for no matter how good a literary education a person may have, if he is devoid of good habits and manners people will not respect him, and his education may cause his ruin. • We have several instances of this in the lives of great men who had a- thorough literary education, but whose bad habits led them away from their professions, and consequently to ruin. Our station in society is more dependent on our education and habits than on our fortune; for, no matter how wealthy we are, if we have not a good character we shall not be respected by men; we should therefore endeavor io obtain a good education and form good habits. An educated man is to be respected more than a rich man, beciuse fortune may descend to us, but education cannot; it is something we must acquire by perseverance and hard study: and we can easily see that a man should be respected more for what, he has acquired by perseverance and industry than for what has been given him and which cost him not the least exertion. We have many examples of great men who when young had to labor hard for their support or for that of their families, but who, during their spare moments, applied themselves to books, and thus became prominent actors in government matters and in society. Thus we see how education should inspire us with gratitude to our parents and kindly feelings towards those who have not had the advantages of it. Some persons as soon as they get an education seem to think they are above those who have not had the advantages of an education; but they will find others just as able as themselves, and they will some day not only remember but realize the old saying that “ pride must have its fall.”- J..F. R
Character.
‘ While travelling in the solitary plains of the far West, I arrived one afternoon at a very poor and rude hut, and the first objects that attracted my attention were four boys who were playing with one another. I entered into conversation with them, arid, wishing to leave them something before my departure by which to remember me, I took from my pocket some money, and gave part of it to the first, who received it with joy and said he was going to buy cakes. I gave the same amount to the second, who took it with a mysterious air and kept it tight in his hand. The third, full of modesty, received his gift, and I learned afterwards that he gave it to his mother; who was a very poor woman. I offered an equal sum to the fourth, who haughtily said: “I do not want it!” and remained so firm in his.refusal that it was impossible for me to induce him to take anything. These four boys showed in this way their different inclinations: the first wanted ' the money to buy sweets, the second showed an open inclination to avarice; pride was shown by the one who would not receive the gift; but the third astonished everyone who learned of his good action, in dividing the amount with his poor mother.	A. J. H .
Faith.
Faith is that inward belief that man has that there is a Supreme Ruler, and that his life does not end with his death, but that there is a life beyond the grave. Faith teaches us to love God, to obey His commandments, and to rely on Him in all dangers and perils. It shows man that without God he can do nothing, and that all he has he receives from Him. It also teaches him to love his fellow-man. Faith points out to us the excellence of the joys of Heaven, which we should seek; the emptiness and folly of the pleasures of this world, which we should abandon ; and the severity of the torments of Hell, which we should shun. It also shows us the beauty and the reward of holiness, the deformity and the punisment of sin, the charms of God’s mercy, and the terrors of His wrath. We should always have a lively faith in God and His promises, for without that faith we should pass through life without consolation, aud having no hope of a future reward for any good deed we might do while here. Without the knowledge that-Faith has given us concerning the future state of man, how’ could we endure our near and .dear ones being taken from us; but Faith, ever pointing upwards to God and our eternal home, teaches us that they have gone to abetter world, where there is neithersorrow nor parting> and w’here, if we lead a good and holy life, we shall see them again, never more to part.
So Faith takes from death its sting, and teaches us when trouble comes to look upward to God, and call on Him, for He w’ill surely help us. No man ever lived that did not in his heart acknowledge that there was a God and a world to come; therefore he that leads a good and faithful life, believing and trusting in God, will in the end be far better off than he who in this life declares that there is no God, and leads a life oppossed to the laws of God and His Holy Church. The world may approve, the latter, and he may be held by it to have chosen the better course,-but in the end the former will be found to have chosen the better part, and he shall then receive his reward. “Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth,” before ths
182
THE SCHOLASTIC.
time of affliction comes, and the years draw nigh of which thou shalt say “They please Me not.” In these words the royal writer reminds us that while we are young we should remember God and obey His teachings/for as we believe and act in youth, so we will act aud believe in the time of affliction. If we believe and trust in God and His promises, when the bitter hour of parting comes, when the body must return to the earth, whence it was taken, and the spirit to God, who gave it, we will be consoled with the hope of God’s mercy and forgiveness for our many offences. Then when our course in this world is run, we shall find, if we have practised this great and holy virtue, that we have chosen the better part, and we shall receive an everlasting reward from that God in whom we have believed and trusted.	. J. G. E.
Charity. -	<
Charity is like a sweet and healing balm, curing all human ills and greeting the wearied senses of the oppressed and afflicted with more pleasing odors than the mostTragrant flowers of earth. It. mingles itself with the dark clouds of oppression like a gentle ray of light, dispelling their darkness and permitting us to behold, through them, the bright beacon of hope.
Charity is the noblest disposition that actuates the human heart; it inclines us to remove, as far as is in our power, from the rough, rugged path of our fellow-man, the stones and obstacles upon which he would be likely to stumble and fall. If we see our fellow-being plunged in the deep mire of despondency, charity actuates us to nobly extend to him our hand and assist him in regaining the firm path of confidence.
There are two kinds of charity: Christian and human, the former of which is by far the more perfect; yet the latter, more generally known as philanthropy, is a much more praiseworthy disposition than we find manifesting itself in the generality of mankind. To be charitable, it is not at all necessary that we should give away large sums of money, or render some pecuniary aid to every poor person that we meet: the beggar may be charitable as well as the king. Charity is not measured so much by the amount of the gift as by the disposition of the giver, for we may often confer a greater favor by a single charitable word than by the donation of a large sum of money. The humblest and most lowly majr offer words of consolation and encouragement to the downtrodden and oppressed, and brighten their dark path through this lone, bleak vale of tears.
■ When we are called for the first time from the fond associations of those endeared to us by the strong ties of family relation, and find ourselves tossing in our frail bark alone upon the broad sea of life, how firmly does our heart cling to him who .alone of all the strange voyagers with whom we meet seems to recognize in us a fellow-being and brother man, and kindly extends to us some trifling good, or offers words of encouragement. This small act of charity winds itself like a magic coil around our heart and binds our affections forever to the author of our solace.	T. H. G.
—If mothers knew how it hurts a boy to strike him with one of those new scrubbing brushes, the brush part down, they would never tire themselves out wielding a 'club. ...	'
Literary Societies and. their Advantages.
“ What is to be gained by Literary Societies ? ” is a question which a great many put to themselves, but what answer do they generally give ? It is this: “ I think it is just so much time wasted; we go there and listen to two or three talk aud make a great deal of noise, but of what use is that to us?” Now this answer is a wrong one, and we are fully convinced that the persons who give such answers do not know what is beneficial to the young men of our age.
When a young man joins a Literary Society he must not expect to gain financially by it; but by paying close attention to what the others say he may fill his mind with knowledge. He may not be put pn a .debate immediately, but after he has listened to the others debate a few times his turn will come, and he, as well as they, will have his side of the question to defend; and in order that he may defend it well he will study, and inquire, and learn all he can of the subject under discussion, and by so doing will store his mind with a great deal of knowledge in a very short time.
Another great advantage is, that in these societies one overcomes that timidity with which everyone is more or less affected when speaking in public; besides, by spending a few evenings during the year in this manner, one becomes well posted in the principal topics of the day, as they are generally the ones brought up for discussion. I could mention numerous other advantages to be derived from these societies, but I think these are sufficient to convince any reasonable person that the time spent in Literary Societies is not wasted—but quite the contrary, that it is time spent to fit them for the stage of life, on which they are obliged to act their part.	J. F. K.
Chess.
This is supposed to be the oldest game in existence. It is not a common game like checkers, cards, etc; but seems rather to be confined to a certain class of people.
It is a game that requires deep study in order to play it well, and perhaps this is the reason it is played by so few This game serves not only to amuse the player but is also useful inasmuch as it gives good exercise to the mind Franklin in his essay on chess says: A young man by playing according to the rules will learn to be very cau tious in his actions, and always to think before he acts. Persons become greatly attached to this game, aud one who is a master player would rather lose anything else than a game of chess. Morphy in his book on chess relates a story of an old man who was a renowned player that died suddently from the effect produced by the loss of a game he played, with his daughter. This goes to show what great study some give to the game.
—“A donkey laden with salt, coming to a brook, stumbled and fell into the water. As he rose up, he felt that his burden had become much lighter, for a great part of the salt had melted. This he observed with joy, and the next time he came that way, laden with sponges, he laid himself purposely down in the water, hoping that the same might happen to his burden as before. But the sponges, soaked through with water, became so heavy that the ass could not rise up again, and was drowned under his burden.” He was a donkey, no mistake 1	_
JT HE SCHOLASTIC.	183
Sensible Advice.
“ My dear boy, I am very happy indeed to see that you always show yourself so dutiful and affectionate a child to your father and mother, a..d I bless God that He has given you this good spirit of duty and love to your parents; but you at mot understand too soon that you have the prospect before you to make your own way in the world for youiself. I wish therefore to see you showing yourself just as dili gent and earnest now in acquiring all the good and useful knowledge that you will need in your after-life, as, I thank God for it, you are dutiful and affectionate towards myself and yottr mother. You must not fail to know, my dear boy, that the first law of God for the human family which He has created and placed on this earth is labor. He said to them, ‘increase and multiply, and fill the the earth and subdue it.' Now labor without the knowledge and under, standing necessary to direct it, can avail nothing worth Speaking of in the way of subduing the earth. The wild and savage people of whom there are still great numbers in various parts of the earth, frequently labor exceedingly hard in their hunting and in their pursuit of the wild beasts and fish that serve them as'food, and yet they cannot be Said to ‘subdue the earth’, for they have wandered away, and have broken themselves off from intercourse and society with the nations and people who cultivate the sciences and arts of life; and, having thus lost the knowledge of what is necessary to form and direct labor, their way of life has become, what we see it to be, wofully fallen from the dignity of human life which" God intended, and sunk into a condition in which they are veritable objects of pity. The difference between the savage man, such as are the Indians of the prairies of North America and many other similar people in other parts of the earth, and the civilized man, such as he is found among the European nations, is that among civilized men knowledge is studied and cultivated, and perpetuated by means of schools and similar institutions and their teachers. This is needed for the directing that daily labor by which the earth, according to the will of the Divine Creator, is to be subdued to the wants of men, who have been formed, by the providence of God, into the different nations and peoples that now divide the earth among them and possess it. Whereas the savage man having broken away ftom the means necessary to acquire the knowledge by which labor must always need to be directed, has come into the terribly abject and degraded ondition which ought to be our warning.
“ See, then, my dear child, the importance of your being diligent in acquiring and in diily aiding to your s’ore of this knowledge which is to direct and form the labor and industry of your life. By this it is that your are to fulfil the first commandment of God. which is to “subdue the earth,” and by this it is that you have to earn an honest subsistence for yourself, and an honorable rank in the so ciety and place of abode in which your lot may be cast by the good providence of God. There is, no doubt, as I need riot here specially insist, a great deal of human knowledge that may be justly called useless—positively bad, and to be avoid< d; except where, in order to the office of the magis trate or physician who has to apply the remedy, there mus-be an adequate knowledge of that to which the remedies have to be applied. In knowledge, as in all other things belongi- g to our world, we must bear in miud the words of the prophet, foretelling Christ. ‘Butter and honey shall He eat that He may know how to choose the good and re
ject the evil.......! Moreover the revelation that has been made to us of a future life by Jesus Christ does not (except to those who may receive some special call to serve God in one or other of the various offices of the Church— and then those so called do butsubstiiu'eone kind of labor for another,) cancel the ordinary condition of life, which remains substantially what it has ever been from the beginning—nam.-ly, a state of active and intelligent labor in subduing the earth for the purposes of man. It introduces indeed, and makes over for the worship of God, to which in a special manner it appropriates every seventh and certain other festivals days, on all of which it requires that all such labor as is justly reputed servile should be suspended, in order that all may have their time free for the public worship of God, and for otherwise sanctifying the day: but after this it leaves the original command, to ‘ subdue the earth,’ in its full force. ‘ Six days shall thou labor,’ are the w’ords of the command given to Moses.
“ You may thus see then my dear boy, that I cannot have sufficient ground to be fully satisfied with you solely because you are a dutiful and affectionate child to me. I wish you, both for your own sake and mine,.to approve yourself as a patient, active, and intelligent student in acquiring the knowledge necessary for your future life.—Sacrum Septenanum.
The Old Testament contains 39 books, 929 chapters, 23-, 214 verses, 529,439 words and 2,728,000 letters. -
There are found in the New Testament 27 books, 260 chapters, 7,959 verses, 181.293 words and 838,380 letters.
In the Old Testament the middle book is that of the Proverbs, the middle chapter, Tobias 29tb, the middle verse, the 17tli in the 20th chapter of the 2d book of Chronicles, and the smallest verse, the 1st in the 1st chapter of the 1st book of Chronicles. -
The little word “and” is found but 39,943 times; the word “ Jehova ” 6,899 times.
In the New Testament the middle book is the 2d Letter to the Thessalonians; the middle chapter, the 13th of the Letter to the Romans; the middle verse, the 17th in the 17th chapter of the Acts of the Apos’les, and the smallest verse the 39lh in the 11th chapter of St. John. .
Somebody is said to have been occupied with this enumeration for the space of three years, by working 8 hours daily.
—King Koff:e, who has been boiling over lately, has settled down again.
—An low.i justice the other diy accepted two bushels of the pungent onion as a marriage fee.
—Why did she turn her back on you, young man ? Innocent child! she wished to make an exhibition of her new overskirt.
—A Frenchmin intending to compliment a young lady by calling her a gentle lamb, said: *‘ She is one mutton as is small.’’
—A circus lion is roaming around Weston, Missouri, and people have a good excuse for remaining away - from prater-meetings
—It is singular that mineral waters are only beneficial to the wealthy. We never knew a physician to advise a poor man to go to any watering-place.
—Without any desire to brag, the Detroit Free Press points to a Michigan sunflower nineteen feet high, and respectfully inquires after the health of other sunflowers around the country.	... . . . .
184
THE SCHOLASTIC-
Th® Scholastic,
Published every Week during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year...................................$1 00
Single copies (Sets.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
—To one and all, great and small, of the Students of Old Notre Dame, we wish from the bottom of our heart a happy New Year!
In a few days the Old Year will pass away from us, bearing with it the records of our deeds, good and bad. It will pass away, and forever. In our memory we may recall the many scenes of joy and pleasure, but to change what took .place in the cycle of days called ’74 will not be within our power: ’74 will belong to the past, whose gates are closed to all.
This is a season for reSection and for meditation. What was the tenor of our lives during the twelve months now passing away deserves the earnest consideration of all. If the days of ’74 glided by while we practiced virtue, then will meditation on them be fraught with a joy enlivened with Christian hope; for the recollection of the good works performed will make us trust in our ability to continue in this life of virtue, to be rewarded on the last day. If, on the contrary, our lives have been stained by folly and sin, then ought we more seriously to reflect and meditate upon this year now passing away; to consider the misery to which it has brought us, and fill us with sorrow for sin.
This meditaing on the year past should then prompt us to form resolutions for the future. If we have practiced virtue, we should resolve to practice it still, to become more perfect in virtue; but if such has not been our lives, we should then resolve to reform qur ways, and commence to do good. And let our resolutions be sincere, and true; let them be firm, not to be broken whenever a more violent temptation than usual assails us, but to withstand all storms.
But we are afraid that most of you will think we are prosing—so then again to all, hoping that you have spent a merry Christmas, we wish you a happy New Year!
—~We wish to say a few words concerning the teachings of the Church with regard to the obedience due to the civil power. Catholics are constantly accused of being so bound by their allegiance to Rome that they cannot but be unfaithful to their country. This is the gist of9 the charge made by Gladstone in his late work; this is the defence made for bis persecutions by Bismarck; this is the cry raised by liberal Catholics the world over.
-It is passing strange if a man himself should not have a correct knowledge of what he believes. In these our days, however, it seems that the generality of non-Catholics set up certain articles of faith for Catholics, insist that such is their belief, and then endeavor to demolish these dogmas by arguments. We defy anyone to take up a book of .controversy and not find that the Catholic writer is forced to prove that such and such are not the belief of the Church, while the non-Catholic writer occupies his- time in en
deavoring to prove that the Church does believe these things to be true. Now who is the better judge in the case? Surely the Church and the teachers in the Church are the better judges, for these should know what they believe.
Mr. Gladstone would have it' that Catholics must be false to their country if they follow the teachings of Rome. We who are in communion with the See of St. Peter know this assertion to be false. We feel that we have just as strong a love for our country as ever a non-Catholic .has had, and wTe certainly have the same right to be believed as our dissenting friends when they assert that such-and-such is their belief.
But the truth is that there is no religious body which , insists so strongly on the people of a nation showing reverence and obedience to the civil powers as does the Roman Catholic Church. It is laid down in her works on theology that we are held to obey and revere our rulers, both by natural law and by divine. Quoting from the Epistle to the Romans, “Let every soul be subject to higher powers,” etc., and from the Epistle of St. Peter, “ Be ye subject therefore to every human creature for God’s sake,” etc., she teaches us that we are to be subject to our rulers according to the constitution (whether written or unwritten) of the state, under all circumstances. So strongly does the Church insist upon this doctrine of obedience to the civil power, that she holds that it is not lawful to rebel against our rulers even when they abuse the authority with which they are invested, for she holds that all authority comes from God. Is there any Church not in communion with the Holy Catholic Church, not sub-feet to the See of Peter, that holds such doctrine? Not one. Does this doctrine show that the Catholic Church would make us traitors to our country when it insists upon our obeying the rulers of that country? We cannot see how it should. Wherever the Church sees legitimate civil authority, there she insists upon the people obeying that authority. Rome seeing that a republic is formed legitimately in the United States, commands us to obey the laws and the rulers of our country, and she forbids any citizen under pain of sin to rebel against the authorities of the nation.
Only in one case does the Church allow man to oppose human civil authority, and that is in case the civil authority opposes that of God. Now we care not what may be the belief of any sect, no sooner does the state interfere with what it believes to lie contrary to the law of God than it falls back on this principle affirmed by the Catholic Church and proclaims that the law of God is superior to the law of the land, that “it is better to obey God than man.” Why, if they did not believe this to be true, whence could have arisen the many cruel civil wars on account of religion? If they did not believe this principle how could they have ever dared oppose civil legislators, when they formed a religion for the state ?
The charge that Rome makes her subjects unfaithful to the civil power comes with very bad grace from a man w.hose very companions did all they could to foment rebellion in Italy, and make Italians unfaithful to the civil powers who ruled them. It is most unblushing effrontery in men in Europe to make such charges against the Church at the very time they are engaged in revolution.
—In the Boston Pilot of Dec. 19th we find a list’of subjects for debating societies. Knowing how much difficulty ’
THE SCHOLASTIC.	T85
is experienced by members of such societies in selecting $	subjects for debate, we give the list as made by the Editor
;	of the PZZof. They are:
.	1. Should the church property of the United States be
' taxed ? -
3.	What are the Three Grandest Characteristics of the i	Irish Race ?
3.	Which was the greater Poet—Thomas Moore or Oliver Goldsmith ?
4.	Which would be the best movement for Ireland under existing circumstances—for Repeal of the Union. Complete Independence, or a Federal Union with Great Britain ?
5.	If Ireland were entirely free to-morrow, what form of Government would be best for her to adopt?
;t	6. What are the Rights of American Citizens with re-
i gard to the form of Public Education ?
1	7. What is the limit of power of the American Federal
। Government with regard to the Individual States?
f	8. Are Strikes justifiable or beneficial?
p	9. Which was the greater man—Daniel O’Connell or
f	Edmund Burke?
10. Is it for the good of education that American Catholics should have a large number of small colleges, with power of conferring degrees, instead of One Great National University ?
We agree with the Editor when he says that “ the reading necessary' to answer any one of these questions cannot ;	but be beneficial.” Some of the questions are now brought
:	before the public, in one way or another, and it is but right
that our young men should inform themselv< s with regard to them. We would suggest that our societies take ’ up the questions one by one and debate them. The Pilots j	which is a live paper, and knows what it is about, says it
•	would like to “receive copies of the debates,pro and con,
and to publish what” they “consider the best of them.” We hope some of our Literary' Societies will take them up. We-will be pleased to receive answers to any of the above questions, in the form of Essays, which we will print in our little paper.
—The Students left for home on Wednesday last,—that is, the greater portion of them. We hope they will all enjoy the Holidays with parents and relatives, and that noth-
, ing will mar the pleasures of the season.
—Classes w’ill begin the 2nd of January, and it is expected that the parents of all will see the great necessity of sending their sons back in time for them to enter at once upon their studies and follow their classes from the very commencement of the New Year. We know that all the parents of our students wish their children to make good use of their time. Wishing this,,they ought then to send them back so that they may not lose any class at the beginning of the year. If the student misses his classes then it will be difficult for him to make up the time; besides, if the student has made any resolutions of studying hard the coming year he is placed in a position that will greatly tempt him to break them throughout the year, for he really commences the year by breaking them.
Again, in order that classes be successful it is necessary । that there should be perfect order in them. Now this order can be maintained only by the regular attendance of all members of the class. It is useless for a teacher to in-। struct one half of his class, knowing that some days after-F
wards the remainder of the class will be present in need of the selfsame explanations as he then is giving. We trust then that all parents will see the great necessity of having their sons return promptly after the Holidays that they may enter with renewed vigor on the work that will tiwait them.
The Exhibition.
The first Exhibition of the Thespians for the year 1874r-5 was given in Washington Hall, Saturday evening December 19th, 1374. At seven o’clock a goodly audience assembled to enjoy themselves. To show what was given them to enjoy, we give here the
PROGRAMME. -
Part First.
Music—Grand Opening March, -	. N. D. U. C. Band
Overture—“Poet and Peasant—CSuppe), -	- Orchestra
Chorus—“The Heavens are Tell-
ing {Haydn), - - Fb. Gillespie Choral Union Address, -	-	-	-	-	-	-E. J. iMcLaughun
Music—Quintette oflnstruments, - University Quintette Prologue, ------- John G. Ewing Music—Fantasie Brilliante—“ William
Tell,” ----- Prof. Paul and C. Otto
part second.
A BOX OF MISCHIEF.
A (Comedy in Two Acts.	. -
Slightly Remodelled for the Occasion.
Doctor Plymptou (Master of a Finishing
Academy), ------ T. J. Murphy Godfrey Fairfax, - - 1 ,.	1 - E. J. McLaughlin
George Wharton, - j P 3 ]	' - - T. H. Grier
Charles Fitzmartyu (Formerly a Pupil of the
Doctor, -	--	--	-- J, J. Gillen
Patsy Wallace (Errand Boy) -	-	-	- John G. Ewing
Ctesar (A “Culled Pusson,” -	-	- J. B. Crummey
Job Housebeek, (Doctor Plympton’s Gardener) - E J. Graves Dick (Fitzmartyn’s Groom)	-	-	- . C.	M. Proctor
Strawquill (Clerk in Wagon Office)	B. S. Euans
Ikey (A Porter in the Office)	.	-	-	-	F. B.Devoto
Captain of West Indiaman, -	-	-	- J. F. Rudge
Carl (A Crier) -	-	-	-	-	...	J. E. Keely
Black Porters, Boatman, etc.
Music—Quickstep (After Act First). - N. £-. J. C;Band-To Conclude With
A GOOD NIGHT’S REST.
A Farce in One Act.
Mr. Snubbington, (A rayther particular
gentleman, -	-	-	-	- E. J. McLaughlin
A Stranger, (Rather Stormy at times), -	- R. TV’. Staley
Music ------- N. D. U. C. Band
The music by the Band was very good. Notre Dame has always been proud of her Band, and this year she may more than ever be proud of it. Under the able leadership of Mr. Gillespie we hope the Band will favor us frequently during the coming scholastic year.	*
The Orchestra, however, is what we should now be proud of. The style of music given by it and the excellent rendition of it is superior to all former years;. We expect the Orchestra to furnish more music at our exhibitions and that it will be of the same order. The “ Gillespie Choral • Union” made its first appearance at this exhibition, and a ■ very creditable appearance it was. The chorus “The Heavens are Telling” was sung with great effect, and well deserved the hearty applause which it received. The Union hereafter must always be ready for an -encore, for
186	THE SCHOLASTIC.
we feel confident that it will receive it. The Quintette of Instruments was greatly enjoyed. We would mention the names of the members of the University Quintette Club were it not that we know that some of the members thereof do not like to see their names in print.
The Fantasie Briliiante “ William Tell,” by Prof. Paul and C. Otto, is deserving of great praise and was in keeping with the order of music given throughout the enter, tainment.
Mr. McLaughlin’s address was one of the best ever read in Washington Hall. Its style was pleasing, and rendered more so by the easy manner of its-delivery.
The prologue, written for the evening, was well delivered by Mr. Ewing. After Mr. Ewing’s prologue the curtain rose for the plays of the evening. Both the plays were well acted. In the “Box of Mischief” Mr. Murphy was one of the best old men we have ever seen at any of our Exhibitions; Mr. McLaughlin played his part with great skill; Mr. Grier, though lacking in ease, did very well; Mr. Gillen’s first appearance on the boards was greately to his credit; Ewing, Graves, Euans, Proctor Devoto, Rudge, and others, acted their parts with much success. Mr. Crummey impersonated “ Caesar” with great truth and spirit. When we recollect that most of the performers made their first appearance on Saturday we must admit that the play was a success.
The “Good Night’s Rest” was equally well played; Messrs. McLaughlin and Staley took their respective parts in good style. Take it altogether, all were pleased with what the Entertainment afforded them on Saturday night.
We would, however, state in closing that there are many connected with the College ■who were not altogether plea«ed with the selection of the plays given; who hold that the plays selected were not very creditable to the taste of the young men who selected them nor worthy of the Departmen which gave the Exhibition prefer that plays the tone of which is of a higher order should be given; that the'first play of an evening should be of a more serious nature, and that in neither the princpal play nor in the after-piece should there be the slightest allusion which could pain, the. feelings of the most sensitive.
The Musical Soiree.
The first musical soiree of the session was held in the College Parlor on the night of Monday, Dec. 21. At halfpast seven the members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic, the St. Cecilia Pbilomathean, the St. Stanislaus Pbilopa-trian, the Thespian and the Columbian Societies, of the Archconfraternity and the Sodality of the Holy Angels, entered the large parlor; shortly afterwards the members of the Gillespie Choral Union and the students learning music followed; instruments were then tuned, and the Entertainment commenced. Among the persons present were Revs. P. J. Colovin and J. M. Toohey; Prof. Gregori and lady; Miss Gregori; Prof, and Mrs. Ivers; Mrs. Paul, and others.
The following is a copy of the programme handed us as we entered:
Quintette (Op. 114, Schubert) Fr. Lemonnier Quintette Club; Grand Chorus (Heavens are Telling, Haydn) Fr. Gillespie Choral Union; Overture, Don Juan (Mozart) Prof Paul and C. Walters; Quatuor (Serenade for Brass
Instruments) Arion Quartette Club; Vocal Duette (Mendelssohn) Prof. Edwards and T. M. O’Leary; Souvenir de la Patrie, Violoncello and Pian<>, Prof. Mayr and C. Robertson; Chorus (Gently Sighs the Breeze, etc.,) Vocal Class.
The Quintette, (Op. 114 of Schubert), was played with great spirit and feeling, delighting all present. The members of the Club are to be congratulated on the success of their organization. “The Heavens are Telling,” Haydn’s grand Chorus, was sung better than on the Saturday previous. Vocal Music is now beginning to flourish here. The Overture to “ Don Juan” was given with great effect by Prof. Paul and Mr. C. Walters. The Professor handles the violin with great skill. The piano accompaniment was well executed by Mr. Walters.
An encore was given to the Arion Quartette Club, which was responded to. This is the first time the Arions have appeared, and their success.is highly flattering to them. When the Arions finished their encore, M’lle. Gregori by invitation rendered a fantasia, with feeling the theme being the “ Carnival of Venice.” She was followed by Madame Paul, who sang “ Il Bacio ” in a truly artistic manner.
The Vocal Duett “I would that My Love” (Mendelssohn), sung by Prof. Edwards and T. M. O’Leary, was well received, the voices of both gentlemen being in fine trim, and the rendition excellent. Prof. Mayr and C. Robertson then played Souvenir de la Patrie, the original composition of Prof. Mayr. The composition shows considerable genius. But we don’t like criticising compositions; for as we are no musician 'ourself we might be guilty of many blunders; we therefore leave it to the regular musicians to do it.
By special request, Prof. Paul executed “ La Marseillaise,” on the piano. To judge from the excitement of a friend of ours who hails from la belle France it must have been excellently well performed. The Chorus “ Gently Sighs the Breeze,” sung by the Vocal Class, closed the Musical Soiree. It is to be hoped that at each succeeding Entertainment the singers will always appear; and if they do but sing as well as they did at the soiree, we will be satisfied. We believe, though, that they will do even better.
At the conclusion, Rev. P. J. Colovin arose and expressed the thanks of the audience for the pleasure of the evening; not being in full trim for a speech, he called upon Prof. Paul. The Prof., however, begged first the Rev. Fr. Fr^re, and then Prof. Edwards to take his place, as he did not like to make a speech in English. Finding that they would not come to his relief, he called upon Prof. Ivers, who in a net little speech brought the Entertainment to a close.
Personal. . /
—More personals, if you please.
—	Geo. Riopelle, of ’72, is in Detroit, Mich. .
—	Prof. Ackerman is now in Lafayette, Ind.
—	Willie Walsh, of Chicago, was with us on Sunday.
—	Chas. Haines, of ’64, still resides at St. Charles, Mo.
—	Jos. Zimmer, of ’72, is doing well in Columbus, Ohio.
—	Prof. J. A. Lyons accompanied the boys to Chicago. —Jos. Kelly, of’63, does a magnificent business in Joliet. —J. Spillard, of ’69, is married, and settled at Elgin, Ill. —Mrs. and Miss Paul visiled Notre Dame last Monday. —Theo. Barlow, of ’58, is in business in Toledo, Ohio,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
18?
^L. C. Watson, of ’74, is railroading in Detroit, Mich. —Jnc.. Shannahan, of '73, is teaching in Cincinnati, Ohio. —Eugene Clifford, of ’65, is practicing law in Elgin,
—Emile Doul is in the drygoods business in Chicago, Ill.	*
—Scott Ashton, of '72, is studying law in Kansas City, Mo.
—Jno. Connolly, of ’61, is practicing law in Lafayette, Ind.
—Mr. Faxon, of Chicago, was at the Thespian Exhibition.	'
—Mr. Ivers, of ’66, is still on the war-path at Notre Dame.
—Arthur Breckenridge, of ’58, is in business in Fort Wayne.
—Gen. W. T. Lynch, of ’68, is doing a fine business in Elgin, Ill.
- —Jno. O’Rourke, of ’72, is doing a fine business in Pittsburgh, Pa.
—Rev. Eather Letourneau, was at Notre Dame last Wednesday.
—Andy Corrigan, of Chicago, attended the Exhibition on Saturday.
—Thos. Blackburne, of ’60, is doing well in the City of Philadelphia.
—J. J. McGrath, of ’66, is with his brother, in business in Chicago, 111.
—Mr. Golsen, of Chicago, was at Notre Dame on Saturday and Sunday.
—Oliver Fitch, of ’65, is married and settled and all, at Galesburgh, Ills.
—T. Fitzpatrick, of’72, is doing a prosperous business in Defiance, Ohio.
—Virgil F. McKinnon has our thanks for favors rendered on Monday last.
—Hon. Lucius Hubbard, of ’59, has an excellent law practice in South Bend, Ind.
—Mr. Grace, of St. Paul, Minn., was on a visit to his son at the College in the beginning of the week.
—J. H. Gillespie has gone to Watertown, Wis., to spend a few days. We hope he may have a merry time.
—Rev. Peter . Paul Cooney is preaching a mission in Lowell. It is needless to say that he is doing much good.
—The Hon Judge Daley, ex President of the Indiana State Temperance Union, was present at the soiree last Monday evening.
—Rev. W. O’Mahony preached an excellent sermon Christmas Night at Sr- Mary’s Father O’Connell’s sermon, at the eight o’clock Mass, was grand. Father Golovin gave a good sermon in the College Church at ten o’clock.
—Jos. A. Roberts, for a long time connected with the Scholastic office, left on Tuesday last for his liome in Columbus, Ohio. Joe is a good printer, and has given satisfaction to all about the office. We wish him success, and can recommend him to all persons in want of a good printer.
—Mr. Chas. T. Murray, the new editor and proprietor of the South Bend Union, paid us a visit on Sunday last. Mr. M. is a first-class editor, and we are glad to hear that his talents are appreciated. The circulation of the Union is rapidly increasing, as it should, and arrangements are being made to bring the paper up to a high standard as a family journal. South Bend may well be proud of her three weekly newspapers and her daily. '
Mr. Murray was formerly one of the Washington correspondents of the celebrated Danbury News, and his articles to that paper are said to be remarkable for their piquancy and wit. Weare assured that he already commands more than a local circulation for his p iper and that it has already somewhat of a circulation at the national Capital. We wish him continued success in his new enterprise.	.
. Local Items.
—So!
—Be merry.
—Christmas.
—Sleighing soon.
—My Christmas gift!	.	.
—Have all the fun you can.	’
—How about them clothes ?
—Rec. at table Tuesday last.
—Minstrels next week! Eh ?	'
—The snow spoiled the skating.
—New Year’s Day Friday next.
—Programmes scarce Saturday.	_
—How are all the little Ctesars?
—The Holidays are well enjoyed.
—Our sanctum has a neat look now.	.
—Ice on the lakes—but snow over it.
—Beautiful weather for the Holidays.
—Ushers should not become too excited.	. -
—The Choral Union had rec. on Monday.
—A merry Christinas, if it is the day afier.
—We have a beautiful poem for next number.
—Have you seen the new kind of lead pencil ?
—Bro. Simon is hard at work near the lower lake.
—Our frend John bids for the chromo for whistling.
—All right Barry. O’N— will answer in a few days.
—Bro. Francis has put up a new fence about the Cemetery.
—How is the road to the P. O. on Sunday mornings, John?
—Who will get up an impromptu Entertainment next week?
—Stereotyping has been done away with in the Ave Maria Office.
—Classes in the mornings for the students remaining at Notre Dame.
—A number of students went home for the Holidays on Wednesday last.
—Our friend John says you ought to take your hats off as soon as you enter the Study Hall.
—The 2nd Book-keepers are men of business—or if they are not now, they will be, says our friend John.
—1000 copies is not a bad number for a college paper to circulate. Now, let us make it fifteen hundred.
—Before purchasing your Clothing try the Star Clothing House, 113 Michigan street, sign of the big star! dec5-lm.
—If to sing a song or two entitles the singers to a half-aday of rec., how many days should the actors in a play have?
—When a Society gives an Exhibition, none but members of the Society need expect to remain in the Hall after it closes.
—The religious ceremonies on Christmas Day were very fine. Solemn High Mass was sung at midnight and at 10 o’clock in the morning.
—Our mailing man is preparing extra mailing-galleys, anticipating the increase we expect in our subscription list when the students come back.
—Chicago is well represented at Notre Dame. About seventy students hail from that place, and not one Chicagoan has been expelled this year.
—Christmas Day passed off very pleasantly. The boys enjoyed themselves greatly, and the weather was just the kind for them to do so. More about the day in our next.
—G. Silberberg, of the Star Clothing House, is determined to close out his entire stock in the next 30 days. Give him a call.	dec5-lm.
—If you wish to buy Hats, Caps or Furnishing Goods,
1S8
THE S CHOI ASTIC.
go to the Star Clothing House, 113 Michigan street, G. Silberberg, Proprietor.	deco-lm.
—The Star Clothing House, 113 Michigan street, is casing out the entire stock of Clotning and Gents’ Furnishing Goods at siauhtering prices.	deco Im.
—Bro. Alphens has in charge six carriages and buggies, besides two sleighs. He keeps them in good order too. The first fine day we have is promised us to make use of one of life sleighs.
—The Class of Astronomy.was out one night last week. Our friend John is one of them, and he says that when he stepped on a piece of ice and then tried to stand on his head he saw more stars than are treated of in Astronomy.
—A great number of persons living in the neighborhood attended the Exhibition on Saturday last. It would be well if they made less noise on their way home. They are welcome to come, but those persons who made the noise near the upper lake when going home should learn that such conduct is not countenanced about Notre Dame.
—Prof. Howard, delivered a very able lecture in St. Patrick’s Church on Sunday evening last. His subject was •‘The Influence of Christianity on Civil Liberty,” and the learned lecturer treated the subject in an interesting and philosophic manner. The lecture lasted one hour, during which the audience were well entertained and instructed.
—Blum, the “high toned” proprietor of the “ Students Office,” in South Bend, sent his Christmas box to the students on Wednesday last. In it were two hundred fine and fragrant Havanas, which were used by all those having permission from their parents to smoke. It is in this manner that Blum “sets him up.” Those who followed his advice “to go West, young mans, go West,” were minus the cigars. Success to' Blum, the cigarist.
—Bro. Philip showed us the other day a number of specimens of handwriting. They are the production of members of the Writing Class in the Commercial Department acd are very creditable to the stndeuts. Of these specimens, we admire most those of Joseph Hackett, Joseph Marks, J. M. Burge, J. A. Girard, R. S. Barret, G. Rudge, E.'J. McPheian, J. L. Perea, Jno. Lambin, W. P. Nelson, L. J. Busch, Frank E. Foxon and A. Leitelt. Bro. Philip is the most successful teacher of penmanship ever employed in the Commercial Department.
—We are happy to see that the Thespians have done away with the closing remarks at their Exhibitions. Generally the peisons calhd upon to speak do not go to the Hall for the purpose of speechmaking, but for their own enjoyment-; and the audience, having made up their minds as to the merits or demerits of the Exhibition, don’t care to hear the impromptu speeches. We hope the Thespians will continue to do this at all their Entertainments and that the other Societies will imitate the good example thus set them.
’ —The other day our friend John was told by a companion to go to the presbytery for a certain article. John went to the priests’ house and after mounting a couple of stairs and coming down them, looking in every nook and corner of the house he finally encountered one of the inmates who, noticing that John was looking for something, asked if he could be of any assistance to him. “ Well yes,” said our friend John, “ Would you be so kind as to tell me were I can find a presbytery? When our friend John then learned that he had been walking up and down the stairs of the presbytery, he became somewhat wroth and he now’says that if people want him to go errands for them they must talk English. That’s all.
.	■	Literature. /
—We have received the Catholic World for January, 1875. The articles in this number are excellent. . The contents 'are: I. The Persecution of the Church in the German Empire. H. Christmastide. III. The Veil Withdrawn. IV. Another General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church. ‘ V. Assunta Howard. VI. Matter. VII. Christinas in the Thirteenth Century. VIII. The Civilization of Ancient Ireland. IX. Robespierre. X. The Better •Christmas. XI.- English and Scotch Scenes. XH. The
Future of the Russian Church. XIII. The Leap for Life.-XIV. The Year of Our Lord 1874. XV. New Publications.	•
■—“The King’s Highway” is the title of’Father Hewitt’s new book.
. —The controversy begun by Gladstone has caused a number of books in relation thereto to be publish! d.
—Lord Lytton’s “Fables in S mg” will soon be translated into French by M. Odysse Barot.
—McGee of Dublin is issuing an edition of Shelly’s prose works, with the title “Scintilla Shelleiana.”
Art Notes. '
—The Studio is looking much better since the oil paintings have been moved to it.
—Prof. Edwards has a number of oil paintings. Some of them are quite valuable. -
—The decorations in the Church on Christmas Day were beautiful.’	• .	.
—There are to be seen some beautifal specimens of machine drawing by Messrs. Proctor, Cullen, Leiielt and Smith, in the Siudio. In the same place there are also some excellent designs in landscape by Messrs Lawrence, Grambling, Delvecchio and Kurtz. The diawings of solid objects by Messrs. Schmidt and Schultheis are very good. The Messrs. Sugg make a very good display tn archil ec-lural drawing. The members of the Diawing Class are succeeding very well and are a credit to their worthy instructor.
—Mr. Gregori is, we believe, to fresco the Chapel at the Scholasticate-the coming spring.
Society Notes.
—The Columbians—where are they?
—The Thespians held a meeting on.Sunday.	’
—The Scientific Association will reorganize next month.
—The Sodality of the Holy Angels held an interesting meeting on the 22nd.
—The 17th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held on Tudesday evening, Dec. 22nd. No business of importance was transacted.
—The 13i h Regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Dec. 18th. After a number of declamations, the President gave the members some excellent advice, after which the Society adjourned.
Musical Notes.
—The Band is in fine condition.
—The Quartette Club lias been very successful.
—We have some very good pianists among the students.
—The Arions received the only encore on Monday night.
—The Orchestra is becoming the great favorite at Notre Dame.	.
—The Vocal Class has a number of good voices in it. We will expect much from them this year.	.
—The Gillespie Choral Union intend giving us some good choruses at every Enterlainment.
. —There are about twenty members in the Gillespie Choral Union.
—Our friend John has put in his application to be appointed base-drummer in the Band. He insists however that they give him a solo in each piece.
—It is better to be useful than rich.
—A fast musician—One who plays to forte.
—No church is too weak to take up a collection.
—It requires no particular skill to make a blunder.-.... _
THE SCHOLASTIC.	1U
LimmuUr Memorial Chapel Fuad.,
Mrs. Phelan, Lancaster, Ohio,.....................§30	00
W. S. Golsen, Esq, Chicago, 111.,................. 25	00
Prof. 31. A. J. Baisen, Milwaukee, Wts.,........... 5	00
Oscar B 11, Elkhart, Ind........................... 1	CO
Jos. McManus, Kahunazoo, Mich.,.................... 5	00
.	“	E. Bestel,	“	“	  1	00
“	A. Murphy,	“	“	..7................1	00
“	D. Ruse,	“	“	  1	00
'	“	J. Daily,	“	“	  1	00
“ L. Devereux,	“	“	  1	00
“ S. Lynn,	“	“	  1	00
~ "	J. Buller,	“	“	  5o
“	E. L irkin,	“	“	  5v
“	E. Dolan,	“	“	  50
Miss ik. Crowley,	“	“	  2	00
“	E. Connolly,	“	“	  50
“ S. Ellis, “	“	.............. 50
SAINT MANY’S ACADEI/IY.
_________________________________♦ _
—Don’t let any one steal this.
• —The lovely Madeira vine at the Grotto of Lourdes has been shorn of its fragrant blossoms.	.
—Mother Superior left St. Mary’s for the East on Mon-
• day last. May success and happiness attend her.
—Mrs. M. M. Phelan and Mrs. Judge Ewing left St. Mary’s for Laucaster, Ohio, on Monday, 21st inst.
—A correspondent of Stella ^faris gives the following: What style of gaiters would be too close ajfit? Alligators.
—A “Prize Paper,” as a memorial of each literary periodical issued by the young ladies, has been proposed. The best contributions are to be compiled under this title.
—The members of the private Vocal Class have already mastered two of Mendelssohn’s grand Choruses, and have just commenced a more lengthy oue from this great master for the February Examination. The distinct articulation of the Vocal Classes is the subject of univgrsal praise.
—The Mass for the Children of Mary, offered every Monday at Loreto, fell this week on the feast of St. Thomas Apostle, and was the occasion of a beautiful instruction on “Lively Faith,” from Very Rev. Father General. The touching injunctions and beautiful illustrations will not be forgotten.	,
—Many pretty Christmas gifts have been completed At the distribution of Points, on Sunday evening, Very Rev. Father General communicated some very' agreeable intelligence to those who are to keep the Holidays at St. Mary’s. There are many pleasant Entertainments in contemplation.
—On Tuesday and Wednesday, beautiful Chemical experiments were tried in the Second Senior Class, and proved successful. No jars were broken,—and there were no unintentional explosions. The evening of Wednesday was set apart for the burning of substances which produced beautiful and various colored lights. The young ladies of the Graduating and First Senior Classes were present, and all found delightful entertainment as well as instruction.
TABLET OF HONOR,
FOR THE WEEK ENDING DECEMBER 21, 1874.
For Politeness, Neatness, Older, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled :
« .Graduating Class—Misses-M.-Walker, A.-Gurtin, M.
Wicker L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fan1 ning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L Bradford, J. Stimson, E. Sweeney, A. St. QJair, M. Johnson.	.	.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie. L. Wyman J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilgef, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, B. Wade,-31. Julius.	.
3rd. Sr Class—Misses L. Kelly, M. Dunbar. S. Harris, C. Woodward, L Johnson, M. Walsh. K. Hutchinson, 3L Quill, R. Neteler, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L; Henroten, E. Quinlan, R. Klarr, A. Byrnes, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K Spencer, 31. Bryson.	.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson,-E. Thompson. C. Morgan, M. Poquette, N. McAuliffe, C. Thayer, A. Duncan, 31. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. Mann/M/ Quill, S. Hole, E. Bowman, S. Moran.	. -
2nd Prep. Class—Misses H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, L. Mead, E. Cody, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, A. Smith, S. Reising, C. West, 31. Anthony, E. Botsford.	■	:
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, F. Reppetan, L-Brownbridge, G. Hills, M. Railton, 31. Quinn.	-
. HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.	.
Graduating Class—Mis-es M. Walker 2, A. Curtin 2, M. Wicker 2, L. Ritchie 2, E. Hairgerty 2, A. Lloyd 2, J. Locke 2, J. Kearney 2, R Green 2, A. Smith 2.	‘
1st Sr. Class—G. Walton 2, A. Clarke 2, J. Fanning 2, H. Foote 2, M..Riley 1, E. Deunebey 2, K. Joyce 2. L. Arnold 2, L. Bradford 2, J. Stimson 2, E. Sweeney 1, A. St.' Clair 2, M. Johnson 2.
2nd Sr. Class—M. Daley 2. A. Walsh 2, L. Ritchie 2, L. Wyman 1, J. McGuire 2, E. York.2, M. and F. Dilger 2, F. De Long 2, J. Bennett 2, M. Faxon 1, E. Dougherty 2,' J. Nunuing 2, B. Wade 1, M. Julius 2.
3rd Sr. Class—L. Kelley 2, M. Dunbar 2, S. Harris 2, C. Woodward 2, L Johnson 2. M. Walsh 2 K. Hutchinson 2, M. Quill 2, R. Neteler 2, M. Brady 2, P. Gaynor 2, F. Taylor 2, B. and R. Spencer 1, M. Bryson 1.	. t
1st Prep. Class—E. O’Connor 1, M. and E. Thompson 2, C. Morgan 2, M. Poquette 2, C. Thayer 1, A. Duncan-2, M Shiel 2, K. Greenleaf 2, E. Mann 2, M. Quill 2, H.Russell 2, E. Bowman 2, S. Moran 2.	r
2nd Prep. Class—H. Parks 2, S.and I Edes 2," E. Edes 2, S. Cunningham 2, L. Meade 2, E Cody 2, M. McKay 2, N. McFarlane 2 B. Turnbull 2, L. Moran 2, C. West 2, M. • Anthony 1.
3rd Prep. Class—C. Maigrey 2, F. Reppetan 1, L.
Brownbridge 1, A. Lehman 1.	■
ROLL OF HONOR.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
Misses B. Wilson, N. Carlin, N. O’Connor, M. Ewing; A. Pool, M. Pritchard, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Cnllen, M. Siler, B. Siler, M. Reynolds, B. Golsen, H. Peak, 31. Jackson, J. Brown, S. Cash, I. Yates, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey. F. Middleton, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson'; L. Walsh, J. McDougall, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, C. Orr, M. Redfield, E. McDougall, K. Hudson, J. Corrigan, and M. Derby. '
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	. .
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, N. McGrath, I. Mann, A.
McGrath,E. Simpson, C.and M. Hughes, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier and A. Schnurrer.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3rd Sr. Class—Misses M. O’Connor, B. Wilson, M. Car: lin, M. Cravens.	.
1st Prep. Class—M. Pritchard, E. Lange, 31. Schultheis, A. Cullen, 31. and B. Siler, L. 3IcKinnon, M. Reynolds, B. Golsen.
Ju. Prep. Class—C. Yates, L. Kirchner. A. Goewey, 31. Hogan, F. 3liddleton, L. Hutchinson, A. Ewing_N. 3Lann, L. Walsh, N. McGrath, J. SlcDougall, M. Huffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin,”C. Orr, 31. Redfield. " '	‘
190	THE SCHOLASTIC.
1st Jr. Class—A. Peak, I. Mann, E. McDougall, K. A Hudson, J. Corrigan, A. McGrath, E. Simpson, C. Hughes, 2a
M. Hughes, M. Derby.
2nd Prep. Class—J. Brown, S. Cash, H. Peak, Summers.
2nd Jr. Class—R. Goldsberry, A. Schnurrer and Mier.
M.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses E. Quinlan, R. Spier.
2nd Class—Misses N. Foote, A. Smith, R. Green, J. Kreigh, L. West.
2nd Div.—Misses J. Ntinning, M. Julius, K. Greenleaf-
3rd Class—Misses E. O’Connor, J. Kearney, K. Hutchinson, S. Harris.
2nd Div.—Misses A. Harris, E. Dennehey, L. Wyman, L. Tinsley, M. Cravens, L. Henroten, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, J. Stimson.
• 4th Class—Misses J. Locke, A. T. Clarke, A. Dilger, L. Bradford, C. Morgan, J. Bennett.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Wilson, M. Faxon, A. Duncan, L-Kirchner, A. Byrnes.
5th Class—Misses M. A. Roberts, M. McKay, M. Redfield, A Cullen, L. McKinnon, L. Johnson, L. Hutchinson, M. Pritchard,’ A. Allen, M. Riley. M. Jackson, L. Ritchie, E. Bowman, M. Bryson, A. Lehman, F. Dilger.
2nd Drv—Misses A. Curtin, E. and M. Thompson, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, R. Canoil, M. Johnson, C. Orr, A. O’Connor, E. Botsford.
6th Class—Misses A. M. Walsh, L. Walsh, H. Peak, C. Woodford, E. McDougall, J. McDougall, N. McAuliffe, F. DeLong, J. Stough, L. Vinson, A. Goewey, E. Dougherty.
2nd Div.—Misses M. O’Connor, R. Neteler, L. Brownbridge, A. Sweeney, S. Hole, M. Reynolds, M. Quill, B. Siler, A. Smith, M. Siler, C. Thayer, N. McGrath, E. Simpson, M. Brady.
7th Class—Misses F. Repnetan, E. Sweeney, I. Edes, E. Edes, M. Daily, S. Cash, M. Anthony, C. Maigrey, H. Parks, L. Kelly.
8th Class—Misses A. McGrath, K. Hudson, J. Brown.
9th Class—Misses J. Corrigan, M. Bell, A. Ewing.
10th Class—Misses C. Hughes, M. Hughes, L. Goldsberry, M. Derby, I. Peak, M. Hoffman.
Harp—Misses E. O'Connor,M. Wicker, M. Walker.
Organ—Misses L. Moran, S. Moran, E. Cody.
—Ladies should remember to keep their mouths shut when going out of a warm room into the cool air. In fact, it wouldn’t hurt anything to keep them shut most of the time.
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in G, 12 and 18 months, . with interest. •
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
J. STAGE,
COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc. ^“Orders expeditiously attended to Jgb
Office with 31. Stover. Room 22, over Wills & Stems,
Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
CARPENTER HATTER!

105 MICHIGAN St. dec 5-i^tf.
nov 28-J^tf.
SOUTH BEND.
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles, -	-	...	_ Michigan.
A. McKA¥, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house
nov 28-t£tf.
THE SUN.
WEEKLY AND DAILY FOR 1875.
The approach of the Presidential election gives unusual importance to the events and developmcts of 1875. We shall endeavor to describe them fully, faithfully, and fearlessly.
THE WEEKL Y sUN has now attained a circulation of over seventy thousand copies. Its readers are found in every State and Territory, and its quality is well known to the public. We shall not only endeavor to keen it fully up to the old standard, "but to improve and add to its variety and power.
THE WEhKLY SUN will continue to be a thorough newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it, condensed when unimpor taut, at full length when of moment, and always, we trust, treated in a clear, interesting and instructive manner.
It is our aim to make the WEEKLYSl'N the best family newspaper in the world It will be fall of entertaining aud appropriate reading of every sort,but will print nothing to oftend the most scrupulous and delicate taste. It will always contain the most interesting stories and romances of the day, carefully selected and legibly printed
The Ay. icultural Department is a prominent feature in the WEEKLY SUN, and its articles will always be found fresh and useful to the farmer.
The number of men independent in politics is increasing, and the WEEKLY SUN is theirpaper especially. It belongs to no party, and obeys no dictation, contending for principle, and for the election of the best men. It exposes the corruption that disgraces the country and threatens the overthrow of republican institutions. It has uo fear of knaves, and seeks no favors from their supporters.
The markets of every kind and the fashions are regularly reported in its column-".
Tne price of the WEEKLY SUN is one dollar a year for a sheet of eight pages, and fifty six columns. As this barely pays the expenses of tne paper and priming, we are not able to make any discount or allow any premium to friends who may make special efforts to extend its circulation. Under the newlaw, which requires payment of postage in advance, one dollar a year, with twenty cents the cost of prepaid postage ndued, is the rate of subscription. It is not necessary to get up a club iu order to have the WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Anyone who seuds one dollar and twenty cents will get the paper post-paid for a year.
We have no travelling agents.	dec 12-6t.
THE WEEKLY SUJV.—Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only’ $ 1.20 a year, jwstage prepaid. No discounts from this rate.	..
THE DAILY STJW.—A large four-page newspaper of tweenty-eight columns. I aily circulation over 1 20,000, All the news lor 2 cents. Subscription, postage prepaid, 55 cents a m.mli, or 6.50 a year. To clubs of IO or over, a discount of 20 pet cent.	, -
Address, “THE SUN,” New Yorlc city.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
101
I	THE
!	. ‘‘AVE MARIA,”
j	A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
!	' Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God. '
>	Published Weekly at
•	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
,	ENCOURAGED AND APPROTID BY
. HIS HOLINESS POPE PUTS IX,
And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the interests os the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians. but solely to sn< h as love the Mother ol Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to ' the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.	■ *
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month. '	'
. a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments '	. within the space of one year. ( ’	-	'
Terms :
One Year, -	-	-	-	-	-	- S3 00
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 00
Five Years, -	-	-	. -	-	-	-	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	- .20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc, should be addressed to
Editor of “AVE NARIA,”
’	Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JTOTI^E J)AME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles'from the nourishing city of bnnth Bend.
The site of St. Mary's is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. 1c would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study. '
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
'	Notre Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
SSontli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagou Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stav at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary's can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7 8m
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
----------o--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
9<l Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
FURNISHING- GOODS, -
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.
our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clothing is Cheap. If yon don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Onx" Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of ClottlS. Cassi- -meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
HORTON & PALMER,
DEALERS IX
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS,
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
---o--
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices.
No. 72 Washington street, • South Bend, Indiana.
%o21-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-
Choice Mixed Candy -	-
Caramels -	-	-	■ -	-
Molasses and Cream Candy -
15c.
25c.
35c.
35c.
25e.
Proportionately Low Prices to Wliole-sixle Casli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coonley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College eveiy Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
o24-tf
192:
THE SCHOLASTIC
iBOO-TS & SHOES.
TO THE STUDENTSI-
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—IVE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK,
SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE
—AND—
* Superior to any ever offered in this City, o---------------------
WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING];
—THAT—
FKOM OUR FACILITIES '	—AND—
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with a call.	Respectfully,
D. H. BfLBER, &■ Bro.,
1OO Michigan Street,	.
o24-2tn	South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
2.35 A. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.35 r. x.; Buffalo. 8.55 r. x.
10.38 a. x. (No. 2), Mail, overMa^n Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. m. ; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 a x. (No. 4), special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 50; Cleveland, 10.10 r. x.; Buffalo 4.05 a x.
9.11 p. x. (No. 6>, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives . at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. x.
■7,54 p. x. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. x„ Cleveland 7.05 a x., Buffalo 1’10 p. x.
3.55 p. x. [No.70], Local Freight.
SUING WEST.
3.20 a. x. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte,-4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. x.
4.50 a. x. (No. 5). Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Cnicago, 8 00 a. m.
5.35 p. x. (No. .7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives a-Laporte. 6 55: Chicago, 9.10 p. x.
4.51 p. x. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. m. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 . a. x , Chicago 11.10.
730 a. m. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors aie positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agejit. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H Parsons, Snu't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent. .
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t
BOUISVILLE JJ. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.R.
On and. ufter auuday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains past New Albanyanc
Salem Crossing, as follows: GOP NG fOB T U.
Pass ................7 29 p x.
Freight..............2.48 A. x.
Freight..............8 57 r. x.
Passi...... ........ .9.24a.m.
GOINGSOUTH.
| Pass ............8	23 p.rc
| Freight.....10 47 a x.
| Freight......"....4.45 a.x. Pass........  11.23	a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Age.it.
Michigan Central Railroads
WINTER ARRANGEMENT, Taking effect December 6th, la74.
■ Going East.	Arrive at Detroit.
Trains.	Leave Chicago. Leave Niles.	
NIail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02 a a	’	5 45 p m
Day Express -	- 8 30 am	1147 am	6 30 p m
Accommodation -	3 35pm	-7 35pm	
Atlantic Express - 5 15pm	8 53pm	3 30 am
Night Express	- 9 CO p m	12 45 p m	8 00 am
Going >v est.	
Trains.	Leave Detroit. Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00 am .	4 05pm	8 05 pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20 p m	9 00 p m
Accommodation- 150pm	‘630am	10 35 a m
Evening Express - 5 40 pm	2 3" am	6 3>am
Pacific Express - - 10 20 p m .	5 00 a m	8 30 am
AIR LINE DIVISION. Going East.	
Trains.	Lejve Chicago. Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit,
Mail -	-	-	5 00 am	910 am	5 45 p m
Three Rivers Ac. - 3 35 p m	7 40 p m	
Atlantic Express. - 515 pm	9 CO pm	3 30 am
Going est. .	
Trains.	Leave Detroit. Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail. -	-	-,709am	3 50 pm	8 05 pm
Three Rivers Ac., -	.	,	. 61" am	10 35 a m
Pacific Express - - 10 20pm	455am ’	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH-BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 00 a m. 11 00 a m. 6 30 p in, *9 00 a m, *7 00 p m.
Arrive at Niles—S 45 a m, 1145 am. 7 lUp m *9 40 a m, *740 pm.
Leave Niles—6 39 a m 9 20 a m. 510 p m, ’ 8 00 a m. + 5 00 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am.ltt 03 a m. 555pm, + 840 am, + 540pm NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive from South Bend and leave f'r the East, via Niles, ■
8 07 am, 11 OS am, 6 18 pm,+ 9 07 am, +7 07pm.
Arrive from Niles and depart for South Bend.	.
707 am, 942 am, 546pm. +832 am, +532pm.
Trains marked thus * + run Sundays only.
C. D. WHITCOMB. General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING. Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE. Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H C. WENTWORTH.	W.B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
tJJr'RAIN'S leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Qj) Madison Street Bridge, as follows: •
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St.Louis and Spri n "field Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via J ackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
•9:30 a.m.
•9:45 a.m.
*9:30 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
*8:00 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m.
-*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 .m.
17:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m
* Except Sunday. + Ou Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex-« cept Saturday. E Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train. ’	_ ..
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, . CHICAG®
PE.OSTLVAJI1A COTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars; are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m ‘ '	-	--	-
2d train “	- “	5.15,p. m.
3rd train “	*•	9.00. p. m.
Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* “	“ n 41 a m .*
—.	,--- li D p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and ’o --a, and Manusfieid with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. -
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	-
J. M.C. CRElGHi’uN, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh. ,’A
D. M. BOYD, Jit,, Gen Pass and Ticket Ag’t. Plnelphia. >
F. R. MYE.-ia. Geu‘1 Pas? and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh
W. C. CL ELL AND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. ' ~
♦Second day. .	-[
L
