J
A oi re Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 17, 1876.
Number 42
An Impromptu.
[We had been at our poet for several days to furnish us with a poem for this number of the Scholastic, and, though he promised to give us something, we didn’t get it. At last we collared him, and telling him we wanted two stanzas of four lines each, he wrote the following to get rid of us:]	.
Two Stanzas.
Oh, how refreshing! how sublime! How like the dews of Hermon!
How glorious to the end of time Is Major General Sherman!
Whatever fate may shape our ends, Where’er it may consign us, While Sherman still our flag defends We never shall be minus.
Philip Freneau.
In the early history of the United States we meet with the names of but few poets, and these not even of a fourth-rate order. There were many things which caused the men of those days to neglect altogether or, at least, to pay but slight court to the muses. Chiefly among these causes was the fact that in those times men were acting one of the grandest of epic poems. Their minds were too busily engaged in the stirring events which were then taking place. They were too much absorbed in the active duties of life to dally with the muses. There were lands to be cleared; the resources of the country to be developed; a commerce to be established; a nation to be founded. When matters like these filled men’s minds can we wonder that Apollo should seek other climes and leave these men to politics, to jurisdiction and to statistics?
Then again, all colonists look to their mother-country for their literature. The ancient Greek colonies took with them the poems of Homer and Hesiod. None of the Roman colonies created, for a long time at least, a literature of their own. It was not until some eighty years after Christ that Spain produced a Latin author of any note. What writers did Great Britain present to the world during the entire time in which the Romans occupied the island ? All of the Roman colonies depended upon Rome for their literature. Then again, when the nations from the North occupied the territory of the Romans, they brought with them their wild legends, and these served them for their fireside tales.
The same has been the case with all modem colonies. The Spanish, French, and Portuguese colonies were not, and are not to this day, prolific in writers of note. The
East Indies have not as yet built up a distinctive literature. Nor has Australia. The same was the case with the American Colonies until they separated themselves from all con-. nection, politically, with the mother country.
It was usual, half a century ago, in England, to sneer at all literary pretensions put forth by the United States, and the Edinburgh Review asked in derision, “Who reads an American book?” We can see, now, how unjust any such treatment was. It was but natural that the Colonies should cherish the rich legacy of literature left them by their ancestors in England, that they should claim Milton and Shakespeare and Spenser as belonging partly to them. It was but natural that they should mould and fashion their thoughts after the models left them. The moral feelings, domestic tastes and habits of life of Americans were the same as those of the mother country—at least in all the essential points. Naturally enough, then, they retained the style of expression which they received from their forefathers. These, then, are the reasons why no strikingly original composition was ever given to the world by the Americans some eighty years ago.
The literature of a country is built up by degrees. Before Homer, there lived rude writers of songs. Before Virgil, came Ennius—before Ennius, the minstrel. What were the poets who preceded Chaucer? In a like manner our earlier poets were the mere forerunners of the great poets who were and are yet to come after them.
Before the Revolutionary War there was written by Americans very little verse worth preserving, but with the dawn of independence a new era began to dawn also in the history of our literature. Among the first of the poets of the time of the Revolution was Philip Freneau.
Freneau was born in the city of New York,' on the 13th. day of January, 1752. He was of French descent, his ancestors having removed to America on the revocation of the edict of Nantes. In his fifteenth year he entered the College of New Jersey. Here he made the acquaintance and became the warm friend of James Madison, the future President of the United States, and of Hugh H. Brackenridge, who became well known in later years as the author of “Modem Chivalry.” These three friends were highly-gifted with satirical powers, and they took, occasion to use them not only against those students-who were leaders of rival parties, but also against all prominent public men who were opposed to the rising enthusiasm of the people for liberty.
In the year 1768 Freneau wrote the “ Poetical History of the Prophet Jonah,” and a tale, “The Village Merchant.” He graduated in 1771. With Brackenridge he wrote his valedictory exercise, “The Rising Glory of America.” This poem was a dialogue in blank verse, and contains many animated and vigorous descriptions.
658
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Freneau’s first intention was .to devote himself to the Law, but for some reason he abandoned this design. After leading a desultory life for some three years, he went to sea. In 1775 he turned up at New York, where he be. gan the publication of political burlesques and satires, for which at a late day he became quite popular. The speeches of the king and his ministers were travestied in an amusing manner; every event of any importance which happened ‘ was taken up by him and celebrated in easy flowing verse, none the less welcome to the American Whigs in that there was a strong tinge of coarseness. In 1776 he was in the West Indies, where he wrote his two poems, “ The House of Night,” and “ The Beauties.of Santa Cruz.” Three years afterwards he was in Philadelphia editing a literary journal. This periodical was not successful, and he again betook himself to the sea. He sailed in May, 1780, in the ship Aurora, which was captured by an English cruiser off the Delaware. Freneau was sent to the prison ship, where he suffered much from ill-treatmem;. After some time he was released, and he returned to Philadelphia where he wrote a poem in four cantos entitled “The British Prison Ship,” in which he described with great energy and force the brutality of his captors. In 1781 he edited the Treeman) s Journal, published in Philadelphia by Francis Bailey. In this journal he published his “ Philosopher of Forest.”
In 1784 Freneau translated Abbe Robin’s Nouveau Voyage dans VAmerique Septenirionale en Tann^e 1781. During the following years he wrote much both in prose and verse. The first edition of his poems was published by Bailey, in 1786, under the title of “ The Poems of Philip Freneau; Written chiefly during the late War.” His second volume was published in 1778—“ The Miscellaneous Works of Mr. Philip Freneau: Containing his Essays and Additional Poems.” In this second volume are a number of Freneau’s best pieces.
Freneau was for some time connected with the New York Advertiser, and afterwards, when he became translating clerk in the State Department, under Mr. Jefferson, he became the editor of the National Gazette at Philadelphia. The articles abusive of Washington which appeared in the Gazette gave the paper an infamous reputation, and though Freneau stated under oath that Jefferson did not compose or suggest any of the articles, yet the author of the Declaration of Independence certainly approved of them. Freneau in his old age acknowledged that a number of them were written by Jefferson.
In 1793 the publication of the National Gazette was suspended. In 1795 he edited the Jersey Ghronide, published at Middletown Point. The periodical was not a success, and died in one year on account of its opposition to Washington. In 1797 he became connected, for about six months, with The Time-Piece, published at New York. In 1798, Freneau went to South Carolina. The following year he visited the island of St. Thomas; he repeated his visit in 1801. In 1804 he was at Teneriffe, andfin 1806 we find him back at New York, which city he leaves the same year in command of the ship Industry, for the West Indies.
Freneau had in the year 1795 issued a volume of poems. Another volume he published in 1809, when he had given up his seafaring life. When the war of 1812 broke out he again appeared as a poet, and sung the victories of the navy. His poems are still popular among our seamen. These poems were collected and published in a volume, in 1815, entitled, “ A Collection of Poems on American Affairs.”
In his old age Freneau resided in New Jersey, but made occasional visits to Philadelphia. He perished in a snowstorm, in the eightieth year of his age, during the night of the 18th of December, 1832, near Freehold. Memoirs of Freneau may be found in Griswold’s “Poets and Poetry of America,” and in Duyckinck’s “ Cyclopaedia of American Literature,” to which memoirs we are indebted for most of the facts mentioned in this short paper.
Freneau was a man of much genius. He possessed great power in influencing the public mind of the day by his poetry. Had he chosen more suitable subjects, more of his poetry would be read at the present day than is now the case. Most that he did write was written for his own. times, and with his own times has died. That more would have survived, is evident from the fact that whatever he wrote not directly touching the events of his day is still to be met with in our readers and selections from the poets. “ The Dying Indian” is still read and admired, as it deserves to be. “ The Indian Burying Ground ” is a beautiful little poem, from which Campbell did not hesitate to steal a line. Freneau says:
“By midnight moons, o’er moistening dews. In habit for the chase arrayed, •	•
The hunter still the deer pursues,—
The hunter and the deer, a shade! ”
In Campbell’s “ O’Conor’s Child ” we have—
“Now o’er the hill in chase he flits—
The hunter and, the deer—a shade.”
Neither did Sir Walter Scott disdain to borrow from our poet a beautiful idea. Freneau writes in his lines “ To the Memory of the Americans who fell at Eutaw Springs”:
“ Then rush’d to meet the insulting foe;
. They took the spear, but left the shield.”	-
Scott, in his introduction to the third canto of “Marmion,” says:
“ When Prussia hurried to the field, And snatched the spear, hut left the shield.” Freneau had great satirical powers, and he used them without stint. He scrupled at nothing in using them against his opponents. His were no keen, polished thrusts, but were heavy blows. His weapons were not those always polished and sharpened, but rather those that were often blunted and coarse, and made the wounds they gave rankle and fester. His invective was coarse and insulting, but he used it with great effect. He lived in war times, and his writings are mostly tinged with a warlike spirit. He battles against all those who oppose him in the least of his principles. His wit and his verse are to him what the sword and shield are to the soldier. He seldom draws them unless to attack or to defend. Occasionally he uses them for sport, but he generally unsheathes his sword for an earnest fight.	.
Freneau handles his versification with great skill. The triple rhyme in octosyllable measure he uses with uncommon skill. But what is remarkable in him is, that at a time when all poets followed without any protest in the beaten walk trod by Dryden and Pope, Freneau followed a path wholly new. He is no imitator. The incidents which he commemorates in verse are often the facts and realities which he met with in everyday life. Over these he threw the glow and romance of poetry. If the poems of Freneau are little read to day, it is not because they are not meritorious.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, .	659
On Bells.
From remote antiquity, cymbals and hand-bells were used in religious ceremonies. In Egypt it is certain that the feast of Osiris was announced by the ringing of bells. In the time of Moses, Aaron and other high-priests were Ordered to wear small bells attached to their garments or vestments. The priests of Cybele used them in their rites. The Greeks employed them in their camps and garrisons, and the old Romans announced the opening, of the baths and of business by the ringing of bells.
Their first introduction into Christian churches is usually ascribed to Paulinus, Bishop of Nola, in Campania, A. D. 400; but there is no evidence of their use till a century later. They were introduced into France about the year 550; and Benedict, Abbot of Wearmouth, in England, brought one from Italy for his church in 680. Pope Sa-binian, in 600, ordered that every hour should be announced by sound of bell, that people might be warned of the approach of the hours of devotion. Bells came into use in the East in the 9th century, and in Switzerland and Germany in the 11th. Several specimens—some of them, it is believed, as old as the 6 th century—are still preserved in Ireland, Scotland and Wales. They are made of thin plates of hammered iron, bent into a four-sided form, fastened with rivets and brazed. Perhaps the most remarkable is that which is said to have belonged to St. Patrick’ and known as “ St. Patrick's Bell." It is six inches high, five inches broad, and four inches deep, and is kept in a case or shrine of brass enriched with gems and gold and silver filigree, made, as is shown by an Irish inscription, between the years 1091 and 1105. The bell itself is mentioned in the annals of Ulster as early as 552. This valuable relic of antiquity is preserved-in the city of Belfast. The four-sided bell of St. Gall, an Irish missionary, is pre-erved in the monastery of that name in Switzerland, where St. Gall died in the year 646.
It will be seen from the above description] that the cowbells now in use are an exact pattern of the first and most ancient bells ever used; from engravings of these old bells now before the writer, a person would suppose that they were taken to represent the bells we hear tinkling at the necks of our cows and sheep when roaming through the woods; and it will require but a small stretch of fancy to suppose that we are listening to the sound of what was formerly thought to be a fine bell, calling our forefathers to prayer.
Church bells were for a long time comparatively small; a cast bell, which a king of France presented to the church of Orleans in the eleventh century, and which weighed only 2,600 pounds, was the wonder of its age. In the thirteenth century much larger bells began to be cast. The bell “ Jacquiline,” of Paris, cast in 1300, weighed 15,000 pounds; another bell, cast in 1472, weighed 25,000 pounds. The famous bell of Rouen, cast in 1501, weighed 36,364 pounds; those of Olmutz and Vienna weighed nearly 18 tons. The first bell cast for the new Parliament houses in London, but afterwards cracked, weighed 14 tons ; that in the Roman Catholic Cathedral in Montreal, Canada, cast in London in 1847, 13% tons; “ Great Peter,” in York Minster, cast in 1845,10% tons; the great bell in St. Paul’s Church, London, 5% tons; and “Big Tom,”at Lincoln, 5% tons, and, if inverted, would hold 4,024 gallons. The Bell Dunstan, at Canterbury Cathedral, weighs 7,000 pounds; the great bell at Exeter Cathedral weighs 12,500
pounds; the tenor-bell at St. Maiy-le-Bow, in London, weighs 5,300 pounds. The well-known title of “ cockney,” in London, is meant to apply to all those who are born within hearing of the sound of “Bow Bells.” The largest bell on the Continent of America is at Montreal, Canada, as given above; and the largest in the United States is at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana. This fine bell was cast at Le Mans, in nearly the centre of France, in 1866. Its weight jis it now hangs is 16,650 pounds; its height and its diameter, seven feet; its circumference is 22 feet, and ts total cost as it hangs was $7,888.67—not including the great frame on which it rests, which cost $500.
The tolling of the “passing bed ” was to give notice to all people within its sound that a soul was about passing to its last judgment, and required that all who heard it might offer up their prayers for the departing spirit. The tolling of the dead-bell was to give notice that a soul had departed to its final account, and requesting prayers for its final repose. “ The curfew bell" was an institution introduced into England for political purposes, by William the Conqueror, and only strictly observed till the end of the reign of William Rufus, his son and successor. All church bells were ordered to be rung at eight o’clock in the night, the object being to warn every person to extinguish all lights and fires at that hour and go to bed. It was in fact martial law, and was intended to keep the English Saxons in greater subjection. The English are very fond of keeping up old customs, and the ringing of the church bell at 8 o’clock every night by the sexton is still practiced in many parts of England and Scotland. This custom was never established in Ireland.
The tocsin bell is rung in times of war, revolution, fire, or other alarm. At this time the bells are rung in a quick, monotonous manner, and in many instances have struck terror into the hearts of the inhabitants of a city.
In all that relates to bell-playing, the people of the Netherlands (the Dutch and Belgians) are the most successful. In some of the church towers of that country the striking, chiming and playing on bells is incessant. The tinkling called chimes usually accompanies the striking of the hours, half-hours, and quarters; while the playing of tunes comes on as a special divertisement. In some instances these tune-playing bells are driven by clockwork on the principle of a barrel-organ or cylinder on which are movable keys, which can be set to any piece of music; in others they are played on by keys, by a musician. The French give the name of carillons to the tunes played on bells, but the English give the name of carillons to the beds on which the music is played.
The tower of Les Halles, a large building in Bruges, is allowed to contain the finest carillons in Europe. There is also a fine set of bells of this kind in the Church of St. Giles, in the city of Edinburg, Scotland; on these, tunes are played for an hour every day at certain seasons, by a person paid for that purpose. Many of the church towers in London and other cities in England are provided with chimes of bells, generally called joy-bells; these are rung in a quick, animated manner, on stated occasions, and at times of public rejoicing—or, as the old proverb says,
“ When all goes merry as a marriage-bell.”
These bells are rung by hand, by a company of men who are well trained to the task, and who ring for any private parties who will pay them. There are three such sets of bells in Dublin, in St. Patrick’s and Christ Church Cathedrals and in St. Werber’s Church.
660
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The finest chime in America is in St. Joseph’s Cathedral, Buffalo, N. Y.; it consists of 40 bells, rung by clockwork ; they were exhibited at the great Exposition in Paris, and received a gold medal. They were lately set up in that fine church. From 1856 until the erection of the chime in Buffalo, the chime of 22 bells in the tower of the church at Notre Dame, Indiana, ranging from 1,400 to 14 pounds, also rung by clockwork, were the finest in America. The ornamentation on these bells is very elaborate, and finely executed. From neglect, or some other reason, the sweet music of these bells has not been heard for a long time. It was most pleasing on a summer evening to listen to the melody of some holy song, such as the “Ave, if ar is Stdla," floating over the surface of the two beautiful lakes that rest almost beneath the walls of the church, the sound thence taken up in echoes by the forests fringing their borders, and carried for miles in waves of harmony, being distinctly heard, at that time, passing over the streets of the city of South Bend. Their position in the tower of the new church will be 100 feet above the ground surface-It is expected that the interior of the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart when finished will present the grandest appearance of any church in the West; its interior length, when completed, according to the present designs, will be 261 feet.
A curious event is recorded in history of the effect produced by the ringing of bells. It may cause a smile in these days, out at the time it happened it was a very serious matter. Clotaire H, king of France, laid siege to the city of Sens in the year 610, when on a Sunday morning, the bells in the tower of St. Stephen’s Church suddenly began to ring. Such a sound the besieging army never heard before ; they took it to be some supernatural manifestation in favor of the garrison, and being seized with a sudden panic they fled from their camp in dismay, which was immediately seized by the citizens, who thanked Heaven for their unexpected victory.
There is a chime of bells in the Church of Shandon, a town situated on the River Lee, in the County of Cork, Ireland, that has received a world-wide fame from a poem written on them by Father Francis Mahony, who wrote over the nom de plume of “ Father Prout.” If the sound of the chime of the bells of Shandon is as sweet as the rhyme that was written in their praise, then will their fame be as lasting as that of the “ Izar Kolokol” of Moscow.
The Russians have a great passion for bells, and the largest bell in the world is the great bell in Moscow, called the “Izar Kolokol,” or Queen of Bells. It was cast by order of the Empress Anna Ivanovna, to replace a great bell cast in the reign of the Emperor Alexis Michaelovitch, but in what year we have not been able to ascertain. This first great bell was called the “Bolshoi ” or The Great. It was : suspended in the tower of St. Ivan, in theKremlin, or royal palace, in Moscow. Russia was not as well known to travellers then as it is now; but Mr. Clarke, an English gentleman, describes it as suspended a little above the surface, on a vast frame, and requiring 24 men to ring it. A number of ropes were attached to each side of the great clapper, when at a given signal they commenced to run backwards and forwards, thus causing the clapper to strike the sides. A conflagration occurred in theKremlin in 1701, the framework of the bell was burned, and the bell with several others fell and was broken. This bell was said to weigh 115,000 pounds, or 571^ tons.
It was to replace this bell that the Empress Anna Ivan
ovna ordered the “Izar Kolokol” to be cast, in 1733. It was cast near the tower of Ivan Velakoi, but after the casting it was found impossible to transfer it to the Cathedral, as Russia did not then possess any engineers of sufficient ability to do so; it was determined to elevate it over the place in which it was cast, and to erect a tower over it there. This was done after great exertion, and the hearts of the Muscovites rejoiced in the voice of their “ Queen of Bells.”
Unfortunately, the new bell-tower took fire in 1737, only four years after it was erected, the frame gave way, and the mass of fire made the bell red hot—it fell and buried itself in the earth, covered with burning timber. The people, in their anxiety to save their bell, poured great quantities of water on it, which caused an irregular contraction and the bell broke, causing a great piece to fall off from its side; in this state it remained for a hundred years.
In giving the dimensions of this bell, I shall quote the words of Mr. Cox, an English traveller, who saw it before it was elevated from the ruins; he says: “Its size is so enormous that I could scarcely have given credit to the accounts of its magnitude if I had not examined it myself, and ascertained its dimensions. Its height is nineteen feet, its circumference at the bottom 63 feet 11 inches, and its greatest thickness 23 inches; it is supposed to weigh 432,000 lbs. It was cast in the reign of the Empress Anna Ivanovna, but the tower in which it was suspended taking fire, it fell, and a large piece was broken out of it. It lays in a manner useless.”
When the Kremlin was burned at the time of the French invasion in 1812, the Bolshoi bell, and 32 others which were ruined in the conflagration, remained buried in the ruins, but on the arrival of the Emperor Alexander in Moscow, in 1817, he ordered these old bells to be excavated and new metal added and the whole mass recast into a new bell which weighs 180,000 lbs; this bell stands 20 feet high, and is 18 feet in diameter; the clapper alone weighs 5,900 lbs. The great melting took place on the 7th of March, 1818, in presence of the Greek Archbishop of Moscow, who gave it his benediction, most of the great officers of state, and a vast number of the inhabitants, who proved their devotion by throwing great quantities of gold and silver plate and jewelry into the fusing mass, as their forefathers had done before them at the casting of the original bells then being refounded or recast.
On the 25th of February, 1819, the new bell of Alexander was moved in great pomp from the place of casting to the cathedral, part of the walls of which had to be torn down to allow it to enter; the citizens contended for the honor of assisting to draw it along; when it arrived at its destination the people rushed to congratulate Monsieur Bogdanof, the directing engineer, who came near losing his life in the rush, and had nearly all his clothes torn from his person, to be held as tokens of remembrance of his great exploit.
About this time it was resolved to attempt the raising of the great “Izar Kolokol,” but there was no Russian engineer willing to undertake the task, its weight being about 432,000 pounds. A French engineer in the service of Russia reported favorably on the work, and he, Monsieur de Montferrand, commenced by excavating round the bell and constructing enormous frames and numerous capstans and lifting machinery. When all was ready, silence was ordered, and the people beheld with awe and reverence
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	661
the huge monster slowly rising from the tomb in which it had lain for 100 years.
Monsieur de Montferrand began his difficult task on the 26th of July, 1836. All being ready, at 5 minutes past 6 a. m., September 30th, 1836, the signal to “Hoist away” was given; nothing was heard but the creaking of capstans and the voice of the director. As the monster rose up out of its tomb, the multitude seemed spell-bound, and at the breaking of some of the cables they were seized with terror and fled en masse. All being again set to right, the work proceeded, and at the conclusion of 42 minutes, 33 seconds, the resurrected bell stood above the surface of the earth. Great beams, forming a platform, were passed under it, and with the assistance of rollers and other means it was passed along, through deafening cheers, to its final restingplace, on a great platform of stone, near the tower of Ivan Velikoi, to which it was elevated by means of an inclined plane.
Tte broken piece is so placed that persons can pass to the inside; the interior has the appearance of a great tent, in which the services of the Greek Church are at stated times celebrated. The Emperor ordered a ball and cross to be placed on the top of the bell; this has increased its height to 21 feet, and in order that the new addition should consist of the same standard as the bell, a small piece had to be chipped off for that purpose; but with such superstitious care do the Russians regard their bell that an imperial order had to be obtained before any person would dare to violate the sacred bell. Its composition was found to be as follows: copper, 84.51; tin, 13.21; sulphur, 1.25; loss 1.13. The architectural ornamentation of the exterior of the bell is of an order superior to what a person would expect from a people as semi-barbarous as the Russians certainly were at the time of the casting of this vast pile of metal for in reality it has more the appearance of a monument than of an actual bell. The full-size likenesses of the Czar Alexis Michaelovitch and the Empress Anna Ivanovna are in fine sculptures; in large medallions are the Redeemer, the Blessed Virgin and St. John the Baptist, and the Grand Dukes Constantine, Nicholas, and Michael, while round the lower and upper rims are elaborate mouldings and other architectural ornaments- It is to be hoped that the hearts of the Muscovites are now happy in their two great bells, the “ Izar Kolokol ” and the “ Bell of Alexander,” with some 200 other bells of large size in different churches.
China comes next in order in the vast size of its bells. Nankin, in China, was anciently famous for the largeness of its bells, but their enormous weight brought down the tower-in ruins and tbe bells have ever since lain upon the ground. One of these bells is nearly 12 feet high; the diameter, 7^ feet; circumference, 23feet; the figure is mostly that of a cylinder, except a bulge in the middle. The thickness of the metal at the edges is 6 inches. From the dimensions of this bell, its weight is computed at 50,000 pounds, which is more than double that of the great bell at Erfurt, which was at one time supposed to be the largest in the world. These bells were cast in the reign of the first Emperor of the preceding dynasty, about 350 years ago, so that they must be twice as old as the great bell “ Izar Kolokol,” of Russia, that we have spoken of above. Father le Compte in his memoirs of China speaks of seven great bells n Pekin, each of which weighs 120,000 pounds, but the sound of even their largest bells is very poor, being struck with wooden instead of iron clappers. These last bells
were cast in the reign of the Emperor Youlo. Tn China the gong is more used than the bell. '	'	'
The Mahommedans regard the sound of a churchbell with the most implacable animosity, as they hold it to be antagonistic to their own prophet’s teachings; and where-ever the Mahommedans rule, there the sound of a bell is unknown: and in their invasions of Christian countries the first thing doomed to destruction was the belL
It was to supply the place of the bell that induced the Turks to erect those tall and slender minarets that give such a striking character to Oriental architecture. From the top of these slender turrets, at certain hours of the day and night, the voice of the muezzin is heard calling to prayer, and in the still, calm atmosphere of the Oriental countries the stentorian voice of the muezzin can be heard over a city of considerable extent.	J. F.
Osteology.
The number of bones in the human body is estimated to be about 246. Such a quantity seems incredible to some, but nevertheless it is true. The bones have for their function the sustaining and regulation of the body. They must have strength and lightness, else our movements would be sluggish. Without them we could not live, and an injury to the least of them would be painful to us. If any of those in the spinal column are injured we are crippled; likewise an injury to the arms or legs would render us useless for hard work, for an injury to those parts would render the bones placed there unable to fulfil their functions. The bones must be strong, yet light, consequently it is necessary that they should be for the most part hollow. Their cavities are filled with marrow. The bones are covered with a whitish-yellow membrane, namely the periosteum, from the Greek words peri around, and osteon the bone. This membrane covers the whole bone except at the place of articulation. The bones are at this point nearly solid, and to add to their strength and lightness they are reticulated within.	.	•
I will make the following divisions of my subject: Bones of the head, of the trunk, of the extremities. In the cranium proper there are eight bones; ear, six; face, fourteen; teeth, thirty-two; trunk, fifty-two; extremities, one hundred and twenty-six. Having got so far on now in the subject, before going further it is necessary to know the composition of the bones. It—the composition—consists of the following substances: cartilage, 33.00; phosphate of lime, 57.00; carbonate of lime, 8.00; fluorid of calcium 1.00; phosphate of magnesia, 1.00; total, 100.00. If the bones were composed of lime only, they would be too brittle, and would be easily broken; on the contrary, if all cartilage, they would not be strong enough to bear us. Hence it is that by a judicious combination of both we are in that middle mean, in which we see in ourselves the beautiful propriety and adaptibility shown in all the works Divine Providence.
Of course the bones are the transformation of the beforementioned combinations into the bones themselves. But, you may ask, are the bones in the same state in the infant as the adult? By no means. At birth there is only a single bone in the infant, and that is the petrous bone-, ■ which protects the auditory nerve. Of course bones are there, but there only in a cartilaginous state. The ossification does not end until the twelfth year; that is, the bones
i
662
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
are then in that degree of hardness which is found in the hones of an adult. They, however, do not cease to grow; on the contrary they keep growing for a long time, until the skeleton is perfect. I have said the bones of an infant are soft, and they are, even, not together, as in the adult, but separated from each other, especially the bones of the head. The skull of an infant is like an elastic bag, formed of several plates and kept together by the skin. At the back and on the top of the skull there are two openings, where the brain is only covered by the skin, and the circulation or pulsation of the blood can be felt, and these openings are called “ fontanelles,” because it, the pulsation, resembles the bubbling of a fountain.
We will proceed now to the bones of the head. They are eight in number, and are called the frontal, temporals, parietals, occipital, sphenoid, and ethmoid. The frontal is situated in that part of the skull called the forehead; the two temporal bones cover that part of the skull known as the temples; the two parietal bones are placed at or on the back sides of the head. The occipital bone covers the most posterior part of the head, and at its lower edge has an opening for the passage of the nerves proceeding from the medulla oblongata; the sphenoid bone is placed in the interior pf the skull; the ethmoid is at the base of the front portion of the brain and behind the root of the nose. The bones.of the face are fourteen in number: nasal, or bones of the nose, which form the bridge; molar, or cheek bones; lachrymal, or bones situated at the inner angle of the eye. The palate bones are the most irregular in the face, and resemble the letter L. The turbinated bones—so called from their scroll-like appearance—superior maxillary bones or jaw bone, and the mandible. The mandible was supposed for a long time to have been the only movable jaw, but science has proven that the upper jaw also moves. In the jaws are placed the teeth. They are thirty-two in number. The formula is: canines, 2-2; incisors, 4-4; molars, 4-4; premolars, 4-4; wisdom, 2-2. ' The ribs are twenty-four in number. The clavicle is in the uppermost part of the trunk. The scapula forms what is called the shoulder-blade. The bones of the arm are the humerus, ulna and radius. The latter is articulated at the wrist, the ulna with the humerus. The meta carpus consists of five bones, and the carpus of eight. The fingers consist of phalanges, fourteen in each hand—two in the thumb, and each of the fingers containing three. The spinal column consists of twenty-four vertebers and the sacrum and coccyx. At the latter is the last bone of the spinal column, and the extension of which makes the tail in monkeys; it must be the place where Darwin’s ancestors lost their tail. The femur or thigh bone is the largest bone in the body. The other bones of the leg are the fibula and tibia, both corresponding to the ulna and radius of the arm. The tarsus of the foot consists of seven bones and the metatarsus of five. There are other bones in the body, the sesamoid bones.
All these bones are connected together by ligaments, and when so bound are called by the name of skeleton. They are used by the means of muscles. In the spinal column there is an opening like a tube into which the spinal cord fits. At the base of the skull there is another opening for the passage of the cord to the medulla oblongata.
- Here we have given you the bones and their structure; this properly belongs to anatomy, but it was given purposely to show you their functions. The skull contains the brain, which is divided into three parts—namely the cere
brum, cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. Why this covering of so strong a material ? It is because the brain is the principal part of man, and all know that if anything touches the brain death will instantaneously ensue. This, the covering and protection of the brain, is the use of the skull. The function of the spinal column is to give form to the trunk of the body by the assistance of the ribs. The ribs themselves form a strong covering for the heart and lungs. They are a breastwork without which we could not live; for witho'ut them there would be no order, and without order nothing can be done. The former supports the body and the pelvis; the pelvis, a large basin-like bone, supports directly the abdominal organs. The tibia in turn supports the femur, and the tibia rests upon the feet. The feet are arched, and have a springing motion which makes the movements of the body light and graceful. And yet, since the bones themselves are not capable of motion, how do they move ? By the muscles, through the action of the brain. This is about all we know. Miracles are performed hourly—nay, every beat of our heart, every movement of our body is a miracle, and yet we have men who ignore mirades and account for everything by saying it is “ chance.” They pretend not to believe in the soul; say they have none; and still how do they account for their movements, their thinking power, their reasoning faculties ?
Physiology proves clearly the existence of God and of the soul. We know that there is nothing superfluous in our organization. Can we do without the nerves? No. The muscles? No. We feel the loss even of one of our teeth. In our bodily organization we are perfect—nothing is wanting; and all this is due to the omnipotent love, mercy and charity of God.	M. M.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The New York Mercantile Library now contains 163, 459 volumes.
—Lippincott & Co. have in press “ America Discovered by the Welsh in 1170, ” by Rev. Benjamin F. Bowen.
—Lord Lindsay has a poem, in ten books, nearly ready, entitled “ Argo: ” or, The Quest of the Golden Fleece.
—Rubinstein’s “ Maccabees ” is considered a magnificent work, and all the European critics resound its praises.
—A new life of Gen. Israel Putman, by Increase Niles Tarbox, is in the press of A. Williams & Co., Boston.
—We are to have the complete memoirs and correspou dence of Barry Cornwall, edited by his widow, Mrs. Procter.	.
—The number of newspapers and other periodicals now published in Austria is 810, of which 544 are in the German language.
—The Achille Leclerc prize for architecture, of $200, been has awarded by the French Academy of Fine Arts to M. Douiliet.
—There has recently been sold in the Hotel Drouot a document by which Louis XVI granted a pension for life of $88 to the painter Jean-Baptiste Green.
—Carlos Gomez, the Brazilian composer, has finished, and dispatched by the steamer of June 3, a hymn to be played at Philadelphia on the Fourth of July.
—George Elliot will finish the last book of “ Daniel Deronda” by about midsummer, and will spend the autumn months in Enibrun, in the south of France. .
—A collection of water-color drawings of rare Alpine plants, by Mr. Noel Humphreys, is attracting the attention of persons interested in both art and botany in London at present.
—The municipality of Paris have decided to erect an
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
equestrian statue to King Philippe Augusta. The artist is not yet selected. The statue is to be finished, however, by 1878.
—The latest African book is a translation into English of Mr. Edward Mohr’s “ To the Victoria Fall of the Zambesi,” from Low’s London press. It is full of adventure and scientific statements.
—The latest contribution to geographical knowledge is Maj. Herbert Wood’s “ Shores of Lake Aral,” which is full-of information and picturesque description of Russian Turkestan and the adjacent regions.
—The Society of Arts, in Geneva, founded in 1776, attains its hundredth year next month. It will celebrate the occasion by a competition open to foreign artists established in Geneva, as well as to Swiss artists.
—It is said that 94 plans have been sent in for competition for the building of the French Universal Exhibition in 1878. Of these 80 are by architects living in Paris. They are now on exhibition at the Schools of Fine Arts.
—Mr. W. R. Gregg, one of the most fruitful and suggestive of living British essayists, has just published “ Mistaken Aims and Attainable Ideals of the Artisan Class.” It is a rigorous protest against socialism, trade unions, etc.
—The King of Holland has founded a Malibran prize, in the form of a medallion, with the efflgy of the famed prima donna, which will be competed for by pupils of the musical and dramatic institute which the Dutch monarch has established.
’ —Lieut. Col. Gordon’s curiously titled book of travel, “ The Roof of the World, ” is ready in England. It is a narrative of a journey over the high plateau of Thibet to the Russian frontier and the Oxus sources on Pamir, and has a map and 66 illustrations.
—Mme. Raymond Ritter’s long-promised translation of the literary works of Robert Schumann will appear in the course of the ensuing fall, simultaneously in London and New York. Mme. Ritter undertook this translation at the suggestion, and, of course, with the approval, of Mme. Clara Schumann.
—A. monument being proposed to be erected to the memory of V. Bellini, Ferdinand Hiller writes to say he would be happy to contribute himself, but will not vouch for his compatriots, there being no less than four monument subscriptions open in Germany for Bach, Spohr, Mendelssohn, and Schumann.
—The Paris correspondent of the New York Herald says : “I have just heard a rehearsal’ of Signor Verdi’s new quatuor at the Italiens. Sivori played first violin, Garcia second violin, Marsick alto, and Del Sarte violoncello. The work is admirable, and a true inspiration of genius. The andante is especially remarkable. ”
—At a recent concert in St. James’ Hall (London) Beethoven’s “Kreutzer” sonata was played by Herr Rubinstein and M. Wieniawski. Ebenezer Prout, the composer and critic, speaking of the performance says: “I have heard this sonata from, I believe, nearly all the greatest pianists and violinists who have visited England for the last fifteen years, and I can truly say I never heard a performance which was so truly ideal in its perfection.”
—From Weimar the news comes of the enthusiastic reception of Goethe’s “ Faust ” which has been given in its entirety, that is, the two parts, not excepting the prelude prologue in heaven, etc: and for the revival at the Grand Ducal theatre Herr Lassen, the Belgian composer, has composed a score of forty-six numbers, with symphonic introductions, choruses, action-music, etc. Herr O. Deyriant, the stage manager, mounted the drama according to the mode of playing the ancient mysteries.
—The chief textile manufacture of India will be illustrated in a grand national work to be published under the authority of the secretary of State for Indian Council, by the reporter on the products of India. The price of each copy of the complete work will be £150, which simply covers the outlay of its production. It will consist of 13 quarto volumes, 8 royal folio volumes, containing 240 lithographic and chromo-lithographic plates, and BO glazed frames
round a pillar of some six feet in diameter for the exhibition of these plates.	.
—A curious old volume, which is now on exhibition in London, contains water-color sketches of the costumes worn by Mrs. Siddons in the various parts in which she played in the years 1802-1803. They were executed with some care by Miss Mary Hamilton when the actress visited Dublin, and beside a very accurate record of all details of dress, they supply some hint of the variety and balanced grace of the actress’ system of gesture. An examination of the volume confirms the statements made in Mr. Fitzgerald’s biography as to the inelegance of many of Mrs. Sid-don’s costumes.
—The Paris Chronigue (newspaper) announces for sale a series of nine Flemish tapestries belonging to the hospital of Auxerre. They are said to be well preserved works of the fifteenth century, distinguished for the beauty of their design and the richness and variety of their color. They were given to the Cathedral of Auxerre in 1502 by the Bishop Jean Baillet, but were afterward ceded by the chapter of the Cathedral to the hospital. The whole series extends to a length of about 1,280 feet, along which the history of St. Stephen and the legend of the finding .of his relics are represented, with costumes of the time of Louis XU.
—The second “Congres International des American-istes ” is to be held at Luxembourgh on the 10th to 13th of September, 1876. The former Congress assembled at Nancy in July, 1875. Under the term Americanist the members wish to imply that the object of the society is the investigation of any matter illustrative of the history, archaeology, languages, palaeography, and ethnography of America. The Congress will meet under the presidency of M. Wurth-Paquet, President de la Section Historique de 1’Institut Royal de Luxembourg. Applications for membership and prospectus of the plan of the society should be made to Mr. Nicholas Trubner, Nos. 57 and 59 Luigate Hill, London.
—The New York Tribune says: “The Garden Concerts at the Forest estate in Philadelphia are now conducted on the responsibility of the members of the orchestra, and Mr. Theodore Thomas is directing them for the present gratuitously. There are special reasons why prosperity ought not to have been expected during the first two weeks and one of them is that there were no receipts from the restaurent and cafe, those important adjuncts of the establishment not being ready for use. But the fact remains that the metropolis is the only proper place for a metropolitan orchestra. New York made a great mistake in allowing this admirable band to go away, and the demand for its return, among the lovers of music, is loud and constant. If a suitable hall could be found for it here, it would be welcomed with enthusiasm.”
Books and. Periodicals.
—We are under obligations to Messrs. John Murphy ■& Co., Baltimore, Md., for a copy of the “ Sermon Preached at the Consecration of the Baltimore Cathedral" by Rt. Rev. Bishop Gibbons, of Richmond. It is an excellent souvenir of the consecration of the mother church of the United States.
—We have received from Benziger Brothers, New York, Cincinnati, and St. Louis, “The Little Catechism of the Infallibility of the Sovereign Pontiff,” a small but very useful book. In the short compass of twenty-two pages is given a concise yet full explanation of this all-important question.
—Brainard's Musical World for June comes to usprompt-ly and is overflowing with good things. It contains three songs and two instrumental pieces (alone worth the subscription price for a year) and a continuation Karl Merz’ popular “Musical World Letters.” Also all the latest musical news at home and abroad, and interesting reading matter on musical subjects. The low price of subscription ($1.50 per year, postage paid) places the Musical World within the reach of all, and no one interested in the “divine art” can afford to be without it. Specimen copies are sent on receipt of 15c. by the publishers, S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, O.
664
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 17, 1S7"G.
good will shown us by almost all the students on almost all occasions, we feel deeply grateful, and it is this gratitude which has caused us to wish health, wealth and prosperity to those who go, never more to attend class here, and perfect enjoyment to those who leave to meet again in class and play in September. Good-bye!
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC will in September enter upon the tenth year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
Besides the Local News which will weekly appear, the readers of the SCHOLASTIC will find in it many Literary and Scientific articles of general interest.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum,Postpald.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Good-bye.
Before the next number of the Scholastic makes its appearance with the close of the week, most if not all the students will have gone to their homes, some to begin their labors in life, others to spend a few weeks with their friends and then to return to Notre Dame. Before they leave, the editor would bid them all good-bye. To those who have completed their course of studies he wishes every success. May victory perch upon their business in the battle of life; may they ever be in the van on the side of truth, justice and religion, in the incessant warfare against falsehood, injustice and infidelity. And when they shall have fought well in the cause of right, may they enjoy the reward of their labors. We trust that that love for their alma mater which is so keenly felt by the students of other years may animate them, and that we may meet them on the College grounds at every Commencement in future years. To those who go to their friends for a few weeks, intending to return in the fall, we wish an abundance of pleasure and enjoyment. Whether they remain at their homes, visit their friends, or go to the grand Exposition at Philadelphia to see the many sights to be seen there, we wish them a good time. May they enjoy all innocent pleasures, and return at the close of vacation with the flush of health mantling their brow, with kindly remembrances of their two months’ enjoyment. And when they return, may they come with the firm determination of devoting their time while in the study-hall and class-room to the acquirement of knowledge. We believe that we can safely say that the Scholastic has been during the year past on friendly terms with almost every one of the students here. It is true that on one or two occasions we may have displeased a few, but such things happen everywhere in the world. With the very best of intention, men oftentimes do or say things which do not give entire satisfaction to all. Ineeed, knowing as we did that it is impossible at all times to please everybody, we never aimed at doing so. Probably we have succeeded in giving more general satisfaction in following out our determination to be just than we would have been were our aim to please all. For the
The Musical Soiree.
We were only too highly pleased to announce in the last number of the Scholastic that there would be a Musical Entertainment on the evening of June the 11th, in the College parlor. We were pleased, because we feel that more good is accomplished by these musical entertainments than by any other, both for those taking part in them and for those who are simply listeners.
This soiree, given on the 11th, was as successful as most of those heretofore given in the parlor, and though some of the players did not come up fully to the expectations of their friends, yet there were others who far exceeded them. To the Orchestra the highest praise must be given. Its rendering of the Overture to Crown Diamonds and a potpourri by Suppe were better than anything given by them for a long time. The young gentlemen who play instruments in the Orchestra have every reason to be proud; for they belong to an organization which has given as high pleasure to people of culture and refinement as any other association in the College. We hope in succeeding years that when the good things are distributed the members of the Orchestra will always come in for a large share.
There were a number of piano solos played. Mr. Joseph Campbell gave us the “ Last Idea of Weber ”; Mr. William P. Breen, “ The Last Rose of Summer,” and Mr. W. T. Ball, “Love’s Pleadings.” The execution of these young gentlemen was generally good. We would not flatter them by telling them they will rival great artists, but we will tell them the truth in saying they have that in them which in time will make them good piano players.
The violinists appeared to advantage. Mr. William Byrne executed a fantasia (“ 0 Cara ”) very prettily; Mr. A. Burger gave De Beriot’s 11th Air more than satisfactorily; Mr. F. Hoffman rendered Suppe’s “Poet and Peasant ” with credit to himself and teacher, and Mr. Michael Kauffman played “ Ven ich am Fenster Steh ” in very good style. Altogether, the pianists and violinists appeared with considerable eclat, and if they always give the same pleasure to their audiences at Notre Dame we will be satisfied.
The singing was good. Mr. Charles Robertson sang a German song with spirit and expression. As we are not acquainted with the language we cannot tell the name of the song, as it was different from that put down on the programme. Mr. Edward Riopelle sang Schubert’s “ Serenade ” and did it well. The first verse of the chorus by the Choral Union was not given as we would desire. There was a hitch somewhere which disconcerted some of the singers. However, the two following verses were rendered with more freedom and spirit. The accompaniments to the songs and violin solos were played by Mr. Carl Otto to the satisfaction of both performers and audience.
Altogether the soiree was successful. There are some people who expect that those taking part shall play as well as virtuosos, but this is a mistaken idea. The performers are young men studying in the College, and the soirees
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	665
are intended to show the progress of the students in music. In judging of the merit of each individual performer we must always take into consideration the length of time the young man has been taking lessons. It would be ridiculous to expect a young man who has taken lessons on an instrument for six months or a year, to render as difficult music as one who has studied three or four years. Yet it has been the rule here to bring out as many of the pupils as possible at these soirees, in order that everybody may see the progress made by the pupils. As it is the intention of the authorities of the College to have these soirees regularly once a month next year, we would suggest that on the printed programme the number of years during which each performer has studied be given. This would give the audience a better opportunity of judging of the progress made and add to their pleasure.
The soiree over, a few complimentary remarks were made by Rev. President Golovin, after which all retired-

Personal.
—G-. L. Elliot, Agt. M. C. R. R., South Bend, visited us on the 15th.
—Mrs. G. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, spent several days here the past week.
—Peter F. Hoey, of ’79, has a large and lucrative law practice in Gilroy, California.
—Judge Niles, of Laporte, and Hon. A. Anderson, of South Bend, were at Notre Dame on the 15th.
—Mr. J. Lang, of the firm of Lang Brothers, 58 and 69 West Pearson St., Chicago, Ill., visited us on Tuesday last.
—John E. Shannahan, of ’72, and James McGlynn, of’74, were ordained subdeacons, in Chicago, on the 10th of this month.
—We saw many friends here on the Feast of Corpus Christi. It is impossible for us to endeavor mentioning one half of them.
—We learn that Bishop Quinlan, of Mobile, will attend the Commencement exercises the coming week. In all probability there will be four Bishops here.
—We were pleased to see Rev. Fathers Oechtering of Mishawaka, Capon of Niles, P. Lauth of Lowell, and Jno. Lauth of South Bend, at Solemn Vespers' on Corpus Christi.
—Rev. Father Joseph C. Carrier sent last week a very welcome letter from St. Mary’s College, Galveston, Texas, and we are glad to infer from its contents that he is in the best of health.
—Mr. William J. Clarke, of ’74, was admitted as a practitioner to the Supreme Court of Ohio. We add our good wishes to those of his many friends in Columbus, and trust that clients will throng to him with theit business.
—Among the members of the Senior Class of the Chicago College of Law who have passed a successful examination, we notice the following familiar names: David L. Zook, of Goshen, and Chas. Berdel, of Chicago. Charles Berdel was for several years a student of Notre Dame, and graduated there with one of the best classes that ever left the University. We expect to see his name, at no distant day, among the great lawyers of the West.—South Bend Herald. We congratulate our young friend on his admission to practice, and wish him . every success in his profession. If talent will ensure success, then Mr. Berdel will command it.
—“ How shall we settle the labor question ? ” exclaimed a member of the Georgia Legislature, in the midst of his speech. “ By all going to work and earning your living honestly,” thundered a spectator in the gallery. That sentiment brought down the house.—Exchange.
Local Items.	'
—Ho for the Commencement!
—The examinations ended to-day. .
—The lunch on the 11th was A No. 1.
—■The musical soiree on the 11th was very good.
—Look out for the Roll of Honor next Saturday.
—We expect a very large crowd here this coming week.
—0 nly four days more, and then hurrah for Philadelphia!
—The exercises of Society day will begin this afternoon, 4p. m.
—The examinations this year were severe and satisfactory.
—The Alumni Mass will take place at 6 o’clock in the morning.
—The Exercises on Tuesday evening will begin at halfpast seven.
—Our new Campbell cylinder printing press is on its way. Good!	'
—Mr. Bonney did considerable work in photographing, this past week.	;
—The Exercises on Wednesday will begin at 8 o’clock in the morning.	.
—Quite a rivalry has sprung up among several ambitious young men.
—The parallel bars are patronized extensively in the Junior Department.
—Remember to leave your orders for extra Scholastics at the Students’ Office.	-
—Extensive preparations are being made on all sides for the Commencement.
—The motto of “Our Club” for the Centennial year is “ Semper Virescimus.”
—“ The Irish Tutor ” will be here next Tuesday evening, “ by your lave, sir! ”
—We expect a large number of people here from Chicago during Commencement-week.	’
—The Thespians are engaged in rehearsing “William Tell ” for Commencement-week.
—Baseball, etc., the same as usual during the Examinations : i. e„ during the recreations.
—Can’t we have a grand match game between the Juanitas and Star of the East on next Tuesday morning?
—There were about three thousand people at Notre Dame to witness the ceremonies on Corpus Christi.
—Evening walks around the lake are enjoyed by the members of both the Senior and Junior Departments.
—Before leaving, after the Commencement Exercises, everyone should renew his subscription to the Scholastic.
—We understand that Musical Soirees will be given regularly once a month, next year, commencing in October.
—The boat-race will take place at half past three on Tuesday afternoon. A good race is expected. Be sure to attend.	s
—By consent of all the base-ball clubs at Notre Dame, the Juanita B. B. C. is declared to be the Centennial champion nine.
—No one should leave without procuring a copy of the Scholastic Almanac. There are a few more for sale at the Students’ Office.
—The average time made by the boats is from 6:30 to 6:15. The race during Commencement week will be the closest ever made here.
' —Why is the roll of Honor in St. Mary’s report in the Scholastic like the firmament on a clear night? Because it is studded with stars.
—“Act well your part” is the motto of the Thespians. It should be that of every one taking part in the exercises of Commencement-week.
—We again call attention to the fact that if they want extra numbers of next week’s Scholastic they must leave orders at the Students’ Office.
1
666
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The 4th of July will be honored with some display at Notre Dame. A solemn votive Mass of the Holy Ghost will be celebrated at 10 o’clock.
—The business meeting of the Associated Alumni will take place at 9 o’clock sharp. There will be no delay,so let everyone of the members be on hand.
—We hope that the representatives of the societies, as well as the graduates, will speak their orations and notread them as has been done occasionally in previous years.
—The exercises of the graduates will take place on Monday, when we expect to hear a number of good speeches from the young men who shall have finished their collegiate course.
—We hope that the music during Commencement w eek will be first class in order. Good music should be the marked characteristic this year of all the exercises. To your rehearsals then.
—We desire that everybody whose friends visit Notre Dame during Commencement week inform us of their arrival It is impossible for us to meet all, but we would like to have their names.
—It was too bad to have such a rain on the Feast of Corpus Christi, especially as many people had come a distance of,' sixteen or more miles to witness the grand celebration usual at Notre Dame.
—Every member of the Associated Alumni should subscribe for the Scholastic. Very frequently the members change their residence and it is impossible for the secretary of the association to communicate with them.
—Next week’s Scholastic will contain a full account of all the exercises at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, besides the lists of graduates, first and second honors, etc. Unless ordered in advance we will not be able to furnish extra copies.
—The St. Cecilians had a banquet on the 13th. It was quite a grand affair. After the edibles had been attended to, Very Rev. Father Sorin and Rev. Father Colovin made very neat and characteristic speeches. Mr. Tamble was the lucky man this year, receiving a handsome ring.
—It is expected that every one having books belonging to the Lemonnier Circulating Library will return them to-day or to-morrow. As this Library is for the students not of last year or this year or next year, but of every year, all will see the propriety of having the books returned, in order that the Library may remain entire.
—The fine arch erected near the boat-house on Corpus Christi was the work of Messrs. H. C. Cassidy, George J. Gross, T. C. Logan, E. S. Monahan, W. P. Fogarty, E. G. Graves, Jos. McHugh, P. Mattimore, C. Roberston, C. Otto, H. L. Dehner J. Harkin, F. Vandervannet and Mc-Collom, Senior Dep. These young gentlemen deserve much praise for their zealous endeavors and handsome work.
—The postal clerks on the fast train are men who discharge their duty faithfully. It happens sometimes that packages of mail-matter from the printing office here breaks, but these clerks have heretofore, when such accidents happened, taken care to see that nothing was lost. As favors should never be one-sided we will endeavor to see that for the future no such accidents may happen because of loose wrapping.
—It has been proposed to have a green race immediately after the boat race on Tuesday next. Messrs. T. C. Logan
. and Williard Smith, will be the coxswains, and will be on hand to pick out crews from those attending the race. None but green hands will be received. The course will be two lengths of the lake. The winning crew will be elected honorary members of the club for this year, and will receive rosettes.
—The demand for Catalogues has been so great that notwithstanding the large number printed of 1S74-5 not a single copy remains. All are gone, even those usually kept in reserve, and for the past three weeks the Secretaries are worn out extemporizing Catalogues in answer to demands. This speaks well for the prosperity of the College for next year, but will surprise no one who has assisted'at the examinations and witnessed the grand
success of all the classes. The record of this the Centennial year will be well worthy of preservation.
—Great preparations were made here for a procession on Corpus Christi, and had not the rain interfered we would • have seen a procession much finer than those generally in former years. Arches were erected in front of the College, ; to the south and west of the Infirmary, to the south of the printing-office, at the boat-house, along the banks of the lakes, at the Novitiate, at the Scholasticate, and in front of the Church. Altogether there were some twenty arches, some of them beautifully designed and ornamented. The three repositories were built at the Novitiate, at the west of the upper Lake, and on the Scholasticate grounds. The repositories were all tastefully constructed, and beautifully decorated with evergreens and flowers. Flags floated from the Novitiate and other buildings, and the fleet of the Lemonnier Boat Club, decorated with flags and streamers, was anchored towards the centre of the upper Lake. During Vespers, however, a storm came up which continued until half-past six o’clock and prevented the procession going outside of the church. However, one was held inside the church, in which the clergy, cho>r and altar-boys alone took part. The celebrant was Very Rev. Father Sorin, assisted by deacon and subdeacon. The singing by the choir was up to the usual standard. -
—The following is the programme of the Thirty-Second Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday—June 17, 19, 20 and 21,1876:	'
SOCIETY DAY,	.
Saturday, June 17, at 4 o’clock, p. m.
PROGRAMME.
Overture.................................Orchestra
Address—Archconfraternity..............J. G. Ewing
Address—Philodemic Society................W. T. Ball
Address—St. Cecilia Society............A.	K. Schmidt
Music—Piano...............................Carl Otto
Address—Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Con-
ception.................,..........E. Arnold
Song—Duo.................C. Robertson and E. Riopelle
Address—Thespian Society..................Carl Otto
Address—Philopatrian Society	-
..................N.	Vanamee, E Davis and D. Nelson Music—Piano and Violin... .Carl Otto and A. K. Schmidt Address—Scientific Society.............N. J. Mooney
Address—Columbian Literary and Debating Club
.......................................T. C. Logan German Address.........................C. Otto
Closing Remarks....................................
Music....................................Orchestra
ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT.	-
Monday, June 19, 4 o’clock, p. m. Exercises by the Graduating Class. (Introductory to the Annual Commencement) Music...................................Orchestra
Commercial Address................Henry	E. O’Brien
Latin (Character of Socrates)..............J. Caren
“Study of Human Nature’’..............H. L. Dehner
Music—Piano.......................Joseph Campbell
“Phases of Nature”....................F. B. Devoto
Music—Piano................................C. Otto
“Civil Engineering”...................E. G. Graves
Chorus......................................Choral	Union
“Scientific Culture”.........................J. J.	Gillen
“ Geology ”..........................E.	S. Monahan
Music—Piano..................................W. P.	Breen
“ A Glance at the Stars ”....................B. L.	Euans
Closing Remarks..................................
Music...................................Orchestra
’	Tuesday, June 20.	.
FORENOON.
Solemn High Mass (for the Alumni)..........6 o’clock
Breakfast..................................7.30 “
Business Meeting of Alumni............   .9	“
■£***
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	667
AFTERNOON.
Alumni Banquet............................1 o’clock
Regatta...................................3.30 “
Supper........	.4........................6	“
Evening, 7.30 o’clock.
• PART FIRST.
Overture—' Crown Diamonds ”{Auber)......... Orchestra Poem of the Alumni..............J. D. McCormick, of’73 Song—“ Tyrant, Soon I’ll burst thy chains ” {Rossini)
...........••...............  C.	W. Robertson
Prologue..................................W. T. Ball
Song and Chorus........................Choral	Union
PART SECOND. WILLIAM TELL. A Drama in Three Acts, Remodelled for the Thespian Association.
Characters:
William Tell...............................J.	J. Gillen
Gesler.....................................B.	L. Euans
Samern (his Lieutenant)....................H.	C. Cassidy
Rudolph......................:................J. Caren
Henry (Tell’s Father).........................W.	T. Ball
Albert (Tell’s Son)........................A.	K. Schmidt
Verner......	(......C. Otto
Emi......... Patriots in league with Tell.-<..L. Evers
Furst......	( . W. Dechant
Melctal (Erni’s Father)..................E.	G. Graves
Michael..................................E.	S. Monahan
Pierre...................................N.	J. Mooney
Theodore..............................C.	W. Robertson
Austrians, Archers and Soldiers; Savoyards, Villagers, Citizens, Mountaineers, etc.
Music—“Pieces Favorites”....................Orchestra
To Conclude with the Comedy Entitled “THE IRISH TUTOR.”
Characters.
Terry O’Rourke, alias Dr. O’Toole.......N.J. Mooney Dr. O’Flail.............................J.	G. Ewing
Tillwell....................................W. T. Ball
Charles..................................... C. Otto
Tom...................................C.	W. Robertson
Dick.....................................A.	K. Schmidt
Epilogue.................................
ClosingJRemarks..........................
Wednesday, June 21, 8 a. m. PROGRAMME.
Music—Overture—“A Day in Vienna”.......Orchestra
Valedictory.......................T.	F. Gallagher
Music—Piano...............................C. Otto
Distribution of Premiums in Preparatory Classes. Music.................................Orchestra
Chorus—“Day of Columbia’s Glory”....Choral Union
Awarding of Class Prizes and Honors.
Oration of the Day.............W. J. Onahan, Esq.
Awarding of Diplomas in Commercial Course.
Conferring of Degrees in Classical and Scien--	tific Courses.
Closing Remarks.................Rev.	P. J. Colovin
Music................................ Orchestra
Gift of the Edward Mulligan Family.
The above inscription, printed in large characters on a golden scroll at the bottom of a stained-glass window in the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, brings back to our minds “the Ages of Faith,” when crowned heads and princes of Christian blood, as well as the common faithful of inferior rank, esteemed it a singular and precious privilege to see their names immortalized, as it were, the moment they were accepted to be recorded on the walls or pilasters, or on stained-glass windows in the House of God.
Thus, indeed, many a name has been handed down from remote antiquity, to the notice and praises of subsequent centuries, which otherwise would have been long since totally forgotten.
In those happier days of piety, it was justly considered a greater honor to leave such lasting evidences of generous munificence towards God’s own House than large estates, or coffers filled with gold, or the coveted wealth the end of all which was so soon to be met in a coffin, save what was done for God’s honor and glory.
Time then, as ever, often made woful changes in human fortunes, and frequently, as even now, great landlords fell from the pinnacle of high offices and honors to the ordinary walks of society; and yet, when reverses had levelled all, the stained glass of a modest or of a grand Church, revealed and transmitted to succeeding ages the lovely evidences that such a family had left an imperishable record of their religion, and their grandsons and nephews could walk into their generous ancestors’ temple without a blush, if they had preserved their faith, or keep their heads down, if they had abandoned it. Thus it is that honorable names, long since gone from our midst, continue to speak to their descendants the eloquent language of their glorious Faith. Can we not add here that to inscribe one’s name within the precincts of the House of God is not alone to declare forever one’s Holy Faith, but likewise to secure the inscription of the same in the Book of Eternal life?
We do not intend in this notice to describe the superior exquisite beauties of the windows already set in the new church. An illustrated catalogue is now being prepared by the well-known firm who made them. It is confidently asserted that the complete historic panorama which is there represented will attach to this church an interest not at all common in this country. We feel rejoiced that the honor of the first one of these magnificent and classical windows has been secured by the pious family whose name is there inscribed for ages.
Mr. Edward Mulligan, now deceased, has left a family worthy of himself. Thirty-five years ago, his house in Mishawaka, four miles east of Notre Dame, was by common consent the most worthy in the town to receive the priest who said Mass in it, and made it a chapel each time he visited that congregation. From that early day to his last moment in 1868, he remained Father Sorin’s best friend. His memory is held in esteem and affection by all his aquaintauces, and it will be a pleasure to see in this stained-glass window the evidence that his family have not degenerated, but hold in honor the virtues which he left them as a rich legacy.
Roll of Honor.
senior department.
J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Belford, F. Brady, P. Cooney, F. Claffey, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, T. Carroll, John Coleman, John D. Coleman, H. Dehner, J. Dryfoos, J.Dempsey, J. Ewing, F. Bearss, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Herrmann, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Krentzer, J. Krost, E. Monohan, P. Mat-timore,' P. J. Mattimore, H. Maguire, R. Maas, W. Murdock, S. Miller, J. Miller, P. McCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonnell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, C. Otto, J. Perea, T. Peifer, W. Pollard, T. Quinn, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, F. Vandervannet, R. White.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Arnold, W. Arnold, O. A. Bell, A. Bergck, J. Byrne, A. Burger, P. Boos, C. Clarke, W. Connelly, E. Collins, J. Cavanaugh, C. Campau, W. Dodge, E. Davenport, J. English, J. Foley, J. French, J. Fox, F. Flanagan, P. Frane, C. Faxon, S. B. Goldsberry, H. Henkel, C. Hagan. P. Hagan, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, B. Heeb. A. Hamilton, M. E. Halley, M. Kautzauer, J. P. Kinney, J. Knight, M. Kauffman, F. Lang, R. Mayer, J. McClory, M. McAuliffe, G. Nester, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, C. Orsinger, F. Pleins, F. Phelan, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, S. Ryan, W. Ryan, E. Raymond, W. Roelle, K. Scanlan, H. Scott, A. K. Schmidt, P. F. Schnurrer, G. Sugg, F. Smith, E. Smith, P. M. Tamble, W. T. Turnbull, T. Byrnes, W. A. Widdicombe.	*
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
F. Carlin, G. W. Rhodius, O. W. Lindberg, T. McGrath, F. A. Campau, J. A. Bushey, J. O. Stanton, R. J. Pleins, A. J. Buerger, M. Gustine, P. Heron, Geo. Lambin, P. J. Haney, G. P. Lowrey, P. P. Nelson, J. Davis, S. Bushey, C. Bushey, W. McDevitt, W.
668	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Coolbaugh, W. Cash, C. Long, H. McDonald, J. Seeger, W. Van Pelt, Lee Frazee, J. Duffield.
Class Honors. .
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JUNE 15,1876.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. W. Lindberg, T. F. McGrath, F. Carlin, J. A. Duffield, Lee J. Frazee, A. Buerger, F. A. Campau, J. A. Bushey, G. Lowrey, R. Pleins, G. Rhodius, M. Gustine, P. Nelson, J. Davis, J. O. Stanton, P. Heron, W. Cash, W. Coolbaugh, J. Gilbert, P. Haney, G. Lambin, C. Long. W. McDevitt, H. McDonald, P. Nelson, L. Knapp, E. Oatman, J. Seeger, W. Van Pelt.
—On Sunday, the 11th, the Senior Catholic pupils were examined in Christian Doctrine by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Golovin, Vagnier and Zahm. The examination lasted for four hours.
—Many visitors have attended the Musical Examination, among whom we mention Monsieur Lorin and lady, of Chartes, France. The gentleman is Artiste Printre Chevalier of St. Sylvester, Holy Sepulchre, and of Francis of Austria.
—The Latin, French, and German classes were examined by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Vagnier, and P. Lauth. The facility with which the pupils translated and parsed these languages, composed and conversed in them, gave proof of close application and good talent.
—The English studies were examined before three bureaus during six hours a day; this gave each pupil a fair opportunity of proving how she profited by the time allowed for acquiring a knowledge of the branches she has studied. There seems to be a lively emulation among the pupils to equal, if not to surpass, the classes of former years.
—Dress-making, plain sewing and mending claim their proper share of attention, and the premiums to be given in these departments will be a proof of the skill of the pupils in these numerous branches. Fancy-work, one of the graceful occupations of their leisure moments, will also be counted among the industrial arts, and those young ladies who present well executed specimens of their skill will be duly rewarded.
—No list of honorable mentions was sent in this week, a all the young ladies are on the Roll of Honor. The Juniors and Minims, too, are all star girls this week. Their chief regret is that they must soon leave their beautiful flowergardens, which they have cultivated so successfully. No doubt they will at parting commend them to the care of some of the vacation pupils, who will see that they flourish till their return.
—Examination and Commencement are the topics of special interest just now. The examination of the Music Classes has been highly interesting and very satisfactory. The thoroughness of the course has been constantly manifested, from the beginners in the tenth class to the highest classes Theory is so combined with tuition and diligent practice, as to render the pupils able to explain intelligently whatever compositions they perform.	-
—In the examination of the second division of the First Class in instrumental and vocal music the selections were from the best masters, and so much proficiency and good taste was displayed in the performance of them that the class might well take rank as an A No. 1 class. Miss J. Nunning gave a composition of Beethovens; Miss J. Kreigh, one from Mendelssohn; Miss B. Spencer, one of Liszt’s exquisite pieces. Miss O’Connor played with grace and skill two charming selections on the harp. The vocal pieces were rendered by Misses L. Arnold, T. Gaynor, D. Cave-nor. The songs were “Judith” (Concone) waltz song (Faust) Romanzer (Meyerbeer). Each of the young ladies acquitted herself well. The purity and richness of tone displayed and artistic rendering of these songs give promise of future excellence.	.
—The following is the programme of the Twenty-first
Annual Commencement Exercises at St. Mary’s Academy, on Tuesday and Wednesday,' June 20th and 21st, 1876:
■ Tuesday, June 20th, at 3 o’clock, P. M.
“Rondo Brilliant,” Dedie a Moscheles.Mendelssohn
Miss H. Julius.	’
Essay—“Love of the Beautiful ”....Miss I. Reynolds Essay—“Gleams of Sunshine”........Miss M. Reilly
Duo—“ Quis est Homo” (Stabat ifatcr).....Rossini
Misses Foote and B. Spencer. Accompanied by Miss
Kreigh.
Essay—“St. Mary’s Santa Casa”........Miss	K. Joyce
Trio—" Sancta Maria”.....................B. Owens
Misses E. O’Connor, D. Cavenor and M. Reilly. Accompanied by Miss Spencer.
Essay—“ The Bright View of History”. .Miss McNamara' Poem—“Lamps of Affection”.........Miss A. St. Clair
March from “ Tannhauser ” (Wagner,—Transcribed by F.
Liszt) Miss E. O’Connor.
Essay—“Trust, the Key-stone of Friendship’’Miss L. Arnold.
Essay—“ Fixed Principles,'the Ballast of Success,” Miss A. T. Clarke.
Romanza—“Addio Terra Nativa” (L’Africaine) Meyerbeer. Miss D. Cavenor. Accompanied by Miss Foote.
Poem—“The Festive Year”..............Miss	H. Foote
Song—“ Aufforderung zum Tanze” C. M. von Weber
Miss B. Spencer. Accompanied by Miss O’Connor.
Essay—“ The Tablets of Time ”....  ..Miss	E. York
“ Rhapsodie Hongroises," No. 6.........Franz Liszt
Miss H. Foote.
Grand Chorus—“Pour out your Sparkling Treasures.’ From “ Robert,” Meyerbeer.	•
• Vocal Class.
Wednesday, June 21, 11 o’clock, A. M.
Grand Entrance.
Overture to Oberon (C. M. von Weber, arranged by Gottschalk) Harps—Misses E. O’Connor, E. Dennehey. Pianos—Misses Foote, G. Kreigh, B. Spencer, J. Nunning, K. Hutchinson, A. Dennehey, H. and M. Julius.
Chorus—“Let the Celestial Concerts all Unite,” from the Oratorio of Samson (G. F. Handel) Vocal Class. Accompanied by Miss H. Julius.
Distribution of Premiums—Junior Department.
Aria—“Cbe pur aspro al cuore,” from “Enlfuhrung aus dem Serail ” (Mozart) Miss E. O’Connor. Accompanied by Miss Spencer.
Distribution of Premiums—Intermediate Department.
Song—“Variazioni di Concerto”—Sul Carnivale di Veni-zia (Jules Benedict) Miss H. Foote. Accompanied by Miss Spencer.
Distribution of Premiums—Senior Department.
Overture to Shakespeare’s “ Julius Ciiser ” (R. Schumann) Miss H. Foote.
Mellow-Drama (Original) by the Juniors.
Grand Trio and Chorus, “ God is Great,” from Haydn’s “ Creation.”
Trio—Misses H. Foote, E. O’Connor, B. Spencer.
Chorus—Misses M. Gaynor, E. Arnold, A. Dennehey, C. Morgan, E. Cannon, S. and E. Edes, M. Walsh, S. Cash, A. Kirchner, L. Walsh, J. Mitchell, D. Gordon, L. Johnson, B. Wade, H. O’Meara, M. Thompson, R. Casey, E. Thompson, J. Holladay, D. Cavenor, R. De-voto, E. Dennehey, M. Reilly, J. Bennett, I. Edes, A. Cavenor, A. Byrne, F. Dilger, A. Walsh, N. King. Accompanied by Miss Julius.
Conferring Graduating Medals—Academic Department.
Conferring Graduating Medal—Conservatory of Music Distribution of Crowns and Honors—In the Junior Intermediate and Senior Departments.
Coronation—Double Chorus—(two Pianos) (Bollman) Graduates. Accompanied by Miss G. Kreigh. Class Chorus. Accompanied by Miss H. Julius.
Valedictory.......................Miss E. Dennehey
Closing Remarks..................................
“ Fest Overture ” for Retiring (A. Leutner) Harps—Misses
E. O’Connor and D. Cavenor. Piano—Misses H. and M. Julius, E. and A. Dennehey, B. Wilson, G. Wells, M. Cravens, A. Byrnes.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
669
b
OTTO VON TESMARj
TAXIDERMIST,
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, Ill.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural History, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For further particulars address as above.	mhll-tJy
The Enemy of Disease!
THE FOE OF PAIN
TO MAST AND BEAST
Is the Grand Old
Mustang Liniment,
Which has stood the test of 40 years.
There is no sore it will not heal, no lameness it •will not . cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse. mb 11-ly.
St	cadmij.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banka of the St. Joseph Hive.', is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in'the course of instruction.	.
_ Particular attention is paid ,to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, nd hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming scclnsion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address	’
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOTTENAL quoted to the ^onor of the messed irgin, Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS EL, AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, DEKTIST, 109 NdZICjEHZIG-JLIT STREET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYEB TjIATITSTG-STOIT,
60 Washington St.,
Three Boots West ol Blum’s Cigar store,	SOUTH BEND, IND
SS”Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him. a call.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Marta may be mentioned	’
Aubrey be Verb,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor 0. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton,	Eliza Allen Starr,
The Misses Howe, The Authoress oe “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TBHMS :
One Year........................................$	2 50
Five Years.......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)..20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.	•
All subscriptions, communications, books or periodicals for notice, etc., should be addressed to the
KEV. EDITOR OF THE AVE MARIA, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
ESTABLISHED 1852.
». W. & fa.
Dealers in
BOOTS .AJSTZD SHOES,
The Largest Retailing House in the State
Control Wngton sa and lUclilgaa Sts., south bend.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
SPETH,
Corner Wasliing;ton and Alicliigan Sts, (Under Coonley’s Drug Store)
SOUTH BEND INDIANA.
670
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depor, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City tnd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....2	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	40	am	9	00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express..........4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express.....................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 40 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....? 50 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Arrive.
3 45 p.m.
9 35 a.m.
6 50 a.m.
Leave.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.
Peru accommodation................... 5 00 p.m.
Night Express........................10 00 p.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General	Superintendent.
Pitts’burg'li, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
' AND PENNSYLVANIA R. S. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cop. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
O Trains with Through Cars to
° KEW YORK.
No. 2. No. 6.
Day Ex. Pae. Exp Ex. Sund’y Daily.
No. 4.
.Night Ex Ex Sa&Su
9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
1 IS a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
2 20 “	12 15 p.m.	7 05 “
3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m
12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
Lv. CHICAGO... Ar. FT. WAYNE..
“ Rochester.... “ Pittsburgh...
Lv. Pittsburgh.... Ar. Cresson......
“ Harrisburg... “ Baltimore.... “ Washington.. “ Philadelphia.. “ New York.... “ New Haven... “ Hartford .... “ Springfield... “ Providence.. “ Boston........
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. 7 hrough tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. HYBES, G- P. & T. A.
THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
Soutli Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with Dtw, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mflry’s will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, CAPTAIN MILLS, f Proprietors.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD (Of the Class of ’62) ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER EOB ALL THE STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK. Special .Attention Givento Depositions.
®enteal Motel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNELL, Prop.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland240pm; Buffalo 9 05.
IO 36 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35pm; Cleveland 10 10.
13 37 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 a m.	’
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 00; Buffalo, 1 05 p n>.
11 35 p tn, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50am;
Cleveland 7 10 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4,1 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 8 20 am.
4= 54= p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20
8 O1 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a. m.; Chicago, 6 55 a. m.
8 55 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
z	CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	♦Ma’il.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson....: Ar. Detroit.......	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ 6 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 •« 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit....’.. “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30 “	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 00 p-m 715 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 “	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30-“.	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 23 “
Ar. Niles— . 9 00 “	8 00- “
§9 0G a.m. §7 00 p.m
9 07 “	7 07 “
9 40 “	7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m.. 4 2Q p.m. -§8 00. a.m. §5-00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—7’07 ' “ ' 4 56'“	8	32 “	5 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “ ’ . 5 05 “.	8	40 “ ’	5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted... -§Sunday only. . ..
G. L. Elliott, . .	. Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l- Sup’t, Chicago
Henry C. Wentworth; G. P.‘& T.-A.', Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
671
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and. Dealers in Pine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INTO I AN A.
ST? JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, §2.00 Per Ray.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
“STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE of its Designs for cases and ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR.I EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE. CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
CHICAGO.
The Naturalists’ Agency Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, -will visit this city during 1876, so that this win be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly §7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or seU specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fellow of the A. A. A. S., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
C. ZEE. SHEERER, Hats, Caps and Furs, TKTJZNZEZS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and. Gents''Furnishing Goods, Etc., HO	Street:,
SOUTH ZBZETTTD IJSTZD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing1 Goods, Hats Caps, etc.,
109 jMicliigan St.,
SOUTH EZEJSTD,
This Bond
A. McKays Prop., JSTILES, MICHIG-ANT.
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. C. SHIRE,
WHOLESALE
grata iw
1O1 Main Street,
Two Doors Sorth Of EL Gillen’S, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
672
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	\
M. Livingston & Go.,
-A-IRZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
Tlrey Have tile Best Cutter Intlie City, nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Clotlis, Cassimeres, ’Vestings, and Gents’ IPnrnisliing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satislaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE.
94 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
MONALD,
TJEEEJ FHOTOG-KAFHEB,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage ehed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, ere., wilt be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK"
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION., THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY SURPASS ALL OTHERS.
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT t SONS
MUSIC CO.
Go to HENRY HELLER, TITZE CIIATlTTOlSr Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIG-AIM ST.
Work d one to satisfaction. Give me a call.
1*776 MUSIC BOOKS.
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the . Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year-
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner. Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Bine. Yankee Doodle.
To thee, 0 Country. Columbia the Gem.
Watch on the Rhine. ' Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green.' St. Patrick’s Day.
Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’. Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn.
Austrian “	“
Plice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards; 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents.
Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (§1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
CENTENNIAL HYMN
as sung at the Opening Ceremonies in Philadelphia. Words by Whittier. Music By J. R. Paine. In 4 parts, for Mixed Voices. Price in Sheet Music form, 30 cts. In octavo form for Choruses, 10 cts. No celebration this year will be complete without the singing of this magnificent Hymn.
Centennial, Machinery, Horticultural, Memorial, and Agricultural Marches, each 50 cts; Washington’s Old (40 cts), and New (60 cts) Marches. Martha Washington’s Waltz [75 cts] and March. [50 cts]. Grand March, by Downing [60 cts]. Centennial Waltzes by Fliege [75 cts], and Crobe’s Medly of National Airs [75 cts] ; all have Splendid Illustrated Titles! and the best of music.
Centennial Collection
OZF1
NATIONAL SONGS.
An elegant and attractive volume, contains the National Songs of this and 12 other countries, in convenient form for Solo or Chorus singing. In Paper 40 cts. Boards 50 cts.
Camilla Collegensia.	(cioth, §3.00; Giit, $4.00).
New, Enlarged Edition. All the famous College Songs, forming the wittiest, most entertaining, musical and classical collection of genial Songs and Glees for social singing ever brought together.
OLIVER ZDITSOLT & CO., -
BOSTON.
J. E. DUSON & CO., CHAS. H. DUSON & CO. Successors to Lee & Walker,	711 Broadway, YORK.
Tliila.
LYON HEA LY, Cliicago.