Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlctiims ; vive quasi eras moritnrus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 21, 1879.
Number 41.
The Mystic Ladder.
Silence and rest! as on the first great Sabbath, While thro’ the slumbering air
The incense of the fields is wafted upward, In solemn vesper prayer.
Now little white-robed children softly whisper Good-night to heaven above,—
Pure as the scent of blossoms in the springtime Their lisping words of love.
And broken hearts, like crushed and withered flowers, Exhale a perfume sweet,—
Ah, Magdalen is kneeling with her ointments Low at the Master’s feet.
But when at last the weary world is sleeping, From heaven’s jasper walls
In golden showers, like a king’s rich largess, The radiant starlight falls I
O vision of the patriarch in the desert!
One heart your lesson learns,—
Those angels still ascending and descending, The poet’s eye discerns!
E. J. M.
St. Joseph’s College, N. B.
■ -------------
The Time is Near.
The time is near when the students of our universities, colleges and academies will leave the quiet retreats of study, will separate from the many associations of student-life and bid adieu to loved teachers and dear classmates to again spend a summer’s vacation within the happy surroundings of home. Within the student’s range of hopes and desires, there is scarcely a time anticipated with such intense eagerness as the hour when the train bound for home will bring him face to face with those he loves, and with whom he would scarcely ever part were it not for the call of duty again summoning him to the college precincts. And well, indeed, does the student deserve the many joys that a vacation at home generally procures. No one is better able to substantiate this assertion than the student himself; for he could easily prove that a few months’ vacation is given not only as a just reward for the assiduous labors of the scholastic year, but also to remedy a necessity arising from causes immediately to be mentioned.
Some over-fastidious persons, more intent upon their own petty notions and opinions than upon sound views of others, object to the length of vacation generally given the student, or would perhaps reject this term of relaxation entirely. To refute such objections, only one point need be firmly established—the necessity of vacation.
There is a general rule prevalent among those either physically or mentally occupied—a rule without exception, which nature has engrafted upon the constitution of man. Compliance with this rule is rigidly exacted by nature; it is universal. A day of rest followed the six days of creation. As soon as the shades of evening are falling, every animal looks for a nightly abode, every flower closes, every bird is silent; only now and then the notes of the whip-poor-will are heard in the stillness of the night. In the yearly round of the seasons there is stern winter, when soil, animal and plant have retired, as it were, from the busy scenes of spring, summer and autumn—the former resting under the warm cover of the snow, the latter comfortably hidden in some deep covert or recess, whilst the seedling plant is snugly ensconced in the fruit covered by the soil and snow. Indeed, every living germ in nature has a time for work and rest. Within the busy spheres of mankind the same general law is enforced-. The various grades and professions, from the highest executive power to the humble mechanic—all have a time when to lay aside the daily burden of toil and seek rest in retirement and lawful pleasure. This is but natural, and possibly more so to the student than to the manual toiler, for the labors of the former are such as to severely task his mental strength, thereby necessitating a change in order to the preservation of his faculties.
The ten long months from September to July are to the student months of severe toil, of most strenuous effort in the attainment of knowledge—and such constant strain on the mental energies suggests and demands a time of rest. Moreover, the intense heat of July and August seems to be inconsistent with the nature of the student’s occupation. A too heated atmosphere is unfavorable to mental application, because it not only blunts the understanding considerably, but even weakens strength of body—so as to incapacitate the student from performing his usual functions.
The object of vacation is, then, self-evident—it is to restore to the normal standard the intellectual faculties, in a great measure enervated by incessant toil; also to restore the body to its wonted vigor, and thus with a mens sana in corpore sano to begin work anew with youthful strength. This'is the primary object why there is a vacation at all— or why it should extend to two months. But, strange to say, by the majority of students no time is more foolishly wasted or more ignorantly misapplied than that of vacation. Many labor under a gross illusion as to how this time should be spent. Some make it subservient to idle— others to wicked pursuits. Many youths rashly throw themselves into the greatest dissipation, while others give themselves up to an indolent way of living—the former weakening both mind and body by abusing nature, while the latter lazily bury their talents in the cold earth, and
i j
j li
*
I
I i
I
i
634
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
give way to sluggishness, and both classes return to college more enervated than strengthened. Thus the average student, instead of turning his time to the best advantage both from an intellectual and physical point of view, takes an opposite course, leading to precisely opposite results than those which were intended.
Another inducement, not perhaps as urgent as the foregoing, but still indirectly necessitating a vacation, is the relation of the student to parents, friends and acquaintances. This is, subjectively considered, the strongest incentive for revisiting the paternal roof. Each one knows instinctively and by experience that family ties are of earthly ties the strongest. Home, father, mother, what a world of pleasant memories and dear associations do not these words at anytime suggest! But here they receive their fullest significance. Home, the place of my birth, the spot where centre my dearest affections, the nucleus of all my earthly hopes! in thy embrace and in the dear company of father and mother, brothers and sisters, shall I again pass a few delightful months! Welcome, paternal roof! welcome hill and dale and forest surrounding my happy home! Again will I revel amid the delightful scenes of childhood; again will I roam through dale and forest, and rest under the shady oaks on the bank of the sparkling waters. My childhood years will have returned, and I will be myself again. Such thoughts fill the mind of dutiful son and daughter as they draw near the hallowed ground. The clouds of sadness and bereavement o’erhanging the scenes of separation at school are now dispersed by the sunshine of loving faces gladdening their hearts, and making them feel that pleasant as are the associations of college life, the sweet memories and scenes of home infinitely surpass them. “ There is no place like home'' and though our affections for this spot may not always keep aglow, still as long as nature will rule the propensities of man so long shall home remain for us the dearest spot on earth.
“ How I spent my vacation ” is the oft recurring theme of the student’s composition, when again comfortably situated at the desk to begin work. But the minority will, ere school closes, propose the following: “How I am going to spend my vacation.” The plan is reserved rather to chance than to the decision of rational beings; because, owing to a blind impulse of the moment, and the want of restraint consequent upon going home, students generally forget to lay down a definite plan, thereby running great risk of a total misapplication of vacation time. It was said above that vacation is a time of relaxation, not of dissipation, and that its object is to relieve both mind and body from the strain under which they had been placed in the study-hall, and restore them to the normal standard of health and activity amid the restful influences of the . home circle. Now, from this would naturally follow some important hints as to the manner of spending vacation. One is, never to be idle in the strict sense of the word, but take such measures as will secure the attainment of the object proposed. It does not, perhaps, pertain to our sphere to be dictatorial, but the way some are wont to while away vacation hours is so utterly at variance with the object of this rest, that, far from being a benefit, it becomes a positive injury. There are those of preconceived, though false, ideas about the modus operandi who recklessly give themselves up to a deadly intellectual torpor, which is injurious not only to the development but even the recreation of the mind. Scarcely has the
last lesson been recited than the books are closed with a gracious smile, significant of inward satisfaction and the fixed determination to leave them silently and unmolestedly resting on the shelves for the coming months. Students could scarcely make a graver mistake, or one more detrimental to intellectual advancement, than to cast entirely aside, during vacation, all their books and forego every inclination to study. Fatal consequences arise from this neglect. As a garden, left uncultivated and uncared for, harbors in time noxious weeds, which, spreading over flower and plant, cause total destruction to everything useful and beautiful, so does the intellect of the student, when too long idle, yield to foreign and noxious influences, and become in time the depository and nourisher of seeds of destruction.
Without making study, indeed, the predominant occupation of vacation hours, one should not lay it aside entirely. Only the reverse of college life takes place. At college, study predominates, but it is not perpetually on the pro-pramme. In vacation, enjoyment, rest, predominates but at intervals must give way to study. For only in this wise can the equilibrium of mental and physical forces be kept and a normal state of health preserved—or, if lost, regained.
As above intimated, pleasure, relaxation, and rest are first on the programme for vacation. That enjoyment should be sought in innocent, harmless and lawful diversions need not here be suggested. It is an egregious error for some to suppose that the deeper they dive into dissipation, the more corrupted associations they form, the more unlawful pleasures they indulge in, the happier will vacation be spent. In medio stat virtus is true not only of works'but also of enjoyment. For unrestrained addiction to unlawful pleasures leaves just the same hurtful effects upon the bodily organism and mental faculties, as does overwork in related spheres. If on smooth waters we advance gently, but too near a precipice, we are in danger of being hurriedly drawn along with the current, and fall into the surging mass below; if up the stream we venture too near the falling waters, we are apt to he swallowed up in the deep abyss.
Without inclining, therefore, to either extreme—either excessive relaxation or deep-rooted intellectual torpor, one has always at disposal a variety of innocent diversions, calculated to almost realize the ideal of a well-spent vacation. Travel is perhaps one of the most useful, instructive, and exhilarating of diversions. We learn, but at the same time we recreate and amuse ourselves. The idea of travel is correlative with that of seeing many novel and interesting objects—objects grand and .noble. As we dash along with lightning speed o’er an extended plain, or pleasantly row along the channel of some renowned and romautic river, or slowly cross broad rivers, or move along some steep mountain with yawning precipice ’neath our feet, we unconsciously store our minds with images of the beautiful, grand, and sublime,—and create, so to speak, within us a desire to know and love the All-Powerful. Travel enlarges the compass of the mind, strengthens the powers of observation, exhibits in living forms objects about us .of which we heard and read much, creates lofty desires, and makes us acquainted with the outside world in all its aspects—social, political and moral. But in this diversion more than in any other dangers threaten the good and the innocent. Morality is generally the loser: impious associates and intriguing seducers watch the paths of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	635
guileless and endeavor to entrap them and rob them of innocence and virtue. Indeed to many it is the cause of utter ruin to their moral character. In the enjoyment of travel one must proceed with caution, for what is medicine to one, is poison to another.
Those who hail vacation with the most enthusiastic ap-planse generally get weary of it ere it scarce has dawned upon them, but to him who is aware of the necessity and object of vacation, who knows how to spend the leisure days to advantage, who knows how to derive practical knowledge even from mere diversions—to him shall the coming two months be a mine of instruction, happiness and pleasure; the more so as he is in the company of those he loves. The writer’s best wishes accompany all those who have left or are soon to leave for home for a two months’ vacation.	M. L.
A Non-Catholic’s Picture of Cardinal McCloskey.
In a New York letter, evidently written by a non-Catho-lic, and published last summer in a San Francisco paper, the following allusion was made to His Eminence, the Cardinal: “Cardinal McCloskey as a prelate is held in exalted favor, as is manifest from his elevation to his present dignity, having been deemed by the Vatican the one man in all the country most worthy to wear the pallium. As a man he is much esteemed, even by heretics—as the Church holds all those outside the sacred fold—whenever they come in contact with him. It is said that he made a very favorable impression on the College of Cardinals during his late visit to Rome—all the more favorable because it was unexpected. Almost all of them being Italians, with very inadequate ideas of the Western World, they naturally supposed that an American Cardinal would be awkward and uncouth, if not savage. Whatever their anticipations, they were amazed, many of them at least, to meet a highly accomplished, perfectly well-bred gentleman; as the representative of another hemisphere. He compared very flatteringly with the best of them, and one of the number is reported to have said to a fellow-prelate, after talking with him some time, “I thought you told me that Monsignore McCloskey came from America.” The Cardinal has a finely stored mind and a remarkably vigorous intellect, as so many of the Roman ecclesiastics have. I have been told that he is one of the best read men in the city, having a very large general and literary culture, and being proficient in seven or eight 1 anguages. His manners are noticeably quiet and particularly urbane, so much so that many persons are won by them who hold a deep prejudice against his creed. Unlike Archbishop Hughes, he has no fondness for controversy, and is solicitous to keep out of the newspapers. After the habit of the Roman clergy generally, he appears in society like a polished man of the world, never saying or doing anything to betray his sacerdotal office. One of his earnest desires is said to be the completion of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Fifth Avenue and Fifty-first Street, begun twenty years ago. He wants to see it finished, which he is not likely to do, as he is over sixty now. The Cardinal is a native American, having been born on this Island [Long Island, Ed. Scholastic], of Irish parentage. He is tall, well-formed, has a shapely, intellectual head and a pleasant face, wherein spirituality of expression predominates.”
The Charm of Beserve. .
[We find this in the Dispatch, of Ukiah City, Cal. Whoever wrote it knew both how to think well and to write well, and our old student friend, Mr. Gambee, who edits the Dispatch, knows how to make a choice selection. Notre Dame seems to have been prolific in editors: the training of the Scholastic has not been without good results to its boyish contributors. ]
Do not be too anxious to give away yourself, to wear your heart upon your sleeve. It is not only unwise, it is wrong to make your secret soul common property. For you bring the delicate things of the heart into contempt by exposing them to those who cannot understand them. If you throw pearls before swine, they will turn again and rend you. Nor, again, should you claim too much openness, as a duty to you, from your child, your friend, your wife, or your husband. Much of the charm of life is ruined by exacting demands of confidence. Respect the natural modesty of the soul; its more delicate flowers of feeling close their petals when they are touched too rudely. Wait with curious love—with eager interest—for the time when, all being harmonious, the revelation will come of its own accord, undemanded. The expectation has its charm, for, as long as life has something to learn, life is interesting; as long as a friend has somethihg to give, friendship is delightful. Those who wish to destroy all mystery in those they love, to have everything revealed, are unconsciously destroying their own happiness. It is much to be with those who, have many things to say to us which we cannot bear now. It is much to live with those who sometimes speak to us in parables—if we love them. Love needs some indefiniteness in order to keep its charm. Respect, which saves love from the familiarity which degrades it, is kept vivid when we feel there is a mystery in those we love which comes of depth of character. Remember that in violating your own reserve, or that of another, you de stroy that sensitiveness of character which makes so much of the beauty of character; and beauty of character is not so common as not to make it a cruel thing to spoil it.
Those Liberal Catholics.
[We have known a few “ Catholics ” who might be ben-efitted by reading this. Poor Dr. Dollinger, “who has lately gone over a course of history for the second time” to learn by his own superior intellect where the truth is, is the father of all such Catholics.]
Catholics are often met by persons, who, claiming to be members of the same Church, boast that they are not tied to its apron-strings. They call themselves “Liberal Catholics,” and seem to glory in the title. When asked what is the peculiarity of this liberalism, they say that it is “freedom,—freedom of thought, and freedom of speech.” In plain English, they imagine themselves free to criticize the actions of the Church, and her members. They consider it their duty to inveigh against the want of “progress ” manifested by the Pope at Rome, they laugh at the idea of infallibility, and deport themselves as if they were rather enemies than children of the Church. They consider themselves more enlightened than the the generality of men, and show this enlightenment by associating with persons who scoff at religion, by not attending Mass on Sundays, by representing priests as no better than other
636
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
people, and by a thousand other things, all manifesting a direct contempt for religion. The whole system of liberalism, reduced to its final principle, is simply that of private authority opposed to the authority of the Church. What wonder that the Church, looking at the evil in all its hideousness, and considering its baneful consequences, denounces it in the strongest terms, and bids Catholics to cling fast to their Faith, and prove their fidelity to it by their close union with the Church!
A m Arica is infected with this evil, and it behooves American Catholics to listen to the voice of their pastors, knowing that “ he who hears you hears Me, and he that despises you despises Me.”—New York Catholic.
Anglo-Saxon Versus Irish, and Germans in the United States.
The Boston Pilot says:—Statisticians assert the national census of 1880 will undoubtedly show a population of 50,000,000. Of this number, it may be safely asserted, that less than one-fifth are of Anglo-Saxon descent. The New York Tribune's estimate is as follows: Celtic, 30; Ger-.man, 27; Anglo-Saxon, 25; Dutch or Scandinavian, 2; Uncertain, 12J4
As we have already intimated, we think the Anglo-Saxon figure, here given, is too large. We place it at .20; and we increase the Celtic figure to .35. This we believe to be as approximate an estimate as can be obtained.
Assuming that our population will be fifty millions in 1880, its composition as regards nationalities will be as follows, on the basis of the percentage above given:
Anglo-Saxons, about 10,000,000; Celtic, 17,500,000; German, 13,500,000; Dutch or Scandinavian, 1,000,000; other different nationalities, 8,000,000. As regards population, we have far more reason to call ourselves Irish and German than Anglo-Saxon. The emigrants and their descendants of these two nationalities number fully three times, probably three and a half times, more than the Anglo-Saxon emigrants and their descendants. The people of the United States are being formed more after the mental and moral types of the Celtic and German than of the English.
Beginning to See.
[The Independent now sees that “ Catholicism is our ally against gcdlessness”; the time is fast approaching when all good people will see that the Church is not simply their “ ally ” but their only hope.]
“ Last Sunday was dedicated the most magnificent meeting-house in America, the Fifth Avenue Catholic Cathedral. It has been one and twenty years in building, and with great patience and great self-denial have its promoters labored during all these years. The occasion was an impressive one, and every scenic device was employed to enhance its grandeur. There were present in their canonical robes, one cardinal, seven archbishops, three dozen bishops, and we do not know how many hundred priests. The sermon was by Bishop Ryan, and was an admirable and eloquent exposition of Christianity, as having authoritative rights to control our faith and life, and so to overcome the modern cultured paganism, which can end only in barbarism. We heartily congratulate the good men who direct the Catholic interests of this city that so splendid a temple has been erected, and that not by the
rich, but rather by the laboring men and women of the land. Catholicism is our ally in the conflict against godlessness and wickedness, and we would utter against it no harsh word of. criticism, but rather congratulate it on the faithful generosity of its clergy and laity.”—N. Y. Independent.	j
Art, Music and Literature.
—“The Cross and the Sword”—La Croix et I'Epee"—is the title of a Catholic journal which has just been started in Paris.
—The venerable Bishop Raess, of Strasburg, who is now at Rome, has just completed a work of fifteen volumes on some of the notable conversions from Protestantism to Catholicism.
—A young pianist, one of Liszt’s favorite pupils, will ere long make his debut at St Petersburg. Moritz Rosenthal, for such is his name, is 14 years of age, and has hitherto been heard there only by a select few.
—The Archbishop of Algeria has offered to the French Academy some precious documents forwarded by missionaries who are exploring, in the interests of Christian civilization, the region of the great lakes of equatorial Africa.
—The singing at the leading Catholic church for colored people in Washington—St. Augustine’s—is far superior to that at any other church in the city. Even the famous choir at the Jesuits’ church of St. Aloysius is thrown into the shade by the dusky vocalists.
—Among the most interesting features of New Mexico are the old Spanish churches which are to be found in almost every village. Many of them are three hundred years old, and contain some fine Spanish paintings sent over from Europe in the sixteenth century.
—Among the many presents forwarded to the Emperor . and Empress of Austria is one from Leo XIII, which has been transmitted to the Emperor by the Papal Nuncio, Monsignor Jacobini, and which consists of a portrait in oil of the Pope, and a most valuable mosaic, representing the Madonna of Graduca.
—The Emmet County (Mich.) Independent publishes a twenty-one line item which, it states, was set up by Marie L. Bement, of Little Traverse, “ the youngest compositor in the world.” Marie is only four years old, but The Independent states that she knows the cases perfectly, can set type accurately from any legible copy, and can tell the name of any article used in the business.
—In an article entitled “ The Poets of the Oxford Catholic Movement, 1827, 1845,” the new Quarterly Magazine, (London) C. Keegan Paul, referring to Dr. Newman, at page 444, April number, says:—There is, probably, no Englishman who is not proud of this simple, grand old man, and who does not feel that his country is honored by the Cardinal’s purple, which is at last offered to Dr. Newman.
—The true Gregorian chant is soon to be restored to use in the Catholic Church by the publication of official editions of Plain Chant music prepared under the supervision of the Sacred Congregation of Rites. The work- has been in hand nearly twelve years. Pius IX restored to the Church the unity of liturgy, and under Leo XIII will thus be re-established the unity of plain chant at no very remote day.
—“Fatinitza,” and its Composer.—Von Suppe, the Austrian composer, though his operas have been before the public for more than thirty years, never has achieved any great popularity, until now, in his old age, he has made • a lucky hit with his Russo-Turkish extravaganza, “Fatinitza.” It has had great success in Vienna, where it was brought out a few years since, and in other German cities, and in Berlin it ran several hundred nights.	__
—The Rev. Father Vaughan, chaplain to Cardinal Manning, of London, and promoter of the Catholic propagation of the sacred Scriptures, has distributed more than half a million copies of the Bible in Mexico and other Spanish-speaking countries of Central and South America
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	637
during his visit to this continent. And yet some people who are more prejudiced than charitable—or just—will have it that Catholics are not allowed to read the Bible 1
—Now, that Gilbert and Sullivan have set the popular fancy running in the direction of the musical drama, and turned our theatres into opera houses, and our actors into singers, managers who are on the lookout for musical attractions have brought old Von Suppe into sudden fame on this side the water as well as on the other. It is more than doubtful if, after all, he does not owe the best part of his success to his librettist, for the play is more ingenious than the music.—Musical Visitor.
■ —A rich American, now residing at Rome, desiring to possess the bust of Leo XIII engaged the services of the celebrated sculptor Tadolini. The latter, not content with a simple portrait of the Holy Father, went to the Vatican and asked permission of Leo XIII to reproduce his features from the original. The Pope consented. When the work was finished, Leo congratulated the artist, who asked him to trace a word on the still fresh clay. His Holiness took the burin from the sculptor, and wrote with a smile, “ Leo de tribu Judah.'”
—A reviewer in La Defense pays Kathleen O’Meara, the accomplished writer of the Life of Frederick Ozanam, a remarkable compliment. He says he thought he knew all thatcould be known of Ozanam, till Miss O’Meara’s book came upon him with a new light, which revealed deeper secrets and new treasures. It is rarely, indeed, that a foreigner finds it possible to earn such a tribute, in France, and Miss O’Meara may be excused if she feels proud of her work. We are glad to see that Miss O’Meara finds ready publishers for her writings on this side of the Atlantic; she is a regular contributor to the Catholic World as well as to the Ace Maria.
—A concert for the benefit of Archbishop Purcell’s creditors was giyen at Music Hall on the 23d ult. A large array of local talent rendered their aid, and the combined Catholic choir, aided by a full orchestra, sang the following: “ Credo,” from Mozart’s “ Twelfth Mass”; “ Gloria,” from Beethoven’s Mass in C; “Hallelujah” chorus from Handel’s “Messiah” ; “The Heavens are telling,” from Haydn’s “ Creation.’’ Mr. Herman Gerold was the director. Naturally there was much interest in the object of the concert, and applause was liberally bestowed upon the singers. Songs were effectively rendered by Miss Josie Jones, Miss Annie Norton, and Mr. Tim Sullivan. Mr. Whiting presided at the organ. The performance was a complete success throughout.—Musical Visitor.
—A Plea for the “ Spring Poets.”—I want to offer a word of deep sympathy with that scoffed at tribe whom editors revile at this time of the year—the authors of spring poetry. There is something pathetic to me in this universal outburst of joy. What bleak and wretched seasons lie behind it; what months of blackness and distress; what an “infinite deep chorus” of hollow coughs and neuralgic groans, of endurance that is forced and patience that is born of necessity! Do you see such poetry in Southern papers? Who cares about bluebirds in Florida? It is the maddened crowd who have been buffeted five months with the fierce blasts and snows of New England; who have found the heavens brass and the earth iron, and been tossed from the scorched fury of the national stove into the deadly gripe and glare of the national climate, like human shuttlecocks, who “drop into poetry” at the whistle of the first bird, or the breath of the first south wind. Piteous rhymesters! one heart at least beats with and for you, and longs to shout from the housetops that spring is coming, and the doors of our prison-house creak on their slow hinges at’last.—Atlantic Monthly.
—The following editorial, says the College Message, taken from .Kunkel's Musical Review, of St Louis, we take the liberty and pleasure of making our own: “The richest treasures of sacred music belong to the Roman Catholic Church. The greatest composers have been Catholics, and to their spiritual mother they have given the first and best fruits of their genius. The Church itself has always given to this as well as to the other arts a fostering care which no other form of religion has ever awarded to them. While early Protestantism did all it could to deface and destroy all that was beautiful in the temples of wor
ship, which the fortunes of war or civil strife had placed in their hands, the Catholics have always been either creating or restoring them to their lost grandeur. Modern Protestantism has done much to wipe out the stain of its early vandalism, but the Roman Church has been the true conservator of the arts, and the many magnificent edifices with their grand architecture and splendid adornments now being reared all over this continent, show that the Catholic Church is still the patron of true art, and guards all that is beautiful connected with the worship of her faith, with a mother’s love.”
—One of the most interesting features of the Moor centenary celebration was a collection of relics of the National Poet of Ireland, lent for the occasion by persons in different parts of the kingdom. A room was set apart in the Exhibition Palace for these mementoes. The letters, of which there are over 80, were characteristic, and referred to various events of domestic interest and to the circumstances of the poet. The manuscripts consisted chiefly of the rough drafts and notes of some of his most popular ballads and passages in “Laila Rookh.” The pictures include a portrait of Moore, by Sir M. Archer Shee, P. R. A.; a family group, painted in oil by G. F. Mulvany, representing young Tom, the poet’s eldest son, on his grandmother’s knee; a portrait of Russell, the poet’s youngest son, by Samuel Lover; several miniature portraits and engravings, views and sketches of Mayfield Cottage, Ashbourne, Derbyshire, and Sloperton Cottage and grounds.. This delightful anecdote is related in regard to the portrait by Newton—Sidney Smith, on being ask ed‘ his opinion of it, said “Yes, it is an admirable likeness—' an admirable likeness; but (turning to the artist, who stood by) couldn’t you manage to throw into the face a little more hatred of the Church Establishment?” Among the miscellaneous objects is a silver medal, presented to Moore when only six years old, for reading history in Malone School, Dublin; a book given him as a premium in his 12th year, when a pupil in Whyte’s School, Dublin; Moore’s college gown, lent by his friend, Mr. S. C. Hall; a silver medal, awarded in his 19th year by the College Historical Society; a lamp, made specially for him, which was presented by his widow to the Royal Irish Academy; his piano, a qualnt-looking instrument, which would be a curious piece of furniture in a drawing-room now; two pencil-cases, an agate brooch, a diploma giving Moore honorary membership of the Royal Irish Academy, his Bible, a lock of his hair enclosed in an ivory frame, and a copy of the inscription on the gravestone of the Moore family.
Scientific Notes.
—In the great Cathedral at Pisa, Italy, hangs a massive bronze lamp—a group of four figures, suspended at a vast distance from the ceiling—which, tradition says, gave Galileo the hint of the pendulum.
—Father Didon, a popular Paris preacher, who studied science under Claude Bernard, and advocates the reconciliation, or rather delimitation, of science and theology, has been received by the Pope, who exhorted him to continue his efforts.
—Professor Lewis Swift, of Rochester, has received notice of his election as a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society of England. This honor fitly supplements that conferred by the Vienna Academy of Sciences, which bestowed a gold medal upon Professor Swift for the discovery of a comet. A Fellowship of the Royal Astronomical Society has many advantages, among them the receipt of all publications of the Society.
—A very singular item comes from Maine. A lady of Madrid, that State, was in a house which was struck by lightning. A valuable gold watch which she wore stopped at the time, and, although jewellers have repeatedly examined it and pronounced it perfect in every particular, it cannot be made to move. It is so charged with electricity that watchmakers say no part of it can ever be made to do duty if taken out and put into another set of works.
—The Chinese ambassador at Berlin, Li-Fang-Poo, has lately made an interesting discovery, by giving evidence,
638
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that a vase, found by Dr. Schlieman the great antiquarian, near the ruins of Troy, betraying an age even anterior to the destruction of this famous city, is in reality of Chinese origin. According to the statement of this learned Oriental, the vessel bears an inscription showing that about the year 1200 before Christ it was sent by a Chinese merchant to Troy and contained samples of fine gauze linen. By this it is proved again, that the ancient Trojans must have maintained a brisk trade with the people of the extreme East.
—Observations of snow collected on mountain-tops and within the Arctic circle far beyond the influence of factories and smoke, confirm the supposition that minute particles of iron float in the atmosphere, and in time fall to the earth. Some physicists believe that these floating particles of iron are concerned in the striking phenomena of the aurora. Gronemann, of Gottingen, holds that streams of the particles revolve around the sun, and that when passing the earth they are attracted to the poles, and then stretch forth as long filaments into space. But as they travel with planetary velocity they become ignited in our atmosphere, and thus produce the luminous appearance of aurorae. In his recent voyages Prof Nordenskjold examined snow far in the north beyond Spitzbergen, and found therein exceedingly small particles of metallic iron, phosphorus and cobalt.—Eclectic Magazine.
—A doctor named D’Ungar, has invented a decoction which, it is reported, “ not only cures intemperance, but leaves the drunkard with an unconquerable aversion to spirituous liquors.” The medicine is red Peruvian bark, a pound of which is reduced to powder and soaked in a pint of alcohol, then strained and evaporated down to a half pint. In serious cases the dose is a teaspoonful every three hours. This is gradually decreased down to ten and five drops. The medical and temperance men of Chicago, of which city the inventor of the new medicine is a resident, are “ very much excited over the new remedy.” This can hardly be wondered at. The news is, however, almost too good to be true. Such a medicine would soon restore the world to its original state of paradisiacal happiness, for drink is the source of well nigh all human evil.
—The effort was made many hundreds of years ago to deduce the universe from spontaneous action of matter, but all these many centuries since that effort has been able to find but few advocates of the theory. In a very hasty survey of the universe, one might find a delicate support for the thought that the worlds were made by star-dust rolling itself together by attraction, but the moment one moves away from these generalities and passes into the details of earth, or of man, of man’s mind and heart, or into the details of any part of the natural world, the idea that the universe was made by chemistry, or came by chance, all goes to nothingness. A single song-bird, a single laughing child, the speech, or eloquence, or poetry of manhood, the beauty of woman, come in to reduce to naught all our accident or chemistry. We are made such that we must seek an adequate Cause.
—Several writers have disputed William Harvey’s right to be called the discoverer of the circulation of the blood, but, in spite of all that has been said, the distinction first conceded to him has always remained. In the June Atlantic a writer cites the interesting fact that, while Harvey first publicly announced his discovery in 1650, Shaks-peare, thirteen years earlier (1607), had written in “Julius Caesar,” Act II, Scene 1, the following lines :
Brutus (to Portia)—You are my true and honorable wife, As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart.
Harvey himself owned that he was indebted in a measure to his former master, Fabricius, for his discovery, but Shakspeare could have known little of Fabricius, since he was an Italian and his works were not published until 1617, the year after Shakspeare died.
—In Colorado is a ten-acre field which is no more nor less than a subterranean lake covered with soil about eighteen inches deep. On the soil is cultivated a field of corn, which produces thirty or forty bushels to the acre. If any one will take the trouble to dig a hole the depth of a spadehandle he will find it to fill with water, and, by using a hook and line, fish four or five inches long can be caught.
These fish have neither scales nor eyes, and are perch-like in shape. The ground is a black, marl, and its nature in all probability was at one time an open body of water, on which was accumulated vegetable matter, which has been increased.from time to time, until now it has a crust sufficiently strong and rich to produce fine corn, though it has to be cultivated by hand, as it is not strong enough to bear the weight of a horse. While harvesting, the field hands catch great strings of fish by punching a hole through the earth. A person raising on his heel and coming down suddenly can see the growing corn shake all around him. Any one having the strength to drive a rail through this crust will find on releasing it that it will disappear altogether. The whole section of country surrounding this field gives evidence of marshiness, and the least rain pro-' duces an abundance of mud. But the question comes up, has not this body an outlet? Although brackish, the water tastes as if fresh, and is evidently not stagnant. Yet these fish are eyeless and scaleless—similar to those found in caves.
—It is a fundamental assumption of science that laws are universal, and it follows from this that the progress of science must largely consist in establishing new connections between groups of phenomena which before seemed to have nothing in common. As an example of this may be cited the tendency of inquirers to link the phenomena of meteorites with those of comets, a view that a few years ago was thrust into prominence by the President of the . British Association. The periodical appearance of “ shooting stars ” is well known, and he thus explains them: As the earth courses along its orbit it falls in with a stream of cosmical dust also coursing through space. Some of the particles of this dust-cloud drive into our atmosphere and their motion is impeded by its resistance. Under this law that arrested motion is converted into heat, these cosmical particles, which are at-first cold and dark, by friction and impeded motion quickly become hot and luminous, and coruscate brilliantly across the sky as falling stars. On or about the 7th of August we pick up the outlaying stragglers of the stream; but we are in the thick of it about the 10th or 11th, and clear of it altogether in about three days later. Professor Newton has taken the lead in showing that these are not properly meteorological but are astronomical while the Milan astronomer Schiaparelli has pointed out that they are somehow related to comets.
Although these shooting stars appear to fly at random through the sky, yet it was found that this is not the case. From observations of their tracks, and continuing backwards the lines of their trails, it was determined that these lines all meet in one region of the sky, which for the August meteors is in the region of the constellation Perseus, from which they have- been called Perseides. Schiaparelli determined, the form and position or the stream or orbit in which these meteors travel, and found them to be coincident with similar data of a comet which visited our sky in 1862. It was afterwards found that the orbit of the November meteor group was identical with the train of a comet which visited our sky in 1866. Various other unexpected coincidences are thought to confirm the interrelation of comets and meteors. According to this view, if the meteors are cometic, the comets must be meteoric, and here comes a possible clue to the nature of their light. Huggins has shown that the light of the nebulae, so far as hitherto sensible to us, proceeds from incandescent hydrogen and nitrogen gases, and that the heads of comets also give us light of incandescent gas; and it has since been suggested by Professor Tait that these incandescent gaseous exhalations, both in the case of the nebulae and comets, proceed from the collisions of meteoric stones.— D. D. in the Meteorologist.
Books and Periodicals.
—Donahoe's Magazine for July is at hand. As a collection of entertaining and useful reading we do not believe it has a superior.
—There are three Catholic papers that go by the name of “ Visitor." Each is an excellent original Catholic paper, except in name. Why not in name as well as in reality ?
THE NOTES DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. 639
5
4
—The Sunday Times of Lafayette is a new candidate. We like it in everything but the name. There is a noted paper of that name already, and we believe in every new comer having a name of his own.
Flowers to Mary. J. W. S. Norris. Philadelphia: Dan. F.
Gillen, Printer. 1S79.”	■
This is a neatly printed little pamphlet, containing fifteen poetical gems from one of the sweetest of our poets.
. —Vol. 10, No. 20, of The Clover Leaf is out. The paper is published for gratutious distribution by the Birdsell Manufacturing Co., South Bend, Ind. It contains a large amount of information on the advantages of raising clover.
—We call the attention of our readers to the following advertisement which we find in the Cincinnati Wahrkeits-freund of June the 4th. Miss Hemenway is well known as a writer of prose and verse under the nom deplume of “Marie Josephine”:
“Clarke Papers.—Mrs. Meech and her Family. Home Letters, Familiar Incidents and Narrations, Linked for Preservation. By Miss Hemenway, Author of “ Rosa Mystica,” etc. For the Benefit of Rebuilding Notre Dame University. 312 pp. cloth, Price §1, free by mail. For sale by Benziger Bros., New York, Cincinnati and St. Louis.”
“A Summer’s Vacation at the White Mountains.”— We have received this neat guide-book from the Detroit News Company, and pronounce it fascinating reading even for those who are so unfortunate as to have to stay at home during the heats of July; what then must it be to those who can take this delightful excursion? Whoever has fifty dollars and the time to spare may, with a little economy, see the finest scenery in America, lake, river, mountain, ocean, and great city, all in a brief but sufficiently extended visit, by starting from Detroit on the 7th of July next. For particulars address W. H. Brearley, Detroit News Co., Detroit, Mich.
—A Treatise on the Horse and His Diseases, by B. J. Kendall, M. D., Enosburgh Falls, Vermont, and published by the Claremont Manufacturing Co., Claremont, N. H., is a pamphlet which competent judges pronounce as worth at least ten times its cost to anyone interested in the care of horses. Every farmer, horseman, and even schoolboy, should have it, as it will familiarize them, by cuts and letter-press, with the anatomy and hygiene of this most useful of all the domestic animals. It also gives the diagnosis, names and treatment of the various diseases to which the horse is subject, and furnishes a collection of valuable recipes for effecting cures. This pamphlet is said to have reached a sale of 75,000—an assertion which may readily be believed. Price, 25 cents.
—The Guardian Angel, an Eight-page Illustrated Monthly for Little Catholics, is published in Philadelphia. It is a gem for the little ones, and has very pleasant reading for big ones also. The number for June contains the first of the promised “Pen Pictures of Eminent Catholics,” by Maurice F. Egan, the subject being Christopher Columbus. If we might criticise a production of this elegant writer we would say that he has hardly “got his hand in” in writing for the young. The sketch of Columbus strikes us as a little too learned in expression, and not enthusiastic or fascinating enough for so charming a subject. It is just possible that one of the first, if not the first of our Catholic poets, may yet need to take a lesson from the birds and the children, in order to learn the simple, direct language that reaches the hearts of young persons.
—The Catholic World for July is of more than usual Interest. Besides Father Hecker’s article on the Church in the United States, which we noticed last week, there are several thoughtful essays, varied with legend, story and poetry. “A Prayer for Lady Poverty” is a paraphrase on the beautiful poem of St. Francis. “The English Press” is a crisp and suggestive review of the present condition of English journalism. The department of the World devoted to “ Current Events ” deserves particular attention. In it we find discussed the most important events of the month affecting Catholic interests. The events treated in the present number are The New Car
dinals, St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Catholic Colonization, and Archbishop Purcell—subjects whose titles are sufficient . to show their interst and importance. The review of new publications is up to the highest standard so long main, tained by the Catholic World.
—“ Some of our Fifth street friends have a novel way of keeping their neighbors’ chickens out of their gardens. They tie a large pet owl out in the garden, and the chickens seeing his majesty’s presence promenading around, conclude it’s the best part of valor to keep on their own premises.”—Niles Democrat.
—The English Establishment seems trying to slip back into the house of its Father, not in the noble way of the prodigal son, but as one who should say, ‘ I always owned this house myself!’ In Westminster Abbey, at a recent consecration, the Archbishop of York sang his part in the Vent Creator, as directed by the rubric. He was the first for many years who had done so.
—“The various college papers indicate that a general desire to make a noise possesses the students. At Yale, an order against singing at night is almost nightly disobeyed by boisterous and discordant serenading parties. At Oberlin, the lecture rooms are often like bedlam, for the boys “yell, whoop, throw cat-calls, whistle, hurl apple cores, and otherwise carry on, so that when the lecturer arrives he is half stunned.” At the California State University, a hubbub on commencement day was followed by expulsion of several offenders, whereupon the entire sophomore class signed the following address to the faculty: “We most respectfully object to the punishment of individuals for connection with this matter, and we petition you to permit us all to share the responsibility and punishment.” The President of Marietta College told the students that they were noisier than the street Arabs of New York. At McGill University, “if a professor makes the mildest of jokes he is greeted with the wildest applause that stamping feet and banging books can produce.” At Princeton, the disorder of the seniors in the professors’ rooms is spoken of as disgraceful. At Dartmouth, “Pinafore” songs are vociferously sung at inopportune times and places.”—N F. Sun.
—Dr. Newman on receiving the official announcement of his elevation to the Cardinalate, gave expression to his personal sentiments in the following exquisite passage. It is the simplicity of Christian genius, mellowed with the sweetness of an old age of which Cicero dreamed. “First of all, I am led to speak of the wonder and profound gratitude which came upon me, and which is upon me still, at the condescension and love towards me of the Holy Father in singling me out for so immense an honor. It was a great surprise. Such an elevation had never come to my thoughts, and seemed to be out of keeping with all my antecedents. I had passed through many trials, but they were over, and now the end of all things had almost come to me and I was at peace. And was it possible that, aftei all, I had lived through so many years for this ? Nor is it easy to see how I could have borne so great a shock had not the Holy Father resolved on a second condescension toward me, which tempered it, and was to all who heard of it a touching evidence of his kindly and generous nature. He felt for me, and he told me the reasons why he raised me to this high position. His act, he said, was a recognition of my zeal and good services for so many years in the Catholic cause. Moreover, he judged it would give pleasure to English Catholics, and even to Protestant England, if I received some mark of his favor. After such gracious words from his Holiness I should have been insensible and heartless if I had scruples any longer. This is what he had the kindness to say to me, and what could I want more ? In a long course of years I have made many mistakes. I have nothing of that high perfection which belongs to the writings of saints—namely, that error cannot be found in them; but what I trust I may claim throughout all that I have written is this—an honest intention, an absence of private ends, a temper of obedience, a willingness to be corrected, a dread of error, a desire to serve the Holy Church, and, through the Divine mercy, a fair measure of success.”
f I
i
640
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC]
’ JXotre Dame, June 31, 1879.
Vigorous Work.
This week has been characterized by universal activity. The delay in the early part of last week, occasioned by the failure in the arrival of stone and slate, seems to have set everyone to work with renewed zeal. Slaters, carpenters, bricklayers, stone-masons, etc., with their numerous attendants, are working as if in rivalry of one another. The slate will be on the Infirmary before Saturday evening, while most of the windows will be in and the lathing and flooring will be well under way. The stone foundation for the front extension of the College building was begun this week. On Wednesday several carloads of galvanized iron cornice arrived; and on Thursday the iron pillars began to go up in the Senior refectory. Two stout ponies are placed inside the building, one near each end, to raise the brick and mortar to the masons above. Fifty-six bricklayers, and other workmen in proportion, are engaged this week, and the building has advanced rapidly. The window-frames are set in the first story above .the basement, and the walls on this story built up well to the tops of the frames. Every nerve is strained to complete the building in time.
Concert for Notre Dame in Chicago.
! Very Rev. Father Corby received an invitation the other day to attend a meeting of the Old Students of Notre Dame now in Chicago. The following report of the meeting we find in the Chicago papers of Wednesday:
NOTRE DAME.
MEETING OF STUDENTS AND ALUMNI.
The Notre Dame students and Alumni held a special meeting last evening at the Grand Pacific Hotel for the purpose of making the final arrangements for a concert which they propose to give in McCormick Hall to raise funds toward the rebuilding of the institution.
Mr. M. T. Corby was called to the Chair, and James H. Ward elected Secretary.
Mr. J. J. Fitz-Gibbon, who was called upon by the Chair, spoke briefly in the interests of the University. In 1853 he had gone there, and what knowledge he possessed was due to the training he received there without money and without price. He urged those present to put'forth all their efforts to the end that the proposed concert might be a great financial and musical success.
The Rev. Father Horgan and Mr. D. J. Wile, of Laporte, Ind., spoke in the same strain.
The Chairman stated in response to inquiries that the idea of giving a concert originated with a few students, who wished thus to testify their regard for their Alma Mater, and at_the same time give some material assistance in the work of rebuilding. A committee had been appointed to have general charge of the concert, and several sub-committees chosen to look after the various details. There have already been distributed 2,000 tickets, and it is fondly hoped that none will be returned unsold. As regards the concert itself, the music will be under the supervision of Profi Ben. Owen. The services of the musical graduates of St Mary’s, including the Misses Ella O’Connor, Cavanagh, Devoto, Geiser and Henrotin, have been secured;' and several of the most successful of the musical graduates of
the University have signified their intention of offering their services.
The Very Rev. W. Corby, President of the University, in response to calls, said that the large attendance expressed the warm feeling with which Notre Dame had inspired its children. He believed that the honor of the Alumni was at stake. It was proposed, he said, to rebuild the College on a greater and better scale than before, and those present should be glad of the opportunity given them to assist in the work of resurrection.
Messrs. Ball, O’Connell, Ward, and Taylor made brief addresses, the latter gentleman dwelling upon the necessity of enlisting the sympathies of the young ladies, who always prove a great factor in the distribution of tickets.
The date of the concert was fixed for June 30, the price at 50 cents. The evening’s work was concluded with a general distribution of tickets.
/ --------------------------------------
The Minim. Examination.
. Although Very Rev. Father General’s attention is now so much engrossed with the rebuilding, still he found time to attend to the examination of his Minims. He opened the examination on Tuesday, to the great delight of his lit tie friends, who received him with cheering and clapping of hands, hailing his presence as an omen of their success-The Very Rev. Father examined the first class in Christian Doctrine, Arithmetic and Geography; and, after spending two hours of his precious time, left the examination to be continued by Very Rev. Father Granger, Rev. Father Hudson, Rev. Father Zahm, Rev. Father Franciscus, Mr. M. B. Lauth, C. S. C., and Prof. Edwards. The examination was exceedingly satisfactory, as may be seen by the average of notes given below.
NOTES OF EXAMINATION.
A. M. Coghlin, 100; J. J. Gordon, 92; W. A. Coghlin, 99; G. Woodson, 96; C. M. Crowe, 97; H. C. Snee, 100; C. J. Welty, 99; J. S. McGrath, 90; T. McGrath, 82; C. F. Perry, 100; A. Rheinboldt, 78; F. K. Parsons, 93; A. C. Hierb, 98; G. J. Rhodius, 100; H. A. Kitz, 98; F. Mattes, 96; J. M. Courtney, 95; E. A. Howard, 100; J. S. Courtney, 100; W. V. O’Malley, 72; Isaac Williams, 80; J. Chaves, 95; J. B. Crowe, 91; N. J. Nelson, 100; A. H. Chirhart, 94; L. J. Young, 62; H. F. Bachmann, 94; C. Young, 74; C. H. Long, 96; G. E. Tourtillotte, 95; P. 8. Fitzgerald, 99.
Local Items.
—Lou is the boss workman.
—The Minims visited St. Mary’s Academy Wednesday afternoon.
—“ Pete ” has discarded politics. He now carries water to the mechanics who are putting up the new buildings.
—The main building of the University will without doubt be the most beautiful college edifice in the United States.
—One of the professors of music has for the time being laid aside the fiddle and the bow, and is now a disciple of Vulcan.
/ —It is said that four million three hundred and fifty ^thousand bricks will be required for all the new buildings to be erected here.
—The San Francisco Monitor comes to us this week with a supplement giving a full and interesting account of the Commencement of St. Mary’s College in that city.
—There is no lack of work in the shops connected with the Manual Labor School. Everyone is busy, and the director of the tailor-shop says that he has his hands full.
—Public prayers are offered daily to Almighty God for the successful completion of the new building. “ Unless the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it.” Psalm cxxvi.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
/—Mr. Jas. Murdock, the well; known grocery man of ^Lafayette, and lately appointed warden of the Northern Indiana prison at Michigan City, has generously donated §25 to the rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
—We had the pleasure of a visit, at this office, from the Kev. T. E. Walsh, of Notre Dame University, Indiana. Father Walsh is spending a portion of the summer in New York, and looks quite well.—McGee's Illustrated Weekly.
, —Bro. Philip has designed a most convenient desk for /the new study-halls. The desks will be single, made of seasoned ash, and each will have a receptacle below, in the form of a closet with door, for books, hat, slippers, and other articles.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin has drawn the plan for the r Music Hall, a large building 200 by 80 feet, which will be counterpart to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. It will contain two music halls, the exhibition hall and two large recreation rooms.
. —The rubbish has not yet been cleared away from the site of the Music Hall and the Old Men’s Home. Where the Music Hall stood you can see the harps of the burned pianos, in regular order, on both sides of the build-^ing, as they stood in the rooms before the memorable 23d of April.
—The Lemonnier Library already numbers one thousand volumes. About one half of these were saved from ^/the flames, the others have been presented by old students and friends of the University. Roger Williams was the first one of the students to make a donation. The names of the donors will be published in a few weeks.
—Our good friend J. B. P., of Natchitoches, La., is as. sured that we most sincerely appreciate the sentiments of filial devotion which he has expressed for his Alma Mater. They show on his part a generous mind and a kindly heart, and he will pardon any unintentional error which the Scholastic may have committed in his regard.
t	—Of the many thousands of stuffed specimens in the late
museum, three only were saved. A Rocky Mountain lion, a large gray wolf and an apterix. The latter is a very rare specimen—one of the two or three which are in the United States,—and owes its preservation to the fact that it was in Father Superior’s room when the alarm of fire was given.,
—Nearly all of the spruce, arbor-vit®, cedar, Norwaypine, and other evergreen trees planted by the Juniors / about a year ago in the park which surrounds the ^cho-lasticate are in a thriving condition. In a few years they will contrast beautifully with the numerous forest oaks which adorn the premises. So far, not more than a dozen of the trees have died.
—The work of rebuilding the University of Notre Dame, Ind., is progressing rapidly, and will be completed in time for the regular opening in September. Among the Latin authors studied at Notre Dame are—St. Ambrose, St. Jer-
■ ome, St. Augustine. । Among the Greek authors studied may be mentioued—St. John,.St. Gregory, St. John Chrysostom, St. Basil.—Boston Pilot.
i	—Our old friend Mr. Daly, who came here about a year
j	ago to pass the remainder of his days in peace with our
•	, Franciscans, is doing a good work. While others are en-
/	' gaged about the new buildings, he is taking care of the
fruit and ornamental trees which adorn the premises. His scientific treatment of the sick and disabled has restored ‘ many a fine tree to its primitive vigor.
—Our weather-prophet says that this summer will be much finer than last, although he says there will be an occasional shower of rain, especially on Thursdays. The prevailing wind will be northwest, with some slight variations, however, and the evening will be quite cool. Such are his opinions; whether his predictions will prove true we shall be better able to tell after the summer is over. '
'	—The good Father Denis, late Superior of the Passionist
Community at Paris, France, says that if he were here he ' could beat Father Granger wheeling bricks. The ocean is between Father Denis and the brick-pile, which may account for his assurance, although, indeed, Father Granger lays no claim whatever to celebrity in the brick-wheeling line. He says he attempted to lift a loaded wheel-barrow at one time, and could not even stir it.
—A kind Providence has sweetly tempered the heavy affliction which has befallen Notre Dame by rejuvenating its venerable founder. Father Sorin is at least twenty years younger than before the fire, and he is as energetic as he was when he first came to Notre Dame. It does one good to see his firm and active step as he goes around the new building to see that all is right. With such men as Father Sorin and Father Corby at the head of affairs, Notre Dame cannot but prosper.
—Rev. Father Vandyke, Pastor of St. Aloysius’ ProCathedral, Detroit, has generously presented the Lemonnier Circulating Library with the following valuable works: The Writings of Arnobius, Justin Martyr and Athenagoras; The Apocryphal Gospels, Acts and Revelation; The Writings of Origen, 2 vols.; The Writings of Cyprian, 2 vols.; Clement of Alexandria, 2 vols.; The Writings of Tertul-lian, 3 vols.; The Writings of Methodius, etc.; Clementine and Apostolic Constitutions; Early Liturgies.
—It may not be known to all the readers of the Scholastic that Mr. Bonney, the South-Bend photographer, took a complete set of the ruins of Notre Dame. The set consists of eight photographs, internal and external, of the * burned buildings, taken immediately after the fire. They are mounted for the stereoscope, and every student it would seem would like the set. The price is one dollar and a half for the set, or twenty-five cents apiece. Mr. Bonney’s address will be found in our advertising pages.
—We learn from Rev. Father Vagnier that “ Pelican,” the author of the interesting letter to the New Orleans Morning Star, published in the Scholastic last week, is well remembered by him. His name is Thos. L. Grace. He has been a correspondent of the Morning Star for years, writing under the name of “Pelican,” a name which ne assumed while a student, and under which he wrote from here for the press of New Orleans. Even at so early a day the talent of Notre Dame boys ran in the editorial direction.
—Thanks.—Very Rev. Father General has the best thanks of his Minims for a beautiful little bell which he has given them. They have named it Saint Edward’s . Bell, in honor of their Very Rev. Father’s patron. It was / blessed in the Holy House of Loretto, and this, with the -fact of its being a gift from the venerated patron of the Minim Department, makes it most precious to his little friends. The little bell has been blessed with a special blessing, and it will be used to ring tne Angelus in the Minim Department .
—The Notre Dams Scholastic, in speaking of protection to the new University building from fire, says: “Some system of hydraulic pressure such as the Holly may be the best in some localities.” The Scholastic advocates contracting for an extension of water-pipes from the city of South Bend, Ind., to the college. If we remember rightly, South Bend is supplied with a set of Holly pumps.—Catholic Visitor, Lockport, M. F.
South Bend has the standpipe system of waterworks, the best system in the world, except of course that of a natural reservoir.
—Messrs. Moon and Lindsley, of Diamond Lake, near / Cassopolis, Mich., have generously proposed to place their x/ steamer and skiffs and island at tne disposal of Very Rev. ' Father Corby, at the most reduced rates, for the benefit of a picnic to help in rebuilding the University. Whether advantage can be taken of the liberal offer we do not know, but the proprietors receive thanks for their generosity. M. L. Howell, Esq., of Cassopolis, an old student of Notre Dame, also receives our thanks for the interest he has taken in everything pertaining to the restoration of the University.
—This is the kind of a substantial compliment the Scholastic receives all the way from the Pacific. We must acknowledge, however, that the Rev. writer’s partiality is equalled only by his generosity.
San Francisco, June 10,1S79. Editor Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dear Sir:—Enclosed is the small sum of $5. Please put it to my account as subscriber to your learned and spicy Scholastic.
’	Respectfully, etc.,	'
_	A Cullen, Rector St. John’s.
—The denizens of the printing office suffer much annoyance from a few indiscreet persons, who, having no connection whatever with the affairs of the office, think themselves perfectly free to come in at all hours, to open
642
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
desks and drawers, examine proofs and copy, take advance sheets of the papers, etc. To these persons we desire to say that the printing office is small, that the work done in it, in order to be done well, requires the undivided attention of those engaged, that desks and drawers are sacred even in printing offices, and that proofs and copy are considered private in printing-offices everywhere.
—Very Rev. Father General closed the Minims’ examination on Thursday in a manner that pleased all of them. After putting many knotting questions in arithmetic, he / placed before them a bushel of oranges, which he left them / as a problem in division. It is not without reason that the Minims love Very Rev. Father General. During the scholastic year they have received many such acts of kindness from him, and they leave Notre Dame with the deepest feelings of gratitude and affection for great, good-hearted Father General, who has done so much to make them happy at the College.
—The following, from the Chicago Tribune, pays a deserved tribute to the memoiy of one who during his lifetime was well known and esteemed at Notre Dame: “During his lifetime and long residence in Chicago there was no citizen better known than the genial, universally popular Irishman, Daniel O’Hara. His fame as an Irishman extended all over the land. No son of Erin ever reached • Chicago that stood in need of a friend to advise, to direct, or materially aid, ever failed to find all he wanted at the hand of O’Hara. While he had a dollar it was at the service of any person in want of it, and his heart and his pocket were open to every one of his countrymen.”
—Most of the articles which were carried from the pri-- vate rooms during the fire cannot be found any where. No doubt the tramps who flocked to the burning can tell where they are. We know one professor who had his room filled with objects of virtu and souvenirs of friends. Many of these objects were very precious, not only on account of their associations but also for their intrinsic value. Nine-tenths of these have been stolen, among other things an antique necklace made of amber, curiously carved and taken from an Etruscan tomb more than two thousand years old, and three or four gems with figures with pagan gods cut into the stone. These were used by the Romans of the Empire for seals, and were found in a mortuary vault on the Via Appia.
—A fine young forest is rapidly springing up on the southern shores of St. Mary’s Lake. A grove on that part of the premises is the one thing needed to complete the al, ready charming beauty of Notre Dame by secluding it \ from the outside world. We earnestly hope that none of A those who fish there will injure or destroy any of these young trees. There are some thoughtless persons who can never pass a shrub or bush without breaking a branch or two. Others are so aesthetic in their tastes that they must cut all the branches from a full grown tree until it resembles a pet poodle’s tail magnified and placed in a perpendicular position. Another set of tramps are of the utilitarian order. They must make firewood out of every fine tree they meet. We hope none of these Vandals will stroll along this way; should they come, we recommend a dose of buckshot from the old Columbian muskets. Let us by all means preserve this forest for future generations.
—An item of possible interest to insurance men came to our ears the other day. It is well known that insurance companies insure for only about two-thirds of the value of buildings. It is also known that values have declined since “war times,” when most of the buildings here were put up. Still the values at which some of the buildings were originally insured remained unaltered. This was the case with the Music Hall in particular, but although the premiums had been paid regularly on the policy, “a rule of insurance” required that only so much of the policy should be paid as would suffice to rebuild at present cost of building. Accordingly when the adjuster of the Hartford Insurance Company came down from Chicago and asked what would be the cost of restoring the Music Hall to the condition in which it was before the fire, he was referred to Bro. Charles and Bro. Alfred for their estimate. They made a most careful estimate in detail, and arrived at the conclusion that the building could be restored for §4,200. The adjuster took the figures, looked over them and seemed much gratified. He then went to Father
Corby and tendered his check for the amount of the estimate. “ But,” said Father Corby, “ we have had the building insured for years for §5,000, paying premium on the amount from year to year, and it does not seem just now that when the building is totally destroyed we should be offered a less amount.”	*
“That may all be,” was replied; “and if the Brothers had estimated the cost of rebuilding at §5,000, as I expected them to do, I should have paid it as readily as I now do this less amount.”
“Why,” said the Rev. President," that could not be; they could not declare the cost of re-erection to be more than the truth.”
And so it was settled for the smaller sum. That the adjuster should have chosen his judges from those interested in the policy, and that those judges should have decided against their own interests, may not perhaps be ordinary occurrences in insurance matters.
—Mr. F. G. Brown, the gentlemanly agent of the Western Union Telegraph Co. in South Bend, is now located in his new and handsomely fitted apartment in the Oliver House block. His room, located on the first floor, and fronting on Main street, is separated from the hotel proper by a glass partition extending from floor to ceiling. A window opens into the hotel, through which business may be transacted. “ Mr. Brown,” says the Daily Tribune, “ has in all the arrangements looked only to the convenience of the public and the safety of the Company he so ably represents, and he has succeeded in both. The office is centrally located, and being on the first floor instead of upstairs it is eminently satisfactory to the customers of the Company. The inside arrangements are very convenient. Against the west wall is a large black walnut writing desk with rows of drawers down on each side. On this desk is a combination instrument which can be switched to any wire when necessity requires it. In the alcove adjoining this desk is the printing telegraph instrument connecting with the Oliver Chilled Plow Works. Against the north wall is a large walnut table, and on it are four sets of instruments, one working Chicago to Toledo, one Chicago to New York, one Chicago to Cleveland, Cincinnati, Buffalo, and Detroit; one Valparaiso to Port Huron, and one to Notre Dame, Niles and St. Joseph. Although but six wires are in the office, Mr. Brown has a loop to the depot which can be used on any of the fifteen wires which run through the city, so that if one line is down he can immediately snatch on another. In the floor of the office is a trap door leading to a space below, 4 feet wide by 24 feet long, where the battery and other traps are stored. There is a 20-jar battery to work the wires to Niles, St. Joseph and Notre Dame, an 18-jar one to work the Oliver printing instrument, and 8 jars to work the sounders in the office; new 45 feet poles will soon be erected in the place of the short ones now doing duty. In addition to the large ‘ Western Union Telegraph ’ sign now up, a new and attractive one will be placed on the pole when it is in position. The walls of the office are hung with pictures, the floor is carpeted; it is lighted by a handsome chandelier, with French glass globes, and is, in short, as cosy an office as will be found anywhere. Mr. Brown has had plenty of callers already, and among them a large number of ladies. He does the honors with his characteristic politeness and good nature. The Company have no one in their employ who could better please our citizens than Mr. Brown,” a sentiment in which all at Notre Dame who transact business with Mr. Brown will cordially agree.
Personal.
—Prof. Lyons is still absent in Chicago. When will he pay us a visit?
—	Rev. D. J. Spillard, of ’64, is building a beautiful Gothic church at Austin, Texas.
—	Rev. M. B. Brown, of ’64, is working hard in the cause of Christianity at Crestline, Ohio.
—	G. F. Berry, of’72, has removed from Michigan City to Chicago. He, with a number of his friends, will visit us in September.
—	Richard Mayr, of Cleveland, has been suffering from
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4
a severe attack of rheumatism. We hope to hear soon of _ his recovery.
, —J. B. Berteling is working hard in Cincinnati to get new 'students for Notre Dame. He also has a number of books on hand for the Lemonnier Library.
—John English is flourishing at Columbus—so we learn from a letter to one of the Minims. He reports “ Snacks ” well. John is working for his Library.
x; —Our kind friends Mrs. C. Hug and Mrs. M. Rhodius, of M Indianapolis, are doing their best to collect funds for the ebuilding of their sons’ college home.
\ —Rev. P. W. Riordan, of ’54, and Rev. P. J. Conway, of .J"’56, of Chicago, have been named with Rev. Dr. McMullen for the see made vacant by the death of Bishop Foley.
—George Rhodius and Kickham Scanlan make very good first acolytes, and will in time become quite as proficient as “ Tom” and “Joe,” who are now enjoying a visit to their parents.
—Lon Marantette, of ’59, Columbus, of ’60, Charles, of V’69, and Louis reside at Mendon, Mich. Louis will return J next year with two nephews and a friend who desires to study law.
—T. A. Logan, of ’77—one of the most prominent Thespians we have ever had here,—is practicing law at Mur-freesborough, III. Some of his friends speak about running him for State Senator.
—Dick Russell writes from Oshkosh that he has been sick for three weeks; cause, intermittent fever. We hope he is now convalescent, and that he will return in the fall greatly invigorated. Dick has left a first-class record here as a student, gentleman and Christian.
Letters, etc.
—The following affectionate letter is from a baby boy, but one who, for his age, shows a very fair sample of letter writing. If that little boy lives we think he will one day make his mark. May it be a good and enduring one.
Lancaster, O., June 12,1879, Feast of Corpus Christi.
Very Dear Father :—Phillie and Dosie send you (§1) one dollar apiece, and I will send you (§5) five dollars (/ out of my own money to help you to build up the new College. Pa said he was going to send me to Notre Dame when I am old enough to go from home.
Good-bye, dear Father Sorin.
Your loving namesake,
Edward Sorin Ewing.
Lemont, Cook Co., III., June 18,1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. Father :—I received on Monday last a copy of the Notre Dame Scholastic, which you were pleased to send me, containing a published copy of the letter I wrote to you on May the 28th. That published letter of mine, your written letter in reply, and the two articles in the Are Maria (which paper I have read for the last three years) enabled me to collect a few dollars for the rebuilding of your famed University. By this day’s mail I send x^you a post-office money order for the amount of §20. I subscribe ten dollars of this money myself, for the spiritual benefit of my father’s family and my own, as you will see by the following list of names.
Very respectfully, yours, etc., Hugh Brady.
Lindsay, Ont., June 12,1879.
Very Rev. Father-General Sorin:—This being the Feast of Corpus Christi, brings to my recollection the happiness I enjoyed at your hospitable home at Notre Dame on the same Feast of last year. I on that occasion promised myself, if spared, to revisit Notre Dame and St. Mary’s /this year, but the total destruction by fire of your beautiful / University has caused me to delay my visit until the 2d of September next, when you promise to make it the grandest opening day ever witnessed at Notre Dame.. Those who have ever shared your hospitality and friendship for twenty-five years, as I have done', can only form an estimate of the enjoyment that awaits your numerous friends on their arrival amongst your beloved Community. I hope
the students of the past years, who have always held you in great esteem, will come forward without delay and enroll their names with such remittance in cash aa their circumstances will enable them to pay. Let them notice that the French adage when translated into English is said to read thus: “ Who gives promptly gives twice.” Acting on this saying, I now enclose you bank draft for one hundred dollars as an installment of my donation.
With best respects to my many friends at Notre Dame, I am, Rev. Father General, yours faithfully,
T. Keenan.
New York, May 20,1879.
My Dear Friend-.—When I wrote to you, I was far from thinking that your noble University—the glory of the West—was so near its doom. Not its final and irrevocable doom, however: God’s fatherly providence, powerfully aided by the grateful love of the many thousands who have learned to bless the name of Notre Dame, will surely enable you to restore what was so suddenly and nt- -terly destroyed. I am not rich—far from it; but in my poverty, I shall, please God, find a mite to give towards the good work.
It is sometimes, if not always, a most salutary lesson for a family of apostolic men like yours to see the labors of a lifetime brought to naught in a few hours, and the whole body once more left dependent- on Him for whom alone they live and labor.
At Le Mans, in August, 1858, while I was privileged to converse with your venerable Founder and all his Provincials and local Superiors, I was told a most touching incident of your Society. Father Moreau had then but one house, well filled, however, with associates and novices, but entirely dependent for subsistence on outside charity. All at once their benefactors seemed to forget them. The liberal supply of alms ceased entirely and unaccountably. For several days the Community had barely what kept its members from starvation, and even the sick in the infirmary had to endure hunger.
One day they had gone to the refectory as usual, in the morning, and after an exceedingly slender evening meal. But on the table there was not even bread. They said grace, however, as usual, and sat down in silence to listen to the wonted lecture from the Holy Book and The Imitation of Christ. And then they returned thanks, visited their Hearts' Treasure in the chapel, and went about their daily tasks. So fared they at noon, and so again in the evening; for no relief came to the hungered toilers, and no answer, seemingly, to the prayer of the man of God who was Father over that large household.
As they all knelt in the chapel, however, after supper, and were offering up their privation to Him who had so lovingly hungered and thirsted for our sake. Father Moreau was seen to approach the tabernacle. Knocking three times, reverently, on the locked door: “Art though here, God of my soul,” he said aloud, “ and hast Thou forgotten me and those whom I have gathered together here in Thy Name ? ”........
He was still pleading with the all-sufficient Heart within, when there was a loud ringing of the bell at the gate. A baker with a load of bread was there, sent by one of the generous benefactors of the infant Society. And soon other supplies came.
It was only the trial of faith permitted by Him who knows when and how He may best aid His own. So will it be with you now in your present great trial. The day is not far distant when the numerous children old Notre Dame has sent forth will return to look upon the renewed face of their parent, made a hundredfold more dear by this terrible ordeal.
May God grant that this will be soon! is the fervent prayer of
Yours most sincerly,	B. O’Reilly.
Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C.
Carroll, Iowa, June 16,1879. Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C.
Very Rev. Father:—Herewith please find draft fol fifty dollars. It is small, but all that I can well spare. Every time that I think of Notre Dame it brings tears to my eyes. I don’t know the reason, but the few visits and the few hours that I spent there shall never be forgotten.
644
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Itzmust be a terrible trial to those who have spent their Zest days there, and especially to Father General.
I hope, when you are ready, to be able to send you my ooy. I intend he shall finish his education in Notre Dame if God spares his health.
Requesting a remembrance in your prayers, I remain yours very respectfully,
P. M. Guthrie.
Woodstock, III., June 2, 1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby:—
I must confess that the greatness of the loss which you have met with in the destruction of Notre Dame makes me doubt whether I should attempt to comfort you. I, myself, who enjoyed but for a short time the pleasure of being one of her students, am sorry, very sorry for it. You are right to weep over the loss of so magnificent an institution, one which in the eyes of Europe and America stood a monument of labor and piety. I hope that this accident will not impair the health of any one connected with the institution. Take courage! When night is darkest dawn is nearest. I hope soon to see Notre Dame restored to the world which she adorned.
You will remember me as one of the old students of ’73.
Edwin D. Murphey.
Chester Springs, Pa., June 13,1879.
Very Rev. Father General I could hardly realize at first that my dear, beautiful Alma Maier was a heap of unsightly ruins. My regret for the loss and sympathy for you- were so great that 1 felt it would be mockery on my part to attempt to give expression to my feelings unless I could send you something to help to repair the loss, and 'which would at the same time be an evidence of my sympathy.
You must not think for a moment that the enclosed draft for §500 is to be the measure of my sympathy for you and my regret for the loss of those fine buildings with their valuable contents; but as soon as my financial circumstances will permit, I shall be happy to contribute something more towards building the second Notre Dame, which I hope will be more beautiful than the first; so that when you behold it your heart will be glad again, and you can say:—“ My friends and neighbors have not forgotten me in my old age and in the hour of distress, but have come with their offerings and sympathy, and have turned my sorrow into joy. May God bless them in all their possessions ! ” That such will be the case is the earnest wish of your devoted son in J. M. J.,
yS M. A. Wills (Bro. John Chrysostom, C. S. C.)
[The Rev. Edward J. Sourin, S. J., well known in Philadelphia and the East, and highly esteemed at Notre Dame, especially by his almost namesake, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, wrote a letter to a friend here last J uly in reference principally to our Commencement and to the remarkable oration of Bishop Spalding delivered on that occasion. The contrast between that grand Commencement and this no-Commencement is so great and the expressions of the letter are so kindly towards Notre Dame in her prosperity, that we give an extract.]
Georgetown College, July 16,1878.
Blessings on the day, my more and more valued friend and co-worker, with your loved Superior, in building /up the “Kingdom” for whose extension our Saviour'' God and His Virgin Mother lived, and suffered, and wept and died,—yes, blessings on the day that you gave your heart, your entire self to God, and so to a share in making Notre Dame what it now is. Were I one of Very Rev. Father Sorin’s own sons, I could not feel a livelier interest than I do in all that has passed off so happily within the last two or three weeks. So admirably, so joyously, does the work in which he and Rev. Father Corby and Mother Angela, and all the busy, blessed troupe in and around Notre Dame, are engaged, go on from year to year, prospering, and to prosper,—God’s own benediction is fulfilled before our eyes,—we see it, we feel it. And how many thoughtful minds and loving hearts, parents and children, young men and young women, Catholics and non-Catholics, must have returned home from your Commencement exercises confirmed for all after-life in their love of the true, the beautiful, the good! More lasting than a hundred lectures on these high-sounding more grand topics is one such day as,
your Notre Dame celebration gave them in the impressions of every purest, saving nature; and this, too, in days like our own, when everywhere “the world and the world’s ways ” are carrying everything before them.
I had read the Bishop’s oration as reported in the papers before your letter reached me. “.Remarkable ” in very truth, as a Chicago paper said, and in its admirable adaptation to the occasion; in its beautiful style, heart-stirring thoughts, affluent quotation of many a great truth which, it seems to your old friend, must render the Commencements of 1878 at Notre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy as among the happiest days that you have all, so far, seen......
Very respectfully and affectionately yours,
.	Edward J. Sourin, S. J.
[The students of St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, have nobly sacrificed their “ honors ” this year by donating the cost of the same, §126, to the rebuilding of a sisterseat of learning,—have they not thus won the greater “ honor ” ? The consciousness of a deed well done is the most enduring of all honors.]
Memramcook, N. B., June 11,1879.
Very Rev. Father Sorin:—Some weeks ago, the inmates of St Joseph’s rejoiced in 'anticipation of an early visit from one whose name they had long learned to respect and venerate—whose life and labors have formed a familiar theme for their eulogy and admiration. The very day appointed for your arrival came, and brought with it the astounding and sorrowful intelligence that Notre Dame University, the grand institution whose success had become the crowning glory of your devoted life, was in ashes. Our feelings of disappointment occasioned by your unavoidable absence were at once overpowered by sentiments of the most profound sorrow for you in that disastrous calamity. //
As a slight token of our sympathy, and of the esteem we entertain for a zealous benefactor of Christian youth, please accept the enclosed amount. It was to be expended " for our prizes to reward the patient and energetic industry of those among us who have been successful in the friendly strife for learning’s honors. In tendering it to you, we deem ourselves fortunate in devoting it to a far worthier object. When, in the near future, Notre Dame shall have arisen, strong and triumphant, to claim again her glorious title of “Pride of the West,” the thought that we have assisted, be it ever so immaterially, in the noble work of her resurrection, will prove a source of greater, purer, and more enduring pleasure than any which the most magnificent premiums could afford. '
With sympathetic regards, and best wishes for your personal welfare, believe us, Very Rev. Father,
Your affectionate children,
The Students of St. Joseph’s College.
Roll of Honor.
JUNIOR department.
J. Browne, P. C. Crowley, M. L. Foote, R. Le Bourgeois, A Payro.	"
MINIM DEPARTMENT. .
G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, J. J. Gordon, G. Woodson, C. M. Crowe, H. C. Snee, J. 8. McGrath, T. McGrath, C. Perry, A Rheinboldt, F. K. Parsons, A. Hierb, A. H. Chirhart, C. H. Long, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, E. A. Howard, V. O’Malley, Isaac Williams, J. Chaves, J. B. Crowe, L. J. Young, IL A. Kitz, H. F. Bachmann.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A M. Coghlin N. J. Nelson, G. J. Rhodius, W. A Coghlin, C. M. Crowe, H. C. Snee, C. J. Welty, C. F. Perry, F. R. Parsons, A. E. Tourtillotte, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. H. Long, E. Howard, J. Chaves, Isaac Williams, H. Bachmann, J. B. Crowe, J. 8. Courtney, A Hierb, J. McGrath.
—Two thousand one hundred dollars was paid as one year’s rent for first choice of pews in St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	645
—As will be seen by the programme given below, the closing exercises at St. Mary’s will be as usual, except that the exercises of Commencement Day will begin at 9 a. m. instead of 11.
- —The pupils in the Art Department and fancy work are making earnest efforts to have their work equal, if not surpass, any display of former years. Many beautiful specimens are in hand.
—The date given in the Scholastic of the 14th inst. for the examination of the French, German, and Latin classes, was a week ahead of time, as it only commenced on the 17th. Very Rev. Father General and several of the Rev. professors from Notre Dame have been present as examiners.
—The examination of the vocal and instrumental music classes closed on the 14th. The critics present, who had also attended the February examination, noticed a marked improvement in the majority of the pupils, and in some the development of fine musical talent. The notes on the Bulletins will show to parents and guardians the true standing of each pupil in her class.
—Visitors: Rev. EL A. Boeckelman, Goshen, Ind.; Mr. J. Hoadley, Niles, Mich.; Miss Eva Powell, Miss Ada Smith, Edwardsburg, Mich; Miss Jane Scott. South Bend, Ind.; Mr. P. Cavanagh, Chicago, III.; Mr. Geo. W. Loe-ber, Troy, N. V.; Miss M. Swain, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Elma Cox, Richmond, Ind.; Mrs. L. L. Baker, Miss E. Baker, Buchanan, Mich.; Miss K. Aul, Miss L. Green, Niles Mich.; Miss Anna Gish, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Lon Knight, Schoolcraft, Ind.; Dr. Geo. Nevi .is, Mr. and Mrs. Giddings, Miss Mamie Giddings, Mr. Alex. Compart, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. Julian St. Croix, Monterey, New Mexico; Mrs. Maria Blackman, South Mifferd, Ind.; Mrs. Dr. Stockwell, South Bend, Ind.
—The return of Mother Superior on the 17th gave the pupils the pleasure of presenting her with their long deferred programme, due on St. Angela’s Feast. Miss Cort-right, of Chicago, introduced the affair in a happy welcome address. Mrs. Fitzgerald honored the pupils by adding to their programme one of her exquisite harp performances. The French address was in the form of a conversation, given by Misses N. McGrath, E. Rosing, N. Keenan, M. Dallas, A. McGrath, and Celestine Lemontey being the speakers; German Address—Miss Geiser; the Graduates’ —Miss I. Fisk; Seniors’ Greeting—Miss Annie Cavenor; “ Children of Mary ”—Miss Moran. The “ Three Angela,” by Misses Angela Ewing, Angela Dillon, and Angela Watson, was a very amusing digression. The Juniors, represented by E. Mulligan, were dignified; the Minims had to sing their address, as speaking could not do justice to their sentiments of love for dear Mother Superior. The address alternated with vocal and instrumental music by Misses Kirchner, Silverthorn, Geiser, Galen, and Dillon.
The following is the programme of the twenty-fourth Annual Commencement Exercises:
Tuesday, June 24, 3 o’colck p. m.
Valse Caprice—“Wahlstimmen,” Op. 250,..........Ch. Tausig
Miss Spier.
Essay—“A Floral View of Humanity,”.............Miss Fisk
Sestette—“ Chi me Frena,” (Lucia)..............Donizetti
Misses L. and A. Kirchner, Silverthorn, Gordon, Usselman and Capelle. Acc’d by Miss Geiser.
Essai—“Jeanne d’Arc,”.......................Miss Keenan
Polonaise, No. 2, E. Dur,......................Franz Liszt
Miss Kirchner.
Essay—“Different Standpoints,”.................Miss Moran
Song—“Santa Lucia,”...............................Braga
Miss Clara Silverthorn. Harp—Miss Ellen Galen. Piano-
Miss Kirchner. ■
German Essay—“Macht des Gesanges,”.............Miss Geiser
Scene and Cavatina—“O Patria, di tanti Palpiti,”.Bossini
Miss A Kirchner. Acc’d by Miss Kirchner.
Rhapsodic Hongroise, No. 9, “Le Carnival de Pesth,”.Liszt Miss Silverthorn.
Essay—“Order is Heaven’s First Law,”.........Miss Kelly
Read by Miss Hope Russell.
Song—“ Forsetta,”................................L' Ardtti
Miss Kirchner. Acc’d by Miss Silverthorn.
Grande Fantasie—“Reminiscences de Norma,”....Franz Liszt
Miss Geiser.
Solo and Chorus—Solo, Miss Devoto; Private Vocal Class. Acc’d by Miss Galen.
N. B. Drawings and Paintings, exhibited in St. Luke’s Studio. Ornamental Needlework, Laces, Point, and Brussels, and Plain Sewing, on exhibition in the Needlework Department.
Wednesday, June 25,9 o’clock a. m.
GRAND ENTRANCE OF THE PUPILS.
Kaiser Marsch,...........................Bichard	Wagner
Pianos: Misses Geiser, Buck, Silverthorn, Keenan, Kirchner,
Gordon, Spier and Dillon.
Harps: Misses Galen and Brown.
Quintette and Semi-chorus, (Martha).............Flotow
Misses Devoto, Kirchner, Silverthorn, Usselman and Capelle. Acc’d by Miss Geiser.
Distribution of Premiums—Junior Department.
Fantasia on Favorite Melodies.............For	Two Harps
1st Harp—Miss Galen. 2d—Miss Dillon.
Distribution of Premiums—Preparatory Department.
Cavatina—“Lost Birdling,”........................Centemeri
Miss Devoto. Acc’d by Miss Silverthorn. Distribution of Premiums—Senior Department.
Harp Solo,....................................Gidfroid
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald.
Overture, zu “Tannhauser” (Two Pianos,}.....Bichard Wagner Misses Geiser, Spier. Kirchner and Silverthorn.
Juniors and Minims will Appear.
Oratorio, The Seasons,—Spring and Summer,........Haydn.
Soloists—Misses Devoto, Kirchner and Silverthorn.
Chorus—Pupils of Private Vocal Class. Acc’d by Miss Galen. Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic Department.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Conservatory of Music and Prize Medals.
Distribution of Crowns and Honors in the Senior, Preparatory and Junior Departments.
Coronation Chorus,..............Arranged for the Occasion
General Class. Acc’d on Two Pianos by Misses Spier and Campbell.
Valedictory,.................................Miss Russell
closing remarks.
March Triomphale, Op. 91,......................A	Coria.
Misses Usselman, Sullivan, Neu, McGrath, Rosing, Adelaide Kirchner, Killelea and Lange.
Harps—Misses Dillon and Semmes.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly.
1st Senior Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Sarah Hambleton, Eleanor Keenan, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Zo6 Papin, Annie Woodin, Mary Birch, Mary Casey.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Angela Ewing, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Annie Cavenor, Mary Brown, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Harriet Buck, Catharine Lloyd.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Angela Dillon, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Adella Geiser, Agnes Joyce, Anna McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Pauline Hills, Martha Wagner, Lucie Chilton, Annie Jones, EUena Thomas, Mary Usselmann, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Caroline Gall, Ollie Williams,.Della McKerlie, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Julia Barnes, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Iha Capelle, Margaret Piersol.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lillie Lancaster, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Edith Botsford, Ella Wright. .
2d Div.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, Ellen Kinzie, Ida Torrents, Julia Butts.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Maud Casey, Mary Lyons.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Ada Clarke, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin.
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Mary Fitzgerald, Martha Zimmerman, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Isabella Scott, Manuelita Chaves.

THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Birch, Teresa Killelea, Zo£ Papin, Emma Lange, Adell a Gordon Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Annie. Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Mary Ussel-man, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Agnes Joyce, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagoner, Pauline Hills, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Caroline Gall, Ollie Williams, Martha Pampel, Catharine Martin, Mary Tam, Teresa Zahm, Mary Hake, Ida Torrents, Bridget Kelly, Sarah Purdy, Edith Botsford, Ella Wright, par excellence. Misses Anna Woodin, Annie Maloney, Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Grace Glasser, Ellena Thomas, Louisa Neu, Kathleen Wells, Margaret Piersol, Hattie Kinney, Mary Campbell, Effie Attwood.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox. Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Ellen Hackett, Lillie Lancaster, Annie Leydon, Mary Cox, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Garrity, Sophie Papin, Sabina Semmes, Matilda Kidaire, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey, Hattie Arlington, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Elise Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadtne, Elise Papin, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Isabella Scott, Isabella Hackett, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence.
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY LINE,
C. I*. ATMORE,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
Weeklv Newspapers.
rpECE CATHOLIC COJLTJMBIAJN, published JL weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of 70.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	.
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 4n a.m: Cleve’and, 7 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight. GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte335 a m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pac'flc Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 am.	.
4 50 p.m, Special Cnicago Express. Arrives at Laporte'540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 am. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m. Way Freight.	*
F. C. Raff. Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snpt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going'	North.	STATIONS	Going-	South.
		Arrive	Leave		
1.40 am.	3 20 p.m.	- - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m
X2 55	2 30 “	- - - - La Porte, - - -	10.25 “	8.55 “
12.28 “	2 08 “	- - - Stiillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 “
12 07 “	1.41 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “
11.27p m.	1.07 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11.47 “	10.33 “
10 31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.40 p.m.	11.32 “
9.55 “	11.26 a.m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	12.12 a.m
9 25 “	lO 4<	- - -	- Peru, - - - .	2 00 “	12.40 “
9.03 “	10 26 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.22	1.01 “
8.33 “	9.56 ••	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3.00 “	1.35 “
i ♦ <4	913 “	- - - - Tipton, - -	3.38 “	2.16 “
7.10 “	8.30 ,l	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3.02 “
6.10 “	7.25	- - Indianapolis, - - -	5.25 “	4.00 “
		- - Cincinnati, - • . -	10.00 “	8.15 “
		- - Louisville, - - -	10.45 “	8.20 »
		- - - Saint Louis, - -	7.30 a.m.	5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m.
“	“ 6.40 p.m.	- -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 1225 p.m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	----- “	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
B^Births §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, -according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison stree bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City and Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, Ill., and Louisana, Mo..3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line 8 00 pm 9 00 am Sringfield, St Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express...................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and. Burlington Ex....7 30 am - 9 00 pm Chicago and Paduch Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon andWashingtonExS 40 pm 12 30 pm J oliet Accommodation................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen.Manager. J. CnARpTQN,Gen. Pass. Agt.
*1
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	647
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10,1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
going west.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	f No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,		 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.3i 7.11 “ 9.2C “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest		 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.5S “	• •••• ••••
GOING EAST.
	No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No. 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Atlan.Ex.	Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.48 “	8.00	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,	.		8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A M	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	2.33 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6.05 A.M.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,		2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “
Trarns Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principai ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL jMLAID STEAMERS. NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB W IDE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, pct5-tf LaRorte, Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Eailway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run ou al! through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, • corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, ' MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.
	♦MaB	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Nilts	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45 p. m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m. 335 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
					
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.		t Pacific Express	tEvening Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 253 “ 424 “ 547 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 940 “ 1235 a m 238 “ 415 “ 645 “
Niles and Sontli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar.NUes— 9 25 “	715 “		♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 pan. “ N. Dame—740 “	448 “ Ar. So- Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind,
i
648	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
w. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Goke’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
MT. E. Cor. LaSalle «fc Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manages.	Chicago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
A2STU
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE CEOCRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I
OQ
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Kock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap. Centreville. Princeton. Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte. Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines : Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Kailroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all- other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Kestaurant Cars that accompany ail Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OB' THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, FL Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington HEIGHTS, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.: P.. L. & D.; I. B. & W.; III. Midland; and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At ROCK ISLAND, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At GRINNELL, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R;
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IL R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C.. B. & Q. K. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and SL Louis, Keokuk & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At ATCHISON, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe: Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R-Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
P4LACE CARS are run through to PEOKIA.DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Une, known as the “Great Kock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt. and Pass’gr Agt.,
'	Chicago, Ill.