L
r	•
Notre Dame Scholastic.
&■' > •
f	I>isce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
4
* — -....... - - '■ -
l	.	—
Volume XI.	HO TRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 22, 1877.	Number 17.
<	‘— . . -. . . —
Prologue to “The Recognition.”
Read at the St. Cecilia Entertainment, Dec. 18,1877.
How often, dear friends, in the bright “long ago,” We have witnessed this drama performed,
And our tears at the wrongs of its hero would flow, While our hearts by his triumph were warmed!
But since it was last represented, our tears For its author have also been shed;
The Father and friend of those happier years
Is numbered, alas ! with the dead.
But though dead, not departed ; we fondly believe His spirit is hovering near,
Mid the scenes and the friends that he loved, to receive The remembrance awaiting him here.
Remembrance of all the kind words that he said, Of all the kind lessons he taught,
While our souls to the love of our Saviour he led, As our welfare eternal he sought.
But from graver pursuits he would sometimes unbend, Composing such dramas as this,
That amusement itself to instruction might tend, And lead us to heavenly bliss.
For here by a masterly hand you will find The beauty of virtue compared
With the mis’ry of vice, though with triumph combined, That none may by vice be ensnared.
We should beg your forbearance in venturing now To perform what has often been played
By actors more skilled; but you will not allow Any idle remarks to be made.
Thus we leave yoa to censure what ought to be blamed And to praise what you see to admire,
Where if all do their best no one need be ashamed, So I’ll now make my bow and retire.
Solon.
Solon, the second in order of the wise men of ancient Greece, was born at Salamis, in the third year of the 35th Olympiad, 637 years before the Christian era. His parents were Athenians; his father’s name was Execestides, a descendant of Codrus, the last king of Athens, and his mother ’was cousimgerman to the mother of the celebrated Pisis-tratus. By an excessive and imprudent liberality his father had reduced his fortune, and to repair it, Solon, after having devoted' his early youth to philosophical and political studies, entered a commercial career and travelled for the purpose of acquiring wealth and at the same time gathering useful instruction and information. Commerce was at that time very honorable and useful. “It opened,” says Putarch, “useful communications with foreign nations, afforded the means of forming alliances
with princes and kings and gave great experience in all departments of learning.” It seems that Solon knew how to profit rapidly by all these advantages: he became rich, esteemed and celebrated. In Egypt, at that time the centre of the learned world, he studied the form of government and everything relative to the laws, manners and institutions of the country, and he is said to have had during his travels frequent interviews and intimate relations with those wise and virtuous men who, free from all personal ambition, and animated with the love of the public welfare, thought of nothing else than to discover the best possible form of government, to bring all the human tendencies to an honorable issue, and who stand forth to generations to come as models of wisdom, as alone deserving the epithet of wise.
For this reason it was that the great reputation of Thales induced him to undertake a journey to Miletus, where the conversation between the two philosophers concerning the marriage state took place. Thales, who defended the freedom and ease of celibacy, seemed to get the worst, but when all his demonstrations were of no avail, he had recourse to the following practical argument: He very skilfully instructed one of his friends to pay him a visit in the presence of Solon, and then give out that he had just returned from a journey to Athens. To Solon’s inquiry what news there was from that city, the stranger coldly replied: “Nothing, as far as I know, except the burial of a young Athenian, whose funeral was attended by the whole city; he was the son of a very dstinguished person who has been absent from Athens for some time.’.’ Solon began to suspect some misfortune in his own family, but to all his questions he received a similar cold and indifferent answer, until he finally asked: “ Was it, perhaps, Solon? ” “ The very name! ” replied t he stranger, with an air of confidence. The miserable Solon was then seized by such violent grief that he began to rend his garments, to tear his hair, to strike his head; in fine he was transported with sorrow and grief. “ What,” said Thales, “ avails weeping so much for a loss which cannot be repaired by all the tears in the world ? ” “Alas!” returned Solon, “that is the very cause of my tears: I lament an evil for which there is no remedy.” Thales now began to laugh at the different postures into which Solon was putting himself. “O my friend!” said he, “you now experience what makes me afraid of marriige: I now learn, by the grief of the wisest of men, that the afflictions arising from parental love and affection cannot be borne by the firmest heart. Do not, however, vex yourself anymore: what you have now been told is merely a fiction, invented for amusement.”
The whole character of Solon had a dominating tendency to the useful. In whatever he did, and whatever he meditated upon, he had in view the moral and physical welfare
258	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of those that surrounded him. He was possessed of great wisdom, united with much vigor, firmness and sincerity; he was an excellent orator, philosopher, poet, and legislator, and a brave soldier. As*a philosopher he did not lose himself in the vain speculations of metaphysical causes; his whole attention was devoted to the study of men, and, by understanding their duties, to regulate them in the best manner possible in a moral and political point of view. As a poet he did not allow himself to be enraptured in ideal reveries, passionate sentiments and sublime flights of thought; he used only the attractive forms of poetry to show forth the more vividly his strictly moral and instructive maxims, to engraft them the easier in the memory of his people, and to impress them the deeper in their minds.
During his whole life Solon showed great zeal for the liberty of his country and an inveterate hatred of tyrants. The opportunity of showing his devotedness to his country was offered him after his return to Athens, where he was struck with the abuses which had crept into the customs and the administration of the Athenians. Athens at that time was in a most deplorable condition. Distracted within by the contests of fractious parties, it was scarcely able to resist the attacks of its least powerful neighbors. Even the little state of Megara *was at that time a formidable enemy. A destructive war, occasioned by a dispute concerning the island of Salamis, had been carried on for a long time between the two states. At length, after considerable loss on both sides, the Athenians, who bad had the disadvantage, now weary with bloodshed, forbade anyone so much as to propose the renewal of the desperate undertaking. Solon, who was himself a native of Salamis, felt indignant at a policy so pusillanimous; yet, being afraid to speak lest he should expose himself to the grave penalty imposed, and being at the same time afraid to hold his peace, lest his silence should be hurtful to his country, he devised an extraordinary plan for arousing his countrymen from their lethargy. He counterfeited insanity, and having composed a few elegiac verses on the loss of Silamis, he rushed from his house to the market-place, dressed in rags, with a cord around his neck and a coarse cap upon his head, mounted the stone from which the heralds were accustomed to make their proclamations, and recited bis verses to the people who flocked around him. “ Would to God,” he exclaimed, “ that Athens had never been my native country! Oh! that I had been born in Pholegandros, or-in Sicinus, or in some place still more dreadful and barbarous! I should at least not have the mortification to'see myself pointed at with the finger, and thus addressed: ‘Behold an Athenian who has basely survived the fate of Salamis!’ Let us speedily avenge the affront which we have received; and regain possession of that delightful country, which our enemies so unjustly retain.” At these words the Athenians could no longer contain their transports and enthusiasm. The edict was immediately revoked, the war against the Meganans begun anew, and Solon, e’ected by a unanimous vote general of the expedition, had the honor and glory to regain S tlamis for his country. With equal success he led the Athenians against the Crisseans, who had entered with arms into the sacred cily of Delphi, pillaged the temple and molested the pilgrims who came to consult the oracle and bring their presents to the god. Crissa was taken and destroyed, and the territory consecrated to Apollo..
Though Solon had settled the outside difficulties, there yet remained others which threatened no less danger
ous consequences. Party feuds raged in Athens with unabated violence. The poor were so much involved in debt that they were daily'treated as slaves by their creditors, who compelled them to work or .exposed them for sale. A great number of the poorer citizens, assembling together, determined to throw off the yoke of bondage and slavery, resolved to choose a leader, and in future to provide some security against such inhuman measures, and likewise to oblige the magistrates to divide the wealth of the state equally, as Lycurgus had formerly done in Sparta. They were so desirous of a reform that they would have preferred even the despotic rule of one man to the tyranny of their many lords. As Solon belonged to the nobility by birth and station, and had recommended himself to the people by the proofs he had shown of activity, prudence, justice and humanity, he was chosen with the unanimous consent of b >th parties to mediate between them, and arbitrate their quarrels. Under the title of archon he was invested with full authority to frame a new constitution and a new code of laws. It was only after much hesitation that Solon engaged in a task so difficult. He guarded with still greater caution against abusing that almost unlimited power conferred upon him, and even when the title ‘ of king was offered to him he declared that they should never gain his consent. To his friends, who blamed him for his silliness, as they said, in refusing such an honorable and lawfully acquired position, he replied: “ Lawful rule- and sovereignty are indeed fine offices and splendid situations, but he who occupeis them is on every side surrounded by precipices, and when a man is once entered upon them there is no possibility of escaping.” Satisfied with the approbation of his own conscience and the esteem of his countrymen, he bent all his thoughts and energies to the execution of the great task he had undertaken. This consisted in relieving the present distress of the commonwealth and providing against the recurrence of similar evils. The most urgent question was settled by the. publication of his disburdening ordinance or Seisaclitheia, as it was called, in virtue of which, first, a general amnesty was accorded for all public crimes; second, all insolvent debtors who had been reduced to slrvery by their creditors were immediately restored to liberty, and the debt itself held to be cancelled; such as had been sold to foreign masters were to be rebought at the public expense, and all pledged lands restored to their owners; third, all contracts by which the debtor engaged his personal liberty were annulled; and fourth, the rate of interest was reduced and the standard of the silver coinage lowered, so that the debtor saved more than one-fourth in every payment.
These measures at first discontented both parties; the rich were dissatisfied because they had lost their property, and the poor were no less so because they had not been put on an equal footing with the rich. The utility of these regulations, however, soon became manifest, and Solon was invested with full power to amend the laws according to his mind and to establish such form of government as he thought proper.
In his capacity of legislator, Solon began by annulling, as too severe, the laws of Draco, his predecessor, except the law which inflicted capital punishment for the crime of murder. According to the laws of Draco the slightest offences as well as the most enormous crimes were punished with death, and it was this indiscriminate severity which gave rise to the saying, that “they were written with blood.” Draco being one day asked why he had decreed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
259
death for every crime without distinction, replied: “Because the least deserves that punishment, and I am acquainted with nothing more severe for the most enormous.”
Solon divided all the citizens of Athens into four classes, according to Jheir yearly income, three of the rich and one of the poor. He left the rich in the exclusive possession of all state offices, employments and magistracies, and to make 'up for this exclusion of the poor from the executive government he gave them the right of voting in public assemblies, a right which will be found to be of the greatest importance if we consider that all important trials and judgments were decided in these assemblies. His political organizations, which however our limited space does not allow us to dwell on, and more especially the Areopagus, to which only men of superior integrity, wisdom and experience were admitted, were in the highest degree calculated to promote the moral and material welfare of the whole state as well as of every single individual in particular. On the various duties of domestic and social life he enacted a great number of regulations, most of them showing much ability and foresight, and if not the best in themselves, at least the best, he said that the Athenians were capable of receiving. In this way he sanctified the family by consecrating marriage. However, to relieve women from the state of slavery in which they lived with regard to their husbands, to pronounce the indissolubility of marriage, and to sanctify that union which begins here below and terminates in the life to come, was beyond the reach of Solon; it required all the energy and selfsacrifice of Christianity to effect this. We give here, in brief the substance of some of S don’s enactments.
He circumscribed the expenses of ladies, and abolished several ceremonies which they had been accustomed to observe. They were allowed to bring to their husbands as dowry only three robes, or gowns, with some household furniture of small value. He permitted people who had no children to adopt any they pleased as heirs, provided they enjoyed the use of their reason when the testaments were drawn-up. He who had dissipated his fortune should receive a mark of infamy and be deprived of all his privileges, in the same manner as one who did not maintain his parents in their old age. The son was not bound to maintain his father unless the latter had caused him to learn a trade in his youth. One who in a sedition espoused the interests of neither party, should be noted as infamous. No stranger, unless banished forever from his native country, or unless he came thither- with his whole family to prosecute some profession, could be made a citizen of Athens, and every Athenian was allowed to revenge an insulted citizen. He greatly diminished the rewards usually bestowed upon the wrestlers, and decreed that the public should educate the children of those who had fallen in battle for their country. The nearest heir should never be chosen tutor. Robbery should be punished with death; and he who had put out one of the eyes of another, should he condemned to lose both his own. It was prohibited to speak ill of the dead, and he inflicted the most rigorous punishment against any one who, having a doubtful reputation, should dare to fulfil the functions of priest, legislator or judge, or any one who might disgrace the functions by giving public scandal.
As Solon was one day composing his laws, Anacharsis made himself merry with his undertaking. “ What!” said he, “do you expect by a few writings to repress the injustice and passions of men ? Such decrees aptly resemble
spiderwebs, which entrap only flies.” “Men take great care of those things concerning which they themselves are agreed,” replied Solon. “Such shall be the nature and spirit of my laws, that the citizens shall discover their interest to lie more in the observance than in the violation of them.” Being asked why he had made no law against parricide, he answered, “Because I never could persuade myself that there could be any one so depraved as to kill his father or his mother.”
Among the wise sayings of Solon we may quote the following: That moderation ought to be preserved in all things. That a man of sixty years of age ought neither to fear death nor complain of the evils of life. That courtiers resembled certain modes of calculation used in cast ing up accounts, for they represented more or less according to the mind of the prince. That those who approached princes ought not to advise them to what was most agreeable, but what was most advantageous to them. That we have no better guide by which to regulate our conduct than reason; and that before we say or do anything this guide ought always to be consulted.’ That we ought to rely more upon a man’s honesty than upon his oath. That a man ought not choose his friends from sight or casual incidences; and that to tear asunder the bonds of friendship was extremely dangerous. That the most certain and prompt way of repelling injury was to forget it. That a man ought not to intrude himself into command until he has learned to obey. That lying ought to be treated with universal abhorrence. “Are you not ashamed,” he once said to the actor Thespis at Athens, “to lie before so many people? Your intention, you say, is merely to excite-laughter, but if such lies be approved by laughter, we shall soon find lying introduced into public transactions and the most serious business.” That the gods ought to be honored, parents reverenced, and no intercourse held with the wicked. That we ought not envy the rich for their wealth; the good and virtuous alone are happy; riches change -masters every day. The happiest house is that which has itsriches justly acquired, preserves them in good faith, and is not grieved at any expense. The best organized city is that in which all the citizens obey the magistrates, and the magistrates the laws. That licentiousness is the mother of sorrow. Be not forward in making new friends or in leaving those jvbom you have. As long as you live, try to be instructed, and do not presume old age to bring wisdom of itself.	'
The mission of Solon was now fulfilled. Peace and harmony were established among the different elements of the Athenian people, equality and liberty accorded to all the citizens, and a wise form of government was a guarantee of future prosperity. But if Solon had foreseen and calmed the instabilities of the popular mind, he ignored the cunning manoeuvres of ambitious men. Scarcely had he finished his regulations when he had the mortification of seeing Pisistratus, one of his own relatives, striving to acquire absolute power in the state. Silon’s most serious endeavors were to ward off such a misfortune from his fellow-citizens: “ 0 Athenians,” he cried, “ I am wiser than those who are ignorant of the base designs of Pisistratus, and braver than those who, knowing them, do not dare to oppose them. I am willing to put myself at your head and generously to expose my life in defense of liberty.” And when Pisistratus, to deceive the people, had caused himself to be conveyed, all bleeding, to the market-place, Solon cried out: “ O Pisistratus! you act
3-
260	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the part of Ulysses very ill. Ulysses wounded himself to deceive his enemies; but you have wounded yourself to deceive your countrymen.” When he saw that all his efforts remained fruitless, he took his arms, repaired to the door of the senate, and exclaimed: “ O, my dear country! I have aided thee with all the assistance that my words and actions could afford!. I tike the gods to witness that I have neglected nothing for the defense of the laws and liberty of my country! Since I am the only man who declares himself the enemy of the tyrant, I leave thee, I abandon thee forever! ”
And indeed, rather than endure a disgraceful slavery, and moreover be obliged to reform his laws, Solon preferred a voluntary exile. Having engraved his laws upon tables, he caused the people to swear fidelity to them for a hundred years, and bound the councillors and those to whom the care of them was committed, by a solemn oath, that if any of them failed in his duties he should be obliged to present to the temple of Apollo a golden statue as heavy as himself. He then set out on his travels, and visited Egypt, Cyprus, and Sardis in Asia Minor, where he convinced Crajsus of the frailty of human affairs, leaving everywhere the best of records in the minds of men. He returned to his country after an absence of ten years, but Athens was no longer a free state. Pisistratus had usurped the supreme power, and though he was the best of tyrants, preserving the laws of Solon and entertaining the greatest respect for his person, the protector of the poor and afflicted, and the promoter bf literature, arts and sciences, though the kindest and most fatherly of rulers, yet he never conciliated Solon, and all he could obtain from him was a little advice.
’His leisure after retirement from public life was devoted to the muses. Whilst iu Egypt he had conceived the plan of a great poem in which he designed to give an account of an island called Atlantics, said to be situated beyond the known ocean. But he was carried off by death before the work was finished. Plato, a descendant of Solon, who had himself undertaken to execute his ancestor’s design, informs us that Solon was engaged on this work at the time of his death. This happened at Cyprus, in the 55th Olympiad, about the seventy-eighth year of his age. He left orders that his bones should be carried to Salamis, that they should be burned, and that the ashes should be scattered over the-country by the winds. After his death the Athenians erected to his memory a statue in bronze, which represented him with the code of his laws in his hand and dressed as a prince of the people.
The Condottieri.
In the 14th century, the people in many of the cities of Italy became extremely wealthy through the trade which they carried on with Asia. Given to commerce, they lost all taste for the exciting scenes’of war, and were loth to take up arms or risk their lives and fortunes in quarrels with the neighboring states and principalities. Yet wars would take place, and very frequently city was arrayed against city. As there must be soldiers to fight in time of war, it became necessary for the cities to obtain them in some manner; and they did obtain soldiers by employing the many adventurers who swarmed throughout the Peninsula to fight in defence of those lives and fortunes for which they should have given their own blood.
Standing armies were not then known, and these adven
turers, or condottieri, as they were called, who were ever ready to draw the sword with one hand, were gold put in the other, leased themselves out to the citizens, not for a term of years but by the job. A war was undertaken between two cities, and the condottieri stood by, just as contractors in modern times do, and put in their bids to do the fighting. If they received the contract from a city, they marched forth and engaged in battle with those who received the job from the other city. They were the representatives of the valor, the patriotism and the strength of the city; and their opponents, men like themselves, stood * up for the honor, dignity and independence of their paymasters.
But as in modern times contractors for a fat job will underbid each other so in that age, the condottieri underbid each other and undertook the jobs at pretty low rates. There was not, then, much money in the affair if they got simply their wages, and consequently as they fought for money, the money had to come in some other way, and to accomplish this they resorted to plunder and rapine. Besides, as it was by war they lived, it did not pay them to quietly disband when peace was declared; hence they carried on a little war of their own against cities and towns, and managed to make a rather comfortable living by plundering all towns and villages lying in their way, no matter whether they were inhabited by friends or foes. It is needless to say that they became plagues to everybody, and plagues which were not easily got rid of.
As all the condottieri were engaged alike, only that one party was engaged to fight against the other, and as their $ interest became identical, it was but natural that a certain good feeling should exist between the different bands, even though they were engaged to fight on different sides. When therefore one party was hired to cut the throats of another, they generally managed to make the fighting very inconsiderable, and as a consequence there was many a bloodless bittie fought, and while the condottieri escaped with very little damage done to either party, the peaceful citizen, after paying them to suffer and die, generally had to do most of it.
At the great battle of Zagonera, fought by the condottieri, there were but three men killed; and in another battle such was the fierceness of the combatants that .not so much as a single man was placed hors de combat, and their battles, ever afterwards were simply gladiatorial shows. As they had not much regard for honor, they frequently while on the field of battle deserted the standard for which they engaged to fight and went over to the enemy on receiving better pay from him, and it was not an unfrequent occurrence for them after one of their sham battles to demand double the price agreed upon for a service which they never rendered.
There were condottieri in France also. There they went by the name of the compagnies grandes. That was in the 14th century, when the bloody wars were waged between England and France. However, the peasants in the southern provinces got tired of them, for they plundered and devastated the whole country, and became a plague and terror to the peaceful countrymen. To get rid of them, the peasants banded together, and under the name of pacifiers, or pacificators, they waged war against them, no matter on which side the compignies grandee fought. They were successful in puting them down for a short while, but in the year 1361, under the leadership of Arnold of Cervole, 4 they reappeared and defeated the royal army at Brignais,
TSE KOtRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
261
near Lyons. To rid the country of them, Du Guesclin, Constable of France, urged them to join an army in Spain and fight against Pedro the Cruel. He succeeded in getting them to enter the army fighting against Pedro and they never reappeared again in France.
Indirect Egotism.
If, as astrologers were wont to teach, our good or bad dispositions depend upon the celestial bodies under whose influence we chance to be born, how extreme the malignity we must attribute to the planet that condemns a man to be an egotist. Such characters praise self, either directly, by lauding their own actions, or indirectly, by censuring those of others. Of the two classes, the latter is the less tolerable. While a person contents himself with expatiating upon his talents, his qualities, his fortune or exploits, he but inspires us with pity or contempt; when he discovers a criticising, censorious or contradictory spirit, he is apt to excite our indignation. We ridicule the folly that dwells continually upon the first person; we resent the impertinence expressed in the use of the second. Hence, the indirect egotist is a personage of whom society has a special abhorrence.
Men of this disposition seem to imagine that an innate superiority entitles them to criticise the actions and opinions of all who come in their way, and clearly consider the exercise of this privilege to be a mark of enviable distinction. Upon subjects of which they profess to have any knowledge, and of very few will they admit their ignorance, their authority is. infallible. Strengthened by their assertion, the possible is made probable, while probability becomes certitude. So positive is their manner of expressing themselves that to doubt seems temerity; to oppose, a crime. The antagonism of some of this class is so decided, that they deny, almost indiscriminately, whatever is affirmed. As is evident, conversation with such a person is al ways disagreeable, or rather, you cannot converse; the most you can effect is to dispute. He'will disturb the equanimity of the most amiable temper, and rejoice in proportion to the annoyance he produces. Start a subject congenial to your tastes, you are told that such matters never afford him any pleasure. In literature, the authors you most admire are precisely those he most dislikes, or if, by chance, he agrees with you in admitting the merits of a few, he is certain to condemn as defects what you extol as beauties. Express the delight you experience at the sight of a fine painting, “he really cannot see anything pleasing in it”; on the contrary, it appears to him very imperfect. If a student, he always finds comparatively easy the portion of the lesson which others consider the most difficult.^ Speak highly of a companion, he mentions a dozen^fatilts for every good quality you enumerate. His determined opposition displays itself in the most trivial colloquial intercourse. If the sun is shining, and the sky unclouded, you naturally suppose he will admit that the day is fine; but, strange to say, he perceives in the atmospheric pressure infallible signs of an approaching storm. In short, these social pests will never allow an observation to pass without comment, nor bestow the most justly merited praise without qualification. It is even imprudent to acquiesce too readily in their opinions, for, by restricting the sense of their terms, they frequently sacrifice consistency to enjoy the pleasure of contradicting you. Another peculiarity of this class is the malicious satisfaction they evince in correcting the most unimportant
mistake. To detect in your speech a grammatical inaccuracy, or a slight fault in pronunciation, evidently gratifies them not a little, while to convict you of a notable error proves a source of positive joy. What is worse, to rectify j such a mistake they do not scruple to interrupt the flow of the most entertaining narrative. This vicious tendency enables them to deprive anecdote of its charms and to transform agreeable animated conversation into frivolous debate.
This cursory glance at its consequences shows that what we have termed indirect egotism is a quality by no means worthy of admiration. It is the distemper of a mind whose better dispositions have been poisoned by the noxious-vapors of a monstrous self-conceit. As such, the propensities which lead to it should be overcome before they have.acquired strength. The young man who is inclined to dispute merely for the love of opposition, to pronounce his opinion with an air of authority, and to play the cynic in conversation, should take heed lest he become a victim of the vice we have been describing. The germ of pride finds in our corrupted nature a rich and fruitful soil. Shooting forth with marvellous rapidity and vigor, its unhealthful growth requires to be checked. Carefully subjected and restrained, it becomes a laudable self-respect, gracing the heart and inviting men’s esteem; neglected or encouraged, it increases to an immoderate vanity which vitiates the worthiest of our actions, and exposes,us to society as objects of ridicule, aversion and contempt.	0.
Scientific Notes. .
—A catalogue of the pbaenogamous plants included in the flora of New Jersey, published by Oliver B. Willis, enumerates 1,603 species.
—The French Government proposes sending an expedition to San Francisco to observe the transit of-Mercury, which will take place May 6,1878.
—Mr. Lyman, Geologist to the Japanese Government, estimates, in his report of.the survey of the Island of Yesso, that its deposits of coal will yield 150,000,000.000 of tons.
—The King of Wiirtmberg has directed his hunting mas-te- to present to the Zoological Society of Cincinnati three specimens of what are known as Axir deer, a species said to be exceedingly rare.
—The Royal Society of London has bestowed the Copley Medal upon Frol. James Dwight Dana, for his important investigations in biology, geology, and mineralogy, conducted through half a century.
—Two new species have been added to the list of insectfeeding plants by a Spanish botanist. They are the Ononis natrix and the Sileno viscosa, and their habits were observed in an excursion to the Province of Cordova.
—The Westminster Aquarium at London has on exhibition four Laplanders, wttn their reindeer, tent, sledges, and domestic paraphernalia. They were brought from Kanto-keino, N. L. 69° V, and pursue their habitual ways and customs in their new locality without apparent disquietude.
—Lieut. Wyse, of the French navy, reports favorably on his official explorations of the isthmus of Darien, made with a view to the project of an inter-oceanic canal. He believes that it could be most easily executed directly from the valleys of the Tupisa and Tiati, to the gulf of Uraba, and would not require any locks.
—Pongo, the famous gorilla, whose death the Berlin Aquarium is dep’oring, seemed unusually well on its return to Berlin, Sept. 21, alter the visit to England. A mouth later symptoms of indisposition were manifest, yet not of“a nature to alarm the physician. A few days after, the gorilla suddenly died, causing a grievous loss to the Aquarium, which had just refused an .offer of £2,500 for the animal. .
262
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—When the usefulness of compressed paper for railway wheels was demonstrated, two or three years ago, people asked “What next?” The question can now be answered. The latest qse of paper appears to be for chimney-pots. They are made in Breslau, and are light and durable. Before the paper pulp is molded and compressed, into the required shape, it is treated with chemicals which render it non-inflammable.
—A number of gems of extraordinary size and beauty have found their way from Russia to England since the present war began. Among them is an aquamarine weighing over six and a half ounces, of a deep sea-gre-n tint, and of faultless beauty. No gem of the kind equalling it has ever before been seen in England. Another remarkable gem is. a topaz rivalling that purchased for the Grand Mogul at Goa tor £11,260.	■
—The ball that was set rolling by the enterprise of the late Prof. Agassiz, at Penikese, makes new accretions every year, and the summer schools of science are becoming very numerous. One of the most recent of these organizations has its headquarters at Lincoln, Neb., and is intended to provide a moving camp to study the natural history of the Republican river in that State. The district to be traversed is of cretaceous and tertiary formations. Regular courses of instruction will be given in the natural sciences. Among the teachers engaged are Profs. C. D. Wilber, S. Aughey, and G. E. Bailey.
—The Zoological Gardens at London have received, from 1861 to 1876, examples of 2,143 species of vertebrated animals. Of these 570 were mammals, 1,224 birds, 227 reptiles, 39 batrachians, and 83 fishes. In comparison with the prosperous state of the London gardens, those of New York and Philadelphia make a poor showing. The gardens at the latter city are, indeed, enlarging their collections at an encouraging rate; but, from a reduction of the appropriation made by7 the City Government, the gardens at New York have suffered a considerable diminution in the number of animals on exhibition.
—As soon as cables are laid giving telegraphic connections between new points, an opportunity is afforded for determining the longitude of the stations. This is by far the simplest and most accurate method of determining longitudes .that has ever been invented. All that is necessary is to have correct local time at each station, ana to note the time accurately when the signals are sent. The difference of the local times is practically the difference of longitude. There is a small loss of time in the transmission of the signals, but the error that this might occasion is entirely eliminated by sending signals both ways over the wire, and computing from a pair of signals.
—The Russian Geographical Society has sent out, among others, the following expeditions in the last year: Prshe-valsky made a survey into the interior, 800 miles beyond Kuldja, in'which determinations of longitude and latitude, and barometrical measurements of heights, were made along the route, and collections gathered of 300 species of plants, eighty-five of mammalia, 180 of birds, fifty of fishes, 150 reptiles, and 2,000 insects. M. Prshevalsky started for Tibet towaid the close of August. M. Potanin’s expedition failed to penetrate far into Mongolia, but he now proposes to go to the sources of the Yenesei. M. Mainoff has returned from his studies among the Mordva population of Eastern Russia with very valuable materials.
—From time to time announcements have been made of the discovery of photographing in natural colors, but nothing satisfactory is yet known to have been achieved. Some of the more promising efforts were made a few years ago with the very sensitive salts of uranium, but while it was claimed that colored pictures were obtained, the colors themselves were said to be fugitive. A report now comes from Munich, Bavaria, that colored pictures have been produced by a new process. Three photographs are taken. The first is on a plate which is sensitive to yellow rays only; the negative of this is printed by photo lithography in yellow ink. The second photograph is from a plate only sensative to blue rays, and the printing from this is with blue ink, overlaying the first printing. The third photograph is from red, and the proceedings are similar with red ink. The colors thus blended in printing are said to give the natural tints.	•	■ •
Art, Music and Literature.
—T. Tschaikowsky, the Russian composer, is at work on a new opera, entitled “Eugen Omigin.”
—Classes in porcelain-painting are being formed, under the auspices of the Chicago Society of Decorative Art
—The best life of Boccaccio yet written is Dr. Marcus Lindau’s German biography of him, just published at Stuttgart.	•
—Mlle. Louisa Siefert, who died recently at Pau, was the only woman whose poetry obtained admission for her into the ranks of the “ Parnassian school” of modern France.
—The Athenceum has a notice of Pierce’s Sumner this week that is not very enthusiastic. Perhaps Mr. Sumner is a little too plain-spoken at times to suit English readers.
—Capt. Marsh's “Ride Trough Islam” graphically describes a long and dangerous journey through Persia and Afghanistan, and throws much light on the problem of Central Asia.
—Anamtive of the eve itiful campaign in Armenia is being prepared by Mr. Charles Williamsone of the special correspondents at the headquarters of Ghazi Ahmed Mukhtar Pasha.
—The best European connoisseurs are now agreed that the various Government academies and private societies for the promotion of art are largely responsible for its having dwindled to a mere trade.	.
—A “ Bibliotheque Universitaire,” containing all works appearing from the pens of the professors of the French university, has just been established in Paris, by order of the ministry of public instruction.
—“Men of Letters” is the title of a series of short books, which will tell people what they most want to know as to the life, character and works of some of the great English writers. John Morley edits the series.
—An outline of the lives of “Raphael and Michael Angelo,” by Charles C. Perkins, will soon be published by James R. Osgood. & Co., in an octavo volume, illustrated with engravirgs and heliotypes. .
—Mr. Enderly Jackson, a well-known English maestro, who has'been engaged for the management of Gilmore’s concert-tour of Europe, has arrived in this country, and is making active preparations for the departure of'the band.
—M. l’Abbe Hiichede, Professor in the Grand Seminary at Laval, has translated into French from the Italian of Canon Priscos’, “ Cours E'.ementaire de Philosobhie Speculative, selon la doc'rine angelique de Saint Thomas d’Aquin.”
—The second portion of the collection of modern prints brought together by M. Philippe Burly will probably be sold during the coining season. It comprises many etchings by M. Alphonse Legros, Mr. Seymour Haden, and M. Bracquemond.
—A monument has lately been erected in Munich to to Aloys Senefelder, who discovered the art of lithography in 1796. The monument presents a colossal bust of Senefelder, and four bass-reliefs representing the main incidents in the progress of his invention.
—An exhibition of the engraved work of Hans Sebald Beham, one of the Germ in Little Masters, is to be opened at the Burlington Fine-Af& ‘Club, London. It is expected that the collection of the artist’s small line-engravings and woodcuts will be tolerably complete.
—Jules Verne is at work on a new romance, entitled “Un Capitaine de Quinze Ans.” The work will be in two parts, and it is expected to run through Hetzel’s Magazine d'Education the whole of 1878, and not to be published in book form before the beginning of 1879.
—Pdre Eugene Desjarines, S. J., has just published an octavo volume, entitled Encore Galilee! A review in the Unvoers says of it that it is the very best repertory that could be desired of every fact and document relating to this extensive and much debated question.
—On the 17th ■ of November, a new opera entitled ‘Lina” was brought out at the Dal Verme Theatre in Milan, and had an overwhelming triumph. The composer was called before the curtain forty-one times, which is simply a
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	263
way the natives have of expressing “ a success of encour-• agement.”
—The wife of J. Cornyns Carr, an English journalist of rising reputation, and the English editor of the French art-journal L'Art; will reproduce in book form her sketches of “North-Italian Folk,’’ which were originally published in the Examiner, and much praised at the time. Caldscott furnishes the illustrations for the work.
—Dr. Lubke has published at Nurnberg a book entitled ‘‘Peter Vischer’s Werke.” Vischer was a celebrated worker in bronze, living at Nurnberg in the last half of the fifteenth and the first of the sixteenth centuries. Dr. Lubke not only furnishes a biography of Vischer, but a history of the condition of art at Nurnberg during the era in which he flourished.
—According to a Florentine journalist, the foreign artists who summered and autumned at Venice are now busy depicting on canvas “the gorgeous sunsets, rosy dawns, tardy twilights, giant monuments, gilded fogs; in a word the mysterious and fantastic entirety of the lagoons, whose inconceivable effects neither tongue nor pen is adequate to ever describe.”
—Millais, the artist, who is now forty-eight years old, is only a little above medium height, though his erect carriage and powerful frame make him seem taller. He is a man of very striking appearance. His hair is light and a little gray; his eyes are blue and penetrating, and he has a well-shaped, pleasant mouth. He is a cultivated and agreeable man, and is constantly in society.
—Charles Reade, the English novelist, is about to write a book on a subject which will allow of his discussing the physiology of the human body in a popular manner. The idea is an excellent one, as there is much to be said on the structure of the human frame, and on the means of maintaining it in the best order, which the unlearned public need to hear often repeated, and in ways suited to catch their attention.
—George Parsons Lathrop states, in a letter published in the Academy, that Dr. J. G. Holland is the most popular of American novelists, being rivalled only by Dr. Edward Eggleston and the Rev. E. P. Roe. He afterward, in the same letter, tempers the first portion of this statement by remarking that “Dr. Holland, though not greatly in favor with the literary class, writes with the force of good purpose, which all must respect.”
—“The Life of Edward William Lane” has been recently published in London by his nephew, Stanley Lane Poole. Mr. Lane’s book on the “Modern Egyptians” has had an immense and deserved success. It was translated into German soon after its appearance in 1836; it was reprinted in the United States, ami 70,000 copies have been sold in London. Mr. Lane’s version of the “Thousand-and-One Nights,” and “ Arabic English Lexicon,” are works of a high order of merit.
—M Louis Conrajod gives, in a late number of the Gazette des Beaux Art, reasons for believing that he has found in the Royal Collection of Prints at Munich an exact drawing of the celebrated statue of Francesco Sforza by Leonardo da Vinci. The. drawing represents “ a warrior on horseback, bare-headed, with a baton of command in his righ thand. He sits firmly, while his fiery horse springs impatiently over a soldier who has fallen on the ground.” The figure of the warrior is evidently a portrait, and the features resemble those of Sforza as given on a medal. It is not claimed that the drawing was made by Da Vinci, but that it reproduces the original monument in its final form.
—A discovery has just been made in England, which is of great importance to Biblical literature. Mr. Neubauer, Sublibrarian of the Bodleian Library, has discovered in a recently acquired Hebrew manuscript the Chaldean text of the book of Tobias. St Jerome, in the preface of his translation of this Book, addressed to B:shops Chromatins and Haliadorus, says to them: Ezigitus enim ut librum Ghaldeo sermone concriptum, ad Latinum, stylum’traham, librum utique Tobice. It is supposed that the text discovered by Dr. Neubaur, is the very one translated by St. Jerome, with the exception of few variations and, perhaps,
corrections. The Chaldean style of Tobias would indicate that this is the original of the Book.
—The portrait of “Miss Penelope Boothby,” by Reynolds,' is in the possession of Earl Dudley. It represents the daughter of Sir Brooke Boothby, and is considered the finest of all Reynolds’ child portraits. Mr. S. Couflns has just completed a mezzotint plate after Hogarth’s portrait of Miss Rich, the god-daughter of the artist. “Nothing,” says a critic, speaking of the original work, “more absolutely sweet, nothing fresher and purer; is known to tis id protraiture than this gem*” The print of it produced by Mr. Cousins is said to be charming, “only not quite perfect.” It is called a fitting compauion to the gem in the Reynolds collection,—the two outranking all others of their class. Mr. S. Cousins has also lately executed a mezzotint plate after a bust of a boy with a bill by Greuze, named the “ Young Dauphin.”
—The Trustees of the British Museum have secured a copy of a very rare Chinese encyclopte’.ia entitled “Koo kin too shoo tscih ching:” or, “A. complete Collection of Ancient and Modern Books, with Illustrations.” During the reign of the Emperor Kang-he (1661-1721), it occured to that, in view of the alterations which were being introduced into the text of works of value, it would be advisable to reprint such from the old editions. He therefore appointed a commission and directed them to reprint, in one huge col. lection, all such works as they might deem worthy of preservation. A complete set of copper type was cast for the undertaking, and the commissioners were able to lay before the Emperor a compilation consisting of 6109 volumes. The contents they divided under thirty-four heads, embracing works on every subject contained in the national literature. . Only a small edition was printed, and before long the Government, yielding to the necessities of a severe crisis, ordered the copper type employed to print it to be melted down for cash. Thus only a few copies of the first , edition are in existence, and it is but rarely that one finds its way into the market.
—The birthday of the poet Whittier was celebrated on the evening of Dec. 17, at the Brunswick hotel, Boston, by a dinner by the proprietors of The Atlantic Monthly to the poet, and the brilliant coterie identified with the magazine. Sixty-two persons, all renowned in literature, sat down to an elegant banquet. On the wall hunga portrait of Whittier, surrounded with an ivy wreath, and a picture of Whittier’s home at Amesbury. The company included Ralph Waldo • Emerson, Mark Twain, Edgar Fawcett, J. R. Osgood, John Boyle O’R filly, Longfellow, Holmes, Higginson,R. H. Stoddard, J. T. Trowbridge, John Weiss, E. P. Whipple, Chas. D. Warner, Howells, and Whittier. Letters of regret were read from Felix Adler, T. B. Rich, G. W. Curtis, Bayard Taylor, Bryant, George Cary Eggleston, Gen. Allan Magruder, and others. Speech-making w.is opened by H. O. Houghton, who introduced Whittier, who was received with cheers, and bashfully acknowledged the honor. A poem by Whittier was read by Longfellow, and another, “Ichabod,” by Emerson. Howells made a speech; Dr. Holmes read a poem hitting off Emers >n, Longfellow, and Whittier. Charles Eliot Norton responded for Lowell, with a poem, “ Castles in Spain”; Mark Twain made an intensely funny speech; R. II. Stoddard read a poem; W. W. Story, the sculptor, made a speech, and was followed by C. D. Warner. T. W. Higginson, George E. Waring, W. F. Apthorp, W. H. Bishop, of Milwaukee, F. H. Underwood, first editor of The Atlantic, a poem py John Weiss, etc. The festivities lasted till 1 a. m.
11 were no bad comparison to liken mere rich men to camels or mules; for they often pursue their devious way over hills and mountains, laden with Indian purple, with gems, aromas, and generous wines upon their bicks, attended, too, by a long lineof servants as a safeguard on their , way. Soon, however, they come to their evening halting-place, and forthwith their precious burdens are taken from their backs; and they now, wearied and stripped of their lading and retinue of slaves, show nothing but livid maiks of stripes. So also those who glitter in gold and purple raiment, when the evening of life comes rushing on them, have nothing to show but marks and wounds of sin impressed upon them by the evil use of riches.—Ex,

264	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Danie, December 22, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others,is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
hoice Poetry, Essays, and the cu rrent Art, Musical and Liter-ry Gossip of the. day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct. .
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 I*er Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
.	Our Parish. Schools.
It is with pleasure we publish the following letter from an esteemed clerical friend, a secular priest and pastor of a thriving and well-regulated parish, in reference to our article of last week about parish schools. We feel that these are the sentiments of many of the priests of the United States, and we will hail with joy the day when' Diocesan SchoolBoards are established throughout the country. Our friend writes as follows:
“Editor Notre Dame Scholastic:—I was more than pleased when I read in your last number the excellent letter concerning ‘Catholic Schools.’ For a number of years I have entertained the selfsame ideas expressed in the letter, and thought many a time of publishing a plan upon which our Catholic Parochial Schools ought to be based. I am, however, glad that others have had more courage by saying in public what many and many a Priest has felt in private for a long time. Thank God that at last a beginning is made! and let us not despair of a final success worthy of the noble cause in which we are engaged. The plan set fourth in the Chicago letter contains at least the substance of what should be done. Permit me now to suggest for his plan what in my humble opinion is absolutely necessary in order to make the Board of Education of each Diocese of sufficient strength. The Board of Education should comprise, besides that mentioned in the Chicago letter, the examination of teachers employed by the Pastor for his schools. Again, it but too often happens that teachers have just causes for complaint, and as they depend entirely on the good will of the Pastor it can hardly be expected that they can always make their complaints to him or obtain from an interested party a disinteresedt hearing of their complaints. It should therefore be made the duty of the Board of Education to investigate such complaints and give a fair and impartial decision. These two points, in my opinion, should come under the control of the Board of Education. For we must not only endeavor to give a new impulse to our school system (if we really can be said to have any as yet) in order to place our Schools on
a lasting foundation, to give assistance to the Pastors of congregations, who have now alone the burden of schools upon their shoulders, but we must also endeavor to advance the welfare of our teachers.	■
“ If we, on the one hand, exact that teachers be examined before and by the Board of Education, we must on the other also give them, in case of grievance, a Board before which they can lay their complaints and from which matters in question will receive due attention. But I have no doubt that if this most important affair is once taken in hand, wiser heads than mine will see the necessity of taking this matter into due consideration.
“If our Catholic Schools, then, shall enjoy a lasting existence, bring a blessing upon parents and children and the Church at large, some plan for establishing them upon a firmer foundation than they have now is absolutely needed. But how go to work about it ? Your Chicago friend says : ‘ Who will begin ’ ? Your friend of another State says: ‘Agitate the question.’ No new enterprise—no matter how much may depend upon it, and even though the public at large be interested in it, will succeed unless it is first agitated, kept before the public. I say then again: Keep it up in your columns; keep it before the public until you see or hear that a substantial beginning is somewhere made. Let every Catholic paper, German and English, publish the plan as proposed—comment on it,—urge it,—demand it,—till we have at least a trial made. To what is the success of the Public School system partially due but to the Board of Education which exists in every county ? To learn from those with whom we must honestly differ on the Educational question, is certainly right. The Parish School is for our Church the question of the day. Why do the enemies of the Church in almost all European States try so hard to get the Schools away from the control of the Church ? Because thus they can engraft upon the minds of the youth of the land their Godless ideas. Here, thank God, we are fiee! Let us therefore establish our Schools upon afirm basis of operation, and this once established we shall have made a decided step in the right direction. Therefore I say again: ‘Agitate the matter ! ’”
The Literary Entertainment.
On the wh‘ole, the first literary Entertainment given by the Philodemic Association was a success. It afforded much to be approved and admired, though some few defects might invite the attention of the critical. One feature of the Entertainment, on which the young gentlemen of the Association are to be congratulated, is their evident disposition to grapple with some of the real live questions of the day. Mr. J. J. Quinn’s oration on Labor and Capital was marked with all the raciness and vigor which the young gentleman’s previous efforts gave us a right to expect. Of course Mr. Quinn, like most other political economists of a score of years or thereabouts, is inclined to be at limes rather fiercely radical in his views, but those who may be tempted to look on some of the theories he advanced as a little incendiary, would do well to remember that such pet phrases as “ rights of the down trodden workingmen”—proletariate wouldn’t be a word cither— “ blood and sweat of the toiling millions,” “ rapacity of bloated bond-holders,” whether they always convey very distinct ideas or not, are yet of invaluable service In rounding periods and capping climaxes effectively. The scathing invectives directed against the more prominent of contemporary capitalists were, we think, in questionable taste,—though, let it be added, at times they so far overshot the mark—the epithets became so forcible and emphatic, and the metaphors so strained, that the Junior portion of the audience seemed to imagine themselves lis-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	265
tening to one of those choice effusions of the “ Brudder Bones” school with which Mr. Quinn had on other occasions amused them.
the paper of the evening was unquestionably Mr. Ewing’s essay on Education. He began by asserting as a well-established truth that the perpetuity of free institutions depends on the intelligence and education of the masses. He then proceeded to show that by education we should understand not simply intellectual but also moral and religious training. Finally, reviewing the system of education r	which prevails amongst us to-day, he demonstrated that
I*	it is defective, since it means simply cultivation of the
mind and neglect of the heart; that in the light of history and experience it is unwise and dangerous; finally that it is unjust, since for six millions of the American people it is practically “taxation without representation.” Mr. Ewing’s grasp of the subject was comprehensive and his treatment of it of marked ability, indicating that he has read extensively, thought much, and formed ideas on one of the great questions destined to occupy the serious attention of the present and coming generation. We regret to say, however, that the unqualified praise which we are willing to |	bestow on the subject matter of the essay cannot be ex-
|	tended to the manner in which it was delivered, or rather
I	read. Mr. Ewing must be taxed with being at times too
|	stiff, pompous and dogmatic, and too uniformly emphatic.
|	At times the words seem to dance from before his eyes, and
]	the result of his search after them is occasionally an offence
/ against orthoepy.	.
'	Mr. Coleman’s essay on “ Latin Comedy ” was able, inter-
esting and instructive. The local hits which he succeeded ,	pi introducing into his sketch of the life of Plautus ren-
dered this part of it at least spicy, but taken as a whole we i	must say that the essay impressed us as having almost too
1	strong a flavor of the cyclopaedia and classical dictionary.
1	Mr. Hertzog’s panegyric of Demosthenes was a very
|	• creditable effort and met with a very favorable reception.
(	It had evidently been carefully prepared, and evinced a
|	thorough familiarity on Mr. Hertzog’s part with the princi-
f	pal events of interest and importance in the career of the
|	great tribune. The style, if a trifle boyish at times, was
|	never marred by sophomoric bombast or straining after
I	effect.
g	Two declamations, “The Painter of Seville’’and “Sha-
|	mus O’Brien,” were delivered in excellent style by Messrs.
3	• E. Arnold and L. D. Murphy, and greeted with loud ap-
plause. To the credit of both young men be it said— and ?	‘ remember it, 0 ye Thespians, Cecilians, Philopatrians, and
Columbians!—that neither was tempted by the prolonged plaudits into inflicting another effort on an indulgent but fast-tiring audience.
The many friends of Messrs. M. J. McCue and Jos. P. McHugh were somewhat disappointed at the non-appearance of those two young gentlemen. Neither, however, is in any way to blame. The guilty parties are the other orators, essayists and deciaimers of the evening, Whose efforts, however excellent, had exceeded the time allowed them. Messrs. McCue and McHugh withdrew at their own request in order to prevent, the Entertainment from dragging out to a wearisome length. It is to be hoped, however, that at no very distant day both will be afforded an opportunity of gratifying their numerous friends and well-wishers. As to the music, to say that it was furnished by the string quartette is a sufficient guarantee of its excellence. All things considered, we repeat that the Philo-
demics are to be congratulated on the .success of their firsl^Entertainment, and hope that it will soon be followed by others equally interesting.
The St. Cecilians’ Entertainment.
Although the weather was in nowise’ favorable, yet Washington Hill was well filled last Tuesday evening to witness the first public appearance of the St. Cecilians. Promptly at seven o’clock the Band struck up a sprightly air, and the exercises of the evening began.
The Address Lorn the Society was given by Master W. A. Widdicombe in a very pleasing manner. After an overture, played better than our young performers in the Orchestra have perhaps ever done, we were treated to a number of very good declamations. All of them were well rendered, but there were some defects. Mister Charles Hagan gave ” Cataline’s Defiance,” and though there were many good points yet we could wish that he would pay more attention to his articulation, which is not sufficiently clear. Mr. Francis Cavanaugh gave a selection entitled “Sherman,” by the late Judge Arrington. It was finely rendered, though we believe that he could have got along with fewer gestures. The same may be said of Master Francis McGrath, who followed in a selection from Willis. .Masters McGrath find Cavanaugh are good deciaimers. The stumpspeech of Master William Jones, of Columbus, Ohio, was highly appreciated by the audience, which was in humor for fun.
The first part of the programme was now drawing to a close, and Master George Cochrane stepped forward and, in a clear distinct voice spoke the prologue to the drama. The curtain was then raised and the play, “ The Recognition,” was begun. This play is familiar to all here at Notre Dame, having been written for the St. Cecilians and produced by them on several occasions, and always with great success. We need not, therefore, speak of the play. Of the acting we will say this that it was equal almost to that on any of the former occasions when the play was produced here. Without exception, the young gentlemen acquitted themselves well, some of them playing even more than well, and richly deserving’ the applause given them. Since all acquitted themselves with credit, it remains, then, our duty to point out the defects in the acting of the principal characters. Mr. W. A. Widdicombe (Duke of Spoleto) was a trifle too loud in his playing, and in the fighting scene seemed to pay more attention to the audience than to his adversary. C. J. Clarke (Riccardo) might have shown a little more amination. F. E. Carroll (Prince of Macerata) was rather stiff in his movements, and J. Ber-teling (Count Bartolo) should pay more attention to the inflections at the end of his sentences. Francis T. McGrath (Antonio), while rendering his part in a natural and graceful manner, lacked strength of voice; and’Charles Hagan (Balthazar) was rather faulty in his articulation. J. L. Healy (Stephano), although giving his character a good rendition, was yet not quite pedagogical enough. The other characters were taken as follows: “Leonardo,”!?. E. Keenan; “Gratimo,” G. Donnelly; “Lorenzo,” W. F. Bloom; “Giacomo,” F. Cavanaugh; “Pacifico,” R. P. Mayer; “Fabiano,” G. F. Sugg; “Reginald,” C. Cavanagh; “Paolo,” M.Burns; “Zucchi,” J. G. Baker; “Pedro,” T. Nelson; “ Beppo,” M. Bannon; “ Vincentio,” J. Lemarie; “Alphonso,” W. R. Walker; “Piccolo,” D. Coddington; “Marco,” J. Reynolds; “Andrea,” A. Sievers;
266
THE KOT RE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Orlando,” J. Arentz; “Silvio,” G. Crawford; “Carlo,” A. Hatt; “Alfieri,” G. Cochrane; “Bernardo,” E. P. Pennington; “Almeno,” J. Perea: “Manfred,” C. Walsh;
*' Angelo,” R. Anderson; “ Rossi,” W. Jones.
One great defect with many—a very natural one, by the way, in personsappearing in public for the first time—was the rather uneasy attitude taken when speaking at considerable length. Instead of shifting their position occasionally they stood in the same place or position, thus allowing a nervous working of the lower limbs to show itself. By an occasional step or side turn this might be avoided.
We have spoken of the defects of the actors, but their general merits, eliciting such hearty applause of the audience, spoke volumes, and the pleasure which beamed from the faces of all when leaving the hall fully testified to the success of the play. We trust that the good acting of last Tuesday evening will encourage the young gentlemen to play even superior at their May Entertainment.
The closing remarks, happily put, were made by Very Rev. President Corby.
Personal.
—	Benjamin F. Euans, of ’76, is reading medicine at Ann Arbor, Mich.
—	Rev. J. M. Toohey, we are pleased to say, has returned to Notre Dame.	•
—	W- F. Watson, of ’64 is Probate Judge of Arapaho County, California.
—	William T. Ball, of ’77, is living in Chicago. His address is No. 30 Park Avenue.
—	J. B. Comer (Commercial), of’73, is doing a wholesale business at St Paul, Minn.
—	Rev. Father Noll, the popular and energetic pastor of Elkhart, visited us last Tuesday.
‘ —James Taggart (Commercial), of ’67, is in the live stock business at Aurora, Nebraska.
—Dr. John McAllister, of ’73, is demonstrator of Anatomy in the Medical College, Nashville, Tenn.
—John McGinnerty (Commercial), of ’70, is keeping books for McPhee & Keating, Denver, Colorado.
—Dr. William Ryan, of ’65, has a large practice in New Orleans. His address is No. 15 Claiborne Street.
—Wm. M. Jones, of’61, is principal of one of the public schools in Chicago. His address is No. 4 Kansas Street
—	Last Monday we were honorc d by a visit from Rev. A. B. Occhtcring, the zealous and efficient pastor of Mishawaka.
—	P. J. O’Connell, of’73, is still connected with the County Board of Ccok County, Illinois. Hisaddressis No. 27 Canal St., Chicago.	.
—	Among the visitors of the week have been Mr. and Mrs. D. Haynes, Washington, D. C., and Mr. R. A. Castin, Brussels, Belgium.
—	Rev. John Kiull, of ’66. has been spending a number of days at Noire Dame. Father Ktiill is in the best of health, and was much pleased with his visit.
—Rev. John E. Garrity, of’70, died recently at Chicopee Falls, Mass. Father Ganity had been ordained but a few years, but during these yeais he worked faithfully iu discharge of the duly taken upon himself. May he rest in peace.
—Jesse J. Houck, who, by the way, is missed from social circles and especially from the Band, left last August for the East, and is attending College at Notre Dame, Indiana. We saw a letter from Jesse to his parents, a few days since, from which we learn that he is well pleased with the school and teachers, and making rapid progress in his studies. He will be absent about two years.—Cdlvalis (Oregon) Gazette.
Iiocal Items.
—Washington Hall now looks desolate.	.
—The Band was out serenading last Thursday. .
—Matins and lauds will be chanted on Christmas Eve.
—New desks have been put in the Senior study-hall.
—The regular monthly Conference took place on Wednesday last. -	.
—The weather was not very favorable for the St. Cecilian Entertainment last Tuesday.
—Most of the students who intend spending the holidays at home left yesterday, the 21st.
—B. Wilfrid was in his glory Tuesday afternoon fixing up the stage for the St. Cecilians.
—The Scholastic Almanac is now out. Everyone should procure a copy. Price, 25 cts.
—The Minims express their gratitude to Br. Alban for a kind favor lately received at his hands.
—All should remember that classes will begin Jan. 3d, and should make it a point to be on hand.
—The Philopatrians are active as usual, and will appear next April before the public to the greatest advantage.
—Rev. Father Zahm gave a very interesting lecture on “ Magnetism ” in Phelan Hall, last Thursday evening.
—The monthly bulletins were made out last Wednesday and are by this time in the hands of parents and guardians.
—The names of all the Indianapolis boys appeared on both the Roll of Honor and list of Class Hcnors last week.
—The members of the Boat Club have taken their boats out of winter quarters, and have enjoyed a number of social rows.	'
—Let everyone remaining here during the Christmas holidays remember that he can have a good time if he only wants to.
—The students in the Junior department had a great race for a rabbit last Wednesday. Tne rabbit was too quick for the boys.
—The St. Cecilians say that Joseph Carrer has placed them under obligations which they will endeavor during the year to fulfil.	.
—The St. Cecilian censors, Messrs. Mayer, Walsh, Hagan, McGrath and Nelson, did their work well at the Entertainment and before it.
—The opinion is rapidly gaining ground that Father Dale’s version of Baldeschi is on the whole preferable to Rt. Rev. Bishop Becker’s.
—The St. Cecilians had a grand oyster lunch after their Entertainment on Tuesday evening, at which a number of invited guests attended.
—The Editor of the Scholastic returns thanks to Mr.. Charles Orr, of Steubenville, for a Christmas remembrance in the shape of a box of cigars.
—Prof. Lyons deserves great praise for the grand style in which he put “ The Recognition ” on the boards in Wash-. ington Hall last Tuesday evening.
—The St. Cecilians tender their thanks to Profs. Stace, Howard and Edwards, Bros. Simon and Leander, for services rendered in connection with their late Entertainment.
—A meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception took place Wednesday evening, Dec. 19th. At this meeting essays were read by Messrs. George Orr and John P. Hafner.
—The wet, drizzly weather on Tuesday did not keep the crowd away from Washington Hall last Tuesday evening. Had the weather been fine the hall would have been densely crowded.
—To the credit of the St. Cecilians be it said that their de-claimers had the moral courage to refuse to respond to any encores. It shows good sense on the part of the young gentlemen.
—The St. Cecilians have been complimented on all sides for their excellent rendition of “The Recognition” last

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
267

I

I
i?

1
Tuesday. ’ The Society still flourishes with its old-time vigor. Success to it.
—The Rev. Prefect of Studies while going his rounds dropped into the 4th grammar class and offered a prize to the boy that would parse a certain sentence. It was won by Walter Cannon, George Guthrie being second best.
—The article “Whither are we Drifting?” which appeared in our paper a few weeks ago, has received the honor of being translated and published in three of our German exchanges: the Baltimore Volk^zeitung, the Luxemburger Gazette, and the Cincinnati Volksfreund.
■ —The ps ilms sung at Vespers to morrow are Dixit Do-minus, page 1 of the Vesperal; Confitebor, page 1; Beatus mr, ' page 2; Laudate pueri, page 2; and In Exitu Israel, page 9.
The hymn is Creator alme, page 59. The Mass sung to morrow is the Missa de Angelis. The Vespers for Christmas Day may be found on page 64 of the Vesperal. .
—The other day we noticed our friend John sitting with arms akimbo and a scowl upon his countenance, gazing into the columns of a large dictionary: “What’s the trouble?” we inquired. “ Trouble enough i ” he ejaculated. “ The idea of asking a fellow that only studied German one year to write a German New Year’s letter.” We saw that he was not to be trifled with, and we moved cautiously out of his presence.
—We call the attention of our readers to the card of Messrs. Flynn & Hisgen, plain and fancy book-binders, Kalamazoo, Mich. This firm does binding for the Ave Maria, the Lemonnier Circulating Library, the University, and ourselves. Several excellent specimens of their binding may be seen in the College parlor. They do their woi k neatly and tastily, and their terms are the most reasonable we know of.
—On the 16th inst. Master James Devine, of Chicago, ■ received from his father a large can of ice-cream. As there was a sufficiency for all, he generously treated his companions, the Minims. Considering the balmy weather we were favored with last Sunday, the Minims testify rghtly that an ice-cream feast on that day was quite apropos. The thanks of the Minims are due to Mr. Wm. Devine and his son for the generous treat. •
—The 16th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Dec. 19th. Mr. A. W. Widdicombe was elected Vice-President; J. Healy, 21 Vice-President; G. Sugg, Secretary; C. Clarke, Cor. Secretary; J. Baker and W. F. Bloom, Monitors. Messrs. R. Anderson and E. Pennington were elected members. The Society now numbers thirty five members, and never was in a more flourishing condition, having representatives in all the highc r classes.
—The 16th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Saturday, Dec. 15, the Hon. President, Prof. J. F. Edwards, in the chair. This being the evening for the regular debate, the question “ Is Education more conducive to Happiness than Riches?” was argued by Messrs. Dougherty, McConlogue, Shugrue and Williams on the affirmative, and Messrs. Bannon, Houck, Keenan and Nodler on the negative. The decision was given in favor of the negative.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the B. V. M., held on the evening of the 16th, quite a large number of clergymen, and others, attended. The ten-minutes instruction was given by Rev. Father Krull, of the Pittsburgh diocese. Mr. O’Grady answered the question “ What is a Sacramental ? ” and Mr. E. Arnold “ What is the House of Loreto?” Mr. Montgomery gave a sketch of the “Life of Blessed John Berchmans.” Messrs. G. Williams, J. Hellman, M. Hogan and P. Hagan were elected members. After the hymn the meeting adjourned w
—Mr. Augustus Henquenet, of Hope, Kansas, lately showed us a beautiful present which he received from our Holy Father, Pope Pius IX. It consists of a cross of Italian marble, in the cross-pieces of which are six beautiful mosaics representing as many ruins in the Eternal City. The Cardinal Secretary added to the present a beautiful carving in ivory of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. Mr. Henquenel’s brother was a member of the Pontifical Zouaves, killed at Mentana and buried in Rome, and these presents were -made to the living brother as a.testimony of
the worth of the deceased. Mr. Henquenet was also one of the Pontifical Zouaves, holding the office of sergeant-major.
—Mr. Mosher’s Holiday Reception was an admirable success. His elegant studios were thronged with an unusually brilliant assemblage. O ir critic noticed particularly, among the many beautiful portraits, one of Gen. Sheridan. This is full size, and the expression depicted in the face, with the attitude of the body, is remarkably life-like. The General grasps his field glass and map with one hand, and sword-hilt with the other. The figure seems moving, so vividly is it painted. In the background is seen a battle in, progress. Another superb picture is that of Father Corby, of Notre Dime University. He is pictured with breviary in hand, and so natural is the face that it seems as though he were just ready to speak. Both of the above-noticed pictures were painted by Prof. Luigi Gregori, of R >m°, Italy, who, after the 15th prox., will have his studio with Mr. Mosher.—Chicago Tribune.
—C.-D. Mosher, the photographer, gave a reception at his gallery on yesterday afternoon and evening, aided by Prof. Luigi Gregori, who has engaged a suit of rooms ad jacent to the gallery, which he will occupy on Jan. 15. Two striking portraits by Gregori—one of Lieut. Gen. Sheridan, and the other of Very Rev. Father Corby, President of the College of Notre Dame,—were exhibited. Theformer represented Sheridan in full uniform, and with all his deco- ’ rations, standing with one hand on the hilt of his sword and the other, holding a field-glass resting on a mossy rock on which is spread a map. In the dim distance is descried the smoke of battle, through which are faintly seen the national colors floating triumphant in the sulphurous clouds. The artist has essayed to paint the General in an attitude befitting the surroundings, and has succeeded well in giving the idea of alertness, the rigidity of the muscles showing that he has himself well in hand—to borrow a turf phrase—and is only awaiting the signal to rush into the thickest of the fray. In one sense, this is well; in another, there are many incongruities. But art, like poetry, must have a large margin. For instance, were Sheridan actually in the field, and a battle in progress, it is hardly probable that he would be decorated with all the insignia of rank and public and civic admiration bestowed upon him by a grateful people. And still less probable is it that he would strike an attitude, with uncovered head, a mile or more to the rear, and await the result.-But the portrait is a fine one, nevertheless. Mr. Mosher displayed a larger number of his best crayons, water colors, and photographs to excellent advantage last evening, and the exhibition was one of the best of the kind ever given here.—Chicago Times.
—“A Junior” sends us the following, which we print with pleasure: “ Before the next issue of the Schol.wtic most of theboysinourdepartment(Juni>>r) will beat home. What a thrill of joy passes through the veins of the schoolboy or student at the mere mention of that won I, home! aye, even of those who are no longer students! The word home will flash upon the mind of the young and old alike, and set all its machinery in motion. It is said that some one, who delighted in arranging the tenderest terms as well as in feeding upon their beauties, took these three words and gave them the first place in the affection of our hearts: ‘Heaven,’‘Motherland ‘Home.’ Grief, with ail its distresses, may weigh man down, pain and sickness may prostrate his frame and impair his intellect, but they can never efface the memories of ‘ home, sweet home.’ It is not to be wondered at, then, that the student’s mind often wanders to . his home. We read of ascertain saint who was exiled from his home, and how he would ascend to the summit of a neighboring mountain and gaze for hours at a time in the direction of his own native isle. The Scholastic spoke a few weeks ago of the boys becoming dissipated during the Christmas holidays. I trust that will not be said of the Juniors of ’77. Recreation, we all know, is not contrary to virtue, but is rather commended when it is taken as it ought to be; that is, if it be taken to recreate the mind and to make it more capable of labor. I hope, then, that we will all be benefited by our visit home, and why should we not be benefited if we think seriously of the great feast we are called there-to- celebrate! We are verging upon a great and grand event in the world’s history that we will soon be expected to commemorate in a fitting way, the birth ,of our dear Lord who left heaven and came upon the

-3
268	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
earth in order that He might atone for man’s sins; and again ascended to His heavenly abode to prepare a home for all those who love, obey and serve Him.”
Roll of Honor.
[In the following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, J. E, Cooney, J. J. Coleman, I. Chatterton, J. J. Carroll, B. J. Claggett, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport, E. C. Dempsey, J. M. Devine, J. P. Dougherty, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. J. Fitzgerald, F. Fulkerson, Win.' C. Farrar, R. Francis, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, G. Goble, A. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, W. Hoyt, AL Hogan, J. S. Hoffman, F. C. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, J. O. Hamilton, J. Q. Johnson, J. B. Kinney, F. Keller, J. Kuebel, J. Kelly, B. Kratzer, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, F. C. Mueller, V. T. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, J. J: McEniry, AL McCue, P. McCullough, J. P. McConlogue, T. F. O’Grady, W. L. Prudhomme, J. L. Perea, J. Pembroke, E. Poor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, J. Rice, E. W. Robinson, T. Summers, G. baxinger, C. L. Stuckey, S. T. Spalding, J. b. Smith, F. Hell-. man, AL Williams, G. Williams, G. Walters, F. C. Whitner.
The name of J. Boehm was omitted last week through mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, AI. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, J. Berteling, W. AI. Cox, H. E. Canoil, J. Carter, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, F. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, P. Frain, L. Garceau, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healy, A. G. Heit-kam, J.’E. Halloran, A. Hamilton, G. L. Ittenbach, J. B. Itteu-bach, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, J. D. McNellis, W. J. AleCarthy, R. Mayer, F. McGrath, A. Afiller, J. Matthews, T. E. Nelson, T. O’Hara, J. O’Donnell, F. Pleins, E. J. Pennington, K. Reynolds, A. Rietz, AL Roughan, K. L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, W. Stang, W. Walker, E. Welty, F. Weisert, E. Walter, E. Donnelly, J. Lemarie, C. Hagan.	*
Omitted fast week through mistake: A. Sievers, W. Stang.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. AL Coghlin, J. Scanlan, G. Rhodfus, W. Coghlin W. Cool-baugh, John Inderrieden, A. Hartrath, W. Costello, G. Knight, G. Lambin, Jos. Courtney, AI. Herrick, F. Gaffney, O..Farrelly, J. A. Seeger, A. Bushey, W. ALcDevitt, C. Garrick, C. Crowe, H. Snee, H. Kilz, S. and C. Bushey, C. Long, C. and A. Herzog, J. Crowe, P.Fitzgerald,C. Welty, P. andN. Nelson, C. Crennen, J. Courtney.
Class Honors.
* _________________
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.
J. Boehm, J. Baker, M. Bannon, L Chatterton, A. Ginz, J. L. Healy, F. Hoxman, F. Hellman, J. Houck, J. Johnson, A, Hettinger, F. Keller, J. Krost, J. Kuebel, H. Murphy, J. Alatthews, E. Poor, J. Pembroke, R. Routledge, K. Scanlan, G. Saxinger, A. Sievers, C. Walsh, C. Hagan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lambin, A. and W. Coghlin, J. Scanlan, W. AIcDevitt, R. Costello. John and Jos.Inderrieden. A. Hartrath, N. and P. Nelson, G. Knight, A. Bushey, S. and C. Bushey, AL Herrick, G. J. Rhodius, C. Crennen, J. Courtney, J. Seeger, W. Coolbaugh, F. Gaffney, O. Farrelly, C. Crowe, H. Snee, C. Long, C. Garriek, T. O'Neil!, C. and E. Herzog, P. Fitzgerald, J. Devine, J. and I. McGrath, H. Kitz, F. Berry, F. Farrelly.
List of ExeeHenee.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Grammar—K. Scanlan. J. Baker, M. Bannon,.K Reynolds, F. Hellman; Reading and Orthography— C. Nodler, W. Van Valk-enburg; Geograptiy—L. and A. Sievers, A. Burger, E. Robinson; Arithmetic—C. L‘. Stuckey, J. Matthews ; Book-keeping-; Composition in Penmanship—J. Rothert, J. Baker.
—The study-hall has to acknowledge the gift of a very pretty clock, a donation from the Museum.
—lu panel-work several exquisite specimens in watercolors are to be seen in St. Luke’s Studio, composed of autumn leaves, berries, grasses, etc. The oil department is also well represented by panels of calla lilies in progress, and in quite an elaborate study of apples.
—A complete “ amnesty ” was granted to all the pupils by Very Rev. Father General on Sunday evening. Any slight infraction of rule was passed over, and the coming of Christmas, by Very' Rev Father’s kindness gave good points to everybody. "Pm liominibus bonce 'voluntatis."
—On Wednesday evening, at the regular reunion of the Christian Art Society, Mother Superior, in an interesting instruction, strongly recommended works in decorative pottery, that ancient art which, now revived, is becoming a subject of universal interest to all lovers of the poetic, to the scholar and the antiquarian.
—The French classes, by permission of Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C., visited the magnificent Church of Our . Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame on Thursday afternoon. Miss Nellie Keenan on that occasion selected the place for the window which her generous-hearted father has donated to the church.
—The specimens of decorative pottery produced by the pupils in St. Luke’s Studio are very creditable to their taste and cultivation. This charming and antique branch is becoming a great favorite in the Studio. Several lovely vases have been completed, and other pieces are in progress, all indicating real ingenuity and skill.
—On Saturday evening, as the young ladies entered the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception to assist at the usual singing of the Litany of the Blessed Virgin, they met a pleasant surprise in the form of a lovely statue of the Sacred Heart, surrounded with beautiful adornments, which impart a very fine effect to the entire altar.
—A charming motto in rich autumn leaves and ferns, interspersed with a very'rare variety of California grass and thrown into relief by a dark background, is eliciting great admiration. Its dimensions are 27x21 inches. The inscription is “God bless our Home!” It is to be sent as a Christmas gift to the head of a lovely and growing family circle whose home is on the shore of the Western Sea. God bless that Home!
—On Sunday evening at the weekly Academic reunion, after the usual distribution of weekly honors, the second number of Rosa Mystica was read. Rosa Mystica is issued every other month by the Graduating and First Senior Classes. No. 2 was the work of the First Seniors, and received great praise from Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C., and from Rev. Father Shortis, Chaplain of St. Alary’s. “Praise without flattery,” the Rev. Chaplain insisted, as he said he had found a steady and marked improvement in the composiiions presented, and the elocution of the readers. The editresses were the Alisses Alary Ewing, Bridget Wilson, Hope Russell and Ida Fisk. The table of contents is as follows: Ediiorial Lecture on Wednesday Evening; Essay and Criticism; Poem, Rosa Mystica, part fourth; The Annunciation; A Fine Basket of Pears; The Alollifiers; Instructions in Loreto; Feast of the Immaculate Conception; A Defence of the Evangelical Counsels; Acknowledgments; The Saint Ceciliaus; The Roll of Honor (Poetry); Avoirdupois Weight, or Calm Pounds, and Excited Pounds; An Agreeable Surprise; Bottles in Procession; The Stand which we should take; An Incomplete Equation ; An Angular Subject; A Card of Thanks; Pursuit of Science under Difficulties, or a Practical Geology Lesson; Poem—“ The Season of Advent. The essays, “Defence of the Evangelical Counsels” and “The Stand which we should Take,” indicate not only a fine literary taste on the part of the writers, but cultivated hearts, and upright, intelligent Christian souls. They wgre taken- from

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	269
the class compositions of the First Seniors. In the opening editorial the programme of the “House of iioreto . in 1871,” was in itself a touching memorial to thb late Father Gillespie, C. S. C., who arranged and printed the programme. The last prose piece in the table of contents convulsed the listeners with laughter, and Rosa Mystica received her best recommend ition in an assertion by the Rev. Chaplain that it had well sustained its former high reputation. The following poem, which was most beautifully read, Rosa Mystica submits in honor of the approaching Christmas festivities.
The Season of Advent.
;	Christmas times are coming ;
i .	•	• Christmas, bright and gay!
’;	At the very mention
5	Sorrow flies away.
Baby faces glowing,
|	Sparkling eyes of youth,
|	: Smiles on brow of manhood,
■	All proclaim the truth,
‘	- That there is no season	•
In the livelong year, Half so sweet as Christmas,
None so tiuly dear.
. Age smooths out its wrinkles, In the light supreme
That round Bethlehem’s cradle Glows with heavenly beam.
UnbcLef and folly
Are ashamed to say
. That they doubt traditions • ’ Of blest Christmas Day ;
And all o’er the nation, Hear the echoes ring Which proclaim the' pean '	Of Heaven’s new-born King!	•
“Wish you merry Christmas!”
•	Widely	will be flung
This glad Christmas greeting, In each clime and tongue;
And the Advent holy, Tempers every mind To a tone more loving, •	To a love more kind.
While the poor and friendless, On this blest return,
v	Will the boundless mercy
Of their Maker learn ;
’	For, in His cold manger,
•	Trembling on the straw,
He will give love’s message, He will teach love’s law ;
And the stately largess Of the rich man’s board, ’Round the poor man’s hovel, ,	Will in alms be poured;
i	•	While the'Holy Infant,
r	In His Mother’s arms,
I	Will proclaim the lesson
Of her power, her charms;
s	And joys of Redemption
*	Filling earth and air,
Will make “merry Christmas” ' Every—everywhere!
Unbelief and folly, Carp, although they may . By constraint, are driven To love Christmas Day.
Would that penetrated With the gracious spell, .	They would own their Saviour,
■	And adore as well.
Then the Christmas season Would thrice happy be, » •	And its sweetest echoes
Thrill the land and sea.
M.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, B. Reynolds, L. O’Neill, P. Gaynor, M. Spier, A. Piet, A. Henneberry, A. Harris, A. Reising.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, H. Russell, I. Fisk, M. Ewing, E. Lange, B. Wilson.
2d Sr. Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. McGrath, N. Keenan, S. Hamilton, L. Keena, H. Hoag, N. Davis, M. Burch, A. Woodin, M. Luce, A. Dopp, B. Thompson, M. Danaher. '
3d Sr. Class—Misses J. Burgert, L. Schwass, L. Hoag, Z. Papin, M. Wagoner, M. Brown, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, T. Pleins, A. Thomas, L. Tighe, K. Riordan, M. Halligan, L. Otto, K. Hackett, H. Buck, A. Brown, M. Plattenburg, C. Ortmayer, B. Anderson, F. Brazelton, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Farrell, K. Lloyd, A. Ewing, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, A. Gordon, M. Mulligan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. and J. Winston, M. Cleary, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, L. Neu, B. Parrott, A. Geiser, A. McGrath, L. Chilton.	.
2d Prep. Class—Misses E. Thomas, E. Whiteside, E. Wright, E. Richardson, M. Mullen-, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, F. Fitz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses M. Hake, L. Fox, A. McKinnis, F. Sunderland, L. Van Namee, L. Wood, L. French, L. Eliis, N. Hackett, M. Lyons M. McFadden.	•
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Butts, E. Wootten, M. Cox, W. Lloyd.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses J. Cooney, A. Piatt.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Plattenburg, M. Luce, 0. Franklin, H. Hoag.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, N.
Keenan, H. Russell, B. Wilson.	‘
2d Class—Misses M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, J. Cooney, J. Burgert, A. McGrath, N. Galen, A. Geiser, M. Ewing.
3d Class—Misses A. Ewing, I. Fisk, E. Mulligan, M. Winston, M. Birch, M. Wagoner, M .Cox, M. Brown, M. Whiteside.
2d Div.—Misses E. Shaw, A. Dopp, Z. Papin, M. Danaher, M. Casey, L. Fox.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d German Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, D. Gordon, L. Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses C. Ortmeyer, L. O’Neill; 8. Rheinboldt, St. Henneberry, A. Reising, K. Barrett.
3d Class—Misses M. Way, S. Hamilton, F. Cregier, C. Boyce, E. Miller.	'
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
2d Div.—Misses C. Silverthorne and A. Geiser.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, L. Kirchner, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses L. O’Neill, M. Spier, N. Galen, E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses H. Buck, A. Henneberry, T. Whiteside, M. Usselman.
2d Div.—Misses A. Gordon, J. Burgert, L. Neu.
4th Class—Misses M. Brown, A. Reising, E. Lange, A. Kirchner, L. Walsh, W. Dudley. A. McGrath, N. McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses B. Anderson, A. Farrell, P. Gaynor, K. Hackett, A. Morgan, J. Cooney, C. Ortmeyer.
5th Class—Misses M. Danaher, H. Hoag, K. Reordan, F. Cregier, A. Wooden, M. Winston.
2d Div.—Misses M. White, J. Winston, E. Richardson, M. Cleary, L. Hoag, L. French, M. Way, L. Papin, E. Shaw, K. Barrett, B. Thompson, L. Otto. ’
6th Class—Misses N. Hackett, C. Van Namee, M. Plattenburg, A. Ewing, 8. Rheinboldt, O. Franklin, M. Halligan, M. Ewing, C. Boyce, L. Schwass, E. and A. Thomas, AI. Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses M. Casey, M. Lambin, F. Brazelton, I. Fisk, B. Parrott, E. Wright, L. Tighe, M. Hake, A. Brown.
7th Class—Misses M. Burch, L. Fox, A. McKinnis, L. Chilton.
> 8th Class—Misses L. Wood, J. Kingsbury, E. Mulligan, L. Ellis.
9th Class—Misses E. Wooten, M. McFadden.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Organ—Miss W. Dudley.
Harmony—Misses Kirchner, WHson, Pleins, Geiser.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT. »
2d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A. Reising.	’
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, L. Otto, A. Brown, K. Hackett.
4th Class—Misses J. Winston, K. Reardon, A. Geiser, S. Rheinboldt, A. Farrell, E. Richardson.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, E. Galen, M. Mulligan, M. Hake, M. and A. Ewing, L. Schwass.	-
Chorus Singing—Misses B. Thompson, B. Parrott, J. Barnes.
General Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee.
ART DEPARTMENT. ,
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THB.
3d Class—Misess M. Whiteside, 8. Rheinboldt.
4th Class—Misses G. Welsh, A. Kirchner, M. Plattenburg, 8. Hambleton, A. Farrell, E. Thom s.
270
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Promoted to the 4th Class—Miss J. Burgert.
5th Class—Misses H. Buck, J. Butts, E. Mulligan, L French GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
*	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Winston, L. Otto, M. Way, E. Shaw, M. Ewing, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, Z. Papin, A. and E. Thomas, B. Anderson, B. Parrott, M. Mullen, K. Hackett, N. Keenan, L. Keena, H Russell, M. Danaher, M. Hayes, C. Ortmayer, C. Boyce, I. Fisk, N. Galen, M. Birch, J. Barnes, BL Barrett, E. Wright, M. Sullivan, M. Halligan, A. and M. Brown, K. Lloyd, F. Cregier, E. Richardson, O. Franklin, F. Brazelton, M. Cleary, M. Wagoner, A. Peak.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Chilton, A. McGiath, A. Ewing, D. Gordon, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner. J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, L. Ellis, N. Hackett, L. Fox, IL McFadden, A. McKinnis, F. and J. Sunderland, L. Van Namee, L. Wood, A. Geiser, M. Hake, M. Fox, F. Fitz.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, S. Moran, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, M. O’Connor. '
4th Class—Misses N. Davis, M. Spier.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses E. Lange, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds.
3d Class—Misses N. Davis, M. O’Connor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses M. Usselman, C. Ortmayer, H. Millis, A. Brown, L. Otto, E. Richardson, L. Schwass, J. Kingsbury, L. Neu, M. Mullen, T. Whiteside.
2d Class—Misses M. Luce, E. Shaw, M. Winston, A. Dopp, M. Ewing, L. Papin, B. Parrott, A. Farrell, M. Wagner, O. Franklin.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, H. Russell, S. Moran, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, W. Dudley, A. Dopp, N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, B. Thompson, M. Way, N. Keenan. 8. Hamilton, M. Birch, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Danaher, FL Barrett, G. Welch, L. Tighe, K. Reordan, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, M. Halligan, L. Otto, M. Brown, M. Wagoner, T. Pleins, M. Plattenburg, K. Hackett, A. Brown, A. Thomas, J. Burgert, C. Ortmayer, L. Schwass, F. Brazelton, Z. Papin, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Farrell, M.and J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman. M. Hayes, M. Cleary, B. Parrott, L. Neu, E. Wright, M. Whiteside, E. Thomas, J. Barnes, M. Mullen, O. Franklin, 100 par exallence. Misses L. O’Neill, P. Gaynor, A. Piet, M. Ewing, E. Lange, I. Fisk, H. Hoag, M. Casey, A. Woodin, M. Luce, H. Buck, N. Davis, L. Walsh, K. Lloyd, L. Hoag, E. Miller, B. Anderson, E. Richardson, N. White, A. Peak.
- JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	•
Misses A. Ewing, A. Gordon, A. Morgan" A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, L. Ellis, L. Wood, L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, F. Sunderland, L. Van Namee, E. Mulligan, J. Butts, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses M. McFadden, L. French.
A NEW SYSTEM
’	OF
German Penmanship,
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PUSTET,
52 Barclay Street, NEW YORK, and 204 Vine Street, CiBCDUTAU.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beautifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
9. & N.-W. LINES. '
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE •
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin aud Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lae, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its	’
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing be-. tween Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
arc run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzle Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland. Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m. ,
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 5u a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver'Express via Jack-
sonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
271
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	'
GOING EAST.	,
2 25 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10pm; Buffalo,4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over' Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 <5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.	,
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4t3 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8am. •
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F.	C. Kaff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.-
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
-	TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
7	No. 1, Fat-t Ex.	eio 7, Pac. Ex.	MO .3, Night Ex	No. 5, . Mail.
®	Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P M.	9 00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6 00 AM.
Rochester,.		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
»	Alliance,		3 10 A.M.	1250 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
■J	Orrville;		446 “	230 “	7.12 “ .	12.55 p.m.
"S.	Mansfield,		7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
■' •	Crestline,	Arrive £	7.30	515 “	945 “	3.50 “
I	Crestline’,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
1	Forest,	.		925 “	7 35 “	11.25 “	
*	Lima,		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		130 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
•	Plymouth,		345 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.5S “	

GOING EAST.
		fo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	 Plvmonth._		9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
		2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Tama,					8 55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest				10.10 “	5.20 “	248 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
					
Crestline		.... Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
MansfialtL --		12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00. “	6.55 “
Orrville,....						2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	11.15 “ •	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester. 					6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	1106 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Yc’-k without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates. -
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter. .
CONTENTS:
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc., January, February, March, April, -May, June, July, ‘ August, September, October, November, December, •
The Two Rules,
Address,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Wom-
en.
Pio Nono, A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q,
In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer.
The Duty of our Young Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?	•
Sonnet, ■ Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella,
Aerolites.
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.;
. or, The Scholastic Printing Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER DC

AMATEUR TOOLS, FOR Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings, designs for BraceSmall Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Publisher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
decs-tf 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, Ill.
e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attomevs at Law.
BBOAVN «fc IIAKVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attomeys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER A MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
milOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of T4], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN- F. NIC TILT GUI [of'72J, Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Colnmbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE at MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’63), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
IIMLLIA M J. CL A KKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
J A. NIES A. O’REILLY- of ’69.—Attorney at. Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN IN. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
TlmcTable-Noy. 11, 1877.
•	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit .. ..	7 00 am 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.u> 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ (i 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 «0 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson.... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 5u p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 2d p m 9 40	' 12 25 a m 2 38 “ 4 45 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame—8 52“	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 925 “	715“	♦GulNu bOUTD. L.v. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7,.40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
j * J
1
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Henry C. Wentworth,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.
^Saturday and Sunday excepted. H. B. Ledyard,
.	„ .	Gen’l Manager. Detroit, Mich.
G.	L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARttiiJ R J. STAGE [of’64], County Surveyor, for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
W eeltly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBrAN puh’ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVe NI ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edi*ed by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Snbscrip-ion price, $2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited.from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor;. E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE NI ATT ESO V HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
. Book Binders.
PL VIVIV «fc HISGEN Plain and Fancy Book Binders, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QK CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZieJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera'ogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species/after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Mineralo on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November,13th, my cash sales were over §1.500 and cash receipts over §1,200.	'
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	10U inbox
§ 50	$1	$1 50 |
1 50	3	6
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger..... Amateur's size, 2*4 in. x 1)4_	____________
High Schoo) or Acad. sizc,2*4x3)4 in. shelf specimens College size. 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens.........
100	200	300
$1	$ 2	$ 3
5	Id	25
10	25	50
25	50	Wo
500	100	3'0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fdtoioof the American Association for the Advancement of Sdenc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sentences and of the American Museum of .Natural History, Central Park, New York.
3