Disce quasi semjpei? victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus«
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 27, 1876.
Number 39.
The Church of the World.
I stood, one Sunday morning Before a large church door, The congregation gathered,
And carriages a score,	•
Brom one outstepped a lady I oft had seen before.
Her hand was on a prayer-book, And held a vinaigrette;
The sign of man’s redemption Clear on the book was set, Above the cross there glistened
A golden coronet:
For her the obsequious beadle The inner door flung wide, ■ .
Lightly, as up a ball room, Her footsteps seemed to glide;
There might be good thoughts in her, For all her evil pride. „
But after her a woman Peeped wistfully within, On whose wan face was graven Life’s hardest discipline,
The trace of the sad trinity Of weakness, pain and sin.
The few free seats were crowded Where she could rest and pray, With her worn garment contrasted
Each side in fair array
God’s house holds no poor sinners, She sighed, and walked away. _
Old Heathendom’s vast temples Hold men of every state;
The steps of far Benares Commingle small and great.
The dome of St. Sophia Confounds all human state;
The aisles of Blessed Peter Are open all the year ;
Throughout wide Christian Europe The Christian’s right is clear
To use God’s house in freedom.
Each man the other’s peer.
Save only in that England Where this disgrace I saw—
England, where no one crouches In Tyranny’s base awe—
England, where all are equal Beneath the eye of law.	-
Yet there, too, each Cathedral Contrasts its ample room,
No weary beggar resting Within the holy gloom, No earnest student musing Beside the famous tomb.
Who shall remove this evil	.
That desecrates our age, A scandal great as ever ' Iconoclastic rage ?
Who to this Christian people Bestore their heritage ? ________________________ —Exchange,
Building Castles.	•
Heis asluggardwho hathne’er built a castle.—Old Pkoveeb.
How swift we build them! how beautiful they are! how soon they vanish! Yes, we are the builders, and we rear those beauteous forms from a fabric fairer than the gossamer robes that adorn the fairies of our fancy. Has life nothing real that we waste those priceless years in dream* ing? Shall the garments of childhood forever compress -the outreaching tendencies of maturer years ? Can we not cast away the toys and playthings of yesterday and gird on the raiment fitted to the struggle in which we must engage ? Our school-days are but a preparation, they say, for the after battle of life, even as life itself is but a preparation for eternity. And how do we pass those chrysalis-days of youth? Forging links of steel? weaving a subtle and impenetrable web to turn the weapons of our foes ? How little we think of that! Painting rainbows, rather,- gilding the spires and halo-crowned summits of the fairer but impossible temples of the future—temples, imagination builded on the quicksands of the far-distant years. What rapture there is in the wondrous creatures of imagination! How real appear our dreams of future renown!. How generous our ideal visions of future usefulness! and alas, how they fade away in the calcium-like light of the dreaded Now. We devote the past to uninviting reflection, the present to doubt and indecision, the future to glorious idealistic castles. We can work with relish only when the heart is free from care, and thus our ideal tenements are the product of our happiest hours.
The school boy-looks forward to the proud day when he. can become an inmate of the fairy castle his active imagination constructs from four dull college walls, and never was so happy a boy as he the day he begins his new life. But the halo that crowned the lofty dome suddenly disappears, and college life, with its wearisome routine, begins to wear a new aspect. He has the good sense to realize that its trials must be borne, its giants met and conquered, ’ but the shadows of distance that hid the hard, dull reality, and plumed their edges with the beautiful tintings of hope, have all disappeared; the strong sunlight of the Present

610
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
has driven them all away. His castle is destroyed; hut, far from hsing discouraged, he begins again, and on the moun. tain peaks that lie beyond the borders of his college realm he builds from etill more fanciful and impossible designs. Life lies all before him. That which has gone is as nothing. The world needs reforming, and he will be its champion. He will enter the lists and combat error, falsehood and presumption. He will assist the needy, rescue the defenseless, destroy the oppressor, and the world will applaud his actions. He will win a name that men shall delight to honor. No peak is too high for him to climb, no problem too intricate for him to solve. He will banish intemperance by an original scheme and elevate society to a plane unreached before. The victories he has won at college shall be but harbingers of a proud and glorious future. His college degree shall be his magic talisman, and it alone will place him on an equal footing with kings. And thus he dreams. His college duties become irksome while he longs for the Commencement-day that will set him free. Golden opportunities for improvement are lost sight of; neglected little innocent pleasures are ignored; his grand schemes have overshadowed them all. His college days have been restless, agitated, unhappy; and when the sun rises upon his last day with dear old alma mater it finds him all unfit for the active duties of life. He knows a little of many things, but knows nothing thoroughly; he has grown wise only in his own conceit. He is unused to self-denial, has never learned what it is to think and do for himself. Trembling, doubting, and discouraged, he steps forth upon the broad stage where men contend for the prizes of life, accompanied only by classmates as weak and defenseless as himself. His all-potent degree has shrunken to a very pigmy, and he despises it as the origin of his great loss. Men laugh at his diploma and reap the keenest enjoyment from his distress. It is cruel mirth, and it strikes him a blow from the memory of which he never entirely recovers. And where now are^his castles? his fair dreams of the future ? They too have fled, like his childish dreams of school.
. Men do not rally at once from a great disappointment or a great loss, and thus we may expect but little of our dreamer for years. But if he accepts the situation as it is —not as he would have it—and goes to work in earnest to retrieve the disgrace that has fallen upon him, toils nobly and manfully for the right, the world has honors in store for him, and he will win them. Will he build yet other castles? aye! so long as life lasts. It is the God-given instinct of a fine nature, the longing aspirations of a soul outreach -ing towards the purity, the beauty, and the infinite perfection beyond the shores of time. Then build on, fair dreamer; you will never find more real pleasure than in the creatures of imagination. The world will never bestow upon you such beautiful palaces as you can build for yourself; but do not think them real, do not fancy they will ever become so. Tours is a nature that needs not outward assistance it is sufficient unto itself.	T. A. D.
Nature and God.
Editor of Scholastc:—I just happened on some remarks of Deharbe in his explanation of the Catechism which I thought would be useful to your students of philosophy, and I therefore translated them and now send them to you that you may give them a place in your valued journal if
you think they are suited for the Scholastic. Should you deem any change necessary, I leave the manuscript at your disposal, to cross out or insert as you judge'proper. The extracts that I send you are taken from the Remarks j and Illustrations added by way of notes to the Explanation.
My author says: “ The design of this book was not to give all the proofs of the existence of God that are usually employed in the Schools. We must confine ourselves to those given in the Catechism, which should satisfy catechists. A metaphysical proof which is not readily understood by children or the unlearned, or is not clear to them, would be a weak proof. Now to rest so holy and universally accepted a truth as the existence of God on a weak proof would be-much rather calculated to weaken than to strengthen faith, to raise than to banish doubt. The fundamental truth of the existence of God is indeed so deserving of respect, so deeply rooted in the inmost depths of the human heart, that we should never venture to propose it to children as doubtful or problematical. Wherefore in the Catechism we have purposely avoided the question: “Is there a God?” Instead of appearing to wish to prove the existence of God according to the strict demands of the School, as if such proofs were necessary to faith, it is certainly much more advisable to show clearly the folly of denying or calling in question this truth; especially since heaven and earth and the entire universe, the voice of all people, our own conscience, and sound reason, are universally understood and irrefragable witnesses in favor of this truth.
“ The words quoted by Balmes on this point from a philosopher who in many other points was sceptical are full of deep truth: ‘I never have run the risk of breaking my head searching for proofs of the existence of God... .1 draw the proofs from my pocket. When I consider the complicated machinery of my watch and its regular movements, no one will convince me that it came by chance, without a regula ting spirit and without the action of a skilful maker. Atheists speak of chance, of combinations of atoms, of the power of nature, and God knows of how many other things.’’ —That the existence of God can be proved from nature or the visible world inay be pretty clearly inferred from the fact that the Holy Scriptures both of the Old and of the New Testament, and likewise the holy Fathers, rest on this proof. St. Paul declares—Rom., i, 20, that heathens “ are inexcusable ” for not honoring God whom they could recognize in created things. And the Book of Wisdom— xiii, 1-5, calls those fools that do not recognize the Master in His works, God in visible things. Blit when in the judgment of eternal Wisdom those men deserve to be reproached with folly and inexcusable sin, who will dare assert that the proof from the visible creation does not stand the test and is not satisfactory! Does he deserve reproach or censure that holds not as true what is doubtful, that refuses assent to a truth till it is proved ? This is not the place to adduce testimonies from the holy Fathers. It is usually asserted in regard to the cosmological proofs that to conclude from finite creatures to the infinite Creator is not logical. Be this as it may, we have no hesitation in agreeing with Suarez, who was both a deep thinker and an approved theologian, when he asserts,—Metaph., p. 2, disp. 29, sec. 2, that to prove God’s existence it is by no means necessary to show that there is an infinite Being; it is sufficient to show that there is a Being surpassing all others in perfection, on whom all others depend as their Author, and to Whom all owe obedience, homage, veneration. For this is the first and ordinary idea that we all form to our
1
1
«
$
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
611
selves of God, when we hear His name pronounced. The other reproach, namely, that the objective reality of the visible world must first be proved before we can conclude from this the existence of its Author, does not, in the teaching of, religion, merit any consideration. As long as the work stands it will be admitted as an indisputable fact that the visible external world really exists, and is no mere dream_ This supposition was from the earliest days the foundation of all moral and religious regulations, and, without troubling itself with philosophical subtleties, the whole world will cling to this conviction so long as sound reason keeps the upperhand amongst men. Finally, it is not at all necessary that the proofs of the existence of God be of such a nature as to make it impossible for men to doubt on this point; all that is required, and this suffices, is, that they be of such a nature as to be beyond all reasonable- doubt, if man will but listen to and employ his reason, even though the fool should continue to say: “ There is no God.”
“The exposition of St. Chrysostom, 3d Hom. supr. Rom. is worth dwelling upon. God from the beginning put it into the hearts of men to believe in Him. And whence knowest thou, O Paul, that God had given, even to the heathen, a knowledge of Himseif ? ‘ What can be known of Him,’ he says, ‘ He hath placed before their senses.’ This is an answer, you say, but no proof. Thou shouldst prove to me and show me that the knowledge of God was manifest to them, and that they voluntarily neglected it. How then was it manifest? Did God speak to them? By no means; but He did what was calculated to make a mightier impression on them than any voice by placing before their eyes the entire creation, so that the learned and the unlearned, the Scythian and the barbarian, could recognize the beauty of all visible things by sight and thus raise themselves to God. Hence he says: ‘ The invisible things of Him, from the creation’of the world, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made.’ In like manner also the prophet says: ‘ The heavens show forth the glory of God.’ What will the heathen say? We knew Thee not ?—Have you not then seen the heavens, the simple sight of which spoke plainly ? Heard you not the harmony of all the celestial bodies, which sounded louder than any trombone ? Saw you not the unvarying change from day to night? the constant, unchanging course of winter and spring and the other seasons ? the utility of the sea with its storms and waves? Saw you not how all remained in constant order, and both by its beauty and its immensity proclaimed the Master? This and still more Paul indicates in the words: ‘ For the invisible things of Him, from the creation of the world, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made: His eternal power also and divinity: so that they are inexcusable.’
“ There are sometimes unnatural mothers in whose heart every spark of love seems to be extinguished, but motherly love will never be banished from the earth. In like manner, says Balmes, there may be atheists, but the belief in God will never disappear. ‘A system like that of the atheists or the pantheists can take possession of the proud brain of a quibbling philosopher, it may be accepted as a convenient doctrine by dissipated youth, it may in troubled times win some hot heads; but never will it establish itself in a social community and become its normal conviction.’ Yes, the belief in a personal God is too deeply rooted in the human heart ever to be extirpated. But at a time when a licentious daily press is restlessly occupied in pulling down all the pillars of social order; when bias- *
phemers, whom heathens would banish and Turks would punish with the halter, are honored as free thinkers; when the spirit of atheism and pantheism is in the most perfidious manner instilled into the people; when meh seriously endeavor to place the most stupid pantheism on a par with the Gospel and the doctrines of Christ, and hold up the words of Satan: ‘ You shall be as Gods ’ as the highest wisdom; in such dangerous times it is not out of place now and then to show even from the pulpit the unreasonableness and the destructiveness of such impiety. But it is evident that in this the greatest prudence and caution are required, especially when speaking to children or the people, in order that, when attacking infidelity, we may not by our imprudence sow the first germs of it in the heart.
Cincinnati, 0., May 16th, 1876.	J. M. T.
. COUNT VON GUTZENDOEF’S GHOST;
—OR,—
The Forty-Nine Milliners.
A Tale ofthe Paleozoic Age.
BY A RESIDUARY LEGATEE.
(Continued from the Preceding Century.)
N. B. Those wishing for the earlier chapters of this tale can apply at the Patent Office, or Smithsonian Institute.
CHAPTER MDCCXLPQKIV.
“These are favors,” continued the Colonel, “which a whole-souled and high-toned nation would never refuse to grant.”
“I don’t see why they shouldn’t be refused to Grant as well as to Washington,” said Mr. Paradox.
“ Gentlemen,” said Mrs. Gumper, “ could not one of you . be so kind as to snuff the candle ? ”
The Colonel was aroused from the stupor into which the last remark of Mr. Paradox had thrown him; he fumbled for the snuffers, endeavoring in vain to thrust his corpulent thumb into the aperture designed by tile snuffer-maker for one of the opposing forces by whose action and reaction the desideratum contemplated in snuffer manufacture is sought to be effected.
I doubt if the rising generation will be in general competent to solve the old-fashioned mystery of snuffing a candle. Candles have gone out, metaphorically as well as literally—put out by kerosene, as effectually as the noonday sun is supposed to put out the kitchen fire. And with them has gone out many a joke that our infancy knew. Will the tender brain of the coming child be wrought upon by the enigma of Little Miss Netticoat, who had the white petticoat and the red nose, and whose astounding peculiarity it is that the longer she lives the shorter she grows? Will the rising generation go through the terrific ordeal of snuffing, for the first time, a candle with their fingers? How exciting the moment—how thrilling the sensation when, stung to frenzy by the taunts and gibes and scoffs and geers and sneers of an elder brother, we spit on our fingers and boldly prepared to snuff! Terror and shame alternating in our youthful bosom, and each struggling with maddening earnestness for the mastery, we finally made the fatal snap, catching the wick too far down, where it was solid, snatching thereby the whole candle from its socket, putting it out, burning our fingers, and spilling the hot tallow over our fiendish instigator’s outstretched hand,
612	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•while the indignation of our maternal parent, kindled into sudden flame, as if to compensate for the equally sudden extinction of the mellower luminary, manifested itself by a simultaneous box on both ears delivered with a precision that the crepuscular state of the apartment rendered truly extraordinary. Well might the Emperor Charles the Fifth, on perusing the vainglorious epitaph “ Here lies one who never knew fear,” remark: “Then he never snuffed a candle with his fingers! ” Will our posterity, living, as they will, under the tyrannical despotism of kerosene, appreciate the force and beauty of this remark ? Will they acknowledge the merits of the long-established joke about candles being a wick-ed manufacture? And will the fantastic omens that hung around the candle as a domestic institution pass into oblivion? The bright spark on the side of the wick betokened a letter, with which that member of the family circle towards whom it pointed was to be favored. The candlestick being elevated, and jarred against the table, if the bright spot disappeared, the letter was mailed and on its way to the fortunate recipient. And then the winding-sheet,—presage of death!—what terrors attended its appearance—a spiral'coil of tallow which had failed to melt in the deficient warmth of the flame, and which would sometimes project upward and outward from the edge. Then there was the “ cabbage ” that used to form around the wick, and which was a sign of nothing that I remember, except that the candle wanted snuffing.
But all this time the Colonel has been trying to snuff the candle, to the dismay of Mrs. Gumper, who had expected that Mr. Paradox would have made the attempt.
“Dear me,” said the forty-ninth milliner to the fortyeighth—they were all there—“ I do hope he won’t snuff it out.”
The Greek language is eminently harmonious. In fact the verbs in mi are so called from the note upon which they were always intoned by the old masters; but harmonious and perfect as the Greek language is, it contains no verb signifying “ to snuff.” _ In fact, we have no record of any classic personageshaving ever snuffed candles—that is, to any alarrffing extent. But if Agamemnon had ever snuffed a candle, he would have gone to work at it exactly like the Colonel.
Suspense was becoming intolerable; when at length a piercing shriek from the forty-nine milliners, with Mrs. Gumper at their head, announced the twofold horror that the Colonel had snuffed out the candle, and that Count von GutzendorPs ghost, taking advantge of the circumstance, had appeared for the four hundred and fiftyfifth time.
An immediate adjournment of the meeting was the consequence, and the Secretary’s book being mislaid in the melee, the records go no further.
. This story will be continued during the course of the ensuing century, and if those interested should despair of ever getting the rest of it, let them remember that there is no rest for the wicked, and as we are all sinners more or less, they can’t complain.
For further information apply to Headquarters.
—A boy was asked which was the greatest evil, hurting another’s feelings or his finger. “ The feelings,” he said. “Right, my dear child,” said the questioner; “and why is it worse to hurt the feelings ?” “ Because you can’t tie a rag around them,” exclaimed the child. -
• Moliere.	.
■ Moliere lived in a time that produced great men in every profession; great writers, great orators—at the bar and in the pulpit—great legists, great generals, great saints and great sinners, all patronized and encouraged by a great king, Louis XIV. Of humble parentage, he was apprenticed to a trade, but proving an indifferent apprentice he gave as little satisfaction to his master as he derived from his trade, and he put a stop to that sort o’ thing by joining a strolling theatrical troupe. He at that time changed his family name, Poquelin, to Moliere, which he ever after retained, and which comes down to us with the fame he acquired. The plays on the stage, before Moliere began to write his comedies, consisted merely of the skeleton of the plot, which the actors filled up according to their ability. Moliere soon perceived the meagreness of such representations, and set about providing better plays, writing them out in full. He then formed a troupe of his own, and continued to be the star actor in the plays which he wrote.
It is needless to give a catalogue of his plays, and we have neither space nor leisure to give an appreciative account of their merit. We quote the words of some French writers to show in what estimation Moliere is held by his countrymen. It is true that each nation asserts the excellence of its own champion writer. The Greeks claim the supremacy for Homer, “ the first in birth, the first in fame.” Propertius claimed the same for Virgil, and Dr. Samuel Barrow, in his verses prefixed to “ Paradise Lost,” comparing them to Milton, reduces them to mere songsters of frogs and gnats, and in like manner Lope de Vega, Calderon, Camoens, Goethe and Schiller are the objects of the admiration of their respective countrymen. However, though we may not agree with the French writers, we may at least bring forward what they say of one who, whatever his other merits may be, now gives the Juniors a great deal of pleasure and amusement nearly two hundred years after his death.	;
Mr. Suard, in his biography of Congreve, says of Moliere that he was perhaps the only genius that had no model in antiquity to follow, and no equal in his style of writing in the modern times. “ Moliere etait peut Otre le seul homme de genie, que n’ait eu ni module parmi les anciens ni concurrent parmi les modernes.” M. Anger, one'of the editors of Moliere’s works, says in language no less exaggerated, that no age nor place can produce a conqueror or successful rival of Moliere: “ Moliere ne rencontre en aucun temps, en aucun lieu, ni emule ni vainqueur, La Gr^ce et Rome n’ont rien qui puisse lui etre compare: les peoples nouveaux n’ont rien qu’ils lui puisseht opposer: eux-memes le recoh-naissent sans peine.”	’
Everything pertaining to him is highly prized by his admirers. A book not worth over a franc increased greatly in value because Moliere happened to write his name on it. He had written “ ceci est a moi, Moliere,” and the book was sold at the rate of four Napoleons (what name is the coin to go by now ?) for each letter, and as they are eighteen in number the sum realized was 1,440 francs, or nearly §300.
Moliere died the 17th Feb., 1773, of an apoplectic fit, after acting the part of Argan in his own play of the “ Malade Imaginaire,” in which he outrageously ridicules the medical profession. The circumstances of his death suggested the epithet which his friend Bechat wrote, but which of course was not put on his tomb:	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	613
Roscius hie situs est, parva Molierus in urna, Cui genus humanum ludere lusus erat; • Dam ludit mortem, mors indignata jocantem Gorripit, et nimium fingere sacra vetat.
Moliere never became a member of the Academy, tbe great object of ambition of every literary Frenchman of that age, as well as of the present. A regulation of the Academy excluded all players, and though Moliere was repeatedly urged by Boileau to give up his profession, and thus remove the only obstacle to his being aggregated to that body of learned men, who all desired to have him as an associate, he steadfastly refused, acting, as he said, on a point of honor. But his statue now stands conspicuous in the French Academy’s collection, the inscription on which -is the blended admission of his surpassing glory and the Academy’s regret for the absence of its reflection upon them: “ Nothing was wanting to his glory, he was wanting to' ours.” Bien ne manquait a sa gloire: il manquait a la notre. It was the poet B. I. Saurin who was author of the inscription, which was selected from many others presented at the same time (1778).
Archbishop Purcell.
On Sunday last the Catholics of Cincinnati testified by their rejoicings the love borne by them for Archbishop Purcell, the patriarch of the American episcopate. 'On that day they celebrated the 50th anniversary of his ordi-ation to the priesthood.
He was ordained in the Cathedral of Notre Dame, Paris, and was, not long afterwards, sent to Cincinnati, where he exercised his ministry. Bishop Fenwick having died, Father Purcell was, October 13th, 1833, consecrated Bishop of Cincinnati, which See was in 1849 elevated to the dignity of an archiepiscopal one. During the whole course of his priestly life, Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell has lived in Cincinnati, and such has been the zeal and energy of his ministry that in no part of the United States has the Church flourished with greater vigor than in his diocese. Catholics, who are ever endeared to those who labor faithfully in the cause of the Church, have ever regarded him with the highest love and veneration; and on the 50th anniversary of the day on which he was anointed priest they determined to give him a proof of their love and affection.	.
The city buildings were decorated with evergreens, while the national colors were unfurled to the breeze from the spire of the Cathedral, seven hundred and twenty feet from the ground. People flocked from every direction. Extra trains were run from Columbus, Indianapolis, and other cities, and twenty thousand strangers visited Cincinnati. The thirty Catholic churches of the city were tastefully decorated, and all the parishioners joined in making the display everything that would be proper for the day. Among the dignitaries of the Church present on the occasion were Archbishops Wood, of Philadelphia, and Henni, of Milwaukee; Bishops Dwenger, of Fort Wayne; Rosecrans, of Columbus; Borgess, of Detroit; Machebceuf, of Denver ; Domenec, of Allegheny; Ryan, of St. Louis; Shanahan, of Harrisburg; Fitzgerald, of Little Rock; Conroy, of Albany, and Loughlin, of Brooklyn. Cardinal McCloskey was prevented by sickness from attending, but sent his congratulations and a golden .goblet by his secretary.
Among the many and valuable presents to the worthy Archbishop were three notable ones. The Bishops of the
province presented him with a golden cross, studded with 50 large diamonds, one for each year of his priesthood. The clergy of the diocese presented him with a jewelled processional cross, six feet high, worth $1,600. The laymen of the diocese have sent him a jewelled chalice of gold set with amethysts, in which is a diamond cross, the chalice costing $4,000. The other presents sent to him were many and costly.
A grand procession was arranged for the occasion, in. which all the Catholic Societies of the city, with many from other parts of the country, were to take part. The procession was reviewed from the Cathedral by the Archbishop, but the entire line of march was not traversed because of the storm which took place shortly after the procession began to move. On the Tuesday afterwards a grand concert was given in the Exposition Hall, with a large orchestra and a chorus of five hundred voices. Congratulations kept pouring in to the learned and loved Archbishop from all parts of the country. No man is more worthy of them, for he has administered his See with great success, winning the loving confidence of Catholics as well as the profoundest respeet and esteem of people of all denominations. May he live to celebrate the golden jubilee of his episcopate!
Art, Music and Literature.
—Rubinstein has met with unbounded success in London. His recitals were greeted with the most vociferous applause.
—The recent biographies of Caroline Herschel, Lord Macaulay, and Arthur Schopenhauer, are all about to appear in German translation.
—A new picture by Miss Thompson, entitled “Balaklava; the Return of the Light Brigade,” is now on exhibition in the gallery of the Fine Art society, New Bond street, London.	•
—Three paintings by Rubens, which are said to have been studies for his “ Adoration of the Magi ” in the Antwerp Museum, have been recently sold in Paris. They brought §18,74.
—The historical exhibition of the Royal Academy of Arts in Vienna, which was announced to be opened on the 15th of next October, has been postponed until the 15th of March, 1877.
—Some additional correspondence of Goethe has been' discovered by Herr Bratranck, the editor of the poet’s correspondence with the brothers Humbolt. It consists of letters to Augustus W. and Friedrich Schlegel, Tieck, and others.
—In connection with the forthcoming Bayreuth performances, a new and importart work entitled “Richard Wagner’s Leben and Wirken,” by Carl Fr.Glasenapp, is announced for publication by Carl Maurer, of Cassel and Leipzig..
—“Blucher in Letters Written During the Campaigns of 1813-1815” is the title of a work just published in Germany by E. von Colomb, probably a descendant of some relative of Blucher’s second wife, Katharina Amalia von Colomb.
—An opera, “Der Bergkonig,” by a Swedish composer, Ivar Hallstrom, has just been produced at Munich. Though new to Germany, the work, which was first performed at Stockholm in May, 1874, has been very sucessfol, having been represented already some forty times.
—Murray, the London publisher, will bring out a new edition of Sir Gardner Wilkinson’s great work, the “ Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians,” which has been out of print because the author’s health has prevented his undertaking its revision and enlargement. It will be edited by Dr. Birch.
—The Academy says that Mr. Holman Hunt has left
614	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Jerusalem on a painting expedition connected ‘with the importan work which he contemplates, and has made considerable preparations to carry out. He is now definitely, or for some time, settled, with Jerusalem and his headquarters, and is in excellent health.
—The acquisitions of works of art made hy the Louvre during the last two years, both by gift and purchase, are as follows: 34 paintings, 241 drawings and miniatures, 198 ancient sculptures and other antique objects, 285 mediaeval works and 71 Egyptian antiquities. The Museum of St. Germain also acquired 57 different articles.
.—This year, for the first time, the provisions of the Chantrey bequest will come into operation. By the terms of Sir Francis Chantrey’s will, a sum of money, estimated by the late Sir Charles Eastlake at £3,000, is annually placed at the disposal of the Royal Academy, to be expended on the purchase of works of fine art of the highest merit in painting and sculpture.
—The Rev. A. H. Sayce, an English scholar, is preparing for the press an “ Introduction to the Science of Language,” which will be published by Messsrs. Henry S. King & Co., London. It will be based upon the doctrine laid down in his “ Principles of Comparative Philology,” and will begin with a history and criticism of the various theories that have been propounded as to the nature and origin of language.
-—The new work of St. George Mivart, the Roman Catholic scientist, “Lessons from Nature, as Manifested in Mind and Matter,” is just ready for publication at D. Appleton & Co.’s. It is dedicated to the Very Rev. Father Newman, D.D., to whom the writer owes the “ ability to unite in one the Theistic and the Naturalistic conceptions of the world about us—conceptions, a divorce between -which is the calamity of our age.
—A. curious discovery has lately been made in the Louvre of ran authentic portrait of the celebrated Flemish anatomist Vesalius, painted by Jan van Calcar, who designed many of the anatomical figures in the works of Vesalius. It represents the learned professor at about the age of 26. He stands leaning against a column, and wears a ring on his left hand, bearing the inscription: “A. V. B., Andreas Vesalius Bruxelliensis.” It is this inscription, which has hitherto escaped unnoticed, that has led to the identification of the portrait.
—The Dublin Freeman says: “ It is not generally known that Miss Alice C. Thompson, the sister of the now celebrated painter of ‘ The Roll Call,’ is a poetess of no mean order, and that both ladies are very active members of the Catholic Church. Miss Alice Thompson has recently published a volume of poetry entitled “ Preludes,” which has met with flattering criticism, the religious pieces being especially praised for their style and felicity of expression. A Catholic magazine even goes so far as to say that “ in her as in Aubrey de Vere, and others, the long-cherished dream of a Catholic poet will find no small measure of fulfilment.”
—The English contributions to the Art Department at the Exposition are thus spoken of by the London Illustrated News: “ The collection is unequal in merit, and as a whole, we believe, far from being adequately representative of British art, nor can it be much improved by the diploma pictures contributed by the Ropal Academy, few of those pictures being fair specimens of the respective painters.
As the character of the collection seems to have been unduly extolled, it is desirable that a juster estimate should be conveyed, particularly as our brethren across the Atlantic appear to have, if not a prejudice against, by no means an exalted notion of, British as compared with Continental art.”
—Mr. J. K. Paine, of Boston, has written a new sonata for the piano and violin, of which the Boston Advertiser says: It proved, upon first hearing, to be a very fresh, interesting and agreeable work. The opening Allegro con fuoco is written in a strong, spirited style, and has melody abundant enough and well enough defined to save it from barrenness in ears that crave tunes; the Larghetto in canon form, though less absorbing than the more rapid movements, has a grave and tranquil beauty, and the concluding Allegro vivace is exceedingly brilliant throughout, at times excitingly so by reason chiefly of a fierce dramatic quality, which also characterized the symphony of Mr. Paine, which was brought out by Mr. Thomas last winter.
—The critic of the London Times thinks that Sy vestre’s painting of “Locusta trying upon a slave in the presence Nero the poison which is to kill Britannicus” will probably receive the grand medal at the French Salon. He says of it: “ Locusta bronzed, aged, with black hair tied up in tresses; Nero with pensive countenance, low forehead, cruel mouth, unfeelingly regarding the athletic slave who writhes shrieking at their feet; a masterly and severe conception; brilliant light thrown upon warm colors. This is the most discussed and the least discussable picture in the Exhibition. Half the French journals who criticise the Exhibition call it a chef d’oewore, the other half a horror. The former err on the side of enthusiasm, the latter on that of injustice. It is a great painting, which promises a great painter. A friend whom I met disliked the familiarity it depicted between Locusta and Nero. This, it seems to me, is a perfectly correct feature. They are two monsters united by crime, in the committal of one of those actions which sever all distinctions of rank.”
—Among the thousand and one memorials which we have nowadays, none brings pleasanter suggestions than the theatre which it is proposed to build at Stratford-on-Avon in memory of Shakespeare. Stratford has had a theatre till lately, which from its associations has naturally had more attention from Actors of note than English provincial theatres are apt to get, and where pretty much every famous actor has played. This theatre was pulled down three or four years ago, and a subscription has been set on foot to build a new one as a memorial rather than as a shareholders ’ speculation. One Mr. Flowers, of Stratford, has given a charming site of some two acres on the banks of the Avon. The people of Stratford have subscribed liberally, and litterateurs and actors in London have taken up the project with interest. A competition was invited for designs for the memorial building, which is to contain a theatre of moderate size, a library and reading-room and a picture-gallery, the cost being limited to £10,000, which, however, the designs received show to be insufficient. The competition excited some interest among architects, and twenty-five designs were submitted. The authors of five were selected for a second competition, a premium of 25 guineas each being given them as a partial compensation. The second competition is not yet decided. An incorporated association has been formed to raise funds for the project; and an appeal is made for sub-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	615
scriptions to both Englishmen and Americans.—American Art Journal.
—The following are the programmes for the Cincinnati Festival, which occurs May 31, June 1 and 2: First Concert, Wednesday evening, Slay 31,—Motett, Glory, Honor, Praise, and Power, Mozart, Mrs. H. M. Smith, Miss Anna Drasdil, Mr. H. A. Bischoff, Mr. M. W. Whitney, chorus and orchestra; Cantata, Paradise and Peri, Part I., Schumann, Mrs. E. W. Appleton, Mrs. Anna Drasdil, Mrs. Emma Heckle, Mr. H. A. Bischoff, Mr. M. W. Whitney, chorus and orchestra; Grand Aria, O Mio Fernando, Favorita, Donizetti, Miss Anna Drasdil. Intermission. Selections rom the Oratorio of Elijah, Mendelssohn, Mrs. H. M. Smith, Miss Anna Drasdil, Mrs. E. W. Appleton, Miss Emma Heckle,- Miss Clara Bernstein, Miss E. Borger, Mr. H. A. Bischoff, Mr. M. W- Whitney as the Prophet, chorus and orchestra. Second ConcertJ Thursday evening, June 1— Handel’s grand Oratorio, Messiah; intermission between first and second parts of the Oratorio; Mrs. H. M. Smith, Miss Anna Drasdil, Mr. H. A. Bischoff, Mr. M. W. Whitney, chorus and orchestra. Third Concert, Friday evening, June 5.—Rhapsodie Hongroise, No. 2, Liszt, Cincinnati Orchestra; Solo, Swiss Song, Eckert, Mrs. H. M. Smith; Solo, Grand Scene “ Fridolin,” Randegger, Mr. M. W. Whitney; Fantaisie in C, Beethoven, piano solo, Miss Julia Rive. Solo vocalists—Mrs. E. W. Appleton, Miss Anna Drasdil, Mr. H. A. Bischoff, Mr. M. W. Whitney, chorus and orchestra. Intermission. Solo, Erl King Schubert, Mr. H. A. Bischoff; Quartette, Oberon, Weber, Mrs. H. M. Smith, Miss Anna Drasdil, Mr. H. A. Bischoff, Mr. M. W. Whitney; Solo, In Questa Tomba, Beethoven, Miss Anna Drasdil; Cantata, Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers, Otto Singer, Miss Anna Drasdil, chorus and orchestra. This cantata has been composed by Mr. Singer expressly for this festival.
Books and Periodicals.
—We are under obligations to Messrs. John Church & Co., of Cincinnati, O., the publishers of Tito Musical Visi' tor, for a copy of the Centennial Premium, a collection of music which is presented to all subscribers of the Visitor. The collection is good, and is quite an inducement for people to subscribe $1.50 for an excellent musical monthly. The History of the Catholic Church in the United
States. By John O’Kane Murray. New York: D. & J. Sadlier & Co.
—We have received some of the proof-sheets of this work, which is to be issued from the press in a few days, and we assure our readers that the perusal of them has satisfied us that it promises indeed to be not only an instructive volume, but one of the most entertaining of all historical publications. It might well be named the “ Catholic Centennial,” so completely and graphically does it recount the story of the Catholic Church in this country for the hundred years just closing. Catholic Discoverers, Indian Missionaries, Catholics in the Revolution, Religious Orders, Catholic Education, Distinguished Bishops, Priests and Laymen, Catholic Literature, Catholic Charity—in fact the whole growth of Catholicity in America is traced in the most charming and life-like manner by the facile pen of Prof. Murray. It will be the most notable Catholic book published this year. What a splendid premium-book for a young man to take home from college on Commencement-Day!
—All readers may not agree with the Catholic World, but certainly none can deny its power and literary excellence. It is astonishing to note what an amount of solid as well as interesting matter appears in its pages from month to month. In the June number now before us there are three articles, any one of which would be sufficient in itself to float a magazine. The first of these is “ German Journalism,” which with keen and merciless pen lays bare the secret workings of the “ Reptile Press ” in Germany. This is an instructive though sad chapter in the history of journalism, and deserves to be taken up by the universal press, which is disgraced by the existence of such a vile institution as the “ Reptile Press Fund.” “ Dr’ Brownson ” takes up the life and labors of the illustrious American publicist, so recently laid in his grave. It sings no paean over him, but does the more honor to his true memory by pointing out with no faltering hand those defects which were so marked in his massive character, thus giving the true lesson of his life. At the same time, the tribute to Dr. Browonson’s genius, purity and the vastness of his labors is at once eloquent and profound. Dr. Hammond is severely handled in the review of his latest work on the “ Diseases of the Nervous System.” Whether or not the severity is deserved, the reader may satisfy himself. He will at least be rewarded by as sharp, though good-humored, a piece of criticism as it is his fortune rarely to meet. The writer is evidently at home in the subjects criticised. The other articles, with perhaps the exception of that on “Thomistic Philosophy,” are of a lighter character. “Some Forgotten Catholic Poets” is full of interest and piquancy of style. “ Notre Dame de Betharram ” is another of those sketches of Catholic scenes and life abroad for which the Catholic World is famous. The brilliant story, “Are You My Wife?” now announced in book-form, ends as charmingly as it began. “Sir Thomas More,” and “The-Eternal Years ” continue. “ The Wild Rose of St. Regis ” is a beautiful Indian story. “Hobbies and their Riders” and “ A Plea for our Grandmothers” are bright bits of social sketching. These altogether form an array of articles such as none of our magazines can present. There is not a line of trash, not a dull line from cover to cover; while in the literary criticisms is found matter really worthy the name of literary criticism.
—Many people have the desire to know the value of gold and silver in the bulk. The following statement, from Professor F. L. Schirmer, Superintendent of the branch mint of this city, may be relied on as correct. The fineness of Colorado gold and the calculations of value of gold and silver, are also given. It is a matter of considerable value, and should be carefully preserved for reference. One ton (2,000 pounds avoirdupois) of gold and silver contains 29,163 troy ounces, and therefore the value of a ton of pure gold is over $602,709.21 and of a ton of silver, 37, 704.48. A cubic foot of pure gold weighs 1,518.74 pounds avoirdupois, and a cubic foot of pure silver weighs 556.25 pounds avoirdupois. If there is one per cent, of gold or silver in a ton of ore, it contains 291.62 ounces troy of either of these metals. The average fineness of the Colorado gold is 771 in 1,000. And the natural alloy—gold, 781, silver, 208, copper, 10: total, 1,000. The calculations of the mint are made on the basis that 43 ounces of standard gold, or 900 fine (coin), is worth $12.80.—Rocky Mountain Herald,
616	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Terms, $1.50 Ter Auxltuml, Tostpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now "be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s. 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Dame, May 37, 1876.
The Year Through.
Now that our Examinations are about to open, we find it appropriate to congratulate the Faculty of the University on the marked success which has attended their efforts during this scholastic year. It is probable that never before has a greater degree of attention, devotedness and zeal been manifested by them. The results have corresponded more than fully to their efforts, and not a single class of the University has failed to give satisfaction. This is a circumstance gratifying in itself, since we must rejoice in the improvement of the students and desire to procure their advancement in the different branches of study to which they apply themselves. But it is a source of still greater satisfaction when we look upon it, as we are justified in doing, as the harbinger of still greater things for the future, and the assurance that Notre Dame will continue to march onward in the career of progress, in the way that has characterized her past history.
The distinguishing success for this year is due to various causes. Never before has Notre Dame had reason to be more proud of her Faculty. Every member of it was qualified for the performance of his duty, and not one failed in accomplishing all that could.in reason be expected of him. Besides, particular attention has been paid by the authorities of the house to facilitate the student in his acquisition of knowledge and to stir up within him that spirit of emulation which is so important, and in fact indispensable to success. There is no calculating the elevation of tone and widening of conceptions which have been effected by the extensive Course of Lectures this year delivered at the University by the ablest among the Professors. One of the wants of our country is not so much to force into the minds of youth the elementaiy details of science, or cram them, almost in spite of themselves, with a knowledge of which they understand neither the beauty nor the grandeur, as to fill their minds with a love of mental development by holding up to their view the grand realms of science which by their industry they may one day enjoy, and turn as well to their own individual utility as to the general benefit of society. This effect has been produced to a great extent by the Course of Lectures already alluded to, and at no distant day we expect to see the students themselves figuring with credit and honor on the lecturer’s platform.
The system of Competitions inaugurated this year, and carried out with such care, has also brought forth good and abundant fruits. Most men when left to themselves are of ' opinion that they already know enough, or at least prefer a state of inaction to assiduous and continued application. Progress, however, no matter what the natural ability of
the man may be, must come from toil. No genius how. ever great can dispense with labor under pretext of innate ability. A Demosthenes, an O’Connell, a Homer or a Fenelon, a Caesar or a Napoleon, can never be looked upon as spontaneous growths. Their distinction is due to many causes perhaps, but not least amongst these are their persevering study, their reflective observation and their long experience. But to stir men up to work, there must be amongst them a peaceful contention, an amicable rivalry and a strong desire to excel. Such are the feelings which have been excited in our students this year by their regular Competitions. But these competitions had another effect. The student naturally labors for glory, and this glory he deserves to enjoy. Therefore he desires to look forward with confident assurance that college rewards and honors will be distributed according to merit. By the system now followed, his ability and progress are calculated with almost mathematical accuracy—thus leaving his mind in repose, and encouraging him with the moral certainty that no chance or accident may deprive him of any distinction to which he is in justice entitled. It is to be hoped that this prosperous state of things may long continue, and be always on the increase for the advancement of science and the glory of religion.
z Cheerfulness.
We not unfrequently find some young men at College who are pleased with nothing that happens. Imagining, sometimes, that others are preferred before them—and, generally,"when such is in reality not the case—they are not slow to make known their grievances to all their companions-, they begin by complaining of this little matter and that little matter, until they have settled into such a state that they become unbearable to all with whom they come in contact. Moroseness rules them, and nothing gives them pleasure. They have complaints to make of their teachers, complaints of their fellow-students, and complaints of everybody else. Every act done gives them annoyance, every word spoken is an imaginary cause of complaint. They will seldom or never come out to bask in the sunshine of social intercourse and feeling, but skulk in shadow and darkness, thus creating-within themselves a sickly temperament that may in time become chronic.
Complaints, and sneers, and bitterness render such characters unbearable; cheerfulness is never seen to brighten their countenances; and yet the one quality which, more than all others, endears man to his fellow-men is cheerfulness. Genius may excite more admiration, talents more respect, and virtues more esteem; but the admiration and respect-are apt to be distant and the esteem cold. With cheerfulness it is otherwise. It endears a man to the heart, —not to the intellect or the imagination. Cheerfulness invariably produces an agreeable effect, and is a recommendation to its possessor. It sheds a light on all social intercourse more agreeable than that produced by the blaze of the grandest intellect.
Cheerfulness in a'man is like charity—a double blessing. It blesses the possessor, and all with whom he comes in contact. It is to him a continual source of joy, and his presence is welcome no matter where or under what circumstances soever he moves. Moroseness and gloom flee from the light of the benevolence he brings at his approach.
It may be that the cheerful man is not always happy himself; it may happen that while pain and sorrow gnaw
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

at the heart his face may glow with smiles; but as cheerfulness is the external sign of joy, he who is always cheerful is a valuable member of society, for no matter what his own feelings may be he gives joy to others. He is worthy of all praise who, notwithstanding the griefs which may harrow his heart—and there is no one in this world but who sometimes has cause for grief—does not intrude them on the happiness of his companions, but contributes by his cheerfulness towards the enjoyment of all. He may be painfully aware of the bitterness of his own heart, but he makes an effort and abstains from pouring it into his neighbors’ cups to poison their felicity. When we see men with whom we know fortune has not been kind, hiding their own sorrows and contributing to the general joy, our hearts go out to them and we feel that they are manfully doing a noble and charitable work in society.
Cheerfulness is a debt that all owe to their companions, to society at large; and he who fails to discharge this debt, but intrudes his griefs, his trials, his wrongs upon his friends, is a criminal who deserves not the sympathy of his fellow-men. Away then with complaints, away with growls at injuries real or imaginary—which bring neither nappiness to oneself nor to others; cultivate the habit of cheerfulness, the most amiable and lovely of the social virtues, and your crosses will become light, your presence will be as a genial ray of sunshine.
hearty wish. The wedding, which was a grand affair, so-we are told, took place in New Haven, Ind.
—Rev. P. P^ Cooney preached an eloquent sermon at St* Patrick’s last night. A large number of his old friends thronged the church, on purpose to see and hear him. He leaves here in a few days to take charge of St. Patrick’s congregation in Toledo during the temporary absence of the regular pastor who contemplates a trip to Europe.—■ South Bend Herald.
—Hermann J. Falkenbach, of’68, was married on Thursday, May 25lh, at Holy Cross Church, Columbus, Ohio, to Miss Mary M. Reinhard. The bride, we are told, is an accomplished lady; the bridegroom, unless he has changed greatly since his college days, is a most worthy and excellent gentleman. May joy and happiness forever and ever attend the young couple.
—Thomas A. Dailey, of ’74, is now the assistant editor of the South Bend Herald. We must congratulate Mr. Murray on securing the services of so able an assistant as Mr. Dailey. All who have read Tom’s articles in the Scholastic the past few years will agree with us when we say that, with all due honor to the many gentlemanly and able editors in South Bend, Tom is equal to any of them.
—We announce the name of Prof. T.E. Howard as a candidate for county treasurer subject to the decision of the people’s convention. Prof. Howard is a gentleman well known in this community, of large culture and good business attainments, and, if nominated, would make a strong run.—South Bend Herald.	.
Would that we had more such public officials as he will prove himself to be should the people do themselves the honor of electing him.	'
Personal.	.
—Frank Frazee, of ’75, is in business in Portsmouth, 0.
—M. H. Keeley, of’72, is practicing law in Waseca, Wis.
—F. J. Weisenburger, of ’75, is doing well in Defiance, Ohio.
—Rev. John; H. McManus, of ’64, is residing in Mississippi.
—Mrs. Clarke, of Chicago, visited her son at Notre Dame this last week.	•
—Mrs. Bell, of Elkhart, was at Notre Dame on Thursday, visiting her son.
. —Edward O’Brien, of ’68, is in the Globe-Democrat office, St. Louis, Mo.
—Rev. A. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Ind., was at the College on Tuesday.
—Arthur Murphy, of ’68, is connected with the new Lindell House, St. Louis, Mo.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, Ind., was at Notre Dame on Tuesday evening last.
—Very Rev. A. Granger, has, we are happy to announce, recovered from his recent severe illness.
—Wm. Abel, of ’49, is one of the leading merchants of San Jose, Cal. We are pleased to learn that he has succeeded so well in life.
—Rev. W. F. O’Rourke, for several years a Professor at Notre Dame, has taken charge of the parishes of Middleton, Franklin and Monroe, Ohio.
—Very Rev. John Prendergast, V. G., of the ctiy of San Francisco, accompanied by Rev. P. J. Grey, pastor of St. Patrick’s, of the same city, spent last Tuesday with us.
—Mr. Wm. Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich., paid us a short visit previous to his trip to Europe. He will take his two sons with him to the Old Country and will, we trust, have an enjoyable trip.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, arrived at Notre Dame from Europe bn Tuesday last. An account of his reception here may be found in our local columns.
—On Thursday, the 18th inst., Mr. Frank Benter, of ’73, was married to Miss Mary Schuckman, by Rev. Father Weldon.' Long life and unprecented prosperity is our
Local Items.	. •
—Three weeks more I
—Bulletins next Wednesday.
—The premises are being put into order on all sides. -—The May devotions will close next Wednesday evening, —What are the Society colors for Commencement-week?
—The painting in the new church is progressing rapidly.
—An enquirer wishes to know why civil engineers are so called ?	.
—The young astronomers go star-gazing quite frequently these clear nights.	.
—How about the badges this year? It is about time to be ordering them.
—A. very large delegation from Chicago will be here during Commencement-week.
—The Philomatheans will give their Annual Spring Entertainment on the 1st of June.
—Fishing on the lakes is positively forbidden on Sundays. Please make a note of this.
—Quite a number of Catholic students made their First Communion on Ascension Thursday.	.
—The appearance of the parterre indicates that it is ’ now in as good hands as ever before.	. .
—We learn from good authority that the whole organization for the Examinations is completed.	'
—Mr. Bonney has begun work photographing individuals, classes, etc. He expects a busy season.
—Ascension Day was celebrated here with the same splendor and ceremony as in former years.
—Not a day goes by without a dozen or so of carriages driving out to the College from South Bend.
—The singing at the Boat Club picnic proves that we have many good singers in the Senior Department.
—Continued activity is still manifested in all the classes. Hard work is the order of the day with both teachers and pupils.
—The members of the Boat Club are loud in their praises of Mr. and Mrs. Chearhart, because of the fine table set by the latter.	.
—The crews are busy practicing for the boat-race to.
618
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
come off on the Tuesday of Commencement-week. May the best crew win!
—The sudden spell of cold weather was to have been expected, for on Sunday last a young gentleman did away with his winter clothing.
—Bro. Sebastian was in his glory while giving a salute last Tuesday. He could talk of nothing but Stone River, Chattanooga and Gen’l. Rosecrans.
—All students having good voices should take part in the singing during Commencement-week. Let them report to the music teachers at once.
—Owing to the damage occasioned on the newly erected banks of the lower lake, all fishing there is prohibited until such time as the late improvements are completed.
—The members of the Boat Club, headed by the Band, marched off with flying colors when going to their picnic on Wednesday last. Their return at seven o’clock was with the same display.
—Last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday were Rogation Days. Each morning a procession left the church at 5 o’clock in the morning. As the procession moved along the Litany of the Saints was chanted.
—The Editor of the Ave Maria requests that all the numbers of that publication for the current year be returned to the office by the members of the Community. Many of these numbers are out of print, and new subscribers are desirous of complete sets.
—We are requested to state that the gold table set presented by the Holy Fatter to the Female Catholic Protectory, Westchester, N. Y., and raffled for the benefit of that institution, was drawn by ticket No. 738, held by Mr. Usher, 53d St. and Broadway, New York.
—The President of the College has positively forbidden any bathing in the lake this year. Those desiring baths can have them as frequently as necessary, at the bathroom. It is wise to preclude the possibility of another accident like that of last year.
—We ask attention to the call of Class of ’68, published in this week’s Scholastic. We have heard nothing further of the Classes of ’74, ’72, and other years. Do they intend having their reunions ? If they do, please let some one of the members publish a call.
—The 34th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held May 18. A vote of thanks was tendered to Bro. Leander C. S. C., Bro. Simon C. S. C., Bro. John Climacus. C. S. C., Profs. Stace, Lewis and Ivers, Messrs. G. Roulbac, A. K. Schmidt, W. T. Ball, and E. G. Graves for kind favors.
—On Wednesday last the members of the Boat Club sat down to an excellent table at Mr. Chearliart’s. The afternoon was spent in a most agreeable manner, with plenty of music to make the time pass joyfully. Besides the music, a number of amusements were improvised, which added to the pleasure of the day. All the members enjoyed themselves heartily.
—The 34th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held May 23rd. Declamations were delivered by A. K. Schmidt, H. D. Faxon, A. Ryan, E. Arnold, P. M. Tample, J. French, D. Ryan, J. Nelson, P. Hagan, M. Kauffman, W. Roelie, W. Davis, C. Clarke, J. Kenny, W. Dodge, F. Rosa, M. Katzauer, E. Riopelle, A. Burger, J. Healy.
■ —The 2d game of baseball for championship, which took place on the 24th inst., between the Internationals and the Centennials, resulted in a score of 11 to 9 in favor of the Internationals. The following is the score :
—Quite a lively scene presented itself on the Juniors’ Campus on the 18th inst. A number of Juniors were playing a sociable game of “pigtail” when one of the spectators called out “A rabbit!” All present cast their eyes in the direction pointed out and there indeed they beheld a full-grown rabbit perched on his hind legs in the centre of the Campus, as though he were duly authorized to umpire the game. The players dropped their bats and ball, and joined in the chase. Although there were fully fifty boys in pursuit he managed to make a home run.
—The programme of the 18th Annual Summer Exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomatheans, of the University of Notre Dame, complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross, and founder of the University of Notre Dame, to take place on Thursday evening, June 1st, 1876, is as follows:
“ Angdis suis Deus mandavit de te, ut custodiant te in omnibus mis tuis."—Ps.
PART FIRST.
Grand Entrance March....................N.	D. U. C. Band
O verture.....................................O rchestra
Song (Solo)..................................E.	Riopelle
Address of the Evening (Salutatory).......A. K. Schmidt Declamation...............................E.	Arnold
Solo............................................W.	Davis
Descriptive Composition (Our Boys)..........W. J. Roelie
Music...
Prologue
.N. D. U. C. Band .... ,H. D. Faxon
PART SECOND.
KING HENRY IV, PART I. ’
A Tragedy in Five Acts, by William Shakespeare. Abridged to Suit the Climate of Northern Indiana.
Dramatis Personae:
Harry Percy (Surnamed Hotspur).........A. K. Schmidt King Henry IV..........................A. Ryan
Harry Monmouth (Prince of Wales).......H. D. Faxon Sir John Falstaff......................E.	F. Arnold
Thomas Percy, Earl of Worcester............J.	French.
Poins..................................P. M. Tamble
Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland....E. F. Riopelle Prince John of Lancaster...............C. Clarke.
Sir Walter Blunt........................J.	E. Nelson
Sir Richard Vernon........................A. Burger
Archibald, Earl of Douglas..................P.	Hagan
Earl of Westmoreland........................D.	Ryan
Bardolph..............................M.	B. Kauffman
Peto....................................W.	W. Dodge
'Gadshill...................................J.	Kenny
Geoffrey (Sheriff)................................M.	Kaizauer
Francis (a Drawer)......................W. J. Davis
Jack Quickly (the Host of a Tavern in Eastcheap)
..................................W.	J. Roelie
Raley (Courier to Hotspur)
Proculus.. Eusebius.. Carinus.... Alexius.... Baro....... Lucius..... Flavius.... Bolumnius. Spencer... Lemon.... Dickins... Brough...
1
J- Guards of Honor. -
- Travellers. -
....F. Rosa .. .R. P. Mayer ....R.’Golsen A. Witticombe ..E. Raymond . .C. V. Larkin .. .F. Flanagan ....G. Sugg . ...G.Lonstorf ....J. Healy
... J. T. Foley ....W. Hake ....J. Knight
INTERNATIONALS.
O.'R.
CENTENNIALS.
o. R.
Murdock, r. £ Quinn,3b.... Dechant, s. s. Burns, c. f. F. Maas, 2 b.. R. White, 1. f. Sugg, p....._ Atfield, lb...
Betcher, c___
Total....
2|
5
4
1
2
4
4
2, 3
2 0
1 3
3 0 0
1 1
27.11
French, p...............
Vanamee, s. s...........
Turnbull, s. f..........
Roelie, lb..............
Rosa, 3 b...............
Streit, r. f............
Arnold, c. f............
Cavanaugh, 2 b..........
Hagan, c................
Total...............
Attendants, Lords, Soldiers, etc., etc.
Epilogue.......................................A.	Ryan
Closing Remarks........................................
March for Retiring...................N. D. U. C. Band
—As announced in last week’s Scholastic, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, returned from Europe via Lake Shore road, on the 5 o’clock train on Tuesday evening. Landing at New York, last week, be telegraphed to Rev. P. J. Golovin, that he would reach South Bend Tuesday afternoon, and immediately the most extensive preparations for his reception
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
619
began.. Full half an hour before the train was due, various delegations from the College, including the University Cornet Band, business men from the city, aud a large miscellaneous crowd, attracted there by curiosity, began to assemble around the depot. Immediately on the arrival of the train the Band struck up “ Home, Sweet Home,” and everybody rushed to the steps of the palace car to be the first to catch a glimpse of the man who had braved the dangers of so many ocean voyages, and whom they had so nearly lost forever when the steamer L’Amerique was wrecked in mid-ocean last winter. Among the first to greet Father Sorin and bid him welcome home were Rev. President Golovin, Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Vice-President of the College, Rev. John Lauth, of South Bend, Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, Rev. Father Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Rev. Peter Lauth, of Lowell, Judge Stanfield, Profs. Howard, Ivers, Lyons, Tong, Stace and Edwards, of the College, and many others. When the greeting was concluded a long procession of carriages, headed by the University Band, was formed, and the line of march selected was down Lafayette street to Washington, from thence down Washington to Michigan, down Michigan to Water street, thence across the iron bridge, and then by the most direct route to the University. At various points along the way crowds of people were gathered, and there was a continuous waving of hats and handkerchiefs which bore a touching evidence of the love and veneration in which Father Sorin is held by the people of South Bend. Arrived at the College gates, the procession was met by the students and members of the Community, who were arranged in two long lines on either side of the broad arena, over which arches tastefully draped in red, white and blue had been erected. Here the reverend Father alighted from his carriage, and, attended by his immediate escort of clergy, proceeded through the ranks, receiving on every hand the warmest expressions of welcome. Thence the whole party went direct to the new church, where the “Te Deum ” was sung to the sublime music of the grand organ and the joyous pealing of the chime-bells. Some time was here devoted' to prayer and thanksgiving to God, for His goodness and watchful care, when the reverend Father arose and thanked his friends for their prayers and other evidences of kindly regard. From the church the venerable Father was escorted to an easy chair arranged on the front balcony of the College, and there, surrounded by clergymen, professors, and friends, while the students were drawn up in solid ranks at the front, several addresses, full of deep and earnest feeling, were read, by Messrs. J. J. I Gillen, A. K. Schmidt and J. G. Duffield. Very Rev. Father Sorin replied in a few well-chosen words, saying he was never more happy in his life than at the present moment; thanking the students for their kindness, and pleading the excessive fatigue of his journey as a reason for not making a longer speech. After an immense amount of cheering the whole company retired to supper in the spacious dining halls of the University. The decorations of the College were artistic, and displayed an unusual amount of care. A large flag floated from the dome, and almost innumerable smaller flags and banners were displayed from the windows of the College. Wreaths of evergreens, looped with beautiful natural flowers, were twined round the arches and columns at the front entrance. Carpets were stretched upon the stone steps, and a beautiful canopy of lace, with a crimson background, adorned the arch, above the double doors. On Wednesday he was tendered a grand reception at St. Mary’s Academy which was attended by many of the professors of the College.
Attention, Class of ’68!
We are requested to notify the members of the Class of 1868, that there will be a meeting thereof at the Grand Central Hotel in South Bend, on the evening of June 19th next, and that their schoolmates are respectfully invited to join the class in their reunion. The members of the Class of ’68 are as follows: W. T. Johnson, Sedalia, Mo.; Edward E. Hull, Detroit, Mich.; Stacey B. Hibben, Wilmington, 0.; E. S. Pillars, Weston, Wood Co., O.; Edward Von Donhoff, Louisville, Ky.; James E. McBride, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Semi-Annual Examination.
This year the examination of the Classical and Scientific graduates takes place independently and previous to the general Examination. This plan has been adopted for several reasons, in regard to which college men require no explanation.
The general Examination begins on Monday, June 12th, with the customary regulations as to time and place. The importance of passing good examinations and the effect which they have in deciding the prizes have already been sufficiently explained to the students.
The following are the committees of examination:
PREPARATROY.
Rev. C. Kelly, President. Rev. T. E. Collins, C. S. C.,’ Mr. J. Rodgers, 0. S. C., Bro. Francis de Sales, C. S. C., Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Prof. J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
—Will examine classes numbered 1, 2, 3, 5,6, 8, 9,10,12, 13,15,17, 20, 21, .23, 87, 88, 89, 90.
COMMERCIAL. ~
Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. S. C., Presiding. Profs. L. G. Tong, J. A. Lyons, W. Ivers, 0. Schnurrer. Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C., Secretary.	•
—Will examine classes numbered 7,11,14,16,19,22,24 25.	»
CLASSICAL.
Rev. P. J. Colovin, C. S. C. Presiding. Rev. J. FrSre, C. S. C., Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. 0., Secretary. Rev. P. Franciscus, C. S. C., Rev. V. Czyzewski, C. S. C., Rev. N. Stoffel, C. S. C., Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
—Will examine classes numbered 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43,44, 45.
SCIENTIFIC.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Presiding. Rev. A. Kirsch, C. S. C., Rev. D. Hagerty, C. S. C., Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., Secretary; Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., Prof. W. Ivers, A. M. —Will examine classes numbered 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57,58, 59, 61, 62, 63,64, 65, 66.	.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
Rev. P. J. Franciscus, C. S. C., Presiding. Rev. M. P. Fallize, C. S. C., Rev. W. Johannes, C. S. C., Rev. P. Kollop, C. S. C., Bro. Philip Neri, C. S..C., Secretary ; Prof. 0. M. Schnurrer, A. M.
—Will examine classes numbered 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76.
FINE ARTS.
Rev. J. Frfire, C. S. C., Presiding. Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Bro. Leopold, C. S. C., Bro. Albert, C. S. C., George Roul-hac, J. Ruddiman.
—Will examine classes numbered 79, 80, 81, 82,83, 84.
RoH of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Atfleld, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss F. Belford, P. Cooney, J. Connolly, T. Carroll, J. Coleman, J. D. Coleman, H. Dehner, I. Dryfoos, J. Dempsey, L. Evers, J. Harkin, J. Herrmann, F. Keller, P. Kennedy, J. Krentzer, W Keily, J. Krost, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, H. Maguire, R. Maas, F. Maas, S. Miller, P. McCawley, G. McNulty, R. McGrath, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonnell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, J. Perea, T. Peifer, W. Pollard, L. Proudhomme, J. Quinn, T. Quinn, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, F. Schlink, F. Vandervannet, W. Wells, R. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, T. Byrnes, O. J. Bell, A Bergck, J. Byrnes, A. Burger, J. Carrer, E. Collins, J. Cavanaugh, C. Campau, W. Dodge, G. Donnelly, J. Davis, E. Davenport, F. Ewing, J. English, J. Foley, F. Flanagan, C. Gustine, S. Goldsberry, H. Henkel, C. Hagan, P. Hagan, W. Hake, J. Healey, B. Heeb, J. Hagerty, A. Hamilton, C. Faxon, M. Katzauer, J. P. Kinney, J. Knight, M. Kauffman, M. McAuliffe, J. Nelson, C. Orsinger, C. Peltier, F. Pleins, F. Phelan, E. Riopelle, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, A. Ryan, W. Ryan, C.Roos, K. Scanlan, H. B. Scott, P. Schnurrer, G.Sugg, W. Taulby, P. Tumble, W. Turnbull, N. H. Vanamee. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Bushey, A. Buerger, C. Bushey, F. Carlin, W. Coolbaugh,
620
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. Davis, M. Gustine, P. Heron, P. Haney, H. Hake, G. Lowrey, Geo. Lambin, C. Long, W. McDevitt, W. McDonald, L. Napp, R. Pleins, J. 0. Stanton, J. Seeger, W. Van Pelt, E. Oatman.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 25, 1876.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Senior Year.—F. Devoto, T. F. Gallagher, E. S. Monohan, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Euans, H. L. Dehner, E. Graves, J. Caren.
Junior Year.—J. H. Cooney, P. J. Cooney, N. J. Mooney, H. C. Cassidy, J. A. Brown.
Sophomore Year.—J. G. Ewing, W. P. Breen, W. T. Ball, R. J. Maas, C. Otto, J. P. McHugh, J. Coleman, M. McCue.
Freshman Year.—A. Hertzog, G. Sullivan, G. McNulty, J. Campbell, A. K. Schmidt, R. McGrath, J. Cavanaugh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. A. Duffield, Lee J. Frazee, F. Campau, 0. Lindberg, F. McGrath, P. Nelson, G. Rhodius, A. Buerger, M. Gustine, G. Lowrey, H. Hake, F. Carlin, J. 0. Stanton, R. Pleins, A. Bushey.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
0. W. Lindberg, T. F. McGrath, Lee J. Frazee,rG. W. Lowrey, P. Heron, J. 0. Stanton, F. Campau, J. A. Bushey, R. Pleins, P. Nelson.

—The reporter of class news made ‘a mistake in saying that the Competition in Modern History was between the Graduating Class and First Seniors. It wasallin the Graduating Class, which was divided in two bands: one under the leadership of Miss L. Arnold, and the other led by Miss A. Clarke. The contest was carried on for full three hours, in presence of Rev. Fathers Vagnier and Zahm, and a number of teachers. The questions were put by the members of each band to the opposite party, and so comprehensive were the questions that each elicited almost an epitome of modern history. The result was perfectly satisfactory, and both parties gave positive evidence of having thoroughly mastered the subject... .At the distribution of good notes Miss A. O’Connor read a pretty poem, subject, “PioNono”; Miss B. Wade read an article on “Happiness”; MissM. Dunbar gave a “True Sense of Honor”; Miss M. Cravens contributed “My Western Home,” and Miss R. Neteler, “ Faded Flowers ”... .Rev. Father Pren-dergrast, the Vicar General of San Francisco, with Rev. Father Grey, ot the same city, visited the Academy^ on the 22d. The two Rev. gentlemen are en route for Rome.... The weather has been so delightful that the Rogation Day processions were most delightful devotions for the Catholic pupils who took part in them.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and Strict Observance of Rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
' Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold. I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie, A Walsh, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, M. Julius, M. Walsh, L. Kelly, L. Henrotin, E. Mann, A. Byrnes, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, A. Henneberry,-J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, M. Dailey, B. Spencer, H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, E. O’Connor, I. Maas, S. and L Edes, N. Tuttle, K. Casey, S. Swalley, E. Cannon, G, Wells, M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, H. Hand, M. Usselman, M. Markey, L; Schwass, F. Gurney, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, J. Darcy, N. O’Meara, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A. McCormack, M. Halligan, 100 par excellence. Misses A. York, A. O’
Connor, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, E. O’Neil, G. Welch, C. Morgan, B. Siler, D. Osborne, A. Miller, L. Brownbridge, 100.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. McGrath*, B. Wilson*, A. Harris*, E. Lange*, A. Cavenor*, M. Hogan* N. Mann, M. Hoffman* A. Kirchner* N. Johnson* L. Faulkner, J. Mitchell*, L. Kinsella, M. Redfield, E. Wight, M. O’Connor, A. Morgan, M. McGrath, M. Mulligan, A. McGrath, I. Fisk, M. Ewing, M. Brooks, L. Merritt, D. Gordon, A Koch, L. Hutchinson, L. Walsh, M. Schulthies, L. Chilton, A Cullen, H. Dryfoos, J. Kingsbury.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Mulligan* C. Hughes*, M. Hughes*, E. Simpson*, F. Fitz*, J. Smith*, M. Feehan*, M. Lambin*, R. Goldsberry*. J. Duffield* M. McFadden* C. Trull*, A. Duffield*, A. and L. Schnurrer*, A. Ewing.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH
LESSONS.-
Grad. Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara. -
1st Sr. Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady.
2d Sr. Class—Misses M. Walsh, L. Kelly, E. Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Niel, R. Casey, A. Heneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, M. Dailey, B. Spencer. '
3d Sr. Class—Misses C. Morgan, H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, B. Siler, I. Maas, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, K. Casey.
1st Prep. Class—Misses G. Youell, L. Gustine, S. Swalley, L. Moran, N. King, E. Cannon, E. Edes, G. Wells, M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, D. Osborne, H. Hand.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselman, L. Schwass, A. Miller, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, J. Darcy, N. O’Meara, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A. McCormack, M. Halligan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr.—Misses I. Fisk, M. O’Connor A. Harris, B. Wilson.
3d Sr.—Misses M. Ewing, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. -Schultheis.
1st Prep.—Misses N. McGrath, A. Cavenor.
2d Prep.—Misses M. Hogan, M. Derby, N.Mann, M.Redfield, A. Ewing, M. Hoffman, E. Wight.
Jr. Prep.—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Morgan, L. Merritt, D. Gordon, J. Mitchell, A. McGrath, E. Mulligan, M. McGrath, M. Hughes.
1st Jr.—J. Smith, M. Lambin, M. Fehan, R. Goldsberry, J. Kingsbury, J. Duffield.
2d Jr.—A. Duffield, L. and A. Schnurrer.
THOMAS.B. CLIFFORD'
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONS FOB ALL STATES.
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special Attention Givento Depositions.
©rand Central Motel*
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED-FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.

JAMES BONNEY
THE HZETOTOG-HHVETEHEH,
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH ZBHlbTTU, USTTDIjATTJA.
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	621
OTTO VON TESMAR,
TAXIDERMIST,
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, III.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural History, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For further particulars address as above.	mh 11-tJy
The Enemy of Disease!
THE FOE OF PAIN
TO MAN AND BEAST
Is the Grand Old
Mustang Liniment,
Which has stood the test of 40 years.
There is no sore it will not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse. • mh 11-ly.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
ZDZEZSTTIST, ’
109 MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.’
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYEB LIVTJSTG-STOTT, 60 YVasliingrt'on St., Three Boors West of Blum’s Cigar Store, SOUTH BEND, IND
Keens on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
SI Wfaqj’s
.	(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the’ beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Masic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modem languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.	-
Particular attention is paid to the religious instraction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requiremr nts of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, nd hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power. •
The proximity of the two institutions to each other js a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address	’
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
THE “AVE MAKIA,”
A. CATHOLIC JOTTS-TSTAJL
wA	nA rA
4t)ott(Ua fe Awion of the fcstd flirjin.
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS K„ AUD MAH’ EfflENT PRELATE
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned ’	,
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,	„
Hemri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey, •
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor 0. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton,	Eliza Allen Stark,
The Misses Howe, The Authoress of “ Tiborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
One Year..........................................$ 2 50
Five Years.........................................10	OO
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each).. .20 00 A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All subscriptions, communications, books or periodicals for notice, etc., should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE AVE MARIA, , ’	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, lie & 121 Nassau St., New York. '
JESTAJBXLTSIXEI* 1852.
M < Balm &
Dealers in
BOOTS JLTSTZD SHOES.
The Largest Retailing House in the State
Cornerof WMngtoa sa and Michigan Sts., SOUTH BEND.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
. SHAMPOOING, ETC.
SPETH, ,
Corner Washington and IVEicliigan Sts., .	(Under Coonley’s Drug Store)	.
SOUTH BEND, INTDIAYSTA.
'622
. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
CHICAGO, ILLTHSTOIS.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
- DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A.:tsr:D
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, S2.OO Per Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK”
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY SURPASS ALL OTHERS.
GEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT & SONS
MUSIC CO.
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this will be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofekite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fdlow of five A. A. A. S., Prof. Chemistry and JUinerdlogy.
O. T32. SHEERER,
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and. Gents’'Furnishing Goods, Etc.,
IIO Mieliigaii. Street,
SOUTH ZBZEZKTID IJSTTD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing Goods, Eats Caps, etc., 109 MiclxiKaiL St.,
SOUTH ZBZETTZD,
The Maud
A. McKay, Brop., JSTILHS, ZMZTOZEanCGA_JST_ Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. C. SHIRE, WHOLESALE JWUs m Cigars, 1O1 Main Street,
TWO Boors Sontl Of Ed. Gillen’S, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
[Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	623
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices ■ . at depot and 122 Randolph street. .
_	„	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City; nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	10	pm	12	00	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas East Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	40	pm
Peoria Day Express......................7	5o	pm	9	30	am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 4 00 p.m.
Peru accommodation................ 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express.....................10 00 p.m. 6 55 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
CO' \	Trains with Through Cars t° NEW YOBK.	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp Daily.	No. 4. .Night Ex Ex Sa&Su
Lv. CHICAGO			9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE..			2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
Cl	Rochester		1 18 a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
Cl	Pittsburgh		2 20 “	12 15 p.m.	7 05 “
Lv. An	Pittsburgh		3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
i<	Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13. “
cc	Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
cc	Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
cc	Philadelphia		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
cc	New York		7 35 “	6 50 “	11 15 “
cc	New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	3 36 p.m.
- (C	Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	5 55 “
CC	Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
cc	Providence		4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
<c	Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY BUSTS
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
’ F. R. MYERS, G- P. & I. A.
THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.	■
Ladigj and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, lprOnrietora CAPTAIN MILLS, j-FroPrietors-
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. DIARY’S ’BITS LINE I
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES'
Attached to tlio National Hotel, and -A <1-jacent to tlie Lake Shore and Micliigan Southern Dejxot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mh/s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
L S. & M. 8. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend aa. follows:
GOING EAST.
2 40 a. m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05. '
10 3G am, Mail,over Main Line,arrives at Toledo,5 35pm; Cleveland 10 10.
12 37 P m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 1)0; Buffalo. 1 05p a-.
11 25pm, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50 a m; Cleveland 710 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 41 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
■4 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20-
8 O1 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a.m.	-	-
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a.m.; Chicago, 6 55 a. m.
8 55 a m, Local Freight.	'
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
-	CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—November 21, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtiantic Express.	i Night Express
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40	11 15 “
	9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson.:...	2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express.	12 40 a.m	4 52 •*
Ar. Detroit		5 45 “	6 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 CO p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 pm
“ Jackson		10 40 “	12 32 p.m	715 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m.
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich.- City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “ •	4 05-“ -	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago		7 30	8 00 “	10 20	6 30 “	8 00 “
Nile® and Sontli Bend Division.
GOING NORTH. • -
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.' 7 15 p m. §9 06 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22	‘ 7 23“	9 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 00 “	9 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 6 30 a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00 a.m.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8 32 “ •
Ar. South Bend—7 15	5	05 “	8 40,
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “
§5 00 p.m 5 32 “ 5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday -xcepted;
‘	gSunday only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend, ’	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A:; Chicago. -b B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dam*.
624
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Co.,
■	-A-TSE TZHZE	■
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
Tliey Have tlie Best Civttei" in the City and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clotiling, Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Fiimisliiiig: Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satislaction guaranteed on all goods.
REMEMBEB THE PLACE.
94 MICHIGAN St., SOOTH BEND, IND
McDonald,
THE
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Ni he Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For farther information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
“STANDARD” ORGAN
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THOSE ACQUAINTED WITH ITS. CONSPICUOUS MERITS TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL REED ORGAN NOW IN THE MARKET. THE UNAPPROACHABLE ELEGANCE OF ITS DESIGNS FOR CASES AND ITS PERFECTION OF TONE AND GENERAL MECHANISM, COMBINED WITH' THE POPULAR PRICES AT WHICH IT IS SOLD, ARE UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENTS IN ITS FAVOR.t EVERY ORGAN GUARANTEED. PRICE LISTS AND CATALOGUES FREE.
CEN’L WESTERN AGENTS—THE
ROOT £ SONS
MUSIC CO.
CHICAGO.
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIG-AlSr ST.
Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1816
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year.
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner.
Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue.
Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country. Columbia_the Gem. Watch on the Rhine. Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’.
Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn.
Austrian “	“
Piice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards, 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents.
Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (§1.50) in “Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and’ in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
y
Dictionary of
MUSICAL INFORMATION.
Price S1.25. By Jolin W. Moore.
Information------about [2,000] prominent Musicians, musical Instruments, musical Events, musical Terms, musical Theory, music Books, and. everything else that one wishes to know about music, all concisely and clearly stated. Valuable book of reference. The possessor of this [and perhaps of Ritter’s History of Music, 2 Vols., ea. $1.50] is perfectly posted and inquiry-proof in musical subj ects.	.
Bassin’s Art of
ture. Used everywhere.
Sin win * Has for years been a standard book Jn Vocal Cul_ Price, Complete, $4.; Abridged $3.
Moore’s Encyclopedia of Music, $6.
Perkins’ Anthem Book,
’ of easy Anthems for GhoirSj and Tourjee’s Chorus Choir, [2,00] is an equally good book ot difficult Anthems for the same purpose.
OLIVER TDITSOTT & CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. BITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DUSON & CO.
Successors to Lee & Walker,	711 Broaiway, Stiff YOBK.
TMiila. .
LYON «& HEALY, Chicago.