*The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS
Disco quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 12, 1874.	Number 12.
JNO.HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG, .	City Judge.	Notary Public. ~p~AGERTY & TONG, ATTORNFATS-AT-LAW, ,	REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.	* COLLECTIONS SOLICITED. No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana. - o24-ly	■g NICAR & Co.,	. ’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS, 118 MICHIGAN St., -	- - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA HEADQUARTERS FOB Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc., Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., '	o24-tf
	•y NICAR, .	- DEALER IN HARDWARE, 91MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. ALL SORTS OF Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc. —ALSO— Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. o24-tf
Before going elsewhere, go to Tp S. PECKS,	„ , . IL,	Dealer in •	HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and. Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,	' . o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.	
	^RS. C. S. STOVER, MILLINER, 129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana. Dealer in	. Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laces, Etc. ^^“The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their	_ advantage to give her a call.	o24-Jan 1
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., ।	Wholesale 'Manufacturers of HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, I	—ALSO— WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL HEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES. . 1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH SEND IND., o24-tf.	
	JJIGHT & FAIRFIELD, JEWELLERS South Bend, - - - Indiana. Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Marg's -	CONFIDENT IN	. THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, . None Can Fail to be Suited.	■ ^“Particular-attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	o24-3m	.
p E. CUMMINS, ’	DENTIST, . No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana. ■	(Over Wyman’s.)	o2-l-lm	
	Q.EORGE HEHR,	. FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GENERAL DEALER IN Cloths, .Cassimeres and Vestings. No 111 MICHIGAN STBEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. ' (Up Staiis.)	}§o24-^tf	.
i»	. Do you want a drive ? Go to . JgEN COQUILLARD’S J:	LIVERY STJYBLES, st	■ Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, W	South Bend, Indiana. W	o24-2m	
	M. A. smith.	E. P- Halloway-. " QMITH & HOLLOWAY,	. ’ Dealers in BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS,	. Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Tovs and Musical Instruments. No. 77, Washington St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND^IND. dec5-Js3m
g	^UTHE STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^ ’ 1 yq-ENRY BLUM, £	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN I	CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc., i	No. 54 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH SEND, IND. %o24-tf	

THE SCHOLASTIC.
pALMER & VanWINKLE,
•	• Dealers in	.	-
CONFECTIONERIES,::
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
JRELAND & SON,	.
PROPRIETORS OF
LIVERY AND FEED" STABLE
No. 54 MICHIGAN Si
(.Opposite the Dwight House). ---------------o-----
SOUTH BEND, IND.
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any-part of the City,
and to the College and St. Mary's.
|£o24 2m
jay Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER.
71 Washington St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A. M., to attend to all students desiring his
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
-	----0---
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. J£o24-tf.
services.
o24-tf
R. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana. o24-tf
JjTDWARD BUYSEE, ' Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
'Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
’ DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JEraY“KNiGHT, 1
o24-tf
captain mills,
A. KLIN GEL & SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
, Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o244f
Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of-
Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT .	and
Brackett & Boyden’s Hand and Machine sewed Goods, THE Largest Stock In The City.
Give us a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to
•DUZBY Ss GALLAGHER,
CLOTHIERS, MERCHANT TAILORS, AND DEALERS IN Gents’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.	.
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
LADIES
We would call your attention to our immense Stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	o24-3m
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED, GILLEN’S RESTAURANT.
E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller
105 Michigan St.,
South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to PINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old
English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-JJtf.
99 MAIN STDEET,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ALWAYS ON HAND!
tEa?” Fresh 'Candies Made Daily, .
Ko34-tf
The Scholastic-
pEVOTED TO THE
pTUDENTS.
Disce qriasi semper 'victurxis ? vlve quasi eras moriturus
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 12, 1874.
Number 12.
Innocant III and his Times.
BY G.
Innocent, who knew no byways, put a vigorous check to the evil. “ This was not a question,” says Hurter, “ of temporal domain, or of contested rights, with the Holy See; the great point at issue was summed up in this question: Is the Catholic sovereign amenable to the laws of Christianity which bind his subjects ? We may premise that if those were then enforced in a different manner, and perhaps more sternly than at present, the fact affords no ground for blaming the conduct of the Pope in the present circumstances. In the matter of this divorce, Innocent HI followed only a just appreciation of his own duty and of that of princes ; actuated by a truly apostolic zeal, he was open to no earthly consideration. He would never consent to sacrifice the high moral importance of his dignity for the sake of a powerful ally in the German troubles, nor to purchase at the price of a guilty concession the king’s assistance for the Crusade. To call his firmness a crime would be to make a dangerous example for all ages; it would break down the barrier between power and duty, andrelease man from every moral obligation.” Peter of Capua was sent as legate to France, with power, in case of the king’s refusal to put away Agnes, to lay the whole kingdom under interdict. The king was stubborn; he presented Agnes to the army and crowned her with his own hands, and made the knights and barons swear to shed their blood in her defence. Following the express order of Innocent, Peter of Capua convoked a council at Dijon in 1199 and summoned Philip to appear before it. Philip refused, saying he would appeal to the Pope,—following the course of all uningenu-ous men, who appeal from the Pope to a council, and from a council to the Pope. Innocent, suspecting this ruse would be played by the king, had commanded his legate to make no account of the appeal. Consequently, on the 12th of December, 1199, at midnight, “ the mournful tolling of the bell summoned the Fathers of the Council of Dijon. The Bishops and priests repaired to the Cathedral in silence, bearing flaming torches. The image of the Crucified was covered with a black veil; the sacred relics were removed from the crypt; the last remains of the Consecrated Hosts had been consumed (burned says Darras). The legate, wearing a violet stole, pronounced the ecclesiastical interdict “ upon all the provinces subject to the rule of the king of France, so long as that prince refused to break off his adulterous commerce with Agnes of Merania." At these words all the torches were thrown to the ground and extinguished, adding the horror of deep darkness to the awe inspired by the impressive ceremony itself. The
French hierarchy, encouraged by Peter of Capua, proved itself with a few exceptions worthy of the Pope, and sustained the wrath of Philip; several were banished, and Ingelberga was subjected to a still more rigorous imprisonment. This violence embittered his subjects against him; his attendants shunned his presence, and his barons appealed to the sword. In this extremityhe sent an embassy to the Pope, who maintained the sentence of his legate. Making a last effort, Philip called together the prelates and nobles of his kingdom and presented to them Agnes, now pale and wasted by interior grief. “Like the widowed partner of Hector,” says a cotemporary writer, “ she would have moved the whole Grecian host. The full freshness and glow of youth, the grace with which, five years before, she bestowed the prizes upon the victors in the lists, had fled her wan and haggard cheek.” The king hoped that this contrast would move the hearts of his people. But when he asked “ What must I do ? ” the unanimous answer was: “ Obey the Pope. Put away Agnes and restore Ingelberga.” The king yielded, and in doing so did the most glorious deed of his life.
I have dwelt longer on this event of the reign of Innocent because in it shines out with the brightest lustre the zeal of the Pope for the doctrine of Christ. “If Christianity,” says Hurter on the subject, “ has not been thrown aside as a worthless creed, into some isolated corner of the world; if it has not, like the sects of India, been reduced to a mere theory; if its European vitality has outlived the voluptuous effeminacy of the East—it is due to the watchful severity of the Roman Pontiffs, to their unceasing care to maintain the principle of authority in the Church. I can but glance at the other events of this reign, in all of which Innocent III showed himself the courageous Pontiff, the defender of the wronged, and the bulwark of Chrstian civilization.	.
He was called upon to decide the disputed succession to the imperial crown. Two powerful families in Germany disputed the succession to the throne. One known by the name of Salic, or Weiblingen, the name of a castle among the Hartz mountains where this race originated. The par-tizans of this house were called Weibling, which the Italians, not being able to manage such a harsh word, changed Ghibellini—to Ghibbelines. The rival race, whose seat was Altorf, was represented by princes called Welf—which the Galeans changed into Guelfi—Guelphs. The latter were generally adherents of the Pope.
The two factions simultaneously elected each its own representative as Emperor, Philip and Otho—and appealed to the Pope for a decision. Here we find an undeniable evidence of the supreme authority with which the public law in the Middle Ages invested the Papacy, in all ques-
148	THE SCHOLASTIC.
tions touching disputed successions and the peace of nations. “By intervening in the election of the German emperor,” says Hurter, “Innoeent III did not encroach on the rights of the empire to the profit of the Holy See; he simply complied with the express wish of all Europe, which stood in expectation of the decision.” In the alternative that was presented to him, and which threatened to he dangerous no matter how he decided, the Pope rose to the highest view of public order and general welfare. He did not attempt to bring forward the claims of his young protege Frederick II, son of the deceased Emperor; first, because he was young, quoting those words of Holy Writ " Woe to thee, O land! when thy king is a child.” And, secondly because the succession was elective and not hereditary. He had to guard the rights of an essentially elective Empire; he had also to secure in the new emperor a zealous defender of the Roman Church, one worthy to bear the crown and sword of Charlemagne. If his choice had fallen on Philip, he would have been the fourth Emperor of the house of Hohenstaufen upon the throne, and he. would no longer be considered an elective hut simply an hereditary prince: besides, Philip had long before been excommunicated by the Holy See for joining Henry VI in usurping Pontifical domains and fiefs in Italy and for other misdemeanors. Such antecedents gave little promise of faithful championship of the Church. Innocent, therefore, decided in favor of Otho, Duke of Aquitaine; thus saving the rights of .the empire and the elective freedom of the German princes. Philip resolved to enforce his claim by arms. From 1201 to 1208 the struggle lasted, but on the 21st of June, 1208, Philip was killed in his tent by Otbo of Vittelsback, who was irritated by some personal grievance he had received from Philip. The general Diet oi Frankfort recognized the candidate chosen by the Pope. Otho was married to Beatrice, daughter and heiress of Philip, and was crowned in Rome by the Pope. He proved recreant to his promises to protect the Church. He seized the States of the Church in Tuscany and invaded Sicily. Innocent deposed Otho and gave the crown to the young king of Italy. Otho appealed to arms, but the justice of God met him at Bovine, a place which proved fatal to another enemy and persecutor of the Church, John Lackland, of England.
I do not intend to dwell on this part of the reign of In. nocent. John succeeded his brother, by the murder of his nephew, Arthur. Summoned by Philip, as a vassal of France, to prove his innocence in the presence of his French peers, John, refusing to appear, was declared guilty of felony, condemned to death and the forfeiture of his lands he held by homage. Philip took upon himself the execution of the sentence and within a year made himself master of Normandy, Anjou, Maine and Poitou, leaving only Guienne to the English. John appealed to the Pope and to prevent the further shedding of blood Innocent in the celebrated Bull Notit Hie, addressed to Philip, commanded the cessation of hostilities, called the case before his own tribunal, reserving the rights of both parties until the rendering of a final decision. The enemies of the papacy condemn this action of Innocent III, and, taking the text of the Bull, they endeavor to prove that the ground upon which Innocent III rests his claims has no founda-either in right or fact. “ The best answer,” says Darras “to their arguments is that afforded by the facts themselves.” Philip obeyed, and concluded a truce of five
years with the English king; and he certainly understood the public law of the Middle Ages better than the posthumous adversaries of Innocent HI.
(to be continued.)
Hodia mihi; Cras tibi.
BY J. M. 3. G.
I.	•
Come, let us stroll along this forest glade, Fragrant with pine trees’ odors and sweet flowers ;
Doth it not seem that in this beauteous shade
Some gentle fairies have their dainty bowers ?
ii.
And, see, yon grumbling shaft with ivy crowned, It mars the loveliness of this fair scene ;
For, why should Death build here his mournful mound, To tell the tale of life that once hath been 'i
in.
See, how rude Time has smoothed the sculptured scroll
And left his heartless trace of ruth and rust;
Silent Destroyer ! through long ages roll,
Canst thou thy empire keep o’er that poor dust ?
. IV.
Write down one triumph over mortal man
That thou art destined to outlast, O Time !— He was in God before thy flight began,
Ere Order forth from Chaos.sprang sublime.
Man’s slave, yet tyrant of his proudest deeds,
Empires are but the sport of thy stern naud ;
The bittern booms amid the marshy reeds
Where monarchs once abashed the reverent land.
VI.
Ruins are thy monument: thou goest forth
Cold and serene, Death dogging thy waste track ;
A wilderness behind thee, like the North
Tempts with a syren voice but ne’er gives back.
.	VII.
Heaven’s key unto the wise; to fools, a Fate,
Thou bearest gobd or evil destinies,	.
Which, by man shaped, beyond the grave await
The hour that solves perplexing mysteries.
VIII.
Man is the puppet of thy frown or smile,
His palaces and pomp await thy heel,
Yet do we love or buffet thee the while, Though bound, weak Ixions, to thy fatal wheel.
IX.
When from the empyrean Heaven’s venging fire
Pours down fierce cataracts of wrath divine, To sink upon the universal pyre
And die amid the ashes shall be thine.
x.
The fairest flower upon the brow of Spring
Is rudely plucked by thee and cast away ;
The loveliest scene that poets dream or sing
Fades ’neath thy touch, thou winter without May.
XI.
Where are the hearts that loved us long ago
When life blushed on the cheek like rosy morn— When trustful eyes, all sparkling with Truth’s glow,
Longed for the rose but dreamt not of the thorn ‘i
XII.
A simple song we heard when life was young, How often Memory hears the olden strain ;
THE SCHOLASTIC*
14*

Sonl-eehos sweet, from sunny islets fiung, Ye dim our eyes with sharp and loving pain !
.	XIII.
No love, on earth, like love that Death doth sever,— Love burns the purest when two souls must part;
Though the cold tomb may hide his clay forever, The dear ideal’s buried in the heart.
- XIV.
Behold yon tints which curtain the fair sky, The sun has set, but beauty lingers there;
So lives the loved one lost,—bis memory ■ Graced with the hopeful incense of fond prayer.
xv.
Scorn not the tenant of that narrow home
Crowned with the foliage of this solitude: The glorious epic of Rheims’ Gothic dome
Hath nought sublime as God’s pure sky and wood.
. xvi.	-
Methinks the tender lights of evening fall
With softer radiance here, as though to greet With loving smile the poor, tired prodigal
Prostrate so humbly at the Father’s feet.
XVII.
Friend, read the great names on the scroll of Time,— Kings, warriors, lords, and all such gilt disaster;
Porphyrogeniti of fame sublime,
Here at this little grave ye find your master I -	XVIII.
The pleasing melancholy of this scene Is like old letters of some loved one dead, Which, though they keep the heart-pang ever green, Are fondly treasured, wept o’er, and oft read.
XIX.
Who would not wish to lay him calmly down*
Where, lake, wood, flower and lovely sun-set sleep,— The canopy of heaven for a crown,
And one true heart old friendship’s vigil keep!
xx.
Ah ! let such fate be mine, for sweeter far Than harmony of organ or men’s words, The woodland melody beneath the star
Poured forth from forests green by merry birds.
XXI.
Amid kind Nature’s concert let me sleep,
Beneath blue May-flowers and the emerald moss, Where gentle tendrils melancholy creep
About the sacred emblem of the Cross.
XXII.
But let us hence; the solemn stars awake In opal depths where lingers yet the day ;
• Now sombre shadows fall on grove and lake, And evening, like a life, hath passed away.
Observations on what are called. Addition and Subtraction in Algebra.
The inconvenient phraseology which we noticed under the head of Addition, is found again in what is called Subtraction. Subtraction means a decrease, or the process of diminishing one quantity by another quantity of the same kind, in which it is understood that the subtrahend cannot be greater than the minuend. But in Algebra we are required to “subtract” not only greater from less quantities, but also quantities of an opposite character, namely such as are positive from those which are negative, and vice versa. In only two out of the eight principal cases of algebraic subtraction can we recognize a real subtraction, while in
the remaining six cases there is no subtraction at all, but rather a comparison of negative and positive quantities, together with the statement that the minuend is by so much more or less, by so much higher or lower in the scale of measurable quantities^ than the subtrahend. This will be seen from the following examples, in which the small signa have reference to the character of the quantities, and the larger ones to the operation of subtraction. .
1st example: (+12a)—(+9a)=(+3a).
A real subtraction, and a real remainder,* the minuend being greater than the subtrahend, and both of the same kind or character.
2nd example: (-12a)—(-9a)=(-3a).
That is, 9 negative quantities taken from 12 neg. quantities of the same kind, must leave 8 neg. quantities of that kind; and in this case we have also a real subtraction.
3rd example: (+9a)—(+12a)=—(+3a).	■
Here we have only a partial subtraction, that is, from 9a we can take only 9a, and the remaining 3a of the subtrahend may look out for a minuend; or rather, we have a comparison of the 2 quantities, 9a and 12a, with a statement that the first, (the minuend), is by 3a less than the subtrahend,
4th example: (-9a)—(-12a)=—(-3a) or (+3a).
Here, as in the 3rd example, we have only a partial sub traction, since from 9 negative quantities we can take only 9 negative quantities of the same kind, and the remaining 3 negative quantities must wait for a minuend. Or we have a comparison of two negative quantities, with a statement that the minuend is by 3a greater, or higher in the scale of measures than the subtrahend.
5th example: (+12a)—(-9a)=(+21a).
In this case we must give up all ideas of subtraction, on account of the opposite character of the quantities; the answer (-f-21a) being the result of a comparison, showing that the minuend is by 21a more, or higher in the scale of measures than the subtrahend.
6th example: (-12a)—(+9a)=(-21a).
Comparing the minuend with the subtrahend, we find that the former is 21a less, or lower in the scale than the latter.
7th example: '(+9a)—(-12a)=(+21a).	.
Here, as before, there can be no real subtraction, but only a comparison, sho wing the minuend to be 21a greater, or higher in the scale, than the subtrahend.
8th example: (-9a)—(+12a)=(-21a), in which the minuend is by 21a less, or lower in the scale than the subtrahend.
From these examples it is evident that the idea of real subtraction is applicable only to the first two cases, while in the rem lining six, we compare the minuend with the subtrahend, stating by how much “ more or less ” the former is than the latter; and although this view is applicable to all the 8 cases, yet the idea of subtraction fits only the first two examples. The -}* and — signs of the an. swers show, in all the cases, that the minuend is either greater (+) or less (—) than the subtrahend.
To apply this principle to practical questions such as distance north aud south of the Equator, we give the following:
ad 1) of 2 cities (situated on the same meridian), the one is 12° North, and the other 9° North; how much farther North is the first than the second ?
(+12)—(+9)= Answer (+3°) .
150
THS SCHOLASTC.
ad 2) of S cities, one is 12° South and the other 9° South ; how much farther South is the first than the second ?
(-12)—(-5)= Answer (-3°)
ad 3) a city is 9° North and another 12° North Latitude; how much farther South is the first than the second ?
(+9)—(-8-12)= Answer (-3°)
ad 4) a city is 9° South and another 12° South Latitude; how much farther’North is the first than the second?
(-9)—(-12)= Answer (+3°)
ad 5) a city is 12° North and another 9’ South Latitude; how much farther North is the first than the second ?
(+12)—(-9)= Answer (+21°)
ad 6) a city is 12° South, and another 9° North Latitude; how much farther South is the first than the second?
(-12)—(+9)= Answer (-21°)
ad 7) a city is 9° North, another 12° South of the Equator; how much farther North is the first than the second?
(+9)-(-12)= Answer (+21°)
ad 8) a city is 9“' South, another 12° North of the Equator;' how much farther South is the first than the second ?
(-9)—(+12)= Ans-wer (-21°)
the -f- and — signs in the answers, meaning direction North and South, and having reference to the minuend or first city.
Now all these above examples are cases of algebraic subtraction, while in Arithmetic some of them would be called cases of addition; and some of the cases of algebraic addition would appear in Arithmetic under the head of subtraction ; this terminology in connec tion with the double meaning and application of the -{-• and — signs, seems to be the source of much trouble for the students of Algebra, which might, perhaps, to a certain extent, be avoided, if the terms of addition and subtraction were applied only to real cases of addition and subtraction, calling the other ,cases, what they are,—reductions, or comparisons of positive and
negative quantities.
0. M. S.
A Night on the Shores of Lake Michigan

We started, as my friend and companion can assert, on our long peregrination, in high spirits. It is not my intention to describe the incidents and accidents of our trip; this, space would not permit; but merely to relate for your amusement how, during the long hours of a chilly night on the strand, our spirits like the waves, rose, and then •with an ebb flowed back again.
I hope that you will not put a false construction on the foregoing; in reading, you should always endeavor, as far as possible, to view a sentence in the same spirit as the writer; if you do this you cannot misinterpret the meaning of my words. But to commence my narrative: Following the directions of a man who told us it was an easy afternoon’s drive along the shore to the place where we wished to spend the night, we continued on our way; after driving on for some time, we met a traveller who was also driving on, but in an opposite direction. We enquired of this individual the distance to M----; he replied, “ Eight miles; ” and as an hour yet remained before darkness could prevent our further progress, with a little horse tougher than Rosinante of old, we felt assured of reaching the village before sunset. Whether we reached it or not you can as

certain by preserving patience and continuing to read. On we drove; darker and darker it grew; the bluffs rose precipitately on our right, and the waves advanced ominously on our left. After riding quite a distance in this manner, mistaking in the hazy atmosphere sand-hills for houses, and the smoke of a locomotive for sooty particles of carbon hanging over the village of Iff----, we began to lose confidence, until at last having given up all hope of reaching the village, we endeavored by peering through the darkness, to discover a road or pass over the apparently impenetrable bluffs; believing that if we could succeed in this we should have little difficulty in finding a farm-house. But all our efforts were fruitless; we were inevitably doomed to spend the night on this dreary waste of sand, unsheltered and uncared for. Still, hope conquering fe;lr, we pressed on; on through the darkness sped our little horse, and as he cculd not see, by some remarkable power of instinct he Seemed to know .that by keeping his off-feet in the water, and his nigh feet on the strand, he could not miss the way. Suddenly in front an object, dark and ill-defined, looms up.
“Joy!” exclaims my companion; “ perchance this is some tavern wherein the weary traveller may rest his aching bones.”
“ Lose no time in wild conjectures,'’ I replied, but“ forthwith examine and report, that both of us may know what manner of habitation we have come upon; in.the meantime I shall stop here, for fear this horse with driving unaffected might run off.”
Having made this reply, with an air of importance suited to the novelty of our situation, I impatiently awaited the result. Soon returning, he spoke as became the explorer of an uninhabited and lonely hut:—“ Tis but the modicum of my expectations realized; only an old dilapidated booth, ill-shaped, yet guarded from the winds; what think you, shall we spend the night?”
“ Certainly. If this cabin offers a shelter, we had better remain here, and thank good fortune for the happy discovery.”
Accordingly we unhitched the horse, and led him into the hut through an opening: we afterwards succeeded in partially closing this by means of a barricade, using our buggy as a frame for its support. Having provided for the horse by “ giving him a rest,” we provided for ourselves. Luckily we had provisions wherewith to provide, else we also should have had to be contented with a “rest.” After pacifying the inner-man by devouring a small lunch, we made a detour of our habitation to try and discover the nature of its surroundings; but owing to the darkness we were compelled to return to our abode, there to remain in utter ignorance of its situation, until a little light should render an investigation more promising of success. With that feeling of satisfaction, natural to those who are participators in adventures where hope and suspense agreeably mingle, we each wrapped ourselves in a blanket, and were soon in the “land of nod.” About twelve o’clock my companion awakened me, and suggested that as the moon was shining brightly we had better take a stroll. I consented, whereupon we both set out to attempt a second observation. This time it was a success, for after climbing with much difficulty a high and precipitous sand hill, there appeared before our admiring gaze, a scene so grand as to beggar all discription.
Over all, there hung like a silvery mist


1^/
THE SCHOLASTIC.	m
The light of a marble moon, And soft from below, on the golden sands, Might be heard the wave’s low tune.
To the left, at the base of a cedar-topped cliff, Could be seen In the darksome shade, The form of a chinked and weather-worn booth; By some fisherman likely made.
Afar, on the water, just crossing the path Which fair Luna had made o’er the lake, Was a vessel, with canvas concave to the bieeze, And behind her an eddying wake.
A line so bright recedes from view, In the distance along the shore; It seems as if’tis formed of hills, Composed of most precious ore.
After becoming impressed almost to awe with a landscape, to which the pen of a Shakspeafe alone could do justice in describing, we brought our noctivigation to a close by returning again to the humble couch on the sand; where, once more, rolled up in a blanket, we dreamed until day-light. At the approach of morn, the horse becoming restless, we determined to break his rest, and cure him by exercise; so strapping him to the buggy we drove thirteen miles, when we came upon a second cabin. Joy! this time it is an inhabited one! here we breakfasted, and were much amused in listening to the tales of the old fisherman, our host. So, pleasantly ended our misadventure.
_________________________Traveller.
Literature.
—We have received from the Catholic publication House the “Illustrated Catholic Family Almanac” for 1875 This Almanac is gotten up in the best style of art and should be purchased by all heads of families. There is a great deal of useful information for the people contained in its pages. It supplies a want which until a few years past was never supplied. At the same, time that we praise the Almanac and advise all to procure copies, we must say that the Catholic Chronology for 1873-4 is very defective. This we know is not the fault of the compilers. It is probably as complete as a chronology can be made. The editors of the “Ace Maria” have endeavored to make a list of deaths, ordinations, receptions, etc., in each issue, but owing to the careless way in which these are reported in the different papers it is impossible to have them complete. One paper will announce the death of priests or religious as having taken place “ last week,” then so many young ladies are reported as having taken the veil at such a convent without giving the name of the religious order which they have entered. As to dedications, etc., the editors of the paper were forced to give up all idea of reporting them, as sometimes the day was not mentioned, at other times the name of the church was omitted altogether. We can understand, then, why the Chronology of the almanac should be defective.
—There are few Catholic newspapers superior to the Chicago Pilot. It has undoubtedly the neatest dress of any Catholic newspaper in the United States. There is no poor printing done in its office, as the appearance of the paper proves. And the matter in the paper is eqnal to the display which the type makes. It is an excellent Journal and the student's from Chicago would do well to subscribe for it.
—We would call the attention of our Cleveland friends, and to the students from the Northern part of Ohio, to the
Catholic Vniverse. We know of no paper superior to it. Its editorial articles have a clear ring in them that shows they are of the right metal. The news in the paper is fresh, and properly condensed. We wish the paper suo cess, and urge all Clevelanders to subscribe for it. They will get more than their money’s worth in the paper.
—A translation of “L’Histoire de la Guerre Civile en Amerique, par le Comte de Paris,” is announced.
—“ Grapes and Thorns ” has received very flattering notices from the English Catholic press.
—John Gilmary Shea has renewed his “Library of American Linguistics.” His new series begins with a “ Dictionary and Grammar of the Hidatsa (or Grosventres of Missouri.)
—A Cyclopaedia of Ancient and Modern Literature, consisting of 6,104 volumes, has recently been published in Peking. The price of a complete set is $20,000.
—A History of the Early Church in California, by the Rev. J. Adam, will appear in the pages of the “ Ace Maria" this coming year.
—Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, the popular writer, is now engaged on a serial story which will appear in the “Ato Maria”
Society Notes.
—The time for the lath meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, Dec. 8th, was taken up in rehearsal.
—The Thespians held a meeting on the 2nd of December, at which a programme of the Exhibition to be held on the 19th was made out by Prof.JLyons. “ The Box of Mischief,” remodelled, and “A Good Night’s Rest,” will be played.
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Stanislavs Philopatrian Society was held Dec. 6th W. Roelie, C. Welty, L. Pilliod and L. Goetig delivered declamations.
—A few weeks ago The Scholastic urged that glee-clubs be formed among the students. Acting upon this suggestion, Mr. J. F. Edwards, who we are happy to state has been honored by the election to the Presidency, called a meeting of a number of students to 'form a Choral Union on the 9th of December. On motion of Mr. Edwards it was called the “ Father Gillespie Choral Union.”
Father Golovin was chosen Honorary Director, Prof Paul, Musical Director; and Prof. Edwards, President, of both branches.
The Senior branch elected the following officers:
Vice-President—G. M. Kelly.
Secretary—T. M. O’Leary.
Corresponding Secretary—C. Walters.
Treasurer—G. Otto.
The Junior Branch elected the following officers:
Vice-President—J. F. Beegan.
Recording Secretary—A. K. Schmidt.
Corresponding Secretary—D. J. O’Connell.
Treasurer—T. McNamara.
First Censor—J. A. Lynch.
Second Cencor—TL. W. Quan.
Charge D'Affaires—W. Roelie.
The following were elected honorary members: Rev. Fathers Bigelow and O’Connell, Bro. Marcellinus, and Prof. J. A. Lyons.
Too much praise cannot be awarded to Prof. Edwards for the great interest which he has taken in the formation of the Union, and under the skilful leadership of Prof. Paul we hope to do much in the cause of vocal music the coming year.
152
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS : ■ One year...................Si 00
Single copies (5cts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
' —We were much pleased with the Exhibition given by the St. Caecilia Philomathean and the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Associations on last Thursday evening. The young men acquitted themselves of their parts in good style; their impersonations were excellent; their pronunciation clear and distinct, and the auxiliaries well- employed. The time occupied by the Exhibition was of sufficient length to give all a delightful evening; no one was fatigued, but all well pleased.
—It were well for many authors that they had died before they had tarnished the fair fame of their youth by the follies of age. There have been more authors than one who obtained a great name for what they had written when young and in the prime of life, who yet have called down a heavy judgment upon themselves by those things which they have indited when old. Puffed up with pride on account of the lavish praises bestowed upon them, they have thought to themselves that their dictum was something which the world would not dare gainsay. - Yet they have erred; and the world then seeing their pride and the real extent of their knowledge has placed them on a lower level than that on which they formerly stood. A notable example of this is Dr. Dollinger: famous once for his learning, he is now named only to be pitied. The works of his youth find no friends with non-Catholics, for in them is a strong condemnation of Luther and of all heresy; the works of his old age are laughed at and ridiculed by the Catholics because they see in them only, the vain endeavors of a man puffed up by pride endeavoring to make facts agree with certain opinions of his own.
We have here in the United States an example of how a man may lose a reputation by, the indescretions of age. George Bancroft, the historian, is not a man of the same ability as Dr. Dollinger, yet he had obtained considerable of a reputation as a writer of history. It is true that he always labored under the reputation of having studied a course of German philosophy and of making the facts narrated in his “History of the United States” tally with his philosophy. If the facts to be related sustained his philosophy, all well and good for the facts; but if there was any discrepancy between the facts of history and his philosophy, then the history was to suffer for it.
By another class of persons the voluminous work of Mr. Bancroft was considered as a very entertaining one indeed, but rather a work which was intended to show off how beautifully he could turn a period or introduce his flowers of rhetoric. There was always a straining after effect and a display of fine writing, which was thrust upon the reader even until it became tiresome. Yet Mr. Bancroft had some admirers, who believed that, if not equal to those of Prescott, Hallam, Lingard, Macauley and others who, although their works are not received by every one as cor
rect in all matters, yet are worthy of great praise, his work was a book of much merit and was in reality a history. We greatly fear that these admirers of Mr. Bancroft will be rudely disturbed in their ideas when they take up the 10th Volume of his History. If they have the least idea of what historical writing is they will at once see that instead of .writing history, Mr. Bancroft endeavors to make history the apologist of the “Sects,” and shows himself rather as a bigot than as a historian.
Mr. Bancroft studied in his youth in Germany. He has for a number of years—-well, we cannot say represented the United States at the court of William of Prussia, for we do not believe him to be a representative of any well-bred American. -He has had the reputation of being a toady at the court, and if much of what has been reported of him be true, his reputation is not ill-deserved.
Educated at an infidel university, and the friend of Prince Bismarck, we need not be surprised that he should bear no love for the Popes, the greatest of all rulers; but we certainly should expect that in a history of that country for which the Popes of Rome have never done aught but what was of a friendly nature, there should be nothing concerning Popes; or if there were, that it should not be unfriendly,if not friendly, in its tone. But such is not the case. Mr. Bancroft goes out of his way iu the regular narration of the course of events to introduce a chapter on Germany, Now we, with all our countrymen—aud for that matter the whole world—never suspected that at the time of the Rev; olutionary war much sympathy was ever felt in Prussia and Protestant Germany for struggling Colonies. On , the contrary, we had always supposed that it was from Protestant Germany that the hired soldiers were procured by England to fight against the Colonists. Such, history teljs us, was the case; aud let Mr. Bancroft cover things over as deftly as he can, until he proves all history to be false, we cannot believe him when he would fain have us believe that the king of Prussia was iu secret in sympathy with the “Rebels” of’76.
The fact that some few of the authors of Germany sympathized with the Colonists proves nothing. The Federalists had many friends in England during the late rebellion, yet, would anyone from this fact argue that England was favorable to the cause of the Union? Such was the case with Prussia, and all the special pleadings made by Mr. Bancroft will not avail him in making intelligent men reverse the opinions which they have formed after a careful reading of the history of the War of Independence. The real animus of the author is seen by his unfriendliness towards Spain and France, the only European powers who did the least practical good for our forefathers.
It has become quite the mania for some writers, since the Vatican Council, to discover the great cause of all evils to be the Infallibility of the Pope. About the lime of the meeting of the Council we were told by our enemies that it was a novelty in the Church; since the definition, noue of the scum of Catholicism leave the Church without exclaiming against Infallibility. All must attribute to this dogma the awful catastrophes which happen. Mr. Bancroft must not write without raising up his voice against Infallibility, and must have his word of praise in favor of the Reformation of Luther; but what the Infallibility of the Pope, the Reformation so-called, and the other matters which Mr. Bancroft introduces into his chapter on Germany. and the United States had to do with the War of
THE SCHOLASTIC.
: 153
ludependeuce is mire than we cm understand. There are many men who s< em io lose all control of themselve-whenever the word “Pope” is mentioned, and Mr. Bancroft is one of them.
Mr. Bancroft may be sincere in his estimate of Luther, but the warmth he shows when giving this estimate displays more of bigotry than it does of the impartiality of an historian. He talks for some time about faith alone saving us, and upon the liberty of conscience and the emancipation of men from authority. We have always supposed that authority was necess try for^ liberty and good government. We believe that where there is no authority there can be no real liberty; but Air. Bancroft seems to think that authority and liberty are two contradictories, and that man should be freed from all authority. It may be said that he holds this opinion then only in matters of religion. But if all authority should be discarded in religion, why not in Governments and in society?
Air. Bancroft in his sketch of Geimany and of the Reformation is very reticent of the many disorders brought upon Germa iy and the whole world by the doctrines preached by Luther, which he praises so highly. He says nothmg of the frightful civil wars which the Reformers waged against all who were not of their style of thinking. He says they were struggling for liberty: surely it was a queer way to show their love of liberty of conscience by endeavoring by force to c impel others to think as they did. There is a great deal of rant talked about Luther and the Reformation. Were Luther alive to-day' his present followers would be ashamed of him, and his name would be classed with those of Rochefort, Bradlaugh, and others of that ilk. The Commune, which but a few,years since ca tsed such frightful disorders in France, is but the logical result of the leachings of Luther. The Internationalists are the only persons who follow to their real conclusions the doctrines started by Luther and the Reformation.
We might quarrel with many statements made by Air. Bancroft: as that of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes “ driving out of France a million and a half of ‘ the best ’ ,of the French nation.”*
Surely the inhabitants of France must have been very bad people when “the BE<r”-of them were a set of men who were concocting conspiracies against hgitimate Government, inviting foreigners to invade their country, and who were fomenting civil war. But we have done with Air. Bancroft. His whole chapter on “Germany and the United States ” was written to vent his spleen against the Popes and the Catholic Church, and to make an apologyfir Protestan'ism, which, by opposing Authority, has always opposed Liberty. His attempt has proved him as an historian. His parallel between Prussia and the United States is forced to the extreme; there is no resemblance betwee i the two nations. A man who can wilfully insult his. readers by asking them to see resemblances where none exist, deserves no confidence. To prostitute history to the service of a system of philosophy and the defence of a religion, is an offence which cannot be pardoned. Air. Bancroft will be known in after generations, if his name be known at all, as a man who made an ambitious attempt to write the history of a great people and failed.
* The small capitals are Air. Bancroft’s, not ours.
—We again call the attention of all the students to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. The good accomplished
by this library is very great. Smlents in colleges must have some books for reading. It is no use to argue that if they attend to their U-xt-b inks they will have enough to do. The assertion may be true enough; we-will not dispute it. But the fact that they are enough.to occupy all their time, and making them attend exclusively to their textbooks, are two different things. The students will n ad books, no matter what the prefects may do. lu those colleges where no b inks but those used in class are allowed, the students, without exception, read forbidden books, unknown to the authorities of the institution. And the books read are by no means the very best. They are generally dime novels and books of that sort—worse than trash. The authorities, recognizing the fact that the students will read books not used in class, in spite of all that can be done, established the Lemonnier Circulating Library for the use of the students, in order that the books which they read may be of such a nature as will be useful to the reader.
It is to be hoped that all may patronize the library. But the many good friends of the library living mar Notre Dame can give real practical help to the library by donations of books which, having read themselves, they do not care to preserve.
The books which, of course, are preferred are those treating of history, biography, sciences, etc. If, however, they desire to present novels to the library, those of the nature of “The Betrothed,-” “Grapes and Thorns;” “The House of York,” “Pauliae Seward, etc.” are preferred; because in them there is nothing objectionable. They are well writen; instruct! in may be derived from some of them, and the reader receives no harm from them. We hope that the energetic Librarian will receive all the material help from those who have the means at their disposal, in order that he may be able to furnish the students with an abundance of choice and instruc'ive reading; At the stme lime we would expect all the students to show their appreciation of the Library by giving up the reading of the flash literature of the day and betaking themselves to the Library for books for their leisure hours.	-
—There has long been a custom here of giving a short vacation to the students dur ing the Christmas Holidays. This custom has been judged iijurious to the discipline and to the progress of the students because it interferes with the regular order of the classes, etc. If vacation is given this year it is simply in obedience to an almost irresistible pressure brought to bear upon the authorities from persons without. It is therefore the intention of the officers of the University to limit as much as possible the duration of the vacation given during the Holidays this year. It has consequently been decided that the vacation this year will begin on Wednesday, the 23rd day of December, and will end on the 2nd day of January, 1875. During this vacation we will publish The Scholastic as usual, and we would advise all going home to make arrangements at the Students’ Office to have the paper sent to them. We would also suggest that each person going home should make a Christmas present of five orsix subscriptions to the Editor of the Scholastic on their return. They can easily procure them from their friends.
Classes will be carried on, as much as possible, for all students who may remain at the University during the Holidays.
For the information of all, we ’may state that students who are not back in time—January 2, 1875—will be con-
154
THE SCHOLASTIC.
sidered as delinquents to discipline, unless they give good and valid reasons for their delays.
The parents and guardians of the students will render the University a great favor by not calling away their sons or wards before the time fixed, and by being careful to send them back again in time to enter their classes on the 2nd of January.
Personal.
—Bro. James has been quite sick.
—Prof. Lewis is residing in Philadelphia.
—Judson Fox, of ’71, is now in Ottawa, Ill. '
—Jas. McCarthy, of ’63, is banking in Chicago.
—Rev. Father Coooney arrived home last Saturday.
—Harry Hulbert, of ’71, is in business in Cincinnati.
—Bro. Theodosius has arrived at Galveston, Texas.
—Be sure each week to send us plenty of personals.
—Jno. McAllister, of’73, is now in Nashville, Tenn.
—Frank Egan, of’74, is doing well in Philadelphia.
—Dave Beuist, of’59, is rail roading in Philadelphia
>—Lew. Roth, of’72, keeps a large store in Cincinnati.
—Phil. White, of’74, is reading law in Versailles, Ky.
■—Louis Loser, of ’74, is in a bank at Nashville, Tenn. —Rev. Jno. Lauth is in good health in Austin, Texas.
—J. P. Quill, is in the grocery business in Chicage, Ill.
—George Halborn, of ’63, resides in Philadelphia, Penn.
—Thos. Foley, of ’71, is doing well in Nashville, Tenn.
—F. P. Leffingwell,of’72, is reading law at Lyons, Iowa.
—A. J. Mooney, of’74, is with W. J. Devine in Chicago, Ill.
—Rev. Father Golovin lectured in Chicago on Sunday last.
—D. M. IL Collins, of ’59, is practicing law in Philadelphia.	’
—Bernard Drake, of ’73, is in the insurance business in Chicago.
—Mr. J. A. Lyons went to Chicago last Monday for costumes.	’
—Jas. E. McBride, of ’68, is Judge of the Police Court in Grand Rapids, Mich.
—J. B. Goodhue, of’71, is in the establishment of Staley and Co , St. Louis, Mo.
- —S. Wise, of ’73, is acting as book-keeper in a large establishment in Alton, Ill.
—M. S. Ryan, of 67, is in the lumber business, with his father, in Grand Rapids, Mich.
—Robert Chatterton, of ’71, has an extensive jewelry establishment in Springfield, Ill.
—Will. B. Smith, of’72, resides in Cincinnati, but works a large farm near Dayton, Ohio.
—Jos. Hemann, of ’65, is cashier in the Bank of Hemann and Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Mr. Stace, the County Surveyor, returned on Saturday last from his lengthy surveying trip.
—Charles and George Ruger, are both doing a good business in the grocery line in Lafayette, Ind.
—Bro. Ubaldus surprised the Texans somewhat. They think he comes from where they raise big men.
—R. L. Aiken, of ’69, once on the editorial staff of The Scholastic is doing a fine business in Evansville, Ind.
—Rev. W. O’Mahony, of South Bend, preached the retreat for the young ladies at St. Mary’s in the beginning of the week.
—Anthony Hess, of ’73, is keeping books for his father, in Wheeling, W. Va. We understand that he will be along this way in February next.	.
—We made a mistake in saying that Samuel Wetzler, of *52, was editing the Ohio Eagle. We are sorry to say that
he died a year ago. At the time of his death he was editor of the paper named.
—Mr. L Dubois, of Chicago. Ill., was here on a visit on the 9th Dec, vidting his ward here at school. Mr. Dubois is a great friend of The Scholastic. He tells us that our paper is as anxiously awaited each week by him as most people wait for their morning paper.	.
—Last Friday we had a visit from Rev. J. Brehmer, S. J. The Rev. gentleman is one of the members of the Society of Jesus expelled by BKmark. He was, foresooth, considered “stoat's gefaehrlich," or dangerous to the German Empire. He came to this country about two years ago, and is giving missions with some of his glorious companions. We had the pleasure of‘hearing one of his sermons last year, about Christmas, at New Albany, Indiana, during a mission hegave there. Father Brehmer isa most zealous priest, and an accomplished gentleman. May G<>d bless his missions and may he soon return to the native land from ■which he has been exiled by the most tyrannical fanaticism Father Brehmer comes here from Texas. He preached in Mishawaka last Sunday.
.	Local Items.
—Ice.	-
—“ Hear me."
—Snow again 1	•
—Holidays soon.
—Classes go along nicely,	.
—“ Doughnuts and coffee.”
—They are busy on the Farm.
—R. S. Maas gave Rec. last week.
—“ Sal” received bis diploma last week. ■
—Sunday, Dec 6th, the Infirmary empty.
—The parallel bars are well patronized.
—Now and then a scrub game of hand-ball.
—They are working hard about the new church.
—How wras that for a “grand bounce,” any how?
—Cleaning up in front of the new church. Good!
—The Thespians will give an Exhibition on the 19th.
—“ Have you seen the paintings in the new church ? ”
—Who polished all those turkey-bones on Tuesday? Eh! -
—“ Hear me! The old man can’t talk’s loud’s he used to!”	'
—“Tucker” was the dance on Tuesday nigbt. Lots o’ fun.
—Mr.' Ruddiman has some industrious students in his Class.
—There is plenty of wood just east of the Scholastic Office.
—Plenty of work in the Ave Maria and Scholastic Office.
—The Scholastic rooms are being frescoed with’white-wash.
—Study hard and you will enjoy the Holidays more lustiiy.	•
—The daily mails to and from Notre Dame are by no means small.	.
—“ First it blew, and then it snew, then it thew, and then it friz.”	,
—Just a little ice on the L akes. When win we have good skating?
—The Station House on the M. C. R. R. at St. Mary’s has been taken down.
—The meal-car tumbled over on the 8th; only three dishes broken though.	■
—The ceremonies on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception were very grand.
—A number of excellent games of hand-ball were played on the Seniors’ alley on the 6<h.
—Our friend P. W. Talbot has gone into the grocery business in Lowell, and—and—but advertise, Peter I
THE SCHOLASTIC*
155
—Cannot some of those young men whose voices are so melodious through the week come oht iu a.public Exhibition?
—Eddie Maley has been beecherizing Thu Scholastic Office, for which he h.is our sincere thanks. Whitewash is a good thing in its place.	-
-	—Storm houses have been erected at the doors of the
Junior Recreation Hall to keep out the cold “ when the stormy winds do blow.”
—When you write in autograph books be sure you do not write notes for book-keeping class. We have seen several such mistakes.
—Mr. Ruddiman, the operator is putting up a new wire which is to connect his room iu the College with that of Bro. Celestine in the Infirmary building.
—Bro. Jeremiah earned the thanks of the employees of The Scholastic Office by the acceptable lunch which he brought over on the night of the 9ch.
—B. J. Baci, lately sent a sum of money to the Juniors to be invested in a grand treat. His wish was complied with and the “ Junes’* had a “high toned." affair.
The following conversation was overheard a few days ago, Collegiate.- “I wonder what makes it so still in our department?” Companion: “Why, don’t you sec that the belles are all dumb.”
—Bro. Simon is now at work on the north shore of the / lower lake making an excellent walk the whole length of i the Scholasticate grounds. When completed the Lower lake will have a much more beautiful appearance.
—It is a real pleasure to go into the Junior play-hall during the recreations. No wonder there are so few pale faces among the boys. It may be truly said that they believe in the old adage “ Work when you work, and play when you play.”
—The Exhibition on the night of the 10th was grand. We will have a full report of it in our next issue. It was the first Exhibition of the year. We hope to have many more before the winter is over and to have them as well conducted as that on the 10th.
—The Botanical Gardens will in a few years be the most delightful place about Notre Dame. The work which Bro. Simon has done on the grounds is almost enormous, and it is beginning to show what Father Carrier intended when he undertook to make the garden.
—Bro. August is the most reliable weather prophet we know of. His predictions always come true. Last week he told a number of days before what would be the state of the weather, and when the day arrived it proved the truth of his prediction. Ryan the weather prophet would be nothing, were he still alive; to Bro. August.
—We publish the following item from an exchange to show what is done in Boston by Catholics: Rev. Father Fulton, S. J., Preaident of Boston College, writes to the Pilot to state “that an anonymous benefactor has contributed the sum of one thousand dollars to pay for the College improvements now iu progress. Though the modesty of the giver will prevent me from mentioning his name for public honor, I am at least allowed to proclaim his gift for public imitation.”	'
—The Rev. P J. Golovin, Vice-President of the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, lectured last evening in St. James’ Church, on Prairie Avenue, near Twenty-sixth street As the lecture was for the benefit of the poor of the parisn the lecturer sek cted for his subject “ Charity as a Virtue,” and it proved to be touchingly appropriate for the occasion. The lecture was replete with anecdotes, some new and some old. and all gaihering additional beauty as well as strength and impressivi ness from the plain unadorned manner in which the lecture was delivered.—Chicago Tribune of Dec. 1th.
—The following dialogue took place between two of our intelligent Minims last Tuesday, as they issued from the refectory, where they had been trying their fortune in endeavoring to procure a little of the “staff of life ” .-
Tommy—“ I wish that I were on one of the far-off islands of the Pacific to day! ” Eddie—“ Gosh! what would you be uoing away out there?” T.—“ Why, to see the transit of Venus to be sure.” E.—“ Why, can’t you see it just as
well here ? ” T.—“ Pshaw! we are in bed, and the sun sets too long before that takes place.” E —“ Well now, Tommy, what is this transit of Venus I bear those big Seniors talk so much about?” T.—“There! I thought that yon did not know what you were talking about; and, as I always like to expatiate on astronomical phenomena, I will explain to you briefly the cause that has thrown the world of astronomers into such a fever of late. J up., musing within himself one night how to get up a little excitement, determined on the following wise plan: He sent word to Sol., asking him to challenge Venus to contend with him (Sol) in a race ‘for the pie.’ Venus accepted the-challenge, and it is supposed that when old S >1. is near the goal, he slackens his pace and Venus passes him and is piteously rewarded.”
—A friend of ours lately received a box from home. Now, a box from home generally means something good, and we never saw anyone receive a box without a beam of joy spreading itself over the whole countenance of the lucky receiver; so it was with our triend. He took that box into his arms and carried it off to break the lid. Now, our friend has an exceedingly sweet tooth, and when on opening the lid he beheld a fine collection of candies his legs instinctively began a waltz of joy. He rammed his hands down into the box to see what was beneath, when —what was his chagrin to find an old plug hat, which might have been in style in our grandfather’s days, a daybook, a pocket-book, much the worse for wear, a loaf of stale bread, an old brass watch, and a knife so old and rusty that it is supp< s.-d that Columbus brought it over with him when he discovered America. And when our friend found that these were all that the box contained, he didn’t say any “ cuss ” words—oh no! our friend is a religious man, but if such had not been the case we are afraid that another name would be on the list of expelled, for his little “cusses” bubbled up his throat considerably, and it was as much as he could do to keep them down. Then he kicked that box out of the room and sat down and wished that the fellow who imposed on his unsuspecting innocence was within his reach, or that a few stray hornets would build their nest during tiie week in the -seat of his Sunday-go-to-meeiing unmentionables. Until something terrible happens to the joker our friend will never be satisfied.
S----, La.. Nov. 27,1874.
Rnv. and Dear Father Granger :—The “ Morning Star” of the 22nd inst was the first to bear me the sorrowful itneliLencc of the death of dear, dear Father Gillespie. To-day I receive the “.due Maria" of the 2Sth, clad in mourning and moist with tears for him whom you and I, and all who knew him well, esteemed and loved so dearly. I hasten in spirit to your feet, dear Father (where he and I have both so often knelt in penitence to ask forgiveness of our God), to mingle my heart’s sorrow with the sorrow of those who 1 know are yet weeping'o’er his grave. You, perhaps, better than any, know how dearly we loved each other in holier days gone by, and though I strayed from him and you, I have loved him on tbrongb all our years of separation. It pains me the more that I did not even know of his long and painful illness, not having noticed the mention of it'in the “ Ave Maria." I have had but few. few ties on earth, and of them the tie of early years that bound me to him was first of the few, and strongest. Oh! I trust his great sufferings on earth have fitted him for-heaven, that he may pray for us tnerc.
For the past three or four years, I have confidently anticipated a visit at each Commencement to my loved old home, and looked forward to my meeting again and being with you and him as the utmost pleasure of my visit. I will miss him, now, when I come, as come I will if God spares me. and my pleasure will be lessened; yet I hope for and crave the sad consolation of kneeling by his grave and shedding upon it and breathing over the tributes of fraternal love—my prayers and tears.
In him, a star of Notre Dame has set—one of her brightest lights gone out—one of her best loved, loveliest and most loving sons is lost! But oh! that star has set on earth to rise in heaven ; that light gone out, to shine again where all is light; that son is lost t o Notre Dame, to be found and gained among her many sons with God. Oh, happy home, to raise so many sons for God ! Oh, happy school, whose faithful students graduate in Heaven ! Oh, cruel, cruel vanity and fate, that robbed me of my birthright there! for there I was born again to God! Voluntas Dei—fiat.
Dear Father, my heart is too full to write yon more, and yet too full to stop,—so much in it to say to you, and yet too much to speak at all. His death stirs up the memory of every moment I passed with him, at the College, at the Novitiate, in the
Ji
156
THE SCHOLASTIC.
chapel, in choir, at the altar— everywhere for years our voices, prayers and pleasures mingled. His death awakens memories that I thought were de<vl. opens wounds I fondly hoped were healed, and brings me back the boyhood years, the happy, fleets ing hours, when tirst I knew him and loved him with all my boyhood’s love—that was many years ago-but the Howers of the heart that blossomed then, have never tully faded away, the chill of separation and the frost of years have withered them, but the leaves and odors still are there, to be revived aud freshened by the dews of memory and the tears of grief.
Please tell Mother Angela and Mrs. Phelan that I have read of bis death and sufferings, and wept. I pray for him and I pray to him. His sweet Mother in heaven, whom I know he ioved and served sb tenderly and well, will never let him be lost, nor even let him linger out of Hearten.
Pray for me, dear Father, and believe me, as ever
.	-	Your humble child—	T. F.
What a credit to the heart of the young lawyer who penned this beautiful letter!
—The following are, for the week ending Dec. 9th, the Subscribers to the Letnonnier Memorial Chapel Fund.
Prof. A. J. Stace, Notre Dame, Ind................... §25	00
“ T. A. O’Mahony, Notre Dame, hid................... 10	00
J. Clarke, Esq., Chicago, Illinois.................... 25	00
Rev. D. Tighe, Chicago, Illinois,..................... 20	00
blaster J. Golsen, Chicago, Illinois................... 3	00
“ E. L. Ratigan. Detroit, Michigan,................. 1	50
“ J. Matthews, Kenton. Ohio,......................... 150
“ - T. J. Murphy, Ravenna, Ohio,...'................ 1	5o
“ E. G. Graves, San Antonio, Texas,................. 2	00
Ten Little Minims, Notre Dame, Ind,.................... 8	50
—On December Sth, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the white, veil was received by a number of young ladies, and Profession was made by aboit the same number. The ceremony took place at 2 o'clock p. m., i. the Convent Chapel of Hie Sisters of Holy' Cro-s at Noire Dame, Ind.; the Very Rev. E Sorin, Superior Q-neral of the Congregation of the Holy Cioss officiated. assisted by Very Rev. A. Granger, Rev. P. P. Coouex, and others.
The following are the names of those w.io received the white veil: Misses Julia Lapointe (Ss’er M. of St. Re-migia), Catherine Duffy (Sister M. of St. Reynaldo) Angela Dederich (Sister M. of St. Enimia). Margaret Irman (S^ter M. of St. Berlinda). Mary Ninnig (Sister M. of St. Cosm t'), Margaret Brown (Sister M. of St. Bertina), Ehzibeth Rohn (Sister M. of St. Sylvina), Lucy Dallv (Si'ter M. of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross), Sarah Bonne (Si'ter M. of St. Germaine), Mary Ann Feeney (S st er M. of St. Gau-deutia), Catherine Devine (Sister M. of St. Tnrasilla), Hannah O'Regan (Sister M. of St. Cesaria).
The the names of those who tmde their Profession on the same day: Sis’er M. of the Sacred Heart (Miss Margaret A. Kelly), Sister M. of the Immaculate Heart (Miss Anna Doyle), Sister M. of Calvary (Mi.-s Teresa Polmiei), Sister of the Holy Family (Miss Emilia Young), Sister M. of the Infant Jesus (Miss Mary E. Carty), Sis'er M. ot St.,Denise (Miss Anna Tormey). Sister M. of the Epiphany (Catherine Campbell), Sister M. Jane of the Angels (Miss Mary Murphy), Sister M. of St. Lioba (Miss Margaret Flynn), Sister M. Aimee de Je,us (MLs Edith Dechaine).
Art Notes.
—Mr. Edwards has a very fine collection of old coins.
^A visit to the Studio will reward any person who has a taste for Art.
—Prof. Gregor! has executed an excellent miniature of Father Lemounier for Mr. Edwards.
—Mr. Almanraeder is, we learn, about to cast a fine statue of Our Lady of Lourdes for the new church.
—Brother Albert now has a number of the pictures recently' brought from Rome on Exhibition in the Siudio
—Since the scaffolding has been taken down in the new church, and the pictures on the ceiling can be seen from the floor, every visitor is delighted with the paintings.
—The portrait of the late Rev. Father Lemonnier has been hung in the College parlor where it is admired by all who have seen it. The expression of the countenance is excellent and the artistic beauty of the picture is of the highest order.
.	Music? 1 Items.	.
—The Arion Club have their rehearsals regularly
—The Mendelssohn Club had a number of interesting meetings i his pist week.
—The music in the church on the Feast of the Immac* ulate Conception was grand.
—The Band has had Mozart’s Gloria arranged for it. We hope soon to hear it.
—We hope to hear the Quartette Club more frequently at our Exhibitions. The better the .music, the better the Exhibition.
—The Father Gillespie Choral Union was organized on the 6th, with Prof Paul as Director. For further notice of it see Society’ Notes.
—The Orchestra delighted everyone at the Exhibition on the 10th. A more extensive notice of the music of the Exhibition will appear in our next number.
' Aiiiticnal Arrivals.
Joseph Log'don,..........Shawneetown, Illinois.
Charles H. Wisner,.......Chicago, Illinois.
William D. Armstrong,....Wheeling, West Va.
Edward B. Swygart,.......South Bend, Indiana.
M. M. Clarke,.. .........Brownson, Michigan.
Boll of Hcaor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Armstrong, V. B-.ica, F. Brady. J. Berringer, J. Brown, F. Beards, R. Barrett, T. Culliton, L. Chamberlain, J, Caren, J. Crummey. G. Crummey. H. Cassidy. J. Cullen. T. Carroll, W. Dechant, W. Doherty, F. Devoto, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, W. Fullertori; J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, T. Grier, J. Gillen, T. Gallagher, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman. F Hebard, J. Ingram, J. Kennedy, 8. Kennedy, J. Kopb, M. Keeler, J Kelly, G Kelly, A. Lonstorf, J Larkin, P. Lawrence. J. Logsdon, G. M.-Nuhy, J. Marks., E McPharlin, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavm, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. .McLaughlin, F. Miller. J. McManus, H. Marble, Peter Matti-more, Patrick Matiimore, E. Maas, J. Ney. T. O’Leary, J. Obert, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac. C. Robertson, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Sehlink. F. Studebaker, P. Shaul, G. Summers, E. Siebert, F. Scrafford, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, L. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, J. Beegan, A. Byrne, A. Bersck, G. Budd, A Burger, J. W. Connolly, A. Crunkilton, .J. Crummey, E. Courtney, J. Colton, J. Dore. J. Delvecchio, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick. J. French, J. T. Foley, L. Goetig, J. M Green. J. Gorily, G. J Gross, F. H. Goldsberry, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Giamling, C Greenleaf, F. Hoffman, J. Handtand, C. Hake, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, H. Kbrty, F. Kiemer, C. V. Larkin, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, G. J. Lonstorf, J. Lambin,' J. Lyneb, P. McBride, V. McKinnon, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, A. Mosser, D. Nelson, J. Nelson, D. J. O’Connell, J. D. O'Haia, C. R. Post, L. Piliiod, W. J. Roelie,-F. Raymond, L. Smith, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T, J. Solon. A Schmidt, T. Summers, P. Sehnurrer, N. Vanamee, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood.	______ •
.	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis McGrath, Tommie Hooely, Samuel Goldsberry, M McAuliffe, Eddie Raymond, John O’Meara, Francis Carlin, C. Campau, Alexis Campau. Sylvester Bushey, Charlie Bushey, Louis Goldsmith. Eddie Joice Dubois, Clement Moody, Harry Ordway, Willie Van Pelt, Hugh Colton.	.
Note.—A. Beuelier was omitted by mistake in last week’s roll of honor.	■
Class Honors. .
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10..
COMMERCIAL course.
Senior Class—G. Roulhac, J. Girard, T, Solon, T. C. Logan, S. Studebaker, P. H. Skahill, J.Culliton, G. McNulty, G.Rudge, H. H. Hunt, C. W. Welty, A. Crunkilton, F. Frazee, L. P.
• Best, G. Gross, M. Burge, M, McCormack, J. C. Hackett, M. J, Murphy, E, Maas.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
15?"
Junior Class—T. D. O’Mahnny, V. Baca, J. F. Larkin, A. O’Brien, F. Montgomery, M. Euan, P. Shaul, F. G. Brady, F. Wi hehn, J. Thornton, H. McGuire, L Ever,-, J. M. Greene, J. Griffith, F. E. Fuxen, J. Dore, H. Korty, C. Hake, T. O’Leary, E. F. S. Seibert.	.	'
.Minim Department—Eddie Raymond, Colly Clarke, Michael McAulitfe, Frannis Carlin, Oito Liudhenr, John Duffield, L<*e J. Frazee, Oscar Bel), Albert Bushey, Willie Lindsey, Louis Goldsmith, Francis Campau, Tommie Hooley, Willie Cash, Peter D. Nelson.	,
List of Excellence -
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during live consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director of Studies.]
3rd Jr. Arithmetic Class—F. H. Buckman. 1st French Class—G. Gross. 1st Composition Class—J. Soule. 2nd Jr Arithmetic Class—W. Byrne.	.
SAINT MOY’S ACADEMY.
ART. NOTES. _
—On Tuesday, the 1st inst. the young ladies enjoyed a beautilul Lecture on Art.
—An exquisite design for a lace head dress is just fin. ished. So exquisite, in tact, that our readers must not expect to see the lace for months to come
■ —The new screens in the Studio n\e admired by everybody: and thoroughly-appreciated by those who are ben efited by them.
—A most laudable emulation has been excited among the Drawing and Painting pupils by the raising of the grade They are anxious to get. into a higher class. We hope to see this emulation contagious. ■
—The pupils at Sr. Mary’s have not forgotten the delightful lecture upon Riphael,given io them hy Mrs. Dag gett last Summer. The Grammar of Painting will have a personal interest for al. who h aid the lecture.
—The accomplished translator of Cbarb s Blane’s Gram mar of Painting and Engraving, Mrs. Ka e Newell Daggett, has pr. seated a copy of her valuable work to the Studio Library at St. Mary’s Academy. The book has been'elegantly brought outby Hurd& Houghton; and the translator has secured for it.the pla'es that illustrated th> original French work. It satisfies the eye as a woik upon art should do. To the one who reads a.id studies it care fully it will be found an invaluable aid in the art of instructing, as it abounds in sentences which have all thi-cifhciseness of rules without their dry formality. Extmples from the great masters are freely given, and the pages have that peculiar charm for the reader whi?h belongs to a book written and translated with that enthusiasm which the subject merits.
‘	•	LOCALS.	-
—Two Jesuit priests from the land of Bismarck called at St. Mary’s on Thursday.	'
—The supper in the Infirmary, on Thursday, was prepared by four very industrious young ladies. Hot biscuits and fried apples were on the bill of fare. Some of the flour wass cattered about..
—The young ladies Retreat commenced on Friday evening, and was preached by Rev. Wm. O’Mahoney, C. S. C. The sermons were highly appreciated by all who listiried to them. Instructive, earnest, an ! to the point, they made an impression long to be remembered.
—At the close of the R treat, on the Festival of the Immaculate Conception, an address expressive of gratitude was tendered to Rev. Father O’M»ih»ney by the young ladies who made the Exercises. The regular routine of Class was continued during the Retreat.
'—The annual election of the Children of Mary was held in the Chaplain’s residence on-the evening of the Im maculate Conceptio i; Verv Rev. Father Superior General presiding.. The result, is as follows :
Dire tress—Mother Mary of St. Charles Borromo. President—Miss Rose Mary Spier.
Vice-President—LizzieBradtbrd. .
Secretary—Margaret Walker.
Treasurer—Anna T. Clark.
Mistress of Ceremonies—Rose Mary Green.	.	-
The following are the names of the young ladies received as Childeren of Mary: Misses Katie Joyce, Lizzie Bradford, Annie Curtin, Mary Shields, Lulu Kelly, Jennie Bennett and Ella O’Connor.
The-asperants were as follows: Misses Ada Byrnes,' Amelia Dilger. Fannie Dilger, Bertha Golsen, Carrie Maigray, Sadie WaLh. Marv Dunbar, Mary Riley, Mary Brady, Maggie Quill, Rose Klar, Maggie Jackson, Sarah Moran and Mary M< Kay.
—Mi'ses Mary Hughes and Carrie Hughes, were received into the Sodality of the Holy Angels, and the following little girls were accepted as aspirams: Misses Nellie McGrath, Anna McGrath, Margaret Bells, Clara Gates, Louisa Hutchinson, Margaret Hoffman and Rose Goldsberry.
TABLET OF HONOR, FOR THE WEEK ENDING DECEMEER 5, 1874.	-
For Politeness Neatness, Order, Amiability. Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled :
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker. A. Curtin. M. Wicker E Haggerty. L Ritchie, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R Green. A Smith.
Kt Sr Class—Mis* s G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning. M. Rtlev. K Joyce, E Dennehei, H. Foote, A. St. Clair. J Siim*m. L. Arnold, L Bradford. M. Johnson.
2nd Sr. Class—Mieses A O'Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Wvman. J McGuire. E. York. A. Dilger. F. Dilsrer. F. DeL-mg, J.. Benm-rr, J. Nunning, E. Dougherty, L. Trnsley, M. Faxon, B. Wade. M Jnlim-.
3bd Sr Class—Misses L Kelly. M. Dunbar. S. Harris, C. Woodward, L Johnson. M. Brady, P. G<ynor. R. Canoil, M. WiNh. L. H-uroten, E Quinlan. J. Kreigh. A. -Bvrnes. R Klarr. M. Rob rts, M. Bryi-on, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K Spencer.
1st Prep. Class—MLses E. O’Connor, E. Thompson, M. I’hompso.i. C. Morgan, M. Peqmlte. N. McAuliffe, A. Duncan, M. Shiel. R. Greenleaf, E Mann, M. Quill, S. Hole, H. Rus-ell, E. Bowman, S. Moran. •
2nd Prep. Class—Misses' J. Riopvlle. H. Parks, S. -Ede>, E E les. I E les, S. Cunnimrhain. L Mead. E. Cody, M. McKav. N. McFarlane. B. Turnbull, L. .Moran, A. Smith, S Reismg, U. West, M. A ithony.
3rd Prep Class—Mi<si s C. Maiarey, F Reppetan, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, A. Lehmm, M. Railton.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH LESSONS.'
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curnn, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Hiirgerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney. R. Green, A. Smith.
1st Sr. Cliss—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. R ley, E. D-mnehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, E. Sweeney.
- 2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritcnie, L Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger. F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E.. Dousherry, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius.
3rd Sr Class—Misses L. Kelly, M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woo (ward, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, M. Brady, P. Gaynor, L. Henroten, J. Kreigh, R. Clarr, A, Byrnes. B. Spencer, K. Spencer. N. My han.	.
1st Prep Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson, E Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poqu'-tte, C. Thayer, A. ■ Duncan. M. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. 'Mann, M. Quill, S. Hole, EI. Rnss-ll, E Bowman, J. Stough, A. Sweeney. S Moran, M. Pritchard.	’
2nd Prep Class—Mb-ses H. Parks, S. Edes. I. Edes, E Edes, 8. Ciinnii-gham, L..Meade, E. Cody, N. McFarlane, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, A. Smith, S. Reising, C. West, M. Anthony, J. Brown, S. Cash.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, E. Reppetan, H. Lehman, L. Brownbridge.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses C. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey, H. Huffman.
1st Jr Class—Misses K. Hudson, J. Corrigan, A. McGrath. M. Hughes, C. Hughes.
2nd Jr. Class—Misses J. Keedy, R. Goldsbery, Y. Mier, L. Sclinurrer.	■
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
The notes for the past month, showing the progress of each young lady being on the Bulle’ius, we shall only mention this week a few of those whose diligent practice of Scales, and other exercises, have given satisfaction to their respective teachers: M<sses R. Spier, E. Quinlan, N. Foote, A. Smith, J. Nunning. R. Green, R. Greenleaf, E. O'Connor, K. Hutchinson, B. Wilson, A. Harris, L, Bradford, L. Wyman, S. Harris, M. Julius, L. W> st, J. Kearney, L and M. Johnson, F. Dilger, A. Cullen, L. Brownbridge, L. Ritchie. L. Walsh, I. Fisk, M. Piitchanl, A. Bvrnes, E. Simpson, M. Kirchner, A Dilner, M. Redfield, E. Lappin, E. McDougall, F. DeLong. M. Doily, F. R- ppi-tan, S. Edes, I. Edes, C. Tnaver, S. Hole, E. Cody, E. Bowman, C. Woodward, M. Siler, B Siler, M. Cravens', A. Curtin, N. McAuliffe, C, Morgan, M. A. Roberts, A. Duncan, A. Smith, L. McKinnon, E Dennehey, M. Eaxon, E. Lange, J. Corrigan, H. Parks, A. McGrath.
“ ROLL OF HONOR.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. Carlin, M. O’Connor, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, M. P.ritcbard, A. Pool, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Culler., M. Siler, B Siler. L McKinnon, M. Reynolds, A Allen, M. Jackson, J. Brown, C. Yates, I. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey. F. Middleton, M Hogan, L. Hutch-ins>»<i, L. Vincent, L Walsh, J. McDougall, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E L ippin, 0. Orr. S. Cash, E. McDougall, K. Hudson, J. Corrigan, M. Bell and M. Derby.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses I. Mann, N. Mann, A. Ewing, N. McGrath, A. McGrath, M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson, R. Goldsbery, Y. Mier, L and A. Schnurrer. -
—If, as Emerson says, “in the woods we return to reason and faith,” what'intelligent ^ind believing mortals they must be who haven’t got out of them yet, and what educational institutions lumbermen’s cimps!
—The Daily Tokionichunchi Schinibim is rapidly displacing the other papers ofYeddo, and has a circulation of 800. Now is the time to subscribe.
—A Council Bluffs lawver ate peanuts in court and was fim-d §10 f *r cont mpt. Tire Judge remarked that he was determined to uphold the maj-s'y of the law if it killed the entire peanut crop of the South.
FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: §1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for §5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth', which is 12x18 feet.
Address, Very Rev. E. Sorin, nov 7-tf.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
^“Orders expeditiously attended to.'
Office with M. Stover, Room 32, over Wills & Stems, Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.	.
'	nov 28-^tf.
CARPENTER HATTER I
105 MICHIGAN St. -	-	- SOUTH BEND,
dec 5-%tf.	,
THE BOND HOUSE, Niles, -	-	_	_	_ Michigan.
A. McKlT, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house nov 28-H tf.
THE SUN ~
WEEKLY AND DAILY FOR 1875.
The approach of the Presidential election gives unusual importance to the cents and developmcts of 1875. We shall endeavor to describe them fully, faithfully, and fearlessly; ’
THE WEEKLY SUN has now attained a circulation of over seventy thousand copies. Its readers are found in every State and Territory, and its quality is well known to the public. We shall not only endeavor to Keep it fully up to the old standard, but to improve and add to its Variety and power.
THE WEEKLY SUN will continue to be a thorough newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it, condensed when unimportant, at full length when of moment, and always, we trust, treated in a clear, interesting and instructive manner.
It is our aim to make the WEEKLYSUN the best family newspaper in the world. It will be full of entertaining aud appropriate reading of every sort,but will print nothing to offend the most scrupulous and delicate taste. It will always contain themostinteresting stories and romances of rhe day, carefully selected and legibly printed. -
The A": icultural Department is a prominent feature in the WEEKLY SUN, and its articles will always be found fresh and useful to the farmer.
The number of men independent in politics is increasing, and the WEEKLY SUN is theirpaper especially. It belongs to no party, and obeys no dictalion, coniending for principle, and for the election of the best men. It exposes the corruption that disgraces the country and threatens the overthrow of republican institutions. It has no fear of knaves, and seeks no favors from their supporters.
The markets of every kind and the fashions ate regularly reported in its column-.
„ Tae price of the WEEKLY SUN is one dollar a year for a sheet of eight pages, and fifty-six columns. As this barely pays the expenses of tne paper and printing, we are not able to make any discount or allow any premium to friends who may make special efforts to extend its circulation.- Under the new law, which requires payment of postage iu advance, one dollar a year, with twenty cents the cost of prepaid postage added, is the rate of subscription. It is not necessary to get up a club in order to have the WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Anyone who seuds one dollar and twenty cents will get the paper post-paid for a year.
We have no travelling agents.	dec 12-6t.
THE "WEEK.EY S<JN,-Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only $1.2Oayear, postage prepaid. No discounts from this rate.
THE DAILY SUN.—A large four-page newspaper of tweenry-eight columns. 1'aily circulation over 120,000. All the news for 2 cents. Subscription,postage prepaid, 55 cents a month, or 6.50 a year. To clubs of IO or over, a discount of 20 per cent.
Address, “TidLE SUN,” New York city.

THE SCHOLASTIC.3
tot-
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL .
Particularly Devoted to ths Holy Mother of God.
. Published Weekly at	-
NOTRE DAMS, INDIANA.
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PITTS IX,
And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the .New World for the interests ot the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians. but solely to such as love the Mother ot Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the laud; commending,itself not only to the various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such as the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— but tothe whole community.
Subscribers for one year and upwards will share in the benefit of
Mass once a month..	.	.	’
a Life Subscriptions may be .paid, at once, or in four installments within the space of one year......'
Terms:
One Year, -----	-	-	-	-	-	§3 00
Two Years, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 0:)
Five Years, -	-	-	- -	-	-	-	10 00
Life Subscription, -	-	-	-	-	-	- x 20 0U
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books of Periodicals, for notice, etc , should be addressed to
Editor of “AYE NARIA,’’
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JIOTRE pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy • ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of south Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages •to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native g-andeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activi.y and energj’. while~the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, IncLiansv.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their 1 stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7 8m /
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
O TV FT ID NT FACTORY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	.	35c.
Caramels -	-	-	-	. -	- 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately Low Prices to YVIiole--	sale Cash Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
. ’	•	’	o24-tf
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE! -----------o—
M. LIVINGSTON & CO.,
04= Micliigan St., Son 111 Bend, Ind^
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURKTISEmNIG- GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything yen want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.
• >ur Full DRESS SUIT.-. show an amount of pains-takine scaacely ever .-cen in Ready- sade <t Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than .he same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scan e but Clotliinjr is Clieajp. If you don’t believe it, drop in anu see our Goods and Prices.
Onr Nlci-cliant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis. Cassini eres and Vestings, and we turn out ihe best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
HORTON & PALMER,
DEALERS IX
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings,
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, ’
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
---o--
Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and at the lowest prices. •	.
No. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
Jio24-tf
’ JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Coontey's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.'
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the
University, members .of the Col- ■ lege Societies, etc., etc.,	•
Which, he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
’	. O24-U
160
THE SCHOLASTIC.
BOOTS & SHOES.
TO THE STUDENTS!
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—WE INVITE—	’
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK, selected with great care	'
—AND—	,
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
WE FEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING .	—THAT—	•
FROM OUR FACILITIES	•
—AND—
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Clean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with a call.	Respectfully,
D. H. BAKER, & Bro.,
1OO Michigan Street, o24-2m	South Bend, Indiana.
L. S. & M. SERAIL WAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	* ‘
GOING EAST.
2 35 a. x. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 39; Cleveland, 2.35 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. x (No. 2), Mail, overMa^n Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. m. ; Cleveland, in 20
12.27 a x. (No. 4), special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. sr.; Buffalo 4.05 a m.
9.11 p. x. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland,-7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. sr.
7.52 F. sr. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.39 a. x„ Cleveland 7.05 a sr., Buffalo 1’10 P. sr.
3.55 p st. [No.70], Local Freight.	- '
.	GOING WEST.
3.20 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. st.
2.50 a. x (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40;
-	Chicago, 8 00 a. sr.
5.5 5 p- m. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives a: Laporte, 6 55: Chicago, 9.10 p. sr.
2.51 p. sr. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.15; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 . a. x , Chicago 11.10.
730 a. x. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.	•
S.	J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’T
XtOVISVIIaZtE N. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.H.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albanyand Salem Crossing, as follows:
GOINGNORTff.	GOINGSOUTN.
Pass ............7 29 p m. I Pass .........8.23	p.k
Freight..........2.48	a.	m.	|	Freight ....10.47	a m.
Freight..........8.57 P. x. | Freight.'....4.45	a.m.
Pass.............9.24 a. m. | Pass........11.23	a.x.
•	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Rail-
road leave Niles as follows:	-
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, -	-	-	-	-	-	•	-	-	12.45 a.m
Mail. - --	--	--	-- --	9.io a.m
Day Express, ----------	12.12 a.m
Accommodation,	-	--	-	-	--	-- 7.35 p.m
Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	8.55 p.m.
Way Freight, ---------	8.00 a.m
TRAINS WESTWARD.
Evening-Express,	-	--	.	-	-	-	-	2.35 a.m
Pacific Express,	-	--	--	--	--	.4.40 a.m
Accommodation,	-	--	--	--	--	6.25	a.m
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.57 p.m
Day Express -	--	--	--	--	-	4.35	p.m
Way Freight ---------	-	1.45 p.m
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles -------	-	9.15 p.m
Three Rivers Accommodation -	-	-	-	-	-	- 7.40 p.m
Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	-- 9.0u p.m
Way Freight -	-	-	--	--	--	-	10.30 a.m
WESTWABD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles ... -	- 6.05 a.m
Mail -	-	-	-	-	-	---	-	- • -	-	3.45 p.m
Pacific Express - - -	-	-- -	-	- • -	-	- 5.05 a.m
Way Freight-	5.05 p.m
' SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains leaAe South Bend—8 15 a m. 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 am, 11.40 am, 3,30 p m, 7.00 p in
Leave Niles—6.30 a m, 9.20 a m, 12.45 p m, 4.35 p m.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 a m. 9 55 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 a m, 7.00 p m.
“	“ Arrive at Niles—9.30 a m, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.59 am, 1.15pm, 5.05pm.
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a m, 3.05 p m. 6.35 p m. •
Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.3) a m, 5.30 p m	Leave—9.05 a m, 7.05 p m.
H. E. SARGENT. Gen'l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois. ' S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, AgentNotreDame
Chicago Alton and Sr. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
•9:30 a.m.
♦8:00 p.m.
•9:45 a.m.
•4:30 p.m
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
■ +6:30 p.m. *4:30 .m,
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via
Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington
Express. (Western Division) Joliet Accommodation, St. Louis and Springfield Night
Express, via Main Line, _
St.Louis and Springfield Lightning '
Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division
$9:00 p.m. 57:15 a.m.
$9:45p.m.. §7:15 a.m
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.'	.	.	_	_
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex’
cept Saturday. ] Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and
a Saturday Night Train.	'
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PCIVSTLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK BAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Ttree daily Express Trains, with. Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Eew York without Change.	■
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p.m. 1 Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p.m. “	“	6.41am.*
3rd train “	' “	9.00. p. m. |	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South,- and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	-
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M'. BOYD, Jb., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phieiphia.	*
F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass’. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day. •	-
388MB