Notre Dame Scholastic.
JDisce quasi semper vic turns; vivo quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 15, 1878,
Number 42.
One of Life’s Pictures.
The doors were thrown open wide— They entered one and all,
Where paintings, hung in golden frames, Adorned the noble hall.
And scenes of misery would cause A sudden tear to start,
Whene’er the artist’s hand had touched '
Sealed fountains of the heart.	_
Yet God had sketched a picture there,
That no man paused to see, A beggar girl beside the steps, In life’s own misery.
The tear-stains dimmed the sunken cheeks;
Well had she learned to weep,— The open hand was still outstretched, She begged e’en in her sleep!	.
Dream on, poor child, ah soon enough
To restless life you will
Awake, and find that open hand
Empty as ever still.
And yet, ’tis always thus in life, For man will ever feel
Compassion for imagined wrong, The ideal, not the real.
Ah, charity is easy taught, Painters may paint, and those Historians of the human heart
May sing of human woes,
But who will practice ? Who will raise
The Lazarus ’—Few, I trow,—
But many, many preach or write— ' Even as I do now.
E. J. M.
Conrad von Bolanden.
Seldom has a modern author contributed more to oppose successfully the errors of the day than Conrad von Bolanden. His real name is Bischoff. His writings, generally set forth in the shape of pleasing romances, have made him the favorite Catholic author of Germany. Like an inspired prophet of old, hia soul-stirring words go directly to the heart and mind of the people, and, to use the language of one of his opponents, “ he does not write with ink but with fire and flames, urging the Ultramontane host to stubborn resistance.” This author’s rare vigor has its foundation in the directness of his perceptions, and his sway over the human mind in the art of reproducing in true colors from everyday life the results of his own experience.
The main tendency of his works is to oppose the infidel and pernicious doctrines of the day, and the modern statecraft based upon these doctrines. So much has his influence been dreaded by his opponents, that the Prussian Government has forbidden the sale of his books within the kingdom, and books purchased years before this edict was issued have been confiscated from private families by the underlings of the police. These men are generally discharged soldiers, and since their literary abilities are of very doubtful quality, many ludicrous scenes have occurred on such occasions. Bolanden can boast, like the celebrated Professor Joseph von GSrres, that his literary productions are one of the great powers in Europe. Napoleon I himself called Gorres, who was his implacable enemy, the sixth great power, and Bolanden stands in the same relation to Bismarck that the great German professor did to the French Caesar.
In most of his works two distinct groups are easily recognized, the children of light, and the children of the world. One time it is the sphere of politics, another that of education; sometimes it is commercial, industrial, or artistical pursuits which are the chosen battle-grounds of his fiery pen. It may be asserted by some that works of fiction, even so-called Catholic novels, do in the end more harm than good, as human love is the mainstay of the plot of the story. Some are also shocked at his boldness in clearly explaining the depravity of vice. For those who hold these views we quote from number 52, volume III, of the Deutscher Hausschatz the following sentences from- the celebrated author himself: “ What God has laid in the human heart cannot be a source of impurity when perception and description are in keeping with the intentions of God. And God did say: The husband will leave father and mother for the sake of his wife. Hence human love is desired by our Creator, to exist and is laid like a ruling power within the bosom of man. Love emanates from God, be it even sexual, as long as the latter moves within the limits of the Divine will. Anyone contradicting this is in error, and moves no more upon the soil of Catholic dogma, since the Church at the benediction of marriages lays a particular stress upon the duty of conjugal love, and does by no means forbid the tender inclinations of bride and bridegroom. What has been created by God within the human heart, and what is expressly taught by the Church; could this be forbidden to the poet to furnish a subject for his ideas ? Is he not allo wed to treat of it in noble form, without inclining to gross lasciviousness ? Such views would cease to be Catholic, 2nd wonld be akin to the sickly bigotry of ancient sects, who but too soon fell into the other extreme of the most shocking carnal disorders. If such enthusiasts want to be consequent, they should erase many passages from holy writ, and denounce marriage as a
658
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sin, ■which indeed has been done by the false mental sway of former centuries. Indeed when such madness (wahn) should be Catholic doctrine, poetry, as far as she treats of purely human things in all modesty and decorum, would no longer have any right to exist. But the whims of some crack-brained heads are far from the spirit of Catholicity, and the asthmatic views of narrow-minded, critics will make ‘Raphael’ as little a heretic as become a guide to the Catholic poet in his compositions of the true, the good, and the beautiful.”
The English readers of the Catholic World, and of other leading Catholic periodicals are aware that many of Bolanden’s works have been translated into our own language, as has also been done to our knowledge in French. We ourselves have seen “ Angela,” “ The Progressist ” (Die Fortschritslichen), “The Infallibles” (Die Unfehlbaren), “ Frederick Barbarossa,” and “ Queen Bertba,” translated into English. We must regret, however, that these translations fall very far short of the beauty displayed in the original German, which is in fact poetical prose. There is a seeming unreality generally noticed in the character of his virtuous heroes and heroines, but when we consider the precepts of true Christianity practically illustrated and followed up to the very letter, we must admit that Bolanden’s heroic characters, superhuman as they appear, are in many respects what saints should be, and if we do not understand them, it is that we do not know how to appreciate saintly men and women, now so rarely to be met with. His villainous characters are, on the contrary, brought before our eyes with a frightful reality. Passages from Godless newspapers, demagogic lectures or pernicious pamphlets and books, are quoted by these bad men and women, and the'effect of this upon the reader is really startling. In describing the movements of the human heart and mind, Bolanden equals, if he does not surpass, even Shakspeare, and we dare say he does surpass this great English poet in many respects, since the German author writes in the spirit of true religion, or, to use his own words, “ within the limits of the Divine will.” May the noble author continue to wield for years to come his mighty pen in the defence of all that is sacred to the human heart and pleasing in the eyes of God.	’ H. S.
Reading.
HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY.
Reading is a most useful exercise. Bacon once wrote: “Reading maketh a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man.” In reading we should be careful in the choice of books. We should be careful not to bother our heads with novels and other trashy reading. We should choose a work upon history, biography, philosophy, religion, poetry, or something which will benefit us, and improve our minds.
In reading we should be careful to avoid the habit of skimming what we read, as books perused in this manner are forgotten as soon as finished. There are liars among book-writers and authors, as well as in other professions, therefore, we should not consider books infallible. On the contrary we should be careful, in reading books, discussing politics or any disputed" topic, not to believe implicitly every statement made by the writer.
Bacon writes: “ Read not to contradict, nor to believe, but to weigh and consider.” We should not read merely to profit by the thoughts and opinions of others, but also
to lay a foundation upon which to build up our own edifice of original thought.
Different books should have more or less study expended upon them according to their worth, for, as Bacon again writes: “Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested.”
I will now try to show the different kinds of knowledge to be derived from the reading and study of the two most important species of prose composition, History and Biography.
HISTORY.
A person who reads a great deal of history, both ancient and modern, and reads it attentively, noticing carefully what may be called the causes and effects of history, becomes endowed with a kind of prophetic power. He is well acquainted with the measures and policy of all gov. ernments up to the present period, and with the results of these different policies and measures. He is therefore capable of judging of the policy and measures of the governments of his day, and of the fruits they will bear.
God has given men freedom of will, and if I am acquainted with the results which have emanated from the exercise, in different ways, of that freedom of will, by men and nations of ancient times, I am, to a certain degree, capable of judging what will be the results in the future, of acts committed now, through the exercise of that freedom of will. This I can do by comparing them with similar acts committed by men and nations passed away, and the results thereof.
There can hardly be a measure introduced in governing a country of which there cannot be found something parallel or nearly so in history. To use a well-worn phrase, “ history repeats itself.”
To use an old figure, the study of history is like travelling. A person may travel for a lifetime and know very little of what he has seen. He has merely glanced at a few fine buildings and cities, admired the Alps, can tell you all about the beauty and grandeur of St. Peter’s, etc., but he knows nothing of the languages, customs, fashions, turn of thought, and character of the peoples and nations among whom he has travelled.
So it is with the study of history. A person may know thousands of dates, circumstances, and dry details, but does he know anything concerning the languages, customs, fashions, and characters of these nations among which he, like the traveller, has been sojourning ? He knows the facts and events, but does he know the reason and cause of these facts and events ? Does he know what caprices, passions, or blunders of the governments or governed led to these events? He knows the dry details of a great revolution. Does he know what little events, incidents, and causes had been working upon the mind of the people for two hundred years, and which little things in time effected this great revolution ? If he does not, he has not a thorough and useful knowledge of history. A true knowledge of history is a grand thing. What does it teach us? It opens to our view a scene commencing, and at first hidden, far back in the mist of ages. It shows to us the advance and progress of human knowledge. If we commence with the creation, and read and understand the history of the human race up to the present time, at first we behold human knowledge as a mere spark hard to be distinguished, hidden as it is in the appalling and dreadful darkness of ignorance. History shows us how this mere spark was ignited. How it grew gradually brighter and larger, and larger and brighter, until all other objects were rendered indistinct by its beauty

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	659
and grandeur. How it spread like a great fire sweeping everything before it. As this sublime fire of the human intellect advanced, men began to open their eyes, at first with difficulty, to the dazzling light of true knowledge. Still it advanced ; the idols of ancient days began to melt and crumble before it.
* As this fire advances every means is used to stop its progress. Men collect to defend their ancient gods against its attacks, but the fire overcomes them. Their efforts are futile. Their gods of brass crumble and fall. Wicked and designing men throw obstacles in its road: superstition, atheism, unbelief, gods of mammon and lust, but to no purpose. Those who promote this fire and add fuel to its flame, we see burned at the stake, beheaded, and hung as incendiaries, and plotters against the welfare of the human race. Yet it advances, growing every moment brighter and brighter, until at last it shall eclipse every other light except that which beams from the countenance of God, that light of all knowledge both finite and infinite, of all that is, that ever was, or ever shall be.
We learn from history that knowledge does not impede true religion, but rather aids it in its course heavenward, and that it is only ignorance, superstition, and fanaticism that disclaim God and true religion.
Lord Bacon writes: “Histories make men wise, poets witty, the mathematics subtle, natural philosophy deep, morals grave, logic and rhetoric able to contend.” Would you be wise 1 read history.
History teaches us mainly of nations, governments, and their progress; of religion, and the progress of knowledge and humanity in general.
•	BIOGBAPHY.
Biography on the contrary gives us a knowledge of men taken separately. That is, of the nature, thoughts, aims and character of single men. By reading biography a person becomes acquainted with the aims and characters of great men, of men whose names shall live forever. We also see how these great men carried their aims into execution. How they labored, studied and disciplined themselves; never for an instant turning aside from the one grand object of their lives. How their aim was to them truly a star in the E i=t never to be lost sight of.
Biography teaches us that men of mediocre intellect who aim at great things generally fail, and that men of great intellects generally aim at small triumphs and accomplish great ones. Bjnjimin Franklin aimed only to become a comfortably situated printer, able to support his family, and purchase books to read during his leisure hours. He became, next to Washington, the greatest, most popular, and best known American of his time. Daniel Webster wished to become a city attorney, well situated, and acquire some note in his locality as a good lawyer. Me became the greatest statesman, barrister and orator of his age.
This, however, is not always the case with great men, many of whom aim from the start at the accomplishment of one great object, but we generally find that they had one great object in view, and not forty or fifty. After the accomplishment of the original object they may have aimed higher still, but generally one object ata time.
This should teach us to judge carefully our talents and abilities, and then choose one profession, craft, or object, in which to succeed; rather choosing one requiring less talents and abilities than we possess, than more: and after choosing it, stick to it until success crowns our labor.
Biography should not be read hastily, merely noticing
the triumphs of great men, and not the means used to accomplish these triumphs. We should not forget to notice the trials of great men, and the manner in which they bore them; their mistakes, and how they could have avoided them.
If we read biography carefully, we shall be benefited, and instructed; if otherwise, we shall be wasting our time and maiming our intellect.
A careless and imaginative young man reads a life of Napoleon and immediately decides to become a g*reat warrior and general,-never stopping to think how Billy P---- blacked both his eyes and chased him home to his ma not a week ago. In a few days he reads the life of Richelieu, Mazarin or Chesterfield and decides that he was intended for a statesman. Yes! he feels it in his bones; be will become a statesman. But—hold! he reads the life of Washington. After reading it he ponders a while; when, happy thought!—why not, like Washington, be both? a icarrioi' and statesman; in truth a combination! Done; so it shall be. And so on as he reads. No 2 reads the life of Webster, Pitt or Fox, and keeps the whole dormitory awake every night for a week, with his somnambulistic attemps at oratory. The next week, after reading the life of Nelson or Paul Jones, he rolls out of bed in the midst of a “salt-water” dream, imagines he has fallen from the maintop, yells “Man overboard, pirates!” and gives a few indistinct orders about “throwing the powder overboard,” sets the boys in an uproar, and then wakes up to find that instead of an admiral or commodore in the United States Navy he is only a—poor dreamer! who has not sense enough to set his mind down to one commonplace ambition and drudge away at it until he succeeds.
Lucky is this poor fanatic if he is, even then, sufficiently awakened, to view in a true light his thousand-and-one aspirations, any one of which would have been entirely too gigantic a task for his feeble brain to accomplish.
In reading biography as it should be read, a person learns that as a general thing a good, honest, straightfor--ward man triumphs in the end; that is, if he does not attempt something beyond his power; and that a dishonest, bad, crafty man generally fails in the end. Otherwise (provided these men hold positions of importance), if the honest man fails during life, in after-years history vindicates him. while when the crafty and dishonest man succeeds during life, history and posterity will denounce him. In exceptions to this rule (as men who do not hold high positions, or whom historians misjudge) the good man receives his reward in heaven, and the bad man, vice versa.
In reading the 1 ife of Benjamin Franklin and John Adams we find that Franklin with his honest, straightforward and unsuspecting policy and dealing with France and England at the close of the American Revolution would have-succeeded in having Canada included in the treaty of Independence had it not been for the interference of the envious, crafty, and self-important Adams. This man imagined that Benjamin Franklin was too honest in his policy towards France and England; that/<nr and straightforward dealing was out of question in treating with foreign nations.
Biography teaches us that the men most successful in gaining the riches of this life are not those who inherit wealth, not those who acquire it easily, but those who acquire it by hard, steady labor, on the lookout for the pennies but never losing sight of the pounds.
660	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Those who inherit wealth generally abuse their inheritance, squander it, and often die poor.
Those who acquire wealth with ease, spend with still more ease. Those who earn it by hard labor and toil know its worth. By this we do not mean that they are necessarily penurious, but that they live happily and give freely, but within their means.
So it is with knowledge. It is true, knowledge cannot be inherited, but the talent to acquire knowledge can be. Where this talent is inherited, hke inherited wealth it is often squandered. They know their ability to learn, and therefore abuse their talents. They form habits which ruin their constitutions and their intellects, and sometimes, like those who inherit wealth, die poor—in knowledge.
Byron is a lamentable example of this. He inherited a grand genius and talents. Before he arrived at the age of thirty he had ruined both mind and body by his excesses, and died without learning what true knowledge and virtue are.
Those who acquire knowledge with ease soon abuse their power by wasting it They merely skim what they read, and therefore derive no benefit from it. If schoolboys, they do not look at their books until class is called, and then read the lesson over on the way to the class-room, stumble through it, and forget it forever. They cram for a week before examination simply for the honors to be obtained, not for the knowledge, which they forget in a week. Those who acquire knowledge only by hard study are the persons who generally succeed in life. They cannot learn their lessons on the way to the class-room, but are obliged to drudge for hours to get them. Once learned, however, they are learned forever. Having to study hard, they have no time to dissipate, and, like more talented prodigals, ruin themselves.
Thus, from a more careful study of biography we learn how to judge of ourselves, how to govern and discipline ourselves. We almost learn to read the secret thoughts of our friends and companions. We learn to judge of the conduct, understand the characters and abilities, the virtues, passions and faults of those with whom we are acquainted. We acquire a correct knowledge of ourselves and those about us.
From history we learn in the same way of our nation and people in general. How to judge and govern our nation. How to understand the conduct, characters and abilities, the virtues, caprices and faults of the masses of the people of our nation; and to have a just estimate of our national character and knowledge, compared with that of other nations.
Biography gives us, to a certain extent, the power of judging the destiny of persons; history, the destiny of nations.
__________ ______________ A. B. C.
Notre Dame de Boulogne.
The Editor of The Scholastic is indebted to Col. R. King, of Chicago, for a copy of a little work published at Boulogne-sur-Mer entitled “ An Abridged History of Notre Dame de Boulogne.” As many readers of this paper may not have heard of the famous church and crypt, we take advantage of our friend’s kindness to give a short account of them. Col. Kingvisited Notre Dame de Boulogne in 1876, which, he says, is “ one of the most ancient tabernacles ever raised in France to the service of Almighty God. The present Church of Notre Dame,” he continues, “ is very large—and, taken, altogether, a very beautiful realization of architec
ture and art; but no word-pictures can begin to do sufficient justice to the solemnity and majesty of the enormous Crypt, about which I wandered for more than five hours.”
An old chronicler, the Archdeacon Le Roy, as is related in the little book above mentioned, has given of the arrival of the famed image of the Blessed Virgin on the shores of Boulogne, an account which is acknowledged to possess the merit of authenticity.
“ About the year 633 (or 636 according to some historians), in the reign of King Dagobert, a small vessel,	'
without oars or pilot, conducted solely by the hand of God,	’
or by the ministry of angels, was seen to enter the port of Boulogne. The inhabitants were at that moment assembled at prayer in a chapel of the upper town, which had but little to recommend it save the sanctity of the place, being simply thatched with furze and reeds found on the shore. Whilst the faithful were engaged in their pious exercises, the Blessed Virgin appeared to them in a visible form, adorned with all the sweetness and majesty inseparable	’
from her person. She announced to them the.arrival of a ' vessel in the port, containing her image, which it was her desire should be placed on the very spot where they were then assembled, that she might there receive the homage of their religious veneration, and extend to them in return . the most striking marks of her favor and protection. In	j
addition to this gratifying announcement, she pointed out	;
to them a place where, beneath the surface of the earth,	i
they would find all that was necessary for the ccnstfuction	i
of an edifice more worthy than their poor chapel to inclose a deposit so precious and so gracious a pledge of her affec- * tion. The anxiety of the people to avail themselves of these glad tidings may well be imagined. They hastened to the port with feelings of mingled joy and astonishment. A deep calm slept on the waters, whilst a brilliant halo encircled the bark, which had just then drifted to the shore. They drew near, and entering it with the respect due to an event so novel and so wonderful, they discovered an image of the Blessed Virgin, about three feet and a half in height, made of wood, sculptured in relief, bearing the Infant Jesus on the left arm. There was something in the countenance so singularly sweet and majestic that the least pious beholder could not but be impressed with feelings of respect and veneration as he looked upon it. The people assembled in crowds, and nothing was omitted which could do honor to this happy event. The sacred image was carried in procession by the clergy to the spot destined to received it, accompanied by the people, who made the shores resound with hymns of gladness.”
So far the old chronicler, who adds in another place:	/1
“Tradition, supported by strong conjecture, attributes I f this image to the hand of St. Luke. The size, the material V ■ of which it is formed, and the general resemblance of the ¥ features to those of the miraculous image at Loretto, afford strong reasons for supposing that they are the work of the | same artificer.”	>
According to tradition the image, which it is said came
from Jerusalem or Antioch, was accompanied by two relics i of our Lord and His Holy Mother, and a manuscript Bible . in Latin. The image was placed in a little chapel, around which a magnificent church was soon built.
From the year following, pilgrims from all parts of the world visited Boulogne. The city being well fortified, and looked upon as a place of security against the invasions 1 and sacrilegious profanations of the Normans and other. J mauraders, relics were brought thither from all parts of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	661
the Christian world. Bodies of Saints, relics of our Lord from Jerusalem and other countries, were deposited in the church. Popes, Bishops, kings and princes visited the city, and made large donations to be used in the embellishment of the church and shrine. It was there that the daughter of Philip-le-Bel of France was married to Edward II of England, and the ceremony was witnessed by four kings, four queens, and an immense number of the nobility.
It would take up too much space to recount all the grand pilgrimages made to the city, the valuable gifts from famous men, and how the church had been sacked by marauders and revolutionists. Suffice it to say that though in 1793 a mob of red republicans cast the statue into the flames, plundered the Cathedral and left it in ruins, the edifice has been restored and an imitation of the statue placed in it.
In closing, it may not be out of place to mention that most remarkable act of devotion made towards Notre Dame de Boulogne in the fourteenth century by King John of France:
“ This prince having been taken prisoner, by the English at the battle of Poitiers, on the 19th September, 1356, his son made a vow before the image of our Lady, to obtain his deliverance. John having recovered his liberty landed at Calais, and immediately came on foot from that town to Boulogne,—a journey of about twenty-four miles long,— with the intention of making a pilgrimage to Notre Dame, in order to pay her his homage and grateful thanks for his safety. He was accompanied in this voyage by three of the sons of Edward III, namely the chivalrous Black Prince, Lionel Duke of Clarence, and Edmund Earl of Cambridge, who availed themselves of the vicinity to perform the same pilgrimage in the same manner. At Boulogne they were all received with great joy by the Duke of Normandy, who tarried there for them, and after dinner the French King and all the great princes and lords of England there present went on foot to the church of Our Lady, where with great devotion they made their offerings, and then returned to the great Abbey, which was furnished to receive the French King and the lords of England.* ”
* Barnes, Tht Hist, of Edward III, Cambridge, 1689, p. 606.
Kindness.
“Since trifles make the sum of human things And half our misery from our foibles springs;— Since life’s best joys consist in peace and ease, And few can eave or serve, but all can please, O let the ungentle spirit learn from hence A small unkindness is a great offence.”
If we look carefully into the history of great and good men we shall find that in most cases they were charitable, and performed acts of kindness towards all. There is not in the pages of history a character more worthy of admiration than that of Washington, and we find that he was noted for his kindness to all with whom he came in contact; to his slaves, to his officers, to his compauions in arms, and to his fellow-citizens generally. We doubt not but that this was one of the secrets of his greatness, and merited for him the title of “First in the hearts of his countrymen.”	.
Throughout life we should take the greatest care that in our conversation and actions we wound the feelings of no one, and when it becomes necessary to persuade them to the practice of virtue or remove them from evil we will
have the' greater influence over them. I became acquainted with a distinguished and holy missionary who spent ten years amongst the Indians. He was one who considered “ a small unkindness a great offence.” I have often listened with interest to this pious missionary’s thrilling narratives of his adventures whilst among those hostile tribes, and inquired of him on one occasion if he were not afraid at times that he would meet the fate of others that went before him. He replied that he never felt sure of his life, and that he one day asked one of the chiefs how it was that they never harmed him. The chief replied that he was too kind to kill. I remember well a poem in my first reader, which began thus:
“ Be kind to all yon chance to meet In field or lane or crowded street; Anger and envy are both unwise, Vinegar never catches flies,” etc.
The teacher who taught me to read that book, whom I might say with Goldsmith, “I knew him well, and every truant knew ”—if that. man were to go as a missionary among the Indians he would lose his scalp before a fortnight; kindness would not be in his favor, nor plead for his life, for he knew not the meaning of the word. I don’t know whether he believed, with Solomon, that if he.spared the rod he would spoil the child, but I am well aware if there were a child spoiled it was not for the want of the rod, for he seemed to have adopted the motto of the renowned school trustee of Flat Creek District, “No lickin, no lamin.”
When any- one is unfortunate it seems to be the great delight of many persons to throw blame on him. It would seem as though the greater part of mankind are happy when they may believe evil of others. This shows a mean and degraded spirit. Pity towards the unfortunate and even towards the guilty is always a beautiful sentiment. The law may be justified in condemning them, but man has not the right to exult in their pains, or depict them in colors blacker than the reality. There is no greater consolation than in being merciful, and in' being the instrument of relieving the misfortunes of others and in speaking words of kindness to them. Kindness is a fundamental virtue of Christianity, which is established upon these two laws, “Love God above all things, and your neighbor as yourself.” As students we should be courteous, and practice acts of kindness towards one another, never speaking of our classmates’ faults—for we all have faults—but rather of their good qualities. If we notice wherein a chum or classmate errs, let us point out to him kindly his defects, and not speak of them to others. It is related of a pious Bishop who possessed great ability, was well read in the Scriptures, and among other praiseworthy habits was courteous and kind to all who visited him, that a nobleman passed that way and spent a few days with him. The agreeable manners of the Count gained for him the esteem and commendation of the Bishop, but he had one little bad habit of which the Bishop became aware, and he thought it his duty to inform his guest of it lest it shouid be prejudicial to him. When the Count was about to take his departure the Bishop addressed him as follows: “My lord, I return you infinite thanks for the honor you have done me by entering and sojourning at my poor house; and as a return for so great a courtesy I wish to make you a present and pray you will receive it with a cheerful mind. You are one of the most graceful and polished gentlemen that I have met; for this reason I have attentively observed
662	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
your manners, and examining them particularly have found nothing which is uot in the highest degree agreeable and commendable except an ugly motion of the mouth and lips when eating, accompanied with a noise very disagreeable to hear.” The Count, who had never been aware of this bad habit, blushed a little at the reproof; but, like a brave man, taking heart, he said: “If all the gifts which men make to one another were like this, men would be much richer than they are. For this great courtesy and liberality tomel return you infinite thanks,and assure you that I will hereafter diligently guard against my bad habit.”
If we were to act towards one another as the Bishop towards his guest we would no doubt have many friends —friends whereof the Wise Man speaks when be says: “ A faithful friend is a strong defence, and he that hath found him hath found a treasure.”	Junior.
Prof. Morse.
Samuel Finley Morse, whose name and fame is so indissolubly connected with the magnetic telegraph, was born at Charlestown, Mass. April 27tb, 1791. From his earliest years he displayed great aptitude for study, and having entered Yale College he graduated at the age of nineteen. From his boyhood he showed great talent for drawing. His father, finding him much attached to and having a great taste for art, after he had completed his studies sent him to England, in order that his son might fit himself for the practice of his favorite profession. While in England, Morse made rapid progress; so that everyone predicted for him a brilliant future as an artist. He obtained the prize both for painting and sculpture offered by the Royal Academy. His greatest desire was to compete for the prize offered for historical painting, for in this branch he took especial delight. But circumstances would not permit him to remain long enough to complete his works; affairs at home in the mean time demanded his attention there. On his arrival in America he settled in Boston, but here he was so poorly patronized and his works so little appreciated that he removed to New Hampshire. Thence he was induced by his friends with the hope of improving his condition, to remove to Charleston, S. C., where he remained until the year 1822, when he went to New York.	.
In New York, Morse had a much larger field to display his artistic genius. A few years after his arrival in that city he painted a life-size portrait of Lafayette, who was then making a.tour through the United States. About this time the National Academy of Design was founded, and Morse was elected its first president. He read before the New York Athenteum the first lectures on art ever given in America.	’
In the year 1829 Morse undertook his second journey to Europe, where he remained several years. It was on the return voyage that he received his first idea of the magnetic telegraph. On board the ship he heard a gentleman describe some experiments made with the magnet in Paris, which he had witnessed, and the question arose among the assembly as to how long it would require the fluid to pass over the wire (which was about one hundred feet'long.) The answer was that it would be instantaneous, and it was also suggested that it might be carried to any distance, and that the electric spark might yet be the means of conveying messages. This remark took deep root in Prof. Morse’s mind, and so he set to work and
endeavored to develop the idea. Accordingly, before the trip was over he had drawn and written out the general plan of the telegraph, but when he endeavored to put his invention into practical use he found it would not work. He was not discouraged, however, but persisted in his undertaking: and after many trials, and by repeated experiments, he at last invented a machine which answered his purpose.
Toe public at first looked upon Morse’s invention as chimerical, and thought that nothing like what he was trying to do could be got from it. To prove to them the practicability of his plan, Professor Morse constructed and -put into operation a model of his Recording Telegraph, which worked with great satisfaction and convinced many of the value of the invention. He now abandoned painting in order to devote all his lime to the perfection of his invention, in which his mind was so wholly taken up that he could scarcely think of or apply himself to anything else.
In that same year (1837) Morse filed his caveat at Washington. It is somewhat singular that during the same year both in England and Bavaria patents were filed for the telegraph. All greatly differed from each other, but for practical use Morse’s invention held the first place. -
He determined to build a somewhat extended line, and for that purpose solicited a grant from Congress. It took a long time before this was given, as it was still believed by many that the invention was of little value. At length the aid was given, and in the year 1841 the first line of the Electric Telegraph of any length was erected between Baltimore and Washington. The nomination of Polk for President was the first public message that was transmitted on the wire. Thousands of miles of wire have since been stretched across the land, running in every direction and forming a network embracing the civilized world.
Many improvements have been made on the telegraph since its invention, but that does not detract from the merit of the original inventor, and at present the name of Prof. Morse stands foremost as one who did his country great service.*
It is but a few years since Prof. Morse died. There is little doubt that if he had followed- his early profession he would have acquired considerable renown as an artist,
* We fear that the writer is giving too much credit to Prof. Morse. It is now generally admitted that to the late Prof. Jcs-ph Henry.is due the honor which basso frequently been given to Morse. In this connection the Scientific American says in alate number: “In relation to the electro-m-gnetic telegraph, it has been clearly shown that Professor Henry was the originator of the only practicable method of sending telegraphic signals through long distances, and that he was the first to put into actual operation a telegraph of this kind. The inventions of Henry are all embodied in the Morse instrument, and if the former were to-day discarded it would be impossible, in a commercial sens?, to send telegraph messages. Morie’s instruments, on the other hand, might be withdrawn.from use wit hout serious -difficulty. Indeed, the instrument upon which Morse most ■ strenuously based his claims as originator of the telegraph, namely, the recording stylus, which produced a s;gnal on paper, has already gone almost entirely out of use, and Henry’s system of reading by sound is preferably employed. The honor of originating the telegraph undoubtedly belonged to Professor ■ Henry, and. had Congress, as it well might have done, granted, him a patent for his inventions, although he never applied for this protection, at the time of his death he would have enjoyed a monopoly, as patentee, of all the telegraphs,-rail way signals, fire alarms, and electro magnetic machines of every kind now in the United States, for he was the father of them all. It is ' hardly necessary to po’nt out how enormously wealthy this would have mad* him. but he preferred to take his reward in the knowledge of having benefitted humanity, and in the enduring renown which posterity will accord to him.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
which though not as great as that he now enjoys, would still be sufficient to give him a place among the eminent men of his time. ,	F. c.
Scientific Notes.
—The Tombigbee River, in Mississippi, has been stocked by the United Slates Commission with 210,000 young shad. May 18, 60,000 were deposited in the stream at Aberdeen, 90,000 at Fulton and 60,000 at Demopolis.
—pr. Rudolph Falb, a Viennese naturalist, who is exploring the earthquake-region of South and Central America, was at last accounts preparing to ascend the Volcano of Misti, near Arequipi,—a mountain supposed to be 17,500 feet high.	.
—A law has lately been passed by Congress, authorizing the purchase of alcohol free of tax, for scientific purposes, by any university or college created as such in any State or Territory, although not incorporated or chartered as required by the first enactment. ’
—Mr. E. J. Williamson, Jr., states, in a letter to the Smithsonian Institution, that the whip-scorpion (Thely-phonus giganteus) of Mexico emits an offensive odor from its tail. The specimen observed was found under stones, near Chihuahua. He was captured after considerable difficulty, writes Mr. Wilkinson, “but not, however,until I had received several doses of his powerful effluvia, which obliged me each time te retreat and catch a fresh breath.”
—Dr. Asa Gray states that, upon the best evidence, it is now believed that the weeping-willow “is a native of China or Japan; and that, although it may have been brought across the country to Persia and Assyria, in comparatively modern times, it was not there in the days of the Captivity.” This statement overturns the popular idea that the Israelites hung their harps on this species of willow. Dr. Gray adds that “The tree referred to in the noble Psalm, and which the uninspired translators have called willows, were probably poplars (Populus Euphratica).”
—The Hartford Times states that Mr. H. D. Willard, Newington, found on his farm a large and handsome b~x-tortoise, off the under shell of which he inscribed the date of its discovery, 1838, and his own initials. In 1862, or twenty-four years after, he met with the same tortoise half a mile west of the spot where it was first encountered. The animal had in the interval crossed two bridges, or forded the streams, and three railroad tracks. The first inscription was still distinct on its shell, and a second was added. May 18,1878, or sixteen years later, the tortoise was a gain found, and this time had travelled a mile on its westward journey. It was marked with the third date, and dismissed with the query. “At this rate of travel, when will you reach the Pacific?”
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mr. Browning’s new volume of poems is in the hands of English critics and readers.
—M:. Rissiter Johnson has compiled a book of “ Play day Poems,” for the “Leisure Hour Series.”
—R. Worthington, of New York, will issue an American edition of Swinburne’s new volume of “Poems and Ballads.”
—An exhibition of books, periodicals, maps, and music, representing modern Bohemian literature, was opened at Prague, May 16.	'
_W. W. Corcoran, the wealthy banker of Washington, is about to start in that city a liberally endowed art school in connection with his art gallery
—On May 20lh sale was made in London of the “Haley Papers,” which comprised, among others, thirty-four letters from the poet Blake, five from Lady Hamilton, and a large number from the poet Cowper.
—The original MSS. of Schiller’s and Goethe’s correspondence was lately purchased by the publishing firm of Cotta, in Stuttgart. It was offered to the libraries of Berlin and Munich for 40,000 thalers, and refused.
—Miss Anna L. Ward, of Bloomfield, New Jersey, announces that she has in her possession the largest list of Pseudonyms ever collected. It is her purpose to publish them, and, in order that the list may be complete, she invites autnors who wish their pen-names included, to send them to her address.
—A history of painting, edited by Dr. Alfred Woltmann, the biographer of Holbein, is among the forthcoming literary productions of Germany. The history of Egyptian and classical painting will be written by Dr. Karl Woltmann, and that of the Middle Ages and of modern times will be prepared by the editor.
—A monument is to be erected to Cervantes in Central Park, New York. The design includes a bronze statue of the famous author, and a bronze group of Don Quixote seated on his steed Rosinante, with Sancho Panza by his side. A bas-relief will also be added, representing the battle of Lepanto, in which Cervantes was wounded. The stone composing the monument will be brought from the birthplace of Cervantes, and other localities in Granada.
—The Berlin Museum has lately purchased six valuable works of art from the Strozzi Palace, at a cost of 180,000 lire. They include a portrait of Guilliano de Medici, by Sandro Boticelli; a portrait of a young daughter of Roberto Strozzi, by Titian; and a portrait of Simone Martelli; the bust of Marietta Strozzi, by Settigano; a bust of Nicolo Strozzi, supposed to be by Mino da Tissole; and a small bronze statue of St. John the Baptist, said to be by Donatello.	•
Books and Periodicals.
—From Messrs. Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay Street, New York, we have received “ The Portrait in My Uncles’ Dining-Room, and Other Tales,” No. 6 of the Vatican Library, price, 10 cts., and “Tyborne, and Who Went There in the Days of Queen Elizabeth,” No 7 of the Vatican Library,” price, 20 cts. Both volumes contain excellent stories, the latter being well known for years to the Catholic reading public, and needing no special praise from us. We are glad to see that the publishers go along steadily in their work of furnishing good reading at low prices. Success must crown their efforts, since they labor in a good cause.
—We have received from D. T. Ames a lithographed copy of the “ Centennial Picture of Progress ” which attracted so much attention at the Centennial Exposition. The original has been designed and executed with a pen, by the above-named artist, in a truly ingenious and skilful manner. It is a history of our country for the past century, and shows in a number of pictorial scenes the state of the country at the time of the Revolutionary War, and the same number of scenes illustrating the state of the country in the centennial year, exhibiting great cities, railroads, canals, bridges, public and private institutions, forts, battles by sea and hind in the late Rebellion, commerce, etc. The picture is 28 by 40 inches, and when framed will make a fine ornament for the Commercial room here.
—Kinderwild, or the “ Good of Children,” is the title of a very useful and interesting little book recently published, in the German language, at the office of the Waisenfround, Columbus, Ohio. It is written by a learned and saintly secular priest of the diocese of Cleveland, and is intended for the use of parents who have at heart as well the spiritual welfare as the temporal interests of their children. Good parents know and will always consider it their first and most essential duty to provide, as far as lies in their power and their means will permit, a good education for their children. Of course not all can undergo extraordinary expenses for this purpose; but whatever their financial circumstances and conditions of life may be, all are in conscience bound to make their children practical Christians and useful citizens. The present work is one especially adapted to this purpose, containing as it does, in clear and concise language, all necessary instructions as to how they should at the present time and under existing circumstances raise their children for God, and thus make them happy for time and eternity. The book contains 164 pages and costs only 30 cents; lour copies'for one dollar.
664
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 15, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than atjthe commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and. the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those-who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum.Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The St. Cecilians.
The Entertainment given by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association on the evening of Tuesday, June 11th, was one of the most successful of the year, whether we look to the excellence of the performance or to the number of the people attending.
At seven o’clock people began pouring into Washington Hall, and a half an hour later, when the performance began, a large audience had assembled, and continued to swell until it had reached a point when standing room was the only thing left in the hall.
The Entertainment began with music by the Band, followed by a very pretty vocal duet by Messrs. Frank W. Bloom and August Sievers, so well rendered that we felt sorry they did not sing oftener during the evening. The address of the evening was well written and given by Master John Healy. The Salutatory, by Master Frank W. Cavanaugh, was very pleasingly read. In our local columns it may be found and read. Master R. Mayer read an address in German which those understanding the language pronounced very good. Master George Cochrane executed a pleasing aria on the piano, and another in a subsequent part of the Entertainment. Both were well played and heartily enjoyed. The French dialogue by J. Lemarie and E. Pennington was well spoken and received great applause. The declamations of Thomas Nelson and Charles Hagan were delivered in the characteristic style of these young gentlemen. The hearty applause given them could not persuade them to reappear, for the programme was long and the time was after eight. Mr. Frank W. Bloom gave the prologue of the play in a clear, distinct voice, heard in all parts of the hall. We wish that many of our readers, deciaimers and orators, would imitate Mr. Bloom in the clearness and distinctness with which he articulates. -The prologue was well given,
and the audience, while waiting for the play, were entertained by an overture from the Orchestra.
“ Major Andre ” was the first play of the evening, and it was given, as a whole, better than on its first presentation at Notre Dame. The rendition of the role of the elder Andre, by Mr. J. B. Berteling, was excellent. The young gentleman threw himself into his part heart and soul, and gave such a rendition to the part that made it entirely new to those of the audience familiar with the play. “ Sir Henry Clinton ” was personated by Mr. Frank W. Cavanaugh, and in such a mauner as to reflect great honor on him. “Major Andre” was the rile assigned to Mr. W. A. Widdicombe, and it was well assigned. Mr. Widdicombe played with grace and feeling. C. J. Clarke made an excellent “ Washington ”; the make-up of his cosume, etc., gave him much of Washington’s look. Frank W. Bloom as “ Putnam ” made a brave and blunt old soldier, while Thomas Nelson as “ Gen. Green,” George Cassidy as “ Lafayette,” E. J. Pennington as “ St. Clair,” J. F. Arantz, as “Hamilton,” G. J. Baker as “Knox,” W. B. Walker as “ Steuben,” and M. H. Bannon as “ Parsons,” all rendered their parts faithfully and well; “Col. Clinton,” “Major Talmage,” and “Col. Jameson” found excellent person-ators in D. Coddington, G. Donnelly and J. Lemarie. The roles of “Paulding,” “Van Wert,” and “Williams” were taken by Messrs. R. P. Mayer, M. T. Burns, and R. Keenan. These three young gentlemen gave to their parts that freeness on the stage which is always enjoyed, and with Mr. J. L. Healy, who acted in an admirable manner the part of “ Smith, the Tory,” were the cause of much fun and amusement. Mr. A. Sievers as “ Knyphausen,” Frank C. Carroll as “Robertson,” and K. Reynolds as “Admiral Graves,” all did well. Master Geo. Sugg took the role of “ Col. Tarleton ” in a manner most creditable. The part of “ Benedict Arnold ” was taken by Master-Chas. Hagan, and rendered with much spirit and fire. Master Frank McGrath made a very good looking little page. Messrs. G. H. Cochrane, G. W. Jones, G. Crawford, A. Hatt, Chas. Walsh, J. T. Matthews, J. Byrne, and G. Itten-bach took the remaining parts of the play. “ Major Andre” had a good showing, and the play was highly successful,—a verdict unanimous among the students.
The second play of the evening was the “Virginia Mummy,” in which Master Frank McGrath took in a capital manner the part of “ Ginger Blue.” Master Charles Hagan took well the rile of “Dr. Galen,”and Master Geo. Sugg made a dashing “ Capt. Rifle.” Master Frank Carroll looked and acted the artist, “ Charles,” and Master Robt. Keenan was an excellent “ O’Leary.” The other characters were taken by Messrs. D. S. Coddington, Kirke Reynolds, J. Lemarie, and A. Sievers, all acquitting themselves in a highly creditable manner.
The whole entertainment was enjoyable and was well appreciated by the large audience, all of whom went from the hall with pleasure beaming on their countenances. The St. Cecilians have reason to feel proud of their Asso-ciation.
—A number of committees have been appointed to receive visitors during Commencement Week. Of course the officers of the house will endeavor to see all, but the great numder of people coming here render it necessary that they receive assistance, and the members of the committees will endeavor to supply the wants of everybody.	7
THE,NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	665

Personal.
—Rev. D. j. Spillard, of ’64, lately arrived at Notre Dame, from Austin, Texas, where he has a fine large parish.
—Rev. F. Dilhmig, of Avilla, and Rev. F. Thoma, C. P.P. S., were among the visitors to Notre Dame last week.
—Rev. F. W. O’Mahoney and Rev. J. Gleeson lately arrived at Notre Dame from the East, where they have been engaged in giving missions.
—Among the soloists at a concert given by the Detroit Catholic Musical Society—Prof. G. Freytag, conductor— was Mr. George Riopelle (Commercial) of ’72.
—Hon. John Gibbons, of ’68, has been nominated by the Democratic State Convention of Iowa for Attorney General. Mr. Gibbons lives at Keokuk, Iowa, and has a large law practice. We trust that he may be elected to the office for which he has been nominated, though the State is overwhelmingly Republican.
—Among the many who attended the St. Cecilian Entertainment on Tuesday were Revs. A. B. Oechtering, Jno. Lauth, R. Shortis, D. Spillard, and Messrs. Judge Stanfield, Ex-Mayor Miller, J. Wile, J. Sugg, F. Murphy, Miller, of the South Bend Tribune, Fassett, of the Tribune, T. A. Dailey, and a great many others whose names we failed to get.
—James F. Ireland (Commercial), of ’73, died at his home in Cincinnati, 0., on the evening of the 6lh of this month. Mr. Ireland, with his brother Thomas A., of ’72, was well known and liked at Notre Dame. He was a member of the Band, and of a number of literary and religious societies. Before his death he received the last Sacraments of the Church and expired as the litanies were finished. May his soul rest in peace.
—Prof. T. A. Dailey, who for two years past has been associate editor and third owner of the Herald, has sold his interest to C. L. Murray, and severed his connection with that paper. Mr. Dailey has many warm personal friends in this city and county who regret exceedingly his resolve to discontinue business, as he is now free from bondage and may leave us. Prof. Dailey is a thorough scholar and combines in a rare degree the wisdom of the schools with the easy grace and polish of the world. He is peculiarly fitted to adorn any society which he, may choose to enter. Aside from being an honorable, intelligent gentleman, Mr. Dailey is an editor of rare information and ability, energetic and fully alive to the issues of the hour. His journalistic experience will be useful to him wherever he goes and we wish him the abundant success he merits. We fear the Herald will suffer by his departure. —South Bend Sunday Hews.
Local Items.
—The Cecilians return thanks to the Senior Orchestra.
—The wheat-fields are already beginning to turn yellow.
—The music at the St. Cecilia Entertainment was very good.	,
—The lawns in front of the College building have been mowed.
—Washington Hall has been re-decorated for Commencement Week.
—The house-sparrows are increasing in numbers over at the Professed house.
—Next week we will print in full the programme of Commencement Week. -
—There will be an abundance of flowers for the Feast of Corpus Christi this year.
—The audience at the St. Cecilian Entertainment on Tuesday was very large.
—Why cannot the splendid Entertainment of last Tues-day evening be repeated ?
—On the afternoon of the 6th inst. the Minims were treated to a strawberry feast.	.
—Washington Hall was finely decorated last Tuesday. It reminded us of our early days.
—Thanks to B. Peter for a beautiful bouquet of flowers sent to our office last Tuesday.
—The spittoon story created quite an excitement in the Exhibition Hall on Wednesday last.
—The general verdict of all is that the St. Cecilians have borne off the honors of the year.
—We understand that there is to be plenty of vocal music during Commencement Week.
—The St. Cecilians seem to keep up to a high grade no matter what changes take place year after year.
—To-morrow is Trinity Sunday. Vespers may be found on page 96 of the Vesperal. The Missa de Angelis will be sung in the morning.
—The audience of the St. Cecilian Entertainment was one of the most refined ever assembled in Washington Hall.
—The best crowd of boys in the Junior Department are the “ Franks.” The champion nine had their photographs taken last Wednesday.
—The costumes used at the St. Cecilian Entertainment were furnished by Mrs. Kellogg, of Chicago, the costumer for McVicker’s Theatre.
—The programme of the St. Cecilian Entertainment, different as it was from others during the year, was carried out without any changes.	.	.
—Chas. Walsh, Chas. Hagan, R. Mayer and Geo. Sugg, the Censors of the St. Cecilia Philomatheans, attended to their work well during the preparations for the Fntertain-ment.
—The Junior Department ought, under their chief prefect, Bro. Leander, feel very proud when they consider that the Philopatrians and St. Cecilians have given the best Entertainments of the year.
—Next Thursday is the Feast of Corpus Christi. In the morning Missa Begin will be sung. Vespers may be found on page 98 of the Vesperal. The procession will be at the usual hour in the afternoon.
—A curiosity may be seen by visiting the Manual Labor School. Two'nests comprised in one in a tree not three steps from the door. One of the nests is occupied by a robin, the other by a chippy. Boys, learn a lesson of harmony.
—We received from Mr. Herbert S. Fassett, of the South Bend Tribune, the Secretary of the Editorial Association of Northern Indiana, an invitation to attend the Convention of the Association at Rome City on the 13th. We are sorry we were unable to attend.
—At the 33d regular meeting of the St. Cecilian Association the following persons were given a note of thanks: the Editor of The Scholastic, Bros. Leander, Paul, Laurence, Stanislaus and Simon, Profs. Stace, Howard and Edwards, Messrs. A. K. Schmidt and M. Regan.
—The members of the Boat Club held their annual picnic in Johnson’s Woods this last week. The viands were excellent and in abundance. The members enjoyed themselves very much. The picnic was equal to those of former years, from which fact old members of the Club can easily infer that the eatibles were first-class.
—An admirable entertainment was given at Washington Hall, Notre Dame, last evening, by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. The programme included declamations, songs, the historical drama ‘’Major John Andre,” and the “Virginia Mummy.” Excellent dramatic power was evinced by the Thespian aspirants, and the songs and other features were rendered in an artistic manner. The plays were elaborately presented, the scenic effects being unusually good, which greatly augmented their realism.—South Bend Herald.
—The exercises of Commencement Week are as follows: Monday morning, June 24th, orations by the representative Societies; Monday afternoon, orations of the Graduates; Monday evening, declamations by the Elocution Class; Tuesday morning at 6 o’clock a. m., Mass of the Alumni; at 9 o’clock a. m., meeting of the Alumni; at 2 o’clock p. m., banquet of the Alumni; 4 o’clock p. m., boat race;
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7 o’clock p. m.. poem and oration of the Alumni, followed by a dramatic Entertainment, given by the Thespian Association; Wednesday, 8 a. m., Valedictory, Commencement oration of Right Rev. Bishop Spalding, conferring of dey grees, awarding of honors, etc.
—We are glad to learn that the new system of German Penmanship gotten up by the Professor of Penmanship in the Commercial Department at Notre Dame and published by Frederick Pustet, New York, continues to gain in favor as it becomes known. A gentleman extensively engaged in the school-book business and who from time to time travels considerably in the interest of his employers, writes to the author of the “ Schonschreiben ”: “ Your copy-books are meeting with general favor, as far as I can learn. I made a little trip not long ago, and found that they had already made their way into a number of schools; others said they intended to introduce them in September.”
—Last evening was the occasion of the twentieth annual exeicises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of Notre Dame, which were held in honor of Very Rev. Father Granger, of the University. It was largely attended by persons from the cilv and abroad, among them being Hon. T. S. Stanfield, Ex-Mayor Miller, and Mr. Sugg, of Indianapolis. The drama of “Major John Andre ” was given, the parts being taken by students at the University, and the whole concluded with the farce “Virginia Mummy.” An orchestra, composed of the more advanced pupils, lends an additional charm to the Entertainments at that place. It was as a whole a most ei joyable affair, and we regret that we have not the space to give it a more extended notice.—South Bend Register.
—The following is the programme of the musical soiree to be given June 16th:
Trio, from “ Belisario ’’—Cornet, L. Evers; Tenor, J. P. McHugh ; Baritone, J. J. Houck.
Violin Solo—“ La Violetta.” by Carafa.....J. P. McHugh
Piano Solo—“Last Hope” (Gut»schalk)..........F. Carroll
Violin Solo—“ Letzter Gedanke” (Weber).......A. Sievers
Piano Solo—“Old Folks at Home” (Challoner)...G. Cochrane Violin Solo—“O Cara Memoria” (Carafa)........J. Bothert
Piano Solo—Overture Tancred (Rossini)........T. Fisehel
Flute Solo—“Blue Danube” (Strauss)...........J. English
Piano Solo—“Dein Eigen” (Lansre)...........F.	Heilmann
Violin Solo—“Tyroler'und sein Kind”.......J. A. Burger
Piano Solo—“Reverie”......................... R. Keenan
Piano Solo—Fantasie—“Evangeline”.......J. D. Montgomery
Violin Solo—“ Ernani ” (Verdi)...............J. Claggett
Duet—“Le Marie Ancor”.............J. Houck and L. Evers
The p’ano accompaniments will be played by F. Carroll, T. Fisehel and J. A Burger.
—A meeting of the resident members of the Associated Alumni was held June 9, at 7 p. m., in the President’s parlor, No’re Dame University, Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S. C., presiding. Prof. Stace was unanimously called upon to act as Secretary. Very Rev. President Corby stated that the house would again invite the Associated Alumni to a banquet on the usual day, Tuesday, June 25th, and he requested the meeting to resolve itself into a committee of ways and means for the consideration of matters respecting time, place, etc. After much deliberation, the following programme was agreed upon: (1.) That the Mass of the Alumni shall be celebrated at 6 a. m. on the Tuesday aforesaid, Very Rev. W. Corby, celebrant; Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, deacon; Rev. Christopher Kelly, subdeacon. (2.) That the meeting of the Alumni shall take place at 9 a. m., in the Hall of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. (3.) That the Banquet shall take place at 2 p. m. in the usual place, thus giving the members time to attend the boat-race at 4 p. m., and the subsequent Dramatic Entertainment. Professors Edwards and Stace were then appointed as a committee to receive the Alumni and their friends. The Secretary was then directed to write out the form of the invitation, and after some discussion in regard to badges, etc., the meeting adjourned.
—A special dispatch to the Chicago Times, dated South Bend, Ind., June 11, says: “The twentieth annual exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of Notre Dame University, under the direction of Prof. J. A. Lyons, took place in the University hall this evening, in the presence of a large and distinguished assemblage, among which were Hon. T. S. Stanfield, Ex-Mayor Miller, Mr. Sugg, of Indianapolis. The Entertainment, which con
sisted of literary, musical, and dramatic exercises, was complimentary this year to Very Rsv. A. Granger, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United States. The justly celebrated brass band of the University opened the exercises with a joyous burst of music. Then followed songs and excellently delivered addresses by John Healy, F. W. Cavanaugh, and others. The prologue by the young and talented Master F. W. Bloom was especially well received, and introduced the play of “ Major Andre,” which embodies the romantic episode in American history which the name would suggest. The principal characters were sustained by C. J. Clarke, T. Nelson, G. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, R. Keenan, W. A. Widdicombe, J. B. Ber-leling. K. Reynolds, C. Hagan, Frank W. Bloom, G. Sugg, J. L. Healy, and Frank McGrath, with much animation and propriety. It is seldom a corps of juvenile amateurs are so well trained in elocution. A piano piece by G. H. Cochrane then attracted our attention, and showed both taste and skill in execution. An excellent orchestra, composed of the more advanced of their pupils, lends au additional charm to all the Entertainments at Notre Dame. The soiree concluded with a racy farce, “ The Virginia Mummy,” well rendered by Frank McGrath, C. Hagan. G. Sugg, Frank Carroll, R. Keenan, D. S. Coddington, K. Reynolds, and a numerous band of supporters, altogether one of the most pleasant, and enjoyable evenings we have passed in some time. Prof. Lyons deserves great praise for his talents and devotion as a director.
—The favorite literary organization at Notre Dame University is the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society and last evening they gave their twentieth annual summer entertainment to one of the largest audiences ever assembled in Washington Hall. There were guests present from Chicago, Indianapolis, this city and elsewhere. The hall was profusely decorated with flags, festoons and wreaths of evergreens and flowers, and a number of choice plants in front of the orchestra burdened the air with the sweet perfume from their blossoms. The exercises, which were given in honor of Very Rev. A. Granger, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United S'ates, opened with an excellently rendered number by the N. D. U. Cornet Band. This was followed by addresses by John Healey, Frank W. Cavanaugh, J. Perea, R. P. Mayer, T. Nelson, and C. Hagan, all well delivered and especially the last mentioned, who was called before the curtain. An amusing French Dialogue by J. Lemarie and E. Pennington was sandwiched between two of the addresses and then came the event of the evening, the historical drama of “Major John Andre.” The prologue was read by young Frank W. Bloom, one of the most talented young men at the University and the best reader of his age we ever had the pleasure of bearing. The leading parts in the play were filled by C. J. Clarke, G. Cassidy. T. Nelson, J. B. Bertel-ing, F. W. Cavanaugh, R. Keenan, W. A. Widdicombe, K. Reynolds, C. Hagan, G. Sugg, J. L. Healey, Frank McGrath, M. T. Burns and others. So well trained were they that on any other than a university stage they would not have been taken for amateurs. Prof. Lyons, who has few equals in this specialty, may well be proud of his pupils and the plaudits with which they were greeted last night. Other points in the extensive programme worthy of special mention were the overture, “Semiramis,” by the orchestra, a piano piece by J. H. Cochrane, and the extremely laughable farce of “ The Virginian Mummy.” All who go to university exercises may be sure of being well entertained. Those who went last night were doubly so, thanks to Prof. Lyons and the members of the St. Cecilia.—South Bend Baily Register.
Semi-Annual Examination, June 17th-22d, 1878.
Committees of Examination.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Very Rev. W. Corby, President; Rev. T. E. Walsh, Rev. N. Stoffel, Secretary; Prof. J. A. Lyons, Rev. P. Hurth, Mr A. Morrissey, Prof. A. J. Stace.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, President; Rev. T. Carroll, Prof. T. E. Howard, Prof. A. J. Stace, Secretary; Prof. W. Ivers,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	667
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Rev. C. Kelly, President; Bro. Philip Neri, Secretary; Prof. L. G. Tong, Prof, J. A. Lyons, Prof. Wm. Ivers, Prof. J. F. Edwards, Prof. 0. M. Sclinurrer.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Rev.P. Scholl,President; Mr. T. McNamara, Secretary; Bro. Alban, Bro. Leander, Bro. Paul, Bro. Theodore, Bro. John Chrysostom, Bro. John de Malha.
.	FINE ARTS.
Rev. E. Lilly,President; Rev. M. Fallize, Rev. M. Lauth, Bro. Basil, Bro. Leopold, Bro. Albert, Bro. Celestine, Prof. O. M. Schnurrer.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
Rev. F. FrSre, Rev. M. Fallize, Rev. P. Hurth, Bro. Philip Neri, Bro. Maximilian.
Dedicatory Poem
TO VERY REVEREND FATHER PROVINCIAL, C. S. C.
Delivered at the Twentieth Annual Celebration of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, June 11th, 1378, by F. W. Cavanaugh.
Very Reverend Father, we greet you to-night With feelings of gladness and joy;
And we hope that you also will view with delight, The plays that our time will employ.
Your own festival day, as we find to our cost, In vacation is fated to fall;
And though a recreation thereby we have lost, That part of our loss is but small
Compared with the pleasure and pride we should take In offering our homage sincere,
On that day which our joy ever after would make The most cherished throughout the glad year.
But since ’tis our lot not to welcome you then, At least let us welcome you now;
Let us offer our congratulations again, And amuse you as best we know how.
We have two little plays to present you to-night—
“ Major Andrd ”—we’ve played it before;
And this time, as then, it will put us in mind
Of the heroes and patriots of old,
Who the proud declaration of liberty signed
Untempted by pleasure or gold.
And if one to his country a traitor became,
His fate is a warning to all,
And the just execration we heap on his name Will keep us from sharing his fall.
Thus we, your Cecilian children, still seek To cultivate virtue and truth,
We read the examples of Roman and Greek, And make them the guide of our youth ;
While we walk by the shores of the beautiful lake Where the blue Tradescantia blooms,
Where the birds with their warbliags sweet melody make, While the vine blossoms breathe their perfumes,
We think of the virtues that symbolized thus Make our fair Alma Mater their home, Ah ! dear shall those memories e’er be to us Though in far distant lands we must roam.
Yes ; sooner the Apteryx, winging its flight. Shall rival the eagle on high ;
Than shall we, in our poor entertainment to-night, Fail to see what its lessons imply.
And sooner the Ornithorhynchus shall dwell In the frozen domains of the pole	’
Than shall we cease to treasure the lessons so well Instilled in the depths of our soul.
And sooner Arcturus and Vega shall blend Their beams in one centre of light,
Than shall we prove reluctant to fight to the end Or lay down our arms in the fight.
Yes ; till hydrate of potash and sulphur combine To form deuteroxide of zinc,
We’ll be true to our colors, in rain and in shine.
But here, now, perhaps you may think
These comparisons somewhat far-fetched and unbacked By usage poetic to be;
But we wish to impress on your notice the fact That students of science are we.
Yes, we, your devoted Cecilian boys, -Will endeavor to learn what we can
At the fountains of knowledge, where he that employs His time, becomes truly a man.
Our twentieth spring time that beams ou us now Beholds us united and free,
And while we exist we will never allow
Disunion among us to be.
But you probably think I have stayed here too long, Though you’ve patiently heard till the end,
For poetry’s tiresome unvaried by song, So I’ll make my conge and descend.
Roll of Honor.
[The folio wins are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, A. B. Cougar, R. I. Chatterton, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport, P. J. Dougherty, A. A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, E. J. Dempsey, J. G. Ewing, J. J. Fitzgerald, E. C. Gramling, A. S. Ginz, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan,'J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, F. Hellman, A. W. Johnson, F. Keller, J. Krost, F. C. Luther, A. A. Lent, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, E. Maley, C. F. Mudler, V. F. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. J. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. MeKoue, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, J. J. Quinn. J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, J. J. Rothert, E. W. Robinson, J. Rabbitt, J. J. Shugrue, J. H. Sheridan, P. H. Vogel, F. W. Williams, E. 8. Walters, F. J. Walter, L. J. Evers, J. English.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arantz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, J.M. Byrne, J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman. C. O. Burket, H. E. Canoil, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, J. 8. Co-sard, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, J. L. Healev, M. E. Herr.ck, J. L. Halle, G. fttenbach, J. B. Ittenbacb, R. E. Keenan, F. W. Lansr, J. L. Lemaiie, J. D. McNeills, W. J. McCarthy’, R. P. Mayer, F.T. McGrath, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, G. Orr, J. O’Donnell. F. T. Pleins, 8. 8. Perley, E. J. Pennington, K. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, C. P. Van Mourick, E. 8. Waiter, W. A. Widdi-combe, F. E. Weisert, G. Sugg, A. W. Sievers.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, W. McDevitt, J. Seeger, 0. Farrelly, W. Coolbauub, J. Inderrieden, W. Rheinhardt, R. Costello, C. .McGrath, W. Coghlin, J. Boose, C. Garrick, Jas. Courtney, F. Berry, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long. H. Kitz, P. Fitzgerald, T. O’Neill, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, T. Barrett, J. Crowe, J. Devine, M. Devine, C. Welty, F. Farrelly, L. Young, J. Chavas.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G. Ewing. J. P. McHugh, J. J. Coleman, J. McEniiy, W. L. Dechant, M. J. McCue, A. Hertzog, L. Evers. H. Maguire, P. F. McCullough, J. D. Montgomery, J. P. Kinney, J. A. Burger, W. A. Widdicombe, J. Quinn, J. P. Qu nn, F. W. Bloom, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, J. J. Shugrue, J. B. Berteling.
'.	f
THE NO.TEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
668
—On Pentecost Sunday Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Shortis, C. S. C., with Rev. Father Saulnier as deacon, and Rev. Father Hudson, as subdeacon.
—The weekly Academic reunion met after the distribution of points. The Rev. Chaplain made some practical remarks on the Festival of the day (one of the greatest of the year), and explained in a few words the Gifts of the Holy Ghost which are received in the Sacrament of Confirmation.
—The grounds around the Academy aj;e looking very beautiful. From the frequent rains, the foliage is full, and the pupils enjoy sketching or reading under the grateful shade Numerous ornamental urns and vases, filled with flowers and trailing vines are scattered here and there, which take away the monotony of the surrounding green, lovely as it is with all the shades from pale to dark. Encircled by the River St. Joseph, St. Mary’s appears to strangers from the busy world an earthly paradise.
—On Wednesday was the last Nocturnal Adoration for the Catholic pupils this year. All received Holy Communion in the morning, and assisted at Benediction, of the Blessed Sacrament. June being the month particularly devoted to our Lord’s Most Sacred Heart, everything around partakes of the spirit of the time; the floral decorations have changed to a ruddy hue, expressive of the Love of God, and, blended with white and green, marks plainly that a pure and faithful heart is acceptable to our Divine Saviour.
—The visitors during the past week to the Academy were Rev. Michael Horgan, Chicago, Ill.; Hon. Patrick Gibbons, lady and family, South Bend; Hon. John Gibbons, Keokuk, Iowa; Miss Nettie Coughlin, Keokuk, Iowa; Mr. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Miss Olivia Tong; Mr. Richardson, Cleveland, Ohio; Mr. Hertzog, Natchitoches, La.; Mrs. Bretts, South Bend, Ind.; Miss A. Sturges, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. Father D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., Austin, Texas; Rev. J. Lauth, C. S. C., South Bend; Mrs. Shetland; and Mrs. Cassidy.
HoU of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
[The editor of the Scholastic is not responsible for the spelling, of the names in these lists. As there is no rule for the spelling of proper names, these are printed as given by the young ladies themselves.]
Graduating Class—Misses Bay Reynolds, Mary Cooney, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Pauline Gaynor, Anastasia Henneberry, Mary O’Connor, Amelia Harris.
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Mary Ewing, Emma Lange, Bridget Wilson.
2d Senior Class—Misses Eleanore Keenan, Mary Way, Clara Silverthorn, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Zod Papin, Ellen King, Sarah Hambleton, Elizabeth Keena, Mary McGrath, Blanche Thomson, Mary Birch, Mary Casey.
3d Senior Class—Misses Julia Burgert, Genevieve Winston, Mary Brown, Anna Cavenor, Caroline Ortmayer, Frances King-field, Catharine Hackett, Ellen Galen, Mary Sullivan, Mary Winston, Catharine Lloyd, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Shaw, Maria Plattenburg, Alice Farrell, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Lola Otto, Martha Wagoner, Thecla Pleins, Agues Brown, Elizabeth Schwass, Theresa Walters, Angela Ewing, Florence Creg-ier, Mary Halligan, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Walsh.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Mary Cleary, Anna McGrath, Lucie Chilton, Adelaide Geiser, Louise Neu, Sophia Rbeinboldt, Henrietta Hcarsey, Ellen Mulligan, Margaret Hayes, Blanche Parrott, Mary Usselman.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Mary White, Imogene Richardson, Ellena Thomas, Ollie Williams, Alice Barnes. Mary Ludwig, Julia Barnes, Mary Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Miss Laura French.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Margaret Rathsam, Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Cox, Amelia Morris, Lucile McCrellis, B. and T. Haney, Margaret Ivers, Manuelita Chavas.
LANGUAGES.
.	HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Misses Mary Cooney, Ellen King.
2d Latin Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Maria Plattenburg, Mary Luce.	„
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses McGrath. Ellen Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Wilson, Amelia Harris, Hope Russell.
; 2d Div.—Misses Reynolds, Cooney, Mary O’Connor, Burgert, | Annie McGrath, Geiser, Galen, Moran, Ewing.
J 3d Class—Misses Zod Papin, Wagoner, Angela Ewing, Fisk, Brown, Winston, Mary Birch, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Butts.
2d Div.—Misses Kingfield, Shaw, Casey, Danaher, Chilton, Fox, French, Mulligan, Cox.
4th Class—Misses Walters, Genevieve Winston, Neu, Annie Cavenor, Hearsey, Brown, Schwass, Wood, Miller.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Caroline Ortmayer, Walters.
2d Div.—Misses Sophia Rbeinboldt, Mary Usselman, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall.
2d Class—Misses Catharine Barrett, Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Annie Reising, Florence Cregier, Mary Ludwig.
3d Class—Misses Sarah Hambleton, Mary Way, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Lambin, Ellen King.	'
2d Div.—Misses Minerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte.Van Namee, Imogene Richardson, Blanche Parrott.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Thecla Pleins, Bridget Wilson.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Minerva Spier, Ellen Galen, Amelia Harris, Ellen Keenan, Elizabeth O’Niell.	.
2d Div.—Misses Gordon, Leota Buck, Frances Kingfield, Delia Cavenor, Anastasia Heneberry, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Matilda Whiteside, Julia Burgert.	.
2d Div.—Misses Annie O’Connor, Alice Farrell, Emma Lange, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Annie McGrath, Caroline Ortmeyer.
4th Class—Misses Ellen King, Anna Reising, Alice Morgan, Pauline Gaynor, Mary Cooney, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney.
2d Div.—Misses Richardson, Mary Winston, Mary Way, Caroline Gall, Mary Mullen.	.
5th Class—Misses White, Genevieve Winston, Martha Wag. oner, Catharine O’Riordan, Annie Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Zod Papin, Catharine Barrett, Florence Cregier, Mary Danaher, Anna Woodin.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Hearsey, Blanche Thomson, Laura French, Ellen Hackett, Marie Plattenburg, Lola Otto, Mary Cleary, Louise Wood, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Halligan, Elizabeth Miller, Angela Ewing, Cecilia Boyce, Margaret Rathsam.
6th Class—Misses Ida Fisk, Sophia Rbeinboldt, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellena Thomas, Rebecca Netteler, Catharine Lauber, Mary Ewing, Linda Fox, Mary Casey, Mary Lambin, Marcia Peak, Agnes Brown, Mary Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Kelly, Blanche Parrott, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Lucie Chilton, Ellen Wright, Ellen Mulligan.
7th Class—Misses Barnes, Agnes McKinnis, Julia Kingsbury, Lorena EUis, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Cox.
8th Class—Misses Mary McFadden, Lucile McCrellis.
9th Class—Miss Alice King.
Harp—Misses Delia Cavenor, Ellen Galen.
Organ—Misses Blanche Thomson, Catharine O’Riordan.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Delia Cavenor.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Reising, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Gordon, Genevieve Winston, Brown, Otto, Hackett, Riordan.
2d Div.—Misses Silverthorn, Geiser, Rheinboldt, Richardson.
4th Class—Misses Julia Burgert, Mary Winston, Anna Cavenor, Matilda Whiteside, Galen, Farrell, Casey.
5th Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mulligan, Mary McGrath, Ewing, Hake, Peak, Keenan, White, Angela Ewing, Schwass, Hearsey.
General Class—Misses King, Miller, Fox, Van Namee, French, Butts.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
2d Class—Miss Delia Cavenor.	’
3d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Leota Buck, Julia Burgert, Sarah Hambleton, Alice Farrell, Adelaide Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses Mary Way, Lola Otto, Anna Reising, Hope Russell, Caroline Ortmayer, Ellena Thomas, Catharine O’Riordan, Julia Butts, Laura French, Florence Cregier, Lucie Chilton, Minerva Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Ellen Mulligan.
PAINTING IN -WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
669
3d Class—Misses Pauline Gaynor, Sarah Moran, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Connor, Charline Davis,
4th Class—Miss Matilda Whiteside.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Lange, Pauline Gaynor, Bay Reynolds.
3d Class—Misses Delia Cavenor, Charline Davis, Mary O’Connor.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Emma Shaw, Lola Otto, Blanche Thomson, Alice Morgan, Agnes Brown, Mary Winston, Mary Brown, Louisa Neu, Mary Clearv, Blanche Parrott, Mary Birch, Elizabeth Keena, Ada Peak, Mary Danaher, Mary Luce, Annie Maloney, Catharine Lloyd, Della Gordon, Ellena Thomas, Ellen Wright, Mary Halligan, Mary Sullivan, Margaret Hayes, Imogene Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Louise Wood, Mary Lambin, Laura French, Angela Ewing, Agnes McKinnis, Annie McGrath, Addie Geiser, Linda Fox, Mary Hake, Julia Butts, Amelia Morris, Manuelita Chavas, Annie McKinnis, Lorena Ellis, Margaret Ratbsam, Caroline Gall, Mary Lyons, Lucile McCrellis, Mary Mulligan, Frances and Jenny Sunderland.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses Caroline Ortmey er, Bridget Wilson, Agnes Brown, Mary Usselman, Lola Otto, Anastasia Henneberry, Genevieve Cooney, Ellen McGrath. Mary O’Connor, Alice Farrell, Ollie Williams, Mary Winston. Lizzie Schwass.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Helena Thomas, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Lucie Chilton, Lorena Ellis, Louise Wood, Florence Cregier, Alice Barnes.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRESS-MAKING AND PLAIN SEWING.
2d Class—Misses Mary Ewing, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Kelly, Louise Neu, Blanche Thomson. GENERAL SEWING CLASS.
1st Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Mary Way, Ellena Thomas, Hope Russell, Mary Usselman, Catharine Barrett, Minerva Spier, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Ewing, Catharine Lloyd, Sophia Rheinboldt, Matilda Whiteside, Mary Halligan, Bay Reynolds, Anastasia Heneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Keenan, Elizabeth Keena, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Agnes Brown, Lola Otto.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN COOKING DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mary O’Connor, Anastasia Henneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Bay Reynolds. Minerva Spier, Anna Reising, Sarah Moran, Mary Ewing, Hope Russell, Mary Cooney, Emma Lange, Amelia Harris, Bridget Wilson, Thecla Pleins, Cecilia Boyce, Ida Fisk, Sophia Rheinboldt.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Mary Cooney, Anastasia Heneberry, Elizabeth O’Neill, Minerva Spier, Mary O’Connor, Anna Reising, Bay Reynolds, Sarah Moran, Cecilia Boyce, Clara Silverthorn, Mary Way, Mary Casey, Elizabeth Kirchner, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher, Zod Papin, Catharine O’Riordan, Thecla Pleins, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Genevieve Winston, Caroline Ort-mayer, Mary Halligan, Theresa Walters, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Margaret Hayes, Mary Cleary, Louise Neu, Henrietta Hearsey, Mary Mullen, Ellena Kelly, Ollie Williams, Mary Ludwig, 100 par excellence. Misses Hope Russell, Mary Ewing, Emma Lange, Bridget Wilson, Ida Fisk, Blanche Thomson, Eleanore Keenan, Mary Birch, Anna Woodin, Catharine Barrett, Ellen King, Anna Maloney, Emma Shaw, Florence Cregier, Lola Otto, Mary Brown, Harriet Buck, Martha Wagoner, Marie Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Adella Gordon, Mary Winston, Delia and Anna Cavenor, Blanche Parrott, Ella Wright, Ellena Thomas, Julia Barnes, Matilda Whiteside.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Lucie Chilton, Frances Kingfield, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Hake, Agnes McKinnis, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Margaret Rathsam, Amelia Morris, Lucile McCrellis, Manuelita Chavas, Bridget and Teresa Haney, Margaret Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Adelaide Geiser, Ellen Hackett, Mary McFadden, Laura French, Caroline Gall, Mary Cox.
—Over the Senate staircase in the Capitol at Washington there is a picture of the battle of Chepultepec, taken on the spot, in which the Nelson of the day. General Shields, is represented in his shirt-sleeves talking to General Quitman.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
■A. CATHOLIC JOTrS.IT.AJCi
irjm,
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER PIUS II, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO UH,
And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere, Grace Ramsay, Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
„ —
One Year...........................................$ 2 50
Five Years..........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at'the rate of $2 each)....20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE "AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
A NEW SYSTEM
OF
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PtSTET,
52 Barclay street, NEW YORK, and 204 Vine street, CINCINNATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.	'
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover. .
Price, 85 cents per Dozen*
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or
impaired digestion.	.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Slieniiaii House,
Chicago, Illinois.
670
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROAViV «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «St MITCHELL Ri. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady Si., Davenport, Iowa.
TITOVIAS n. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAN1VI1VG- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOTITV F. VIcTITJ Gt IT [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVIELE TY CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a* Law, No’ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MeRRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
THILLTA M J. CL 4 RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus, O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOTIIM T>. NTcCO'EtMTCK.—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov- 11. 1877.
	♦Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 •* 10 45 “ 12 31 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ « 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 » 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 "0 “
			♦Jackson Express.		
					
	•Mail	•Day Express.		+Pacfic Erpress.	tEvening Express.
			5 40 a.m K 40 “ 4 45 p m 4 30 a.m 6 3> “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson.... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 5> “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m « 40 “ 12 25 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
□Miles and South Rend Division.
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 630 pm. “ N.Dame— 8.’2 ••	638 *•
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. {Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HL Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott. Agent, South Bend, Ind.
SCIENTIFIC AND MEDICAL BOOKS,
Civil Engineers & Survevors.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elklurt. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COUUArrJrAJN.pub'ished weeklv at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per aonum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THIS AV 11; "AI ATtT A, a Catholic journa* 1 devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Satnrdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price. $2.5".
THE SOUTH BEND HETtAET>, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpiIE TSOiXD HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-
i igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESOY HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St.. Chicago. III. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
The Naturalists’’Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 16 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.’’
My Minera’ogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. Bjr means of the table of speciesand accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The epee'es number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after i> will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Catalogue tf Shells gving 2,5'JO species. Set. s’amp Printed on heavy paper, on one s'dc accompanied with Genus List, 10 ct. in 1 ct. stamps.
Cat* ogue of Birds’ Eggs a”d Taxidermists’ Materials, 3 cts.
Catalogue of Books—32 pp.—5 cts.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of IPO illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the prircipal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by snaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality,and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Book Binders.
Number of Specimens
EDWARD I*. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder. Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0^ CALLING CARDS—no two alike, with name LitJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
K	J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
25	50 Itai
in box in box in box
100	200	300
$ 1	« 2	$ 3
5	10	25
10	25	50
25	50	1 CO
500	ien	3 (0
Crystals and fragments....	$ 50 $1 $1 50 |
Students’ size, larger....	1 50	3	6 I
Amateur's size,2J4 in. x 1^.................. |
High School or Acad. size,2&x3)4 in.shelf specimens I
College size. 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens..... I
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D„.
1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Fellowof the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Aatural History, Central Park, A'ew York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
671
LRA-TTdlOIEC SHIOKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Msiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
Jf. S HICKEY.
Chicago, R, I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland. Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. SO 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation ............. 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A M. SMITH,	A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	• General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Faet Ex.	wo 7, Pac. Ex.	WO .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..	.... Leave	11.45 P.M.	9 00 A.M.	l.bOp.M.	6 00 A.M.
Rochester,...		12.53 a.m.	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance .			310 “	12 50 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			445 “	230 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield			7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	515 “	945 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	.... Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
	 . _		925 “	7 35 “	11.25 “	
Lima					10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 A.m.	
Ft.Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plv month*				345 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago.. 1. -		7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
					
GOING EAST.					
		Ko. 4,	ho. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicao’o			9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 P.m.	
Plymouth, • 			2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
T?t WAvnp 		....		6 55 u	2.10 P.M.	11.35 “	
Tnma.								8 55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Pnroct	_ 	-				10.10 “	520 “	248 “	
		Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
					
Crestline			12.05 p.m.	7.15 P.M.	4 30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
’Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,				4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
PnnhAstpr . _ __ - -	-		ft OQ U	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pai.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	1215 “	3.30 »
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily.			Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh		
daily except Saturday.		Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex-			
cept Saturday	All others daily except Sunday.				
THIS	IS THE		ONLY LINE		
That runs rhe	celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to				
Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New icrk without chancre. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at					
the lowest current rates.					
		F. B. MYEES, G* P. & T. A.			
University of Notre Dame, HST3DTA_3STA_-Founded 1842*	Chartered 1844*
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instraction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	-
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
■	Notre Dame. Ind.
Indianapolis, Pern & Chicago RAILWAY. Time Table, December 26,1877.						
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.		NO. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Pera			4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “		12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “	
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City			8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.			11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.			No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City.. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.10 a. m. 10.00 P. M. 11.24 “ 1.50 “		8.05 P. M. 8.50 “ 10.25 “ 12.38 A. M.			5.37 A. M.
Lv. Pera	 “ Kokomo	 “ Indianapolis....	1.27 P. M. 2.55 “ 5.30 “		12.33 A. M. 1.50 “ 4.10 “			6.33 A. 31. 9.10	“
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis. Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave Sonth Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Lonis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 3J p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
12 16 p m, Special New Yors Express, over Air Line; arrives at Tolcdi 540 p in. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 ('5 am; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4, 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago. 11 30a. m.	.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., Sonth Bend.	•
J. W. CAKY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
672	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lessons in Music.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South Bend, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka and the ser-rounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. O. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rev. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, will be a sufficient guarantee:
Chuech of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.
From my own experience and that of others, 1 know him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music and trainer of a choir.
Ever since he ceased his connection with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oaklet, S. J.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Kailroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
HO, YE WHO COME
To the Commencement!
AT THE
STUDENTS’ OFFICE, Ko. 54, Washington St., South Bend, can be found the best stock of Cigars, Tobaccos, Snuffs, Pipes, etc., to be found in Northern Indiana. Remember the place,	-
Blum’s Old Stand.
.	E. & E. T. Ivins.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music. '
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Danie P. 0., Ina.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE .
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
-PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Mabvet Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOGRAFHEB, Corner Michigan an% Washington Sts., SOUTH BEZTID, ITTJDXJLTTJL.