
< Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victnxrus ; vive quasi eras moritnuTis.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 14, 1880.
Number 23.
The Sonnet.
What is a sonnet ? ’Tis the pearly shell . That murmurs of the far-off murmuring sea;
A precious jewel carved most curiously;
It is a little picture painted well.
What is a sonnet ? ’Tis the tear that fell
From a great poet’s hidden ecstasy:
A two-edged sword, a star, a song—ah me!
Sometimes a heavy tolling funeral bell.
This was the flame that shook with Dante’s breath;
The solemn organ whereon Milton played;
And the clear glass where Shakespeare’s shadow falls. A sea this is—beware who ventureth !
For like a fjord the narrow floor is laid
Deep as mid-ocean to the sheer mountain walls.
R. W. Gilder, in “ The Poet and Sis SatterP
*
Music.
In the darkest hours of human life, when man imagines himself to stand almost isolated from the rest of the world, when tortured with mental anguish, or when in his happiest hours fortune smiles upon him with laughing eyes, music is ever welcome. It is one of those heavenly muses which in compassion for the human race was willing, from the very beginning, to share the misfortunes of man, to enliven his pleasures, to be, in fact, a constant source of enjoyment in his hours of repose, to give expression alike to his sorrow and joy. It dates its antiquity to the remotest period, even though it had not attained that encouragement, development and perfection which only an enlightened nature could bestow upon it. Before the sculptor employed his chisel to metamorphose the rude block or the cold marble into living human forms; before scenes of nature were transferred to canvas by the skilful artist, or the mighty pen wielded by eminent geniuses; even before the more useful domestic arts were attended to, music had already insinuated, and was engaging itself with the affections and passions of man.
It is directly an expression of man’s thoughts, and of those tender feelings and imaginations which also give rise to poetry, its sistenjart. Music is sister or parent of poetry, and both are invariably linked together. Although music may owe much of its attraction to the senses, yet it essentially originates in the mind. The former may be entirely wanting in an appreciation of its boundless effects, whilst the latter may breathe all that can be said to apply to the most beautiful strains. Alexander Pope, who had such great powers of versification, could not appreciate music, and Garrick, the actor, and the friend of Goldsmith, was quite indifferent
either to the most simple melodies or the most enchanting strains; not even in the jolly choruses which his friends indulged in did he delight. Thus should the effects of music, its source and expression, be judged, not by the practiced ear, but rather by the rude and untutored mind. It is by examining and referring to all classes of men that we conclude it to be appreciated by the all, if not by senses only, at least by the affections.
The backwoodsman or farmer who from day to day toils in the sweat of his brow—but who in his rural home, breathing the pure, unadulterated air, and admiring the works of an omnipotent God, would not exchange his lot for that of a king—gives expression alike to his joy and sorrows by means of music. The chirping of the cricket, the endless variations of the mocking-bird, or the sweet melodies of the nightingale, are appreciated best by him. He sings while he works; he drives away useless care with song. It is the songs of the rural homes which our poets have so delighted to imitate,—songs in which all the expression of the human heart are expressed in the most humble, tender and attractive form.
Music is not ashamed to enter the lowliest hovel where a fond mother sings her lullaby to her darling with as much love and affection as the queen in her palace. What indeed would this world be if music were absent, if man could not breathe in more delicate expressions his inmost feelings, than in the cold words of language? When nothing can please or bring consolation to the soul that is overburdened with sorrow, when even tears can bring no relief, song can still comfort it. Music, in truth, accompanies man through life, from his very birth even unto death. Children scarcely able to lisp, already delight to imitate some pleasant strain heard before. What pleasure is there not in the chorus of the schoolroom ?—the sweet melodies that ever remind us when we too were among those happy, careless children, unacquainted with the realities of life. What sweet recollections of home and friends, and boon companions, can we bring back to our memories without music and song being associated with them? Truly, what is home without a mother? but, likewise, what is home without music—a home where never the joyful, ringing laughter of children is heard, where never a musical strain seeks abode? Truly such a home is lacking the attractions of one which we picture to ourselves. Finally, when that wonted vigor of manhood’s years has left us, when on the verge of the grave, music regrets not our acquaintance. And then, after the soul has departed for other than earthly realms, the sad, solemn and slow strains of the dirge, together with the intermingling beats of the muffled drum, do homage to the cold, lifeless remains of man, and bespeak the anguish and sorrow which the de-parture of a friend or relative has causedin the hearts of
352
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
those left behind. Thus the effect on man individually, and when considering mankind in general, it makes itself equally prominent. How could we celebrate national festivals in a manner befitting the occasion without it? Would not a spirit of joy, emotion and rapture be wanting, which lend such a magic effect to public entertainments? How the audience in the opera listen with breathless awe to the endless and varied melodies of the orchestra ? What enchantment is there not in all national music? what a feeling of love and patriotism ?
The noble national music if not a certain is yet a probable indication of many national virtues. The general diffusion of beautiful traditionary melodies among a people implies prevalence of refined taste, and of tender and exalted feelings; they go hand in hand with popular poetry. The love of a country—a love which is a concentration of all social and domestic feelings—appears to be powerfully moved by national music. A few notes from a rude reed, or a few strains sung even by an unpracticed voice, will recall to those, distant from their native land images of feelings in a more pathetic manner than the most elaborate description. Thus music, auxiliary to virtue and happiness, is an inestimable blessing. At home, it invests every spot with the light of poetry, enchantment, and charms of recollection. In peace, it binds the ties of affection; in war, it nerves the bone for victory, or the soul for death. The effect which martial music has on men before battle cannot be comprehended by any but such as have actually witnessed a battle scene. Even the quick rattling of the drum excites a lightness of step, a firmness of the whole frame, and a courage almost incompatible with the scenes of carnage and tumult that are so soon to follow. And, outside of all this, what music does not man imagine to hear in the beauties of nature ? Everywhere the real imagination and susceptible mind of the poet hears it. In the cataract, where angry, tumultous waves battle with each other in wild confusion; in the rivulet, that murmurs as it flows through verdant dales and valleys, carrying with it the echo from the distant hill-top; in the unpretending rill, that seeks its path neath, the brush and underwood of the primeval forest; in the rustling of autumnal leaves; in the .howling of the northern storm; in the thunder that rolls from cliff to cliff; in the deep murmur of the ocean itself.
Oh, what pleasure would man be refused to enjoy were music absent! The delight of childhood years, a source of pleasure in youth and manhood, a solace in old age, and then,—yea, even beyond the grave, shall the music of the celestial spheres and spirits greet our ears.
Music! oh, how faint, how weak
Language fades before thy spell I " Why should feeling ever speak,
When thou canst breathe her soul so well ? Friendship’s balmy words may feign,—
Love’s are e’en more false than they.
Oh! ’tis only music’s strain
Can sweetly soothe, and not betray.
J. B. B.
Physiology as an Important Study.
Agesilaus, king of Sparta, when asked what things boys should learn, replied, “Those which they shall practise when they become men.” The human body, with its complicated structure and organs, is left in the charge of man. He alone is appointed to take it as it comes from the hands of the Creator, and develop and exercise it; direct its actions, supply its wants, and govern all the appetites according to his occupations in life; and as health requires observance of the laws inherent to the different organs of the human system, every one without exception should acquire a knowledge of the laws of their organization. If sound morality depends upon the inculcation of correct principles in youth, equally so does a sound physical system depend on a correct physical education during the same period. If the teacher and parents, who are deficient iu moral feelings and'sentiments, are unfit to communicate to children and youth those high moral principles demanded by human nature, so are they equally unfit to direct physical training of the youthful system, if ignorant of the organic laws and the physiological conditions upon which health and disease depend.
As a judicious engineer first learns the structure, the uses and power of his machine, and then supplies all its materials, adapts the surrounding circumstances to its wants and governs its movements, and applies its powers precisely to its intended purposes, so in the management of our vital machine, we must first learn its structure, power and wants, and then supply the one and direct the other precisely according to the law of life.
Our health cannot be the best if we do not obey the physiological laws. We can relax in no required exertion, omit no necessary supply, and indulge in no wrong appetite or propensity. However small the error, the ever-watchful sentinel of life visits it with proportionate punishment, either of positive pain or lessened enjoyment.
For these reasons the study of the structure of the human system and the laws of different organs are subjects of interest to all—the young and the old, the learned and unlearned, the rich and the poor. Every student, after acquiring a knowledge of the primary branches, should learn the structure of the human system and the conditions upon which health and disease depend, as this knowledge will be required in practice, in after life.
Various powers are given to us, and all are necessary to our well-being and happiness. The animal powers and wants, the appetites and propensities, give pleasure when used and gratified in a suitable degree. The moral and intellectual powers of the soul give a higher enjoyment; as the mind needs the body for its earthly home, so the body needs the mind as a director. The bodily health is preserved by acting in obedience to the intellectual and moral faculties, and the mental exercise required for this management of the body is necessary for the health of the brain.
These, then, are the intentions of the Author of nature— that we lead long, full, and happy lives; that, from the begining to the end, we have neither sickness nor weakness, nor discontentment. It is plain that we fall far short of all these blessings.
Between complete life and death there is a wide interval, in which there are many degrees of health and strength;
* and so accustomed are men to the lower degrees, that they seldom look for the higher, and seem content with less.
1
4
—“What a horrible, base bawl!” the frog shouted from the shade of his lily leaf in the pond, to the big red cow who was trying to sing “The last rose of summer,” on the hanks of the pond. “What an awful croquet!” sighed the cow, contemplatively turning her quid while she looked around for some boy to chase across the meadow.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
353
But there is a point in which there is a fulness of physical, intellectual, and moral power, and which constitutes what may be termed perfect health.
Not only are the power and value of life very materially diminished in its course by the greater and lesser sicknesses and indispositions, weakness and languor, but life itself is shortened by these and other causes connected with our existence.
The natural period of life, in favorable circumstances, is supposed to be seventy years; yet comparatively few reach that term. Few die at the end of their natural course, from exhaustion of all their physical powers by proper and regular action through the whole period of life. This great abridgment of life is not caused by imperfection of the Creator’s work. There is nothing in the healthy organization that indicates the necessity of desire, debility, or early death. Nature has not made a mistake in giving man a set of organs, all of which may continue in successful operation seventy or eighty years: for, with the exception of hereditary diseases and imperfections which some parent has engrafted on his own constitution and transmitted to his children, most men are born with perfect and equal organization with equal power of action and endurance in all parts of their frame.
If the parents, methinks, of the present time would govern their human systems according to the laws of physiology, there would be less of hereditary disease among children.
Some think the study of physiology and other natural sciences unimportant and useless, and that youths should study something more useful; that they should learn to look abroad over the surface of the earth, and survey its mountains, rivers, seas, and continents, and guide their views to regions of the firmament, where they may contemplate the moons of Jupiter, the rings of Saturn, and thousands of other luminaries placed at immeasurable distances:—but they should never learn to look into themselves; to consider their own corporeal structures, the numerous parts of which they are composed, the admirable functions they perform, the wisdom and goodness displayed in their mechanism, and the lessons of practical wisdom which may be derived from such contemplations.
Since physiology treats of the functions or uses of the organs of the human body, how can those ignorant of such things regulate their system to their own satisfaction? Not knowing to what state of life our bodies may be suitable, how can we make a choice beneficial to ourselves and others? For these and other reasons the study of physiology is of the utmost importance—important to all, no matter what may be their state in life.
Every man is responsible for his own health; and whoever attends to the preservation of his health with intelligence and faithfulness, will increase his happiness and enjoyments and have length of days on earth.
T 12*
Religious Education.
WHAT A NON-CATHOLIC HAS TO SAY OH THE SUBJECT.
Our forefathers came to this country not only to live where they could worship God according to the dictates of their own consciences, but where they could educate their children in their own religious faith. No people ever believed more thoroughly in the importance of secular education, but it must always be subordinate to moral and religious education. Therefore the schools which they established were, from the first, under the especial charge of the clergy. When the first primary schools were established • in Boston in 1820, the “ rules and regulations ” required the teachings of religion, and the teachers were expected to open and close the schools with prayer. No pupil in the second class could be advanced to the first who could not recite the Commandments and Lord’s Prayer; and none could graduate into the grammar school who could not read fluently in the New Testament.
De Tocqueville says: “Religion is no less than the companion of liberty in all its battles and its triumphs— the cradle of liberty—the divine source of its claims. The safeguard of morality is religion; and morality is the best security of law, as well as the surest pledge of freedom.” Prof. Huxley says in his lay sermons: “I would rather the
children of the poor should grow up ignorant of both the mighty arts of reading and writing, than that they should remain ignorant of that knowledge to which these arts are means.”
Washington, in his farewell address, says: “Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principles.”
Through sectarian quarrels among Protestants, and protests from Catholics, religious instruction has gradually dropped out from the public schools, so that now this most important part of a child’s education is wholly ignored in our great system of public instruction. It may well be considered a hazardous experiment, when we reflect that it is contrary to the custom in every country in Europe. In England—a country more nearly like our own than any other—the new educational act of 1870 makes careful provision for religious instruction. With ' the exception of Birmingham, where the disorderly class is large, and a few small towns in Wales, every school board approved the act. Only a short time since the school board sent a circular to all the teachers, asking them to give more attention to this matter. It says: “ The committee hope that, during the Bible lesson, the teachers will keep this object before them, and that every opportunity will be used earnestly and sympathetically to bring home to the minds of the children these moral and religious principles on which the right conduct of their future lives must necessarily depend.” It is now one hundred years since Robert Raikes of Glasgow opened the first Sunday school, and about fifty years since any considerable number were established in this country. These schools have been depended upon to give the religious instruction formerly given in the public schools and thought by many to be sufficient. It was thought so by some in England, and used as an argument against having religion taught in the public schools. The subject was thoroughly discussed, and statistics taken. The following extract from a late report will show with what result: “It has been found that Sunday schools do but little, comparatively, in teaching the knowledge of religious duties and of the Bible.” In one town where the giving of religious instruction in the schools was opposed on the ground that the Sunday schools of the place made it unnecessary, the chairman of the board examined personally 200 children between 9 and 13, of whom 80 per cent, attended Sunday schools. He put to each the following questions: Who was Adam? Who was Jesua Christ? Only 86 knew who Adam was, and but 98 who Jesus Christ was. In examining two Sunday schools in the vicinity of London—one connected with the Church of England—not one could be found who could explain whom he meant to address as “ Our Father ” in the Lord’s Prayer.
It is thought by many that the Sunday schools in thia country might make a similar appearance under examination, especially in the more liberal denominations, where so many object to any doctrinal teaching whatever. It may be considered fair to conclude that but little is done in our Sunday schools to compare with regular daily religious instruction formerly given in the public schools, and little to be compared with the secular instruction given.
Many persons think that the public schools teach morality, and no doubt they do to some degree. But a prominent teacher said to me not long since: “We do not meddle with a pupil’s habits outside of school; we do not feel that it is our duty, more than any other person’s, to speak to a boy for lying or stealing, if not done in school.” According to this, teachers are not doing more in this direction than is done by overseers in any large manufactory for those in their employ. There is a general feeling in the community, probably, that intellectual education has a great moral influence, and, in part, take* the place of moral and religious education. Herbert Spencer says: “The belief in the moralizing effects of intellectual culture, flatly contradicted by facts, is absurd.” Any one who has read and considered a prize essay written by Rev. Cyrus Pierce, for the American Institute of Instruction, entitled : “ Crime; Its Cause and Cure,” will never expect people to be made good by cultivating their intellectual faculties. It was formerly said that ignorance was the great cause
354
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ofcrime, but probably our jails and prisons contain as large a per cent, of educated persons as the community from •which they come. Mere intellectual culture, then, cannot be depended upon to make good men or citizens. All religious denominations believe that moral and religious instruction is of the highest importance, yet, as things are, it cannot be given in the public schools, and the Sunday schools, under the best of circumstances, can accomplish but little in the short time the children are under instruction ; and as most parents are incompetent to give it, and those competent often neglectful, how shall this, the most important thing, be done? This, without which no nation can long endure? We pay tithes of mint, anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matter of the law, judgment, mercy and faith. We know the greater, but seek the less. To this important question the Catholics say: “Let each denomination teach religion to their own children without interference in connection with secular instruction in the public schools, under such rules and regulations as experience shall prove convenit nt. Either set apart a time when the clergymen can meet the chil dren and give this instruction, or let them have separate schools and their share of the school money, subject to the same supervision and requirements as all the other schools.” If no better answer can be given, something like the above, most certainly ought to be done, not only in justice to them, but for the good of all. It is not safe to jump at conclusions and decide that a certain state of things results from this or that cause. One thing, however, cannot be denied—all crime, and especially juvenile crime, has increased to an alarming extent during the last half century, much faster than the population. Our oldest reform school was established less than forty years ago, and was built to accommodate but 200. This now would not be sufficient for the juvenile criminals of Boston alone.
Many have inherited such a prejdudice against the Catholics that they can scarcely discuss educational or religious questions with them with fairness. They seem to feel that Catholics have no rights that they are bound to respect. How often have I heard it said, “If the Catholics do not like this country, let them go back to Ireland ”—as though they had not as good right here as we, and that our laws will not, in the end, protect all in their rights, without regard to race, color or religion. Even Washington, in 1751, to qualify himself for a certain office, had to take an oath that he did not believe in tran-substantiation. In prisons and reformatories in Massachusetts, until very lately, a Catholic priest would hardly be allowed to see the sick and dying of his own Church.
We have assumed that Catholics were enemies of education because they find fault with the sectarian teachings in our schools; because they prefer the Douay Bible to that of King James—because they prefer to teach their own children their own religion, in connection with secular instruction. It is hard to be just to our opponents, especially in religious matters. The Catholics and some others oppose the teaching of religion in the public schools, under present circumstances, as friends of religion; but many, like some Communists, Socialists, etc., are enemies of religion itself. It is very significant that Catholics are rarely connected with those secret societies which threaten the future peace of the country. Should serious trouble arise from them, the whole Catholic population will be arraigned in opposition, a conservative power not to be despised. A very wise and attentive observer of these things said to me, not long ago that in California society could hardly have held together two years since against the Sand-hillers and their dangerous associates had it not been for the Catholics, who stood as a unit against them for law and order.
The Catholics, though mostly poor, maintain over two thousand parochial schools in the United States, with an attendance of upward of 200,000 pupils, and pay their school tax besides This proves that they are friends of education, and also that they will secure religious instruction for their children at much trouble and expense. Their schools are patronized by many of the most intelligent Protestants in the country, especially schools for girls. The late Rev. Samuel J. May, an eminent educator, said that of all the schools he visited in Europe, those under the Catholic Brothers in the North of Ireland were the best.
Should the Catholics open parochial schools, they would
have no difficulty in finding competent teachers for a small fraction of what the teachers in the public schools receive. The principle of self-sacrifice seems to be more active among Catholics than Protestants, especially in matters pertaining io religion. Therefore, should a division of the school money be made, they would be able to compete, successfully, with the public or other schools, and save something for other purposes. The following quotation from a late number of The Catholic World will give their views of education: “ All are agreed that education is necessary. It is of the highest interest to the state to see that its citizens should be sufficiently educated. In no country in the world is this necessity for education more deeply felt than in our own, for in no country do the people enjoy so large a share in the government. Universal suffrage demands universal education, else it might be a curse rather than a blessing.” In regard to some plan of giving religious instruction in the schools, it says: “If these persons come forward who offer to give such education and to guarantee that the instruction (secular) shall be quite as satisfactory as that given in the public schools at a less cost, we maintain that the state is bound, in the interest of its citizens, to accept their offer.” The remarks of Father O’Brien before the school committee of Cambridge, of which he is a member, will be interesting in this connection:	•
“You will allow me just a word or two in regard to my position on the school question. Those who have known me, both Protestant and Catholic, know that I am not satisfied with our present system of education; that I believe a better system is awaiting our cold and dispassionate consideration, and that I am strongly of the opinion that such a consideration, will eventually result in adopt ing what is known as the religious system of education, or, at least, its adoption by those who do believe in it will receive the sanction of law and excite no unfavorable criticism. In this system the most important of all studies, the knowledge of God and of man’s duties to God, will receive the attention it deserves. Now I believe that the interests of Protestants and Catholics alike, as well as the interests of civil society, demand more attention in our schools to this at present neglected branch of study, and I also believe that passion and prejudice alone stands in the way of adopting this system to day. There is no good reason, in my opinion, why the city of Cambridge may not to-day grant the reasonable demands of Catholics and many Protestants in this matter. It would then give some of its schools to Catholics, pay teachers of ascertained ability to teach these schools, see that the work of the schools be up to the proper standard, and exercise such reasonable control over them as the interests of the community may demand. This course would, I am sure, contribute to the material, intellectual and moral welfare of its citizens.”
The more I have thought of these great problems, affecting as they do the welfare of the whole people, the more I am convinced that it will require the united wisdom of our wisest and best men to find a satisfactory solution, a solution that shall recognize all parental rights and obligations, and provide in some manner for the moral and religious education of all our children.—Boston Sunday Herald.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Boston will probably hear “ The Pirates of Penzance ” at the Globe Theatre, beginning in March.
—A monument to Sir William Wallace, the Scottish patriot, is to be erected in Aberdeen. The sum available is £3,400.
—Temple Bar is to be re-erected in Victoria Park. The Academy hopes it will not be scraped or otherwise made to look new.
—Mr. Ernest Longfellow, the son of the poet, is exhibiting in Boston a large allegorical painting called “The Choice of Youth.”
—Mlle. Heilbron, the prima donna, who is well remembered in this country, is to marry Count de la Parronayk, and retire from the stage.
—60,000 copies of Archbishop Gibbons’s “ Faith of our
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
355

Fathers ” have been sold. John Murphy & Co., of Baltimore, are the lucky publishers.
—An English publishing house is issuing Mr. F. G. Heath’s “ Fern Paradise”—a plea for the culture of ferns —in monthly parts, with illustrations.	'
—The performance of “ The Crimson Scarf,” which was to have been given at Salem, Mass., last week, has been postponed until after Lent. Mrs. George Upton and Dr. Albion M. Dudley will take part.
—Rossini’s “Stabat Mater" and Sullivan’s “Prodigal Son” are in rehearsal by the Philharmonic Society of Washington, for performance March 3d. The same Society proposes giving these works in Baltimore also.
—Mr. Lawrence Kehoe, manager for the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York, has ordered his advertisement of The Catholic Family Annual for 1880 out of the Ave Maria's business columns, and states that the entire edition, 30,000 copies, is sold.
—Ex-President Woolsey and Prof. S. Wells Williams, of Yale College, contribute articles on “ Chinese Immigration” and “International Law,” both as affecting the United States, to the Journal of Social Science, published by the the American Social Science Association.
—Of “ Tara’s Halls,” of which Moore sang, nothing but the outline of the walls remains. Tara, the traditional palace of Irish kings, is in Meath, eighteen miles from Dublin, and belongs now to Mr. Preston, whose uncle, a Union peer, was created Lord Tara. Tara is on very high ground two miles from Belinter, the splendid seat of the Prestons.
—The Clough & Warren Organ Co., of this city, received on January 23d a cable dispatch from London, England, for 12 of their finest style organs, valued at over §6,000. These organs have established their fame. They received prizes at Philadelphia and Paris. Some of our Catholic institutions speak of them in terms of high praise. —Home Journal, Detroit.
—Schenck, the painter of sheep in snow-storms, has sold a recent work called “Anguish” to Mr. Agnew, the London art dealer, for §9,000. The subject is a sheep in a snowstorm protecting her lamb, which has almost perished from the cold, and for whose death a lot of heartless crows are waiting, perched near by. Schenck is about 55 years old, and is a Prussian, married and successful.
—The bare announcement that Pope Leo contemplates publishing the various Catalogues of the great Vatican Library basset European scholars agog; and no wonder, when the inexhaustible amount of material, heretofore unknown to the literary world, is considered. More than this, however, some provisions for a reading-room, as at the other great libraries of the world, are talked of.
—Maurice Dreyfous, who a year ago published A. Robida’s “Italian Cities,” has now brought out in Paris “ The Cities of Spain,” by the same author and designer. M. Robida uses his pen in two ways with equal accuracy and humor. His new work is illustrated with 125 designs, representing the picturesque features of Toledo, Cordova, Murcia, Fontarabia, Grenada, Seville, Madrid, and a score of minor places.
—Through her native and adopted children, Albany has given to science a Henry; to sculpture, a Palmer; to painting, a Boughton; to the drama, a Florence; to literature, a Bret Harte; to poetry, a Street; to music, an Albani; and the list might be extended indefinitely. We have, in fact, only to consider what Albany is and has been; what she has given and received; what has been her history, and what awaits her in the future, to cause the bosom of her every citizen to swell with pride as he exclaims “I, too, am an Albanian!”—Albany Mirror.
—Among the contents of the library of the late Henry J. Anderson, which was sold in New York the other day, were three rare and ancient manuscripts. One, more than 800 years old, was found about fifty years ago in a Sicilian monastery, thence taken to Constantinople, and finally brought to this country by Hon. C. Oscanyan, then Consul General from the Ottoman Empire. It is the original manuscript of St. Gregory Vikafayer’s work on the martyrs, and contains over 1,200 illuminated pages in the Ar
menian language. Another, said to be over 400 or 500 years old, and beautifully illuminated on vellum paper, comprises three folio volumes written in Arabic, and consists of selections from the Koran. The third manuscript is the only work, known to be exact in the country that was written by Amr Ibn Ibrahim, an ancient and much esteemed oriental author.—The Paper World.
—As the time approaches for the opening of the thirteenth annual exhibition of the American Water-Color Society it becomes more and more evident that the display of water-colors this year will be larger and finer than any that has taken place in former years. Over nine hundred pictures have been received by the Hanging Committee, Messrs. Bricher, De Luce and Murrman, and possibly two-thirds of these works will be hung. Quite a number of etchings and sketches by old masters and celebrated foreign artists of to-day have been loaned to the Society, and the members of the New York Etching Club have contributed a large number of pictures, so that the new department of works in black and white is likely to be one of the most interesting features of the exhibition. A private view of the collection will take place on the evening of Friday, the 30th inst., and the public will be admitted to the exhibition on the Monday morning following.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Maclear claimed that the artificial diamonds made by him were the results of thirteen years’ investigation.
—The editors of the American Antiquarian, of Chicago, have established an Oriental Journal, devoted to Oriental and Biblical archceology.
—An octopus embraced a diver in an Australian river, and it was twenty minutes before the man could release himself. He was nearly exhausted.
—A French Chemist asserts that if tea be ground like coffee, immediately before hot water is poured upon it, its exhilerating qualities will be doubled.
—The excavations which are being carried out at Olympia under the auspices of the Prussian Government have recommenced, and discoveries of a most important nature are being made.
—It has been ascertained by careful analysis that rain which falls in towns often becomes heavily charged with injurious properties, and can only in rural districts be regarded as a thoroughly safe drinking water
—The Boulak Museum is the best history that exists of the Pharaohs, with their twenty-five dynasties, and the Persians and Greeks who followed them. Changes were projected last summer which required the closing of the museum for a time, and the packing away of all the valuables in cases until the alterations were completed. They were all deposited m a neighboring warehouse. But robbers the other day broke in through the roof, and some 80 or 100 scarabsei, of great value pecuniarily, and impossible to replace, as they related to the early dynasties^ were abstracted, although they were things of no apparent worth to an ignorant person.
—The King of the Belgians has established a yearly prize of 25,000 francs for the encouragement of works of intelligence. The prize offered for international competition will be awarded in 1881 to the best treatise on the means of improving harbors established on low and sandy coasts, like that of Belgium. Foreigners who desire to compete for the prize must send their works, printed or in manuscript, before the 1st of January, 1881, to the Ministry of Interior at Brussels. The manuscript which obtains the prize must be printed during the year which follows that in which the prize has been granted. The works offered for competition will be referred to a jury chosen by his majesty, which will number seven persons—three Belgians and four foreigners of different countries.
—The manner of coating mirrors with a thin film of silver, though superior to the old amalgamating process has some drawbacks. The ordinary treatment is as follows: The glass is laid on a horizontal table of cast-iron covered with a woollen cloth and heated to 40 degrees
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Centig. (104 degrees Fahr.). On the glass, previously well cleaned, are poured successively a solution of tartaric acid, and then another of ammoniacal nitrate of silver. Under the influence of the heat the organic acid reduces the metallic salt, and after about twenty minutes the silver is deposited on the glass in adherent layers; the whole operation does not occupy more than an hour. The mirror is then dried and the meial covered with a varnish ufficient to protect it from friction and the action of sulphur vapors which blacken it But silver deposited in this way often has an unpleasant yellowish reflection. AI. Lenoir, of Paris, turned his attention to discovering a process which w’ould obviate this drawback. He has succeeded by the following means: The glass, once silvered, is subjected to the action of a dilute solution of the double cyanide of mercury and potassium, when an amalgam of white and brilliant silver is formed, adhering strongly to the glass. To facilitate the operation and utilize all the silver employed, AI. Lenoir, by a recent improvement, sprinkles the glass at the moment the mercurial solution is applied with a very fine powder of zinc, which precipitates the mercury and regulates the amalgamation. Mirrors thus treated no longer give, it is said, the yellowish images of the silver used alone, but the white and brilliant reflection of the old process without the emanation of vapors which would be injurious to the men employed upon the operation.
—At a meeting of the Royal Irish Academy, in Kilkenny, on Jan. 12th, the Rev. Alaxwell Close read a paper by Air. Thomas Plunkett, “ On some Sepulchral Remains found in Killecarney, in the County of Cavan.” The author mentions that several objects of geological and antiquarian interests have been lately exposed in the making of the railway between Enniskillen and Alanorhamilton. Dur. ing the progress of the railway work several natural gravel mounds were cut through, laying bare interesting sections for geologists. One mound, 75 feet in diameter, and 12 feet high, which was selected for the purpose of being used as ballast for the line, was found to be mantled over with an artificial covering of swell boulders to a depth of from two to three feet. Towards the centre of it, un der the boulders, a double kist was found, formed of unhewn flags, both carved with one large flag. In each chamber was a sepulchral urn containing what appeared to be burnt human remains. The urns were elaborately covered with indented ornamentation. A curious bone object was found in one of the chambers and a polished celt in the other. Shortly afterwards another cist was laid bare on the east side of the mound, much larger than either of the others. It was closely covered with a huge flag, and contained a large urn about fifteen inches high. This urn, unfortunately, fell to pieces as it was being removed. It contained a large quantity of what appeared to be burnt human remains. It was formed of the same coarse kind of clay as the other two urns, but the ornamentation was entirely different, being in relief, or raised, no part being incised. The raised ornamentation seemed to have been made separately and attached to the urn before being burned. Some antiquarians regarded the raised style of ornamentation as more advanced than the incised or indented. Yet, with the urn having the raised ornamentation there was associated a flint implement, and a polished stone celt with the indented urn. In the same chamber with the large urn was found a beautiful flint implement serrated at the edges. It was probable that when the remainder of the mound was excavated other cists would be found.
Exchanges.
—South Bend has now a lively little Sunday penny paper The Sunday Register. South Bend should be able to support a Sunday paper. The Sunday Register differs from any other Sunday paper we have ever seen, but we presume its energetic publishers understand the want and act accordingly.
—The editorials of The Harvard Echo are trying to conjure up real plank walks around the college, to replace the mud and imaginary planks that are now doing duty. A daily paper like The Harvard, Echo is a useful institution
round a large college, and an interesting one as well. There are some big chunks of common sense in it, and some “ soft sawder” to fill up the interstices. The subscription price is only a dollar for three months.
—The last number of the Queen's College Journal comes draped in mourning for Prot. J. H. Alackerras, AI. A., late Professor of Classics in Queen’s. A fine portrait of the deceased and a beautiful memorial poem by Kate Seymour Mac. Lean accompany this number of the Journal. Prof. Mackerras seems to have had a deep hold on the affections of all at Queen’s, both faculty and students, and the latter have paid a beautiful tribute to his memory in the pages of their college paper. They have our sympathy in their loss.
—The Cornell Era announces that the Review will be out next (this) week. We are glad of this. We were afraid the number to which we are entitled by the editorial courtesy of exchange had fallen into other hands. We are not ashamed to say we read the Cornell Review, the Virginia University Magazine and the Vassar Miscellany about as thoroughly as any overtasked homo could be expected to read anything. The reader may take this as a confession of weakness on our part, or of strength and ability on the part of the editors of those magazines, we don’t care which.
—The College Index for February has some excellent matter, and presents an attractive appearance. There is but one fault in connection with the Index—its being quarterly instead of monthly. The principal features of the present number are the critique on “George Eliot” and the exchange column. The assertion in one of the editorials that the exhibition at the close of the last term “ was rather in advance of those of previous years " strikes us as being somewhat of a cioss between an Irish bull and a solecism. We mention this, not to find fault, but to show what strange freaks will sometimes creep into the best prepared compositions and escape detection until too late.
—The new editor of The Beacon—1the light which diffuses its radiance over the precincts of Boston University —starts out by saying that he never had any sympathy with pessimism. That is .right; pessimism is the depth of folly, as the opposite extreme is often the height of absurdity. The Beacon is a handsome enough sheet, as far as appearance goes, and is very fairly edited. Its original poetry is often excellent, as, for instance, the “ Canlem an Sileam ” of the January number, just received. The exchange department is -well edited. Hereafter the names or initials of contributors will not be given with the articles. Well, it is not venturing too far, we believe, to say that they will lose more than half their interest in the new way. Everybody likes to know whom he or she is reading.
—The current number of The University Magazine opens with a well-writtep college poem, in nine stanzas, entitled “A Vision of Judgment,”—not of the General Judgment, nor yet of the Particular Judgment, but of such a Judgment as could be conceived only in the mind of a Senior classman. It is a droll affair. “ Characteristics ” is a suitable companion-sketch in prose,—no ideality in it, though —it is purely matter of fact. The various departments of the Magazine are kept up to the usual high standard. In acknowledging the receipt of a copy of “Preludes,” the editor of The University Magazine prefixes the title of “ Rev.” to the author’s name. This is a mistake. Air. Egan is a young layman, and a journalist by profession. He is attached to the staff of the Catholic Review newspaper, of New York, and is an occasional contributor to various magazines.
—The Bates Student for January is the first number of that college magazine that has reached us. It is a neatly printed small octavo magazine, with eighteen pages of reading matter. The leading article, “Washington and Jefferson,” is well written, and shows considerable acquaintance with the subjects of which it treats. “Protestantism,” by C. A. Bickford, is also well-written, and, in the main, correct in its statements, we believe; there are, however, exaggerations—as, for instance, that “ from the days of Constantine the progress became rapid of corrupting the religion of Christ, and of converting it into a system of spiritual tyranny, idolatry, superstition, and hypocrisy.” This is altogether too sweeping an assertion, and takes the exception for the rule. So also with regard to the one re
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	357
garding the period from the 10th to the 16th centuries. When a person is writing on a historical subject he should avoid exaggeration, not to say misrepresentation. “ Co-Education,” by F. L. B., takes an enthusiastic view of the benefits likely to accrue from this peculiar institution, and takes pride in the fact that Bates was one of the first to fall into the line of co-educational institutions. The Student is a well-edited magazine, and creditable to its editors.
—The Brunonian for the fortnight ending January the 31st is brim full of excellent matter—crisply-written, interesting editorials, first-class poetry—yes—poetry—lively locals, etc. “The Maiden of Cathay ” has a deep moral embedded in trochees and spondees, which moral will commend itself to the fair inmates of Vassar, St. Mary’s and similar halls of literature and science. “ The Dorr War” is an interesting historical sketch. We wish we could give the poem on “Sunset”—more poetic but not so matter-of-fact as the preceding one; we give a couple of stanzas, however, for our own satisfaction and the gratification of our readers :
“The western windows of the sky
Are hung with crimson curtains round, The upper clouds in mountains lie, With tinted pearl and silver crowned.
“ The glorious monarch of the day Sinks, in his car of gold to rest Beyond the mountains far away, Touching with glory every crest.”
The exchange department (over a page—we are glad to see the exchange departments lengthening in various college papers) is well filled, and will be read with interest both by those who are cut and those who are not. “ The Recluse in his Cell” shows a few of the annoyances with which the editor of a college paper has to contend—and it is, therefore, no wonder that college papers come out so irregularly,—the wonder is that they come out at all more than half the time. (We hope the editor of the Scholastic will reprint this piece—it suits Notre Dame to a T.) The exchange and local departments are in keeping with the rest of the paper.
1 I
College Gossip.
—The total number of students at Princeton is now 473.
—Dartmouth College is to have a Law Department.— Brunonian.
—During Thanksgiving recess the Williams Glee Club gave four concerts.
—The ladies of Oberlin are raising money for a society hall.—Brunonian.
—Cornell’s yearly running expenses for 440 students amount to $110,000.
—Harvard is considering Yale’s desire to reduce football teams to eleven men.—Brunonian.
—The Jesuit Fathers have flourishing colleges in nearly all the large cities of the United States and Canada.
—The Kenyon Advance says that Psychology and English Literature are the only required studies of the Senior year at Dartmouth.
—The new gymnasium at Harvard was erected by means of a gift of $100,000 from Aug. Hemenway, of Boston, a graduate of that institution.
—Within a little more than a year, Syracuse University has secured about $100,000 in the form of bequests and other obligations.—Harvard Echo.
—Wellesly College has this year the largest Freshman Class in its existence—numbering nearly 100. There are altogether 369 students.—Philomathean.
—Minister White, late President of Cornell University, is popular among the sixty American students in Berlin; he insists that they shall make his house their home.
—Instructor—“Cite some of the references to Casar’s times.” Student hesitates, and his next neighbor suggests, quite audibly, “ Though lost to cite, to memory dear.”— Echo.
—The Ohio Wesleyan University at Delaware recently received a bequest of $75,000 for the establishment of a chair to be known as the “ Ripley Professorship.”—Oberlin Review.
—At Harvard tutors are paid $1,000 a year; assistant professors, $2,000; professors, $4,000. The salaries of the latter are to be increased to $4,500 and the sub-professors to $3,000 a year.
—Carlton College, Northfield, Minn., was recently burned. Loss $28,000; insurance $12,000.- The friends of the college are making efforts to increase the endowment of the institution.
—The German universities are supported by the Government at an annual expense of $2,500,000.—Kenyon Advance. All squeezed out of the pockets of the people by taxation, of course. Why not allow the people to pay it themselves ?
—In 1839 the colleges of New England graduated one student to every 1,200 of the population. Since then the ratio has been steadily decreasing, and now. taking the country as a whole, the colleges graduate yearly only one student to about 3,000 people.—Brunonian.
—The University of Pennsylvania has raised a handsome monument in memory of nineteen of her graduates, who fell in the service of their country during the rebellion. Harvard intends doing the same. The Class of ’60 will place a memorial window in the college, in memory of their classmates who fell during the war.—Ex.
—An attempt is to be made, after the semi-annuals, to ascertain the drift of political opinion in Collegej by means of a canvass conducted by Messrs. Roosevelt of ’80, Mc-Veagh of ’81, Manning of ’82, and Winthrop of ’83. A ballot-box under the supervision of this committee will be placed in the College Reading Room, Lower Massachussetts, on Feb. 9.—Harvard Echo.
—The Cornell Era finds the Signal Service Station in Ithica [Ithaca—the intelligent typo, we suppose] an almost inexhaustible source of material for jokes.—Harvard Echo. The boys are trying to run counter and raise a storm, very likely, because the signal service announces continual fine weather. Better the inevitable two weather-balls than to have to patronize the three golden ones, at all events.
—Rt. Rev. Monsignor Patterson, President of St Edmund's College, Ware, England, has been named by the Pope to fill the bishopric of Northampton, made vacant by the resignation of Bishop Amherst. This promotion adds one more celebrated Oxford graduate to the already long list of Oxford converts who have become members of the Catholic episcopate in England.
—The Sayles Memorial Hall, now in course of erection, will be the third college building put up at Brown University within the past four or five years. The cost of the building was at first estimated at $50,000; but with various changes, as is usually the case with large buildings, the original estimate will probably be doubled, but the donation has kept pace with the increase. Such benefactors are worthy of praise.
—The editors of The Brunonian say they can hardly keep their exchanges from squabbling on the table. “We have the greatest difficulty,” say they, “in keeping the Yale, Princeton and Columbia papers separated, and several times the Acta has actually risen up and pounced down upon the Record. We never dare to lay The Prince-Ionian near The Courant, and the Niagara Index is altogether too quarrelsome when by any chance it gets under the table with the rest, so that we have no piece until it is in the waste-basket.”
—The effort of some of the college boys to exclude professional players from their representative ball nines should be encouraged. Not enough of them has as yet been hired materially to change the nature of the play, yet a dangerous start has been made. Professional athletic contests have sunk so low through the influences of betting men, that the college boys alone could be depended upon for manly and honest performances. The introduction of professionals among them would rob their games of all their charms.—N. Y. Sun. Is anything going to be done about this matter ‘i—Princetonian.
358
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 14=, IS80.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLATTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AH the weekly^ local news of the University, including the names of those whofhave distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per A^rriium, ^Postpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them In all snch cases, early application should be made at the office.of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The Lecture of Hon. Lucius Hubbard, ’59, of South Bend, announced for Thursday evening last, has been postponed. The subject of the Lecture is in itself an intricate and interesting one to the Law Class, and Hr. Hubbard’s well-known ability as a lawyer and eloquence as a speaker will no doubt make the lecture doubly interesting.
We learn from a communication to the New York Freeman) e Journal that the School Board of our diocese—Fort Wayne, Ind., has published its first annual report which consists of sixty-three pages of interesting details, and is the first result of its labors. The communication goes on to say: “Each school is reported with its number of teachers, pupils, classbooks, daily attendance, order of studies, etc.; at the end tables are given which show the diversity in classbooks now used in several schools. Very interesting is the general report in the statistical dates; although it is rather defective as to the number of schools and the amount of expenses, several schools (about sixteen) having failed to report in time and others having reported somewhat inaccurately. The number of schools in the diocese is 53; attendance about 5,000; average annual expense per pupil, about $5; total expense per annum, $25,000. Adding to this regular expense that for school property, buildings, furniture, repairs, etc., the reader will be able to form an idea of what Catholics in this Western diocese do for the support of Christian education. The report gives a good showing of the educational work going on in our schools; moreover, it is of a most beneficial influence. The interest of clergy and laity in this
great cause is increased, and order and system, which alone can impart lasting value and continual progress to every work we introduce. The appointment of a Diocesan Schoolboard and its annual reports are the first steps towards a harmonious and well-regulated Catholic school system.”
This is surely a step in the right direction, and we hope ere long to see other dioceses follow the example. The members of the Schoolboard were appointed about a year ago by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, and of it our esteemed President, Very Rev. W. Corby, is a member. Things will come by degiees, we have only to be patient, and at the same time do what we can to further the interests of education—education of the right kind, of which many stand so much in need.
We are already face to face with the season of Lent—a season of mortification and penance—a season during which all Christians feel that they are not allowed to indulge in the many pleasures and amusements that at any other time of the year would be perfectly lawful. Lent, too, has in connection with it, the absence of mirth, or something of a saddening nature; and we have no hesitation in saying that many dislike its name, and do not feel at all pleased when they find themselves about to enter on it. But this, of course, is the feeling of our nature—a nature that dislikes everything with which penance, mortification, etc., are connected.
But we know that the Christian must continually fight, and deny himself the demands of that, which in place of bringing him to heaven, would take him to that place which is directly opposite; and since the Church in her wisdom, has seen fit to set apart a time in which her children may look into their own hearts and minds, and impose upon themselves for the greater welfare of their souls suitable penances—penances in conformity to the will of her who takes the place of God Himself in our regard—it is but right that we should follow her guidance. Therefore it is expected that all who have completed their twenty-first year will strive to comply with the precept of the Church, and show their readiness to do everything that she demands of them.
When we consider human nature, it is not to be wondered at that most of our college youth are a little adverse to the season of which we here speak, and we think we might go further and say, that quite a large number of them are convinced that they have no right to be annoyed by any bodily mortification, as college life is sufficiently hard without it. But Lent comes whether it be desired or not, and even in spite of ourselves we are now entered upon it. It then becomes us as reasonable beings to accept things as they are, and show our good will by doing what we can in a conscientious manner in order to please God and discharge our duty as Christians.
It is, indeed, very edifying, to see the number of students at Notre Dame who fast and abstain during the whole season of Lent. They feel that they have this duty to perform, and they do it with a heart and will. These students, too, generally form a separate table, and show by their behavior and attention to their religious duties that they understand thoroughly the nature of the season through which they are passing. This speaks well for the training/ received here, and for which we think none of Notre Dame students in after life will feel sorry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCTHOLASTIC.
359

One of the editors of The Amherst Student says in the last issue of that paper that “the new departure in the ranking system, lately introduced at Amherst, has been pretty thoroughly, discussed by the students, and the universal verdict seems to be—unnecessary. However unnecessary this new plan may be, there is another which is is still more disagreeable. We refer to the matter of the faculty’s refusing to tell the student his rank in separate • departments. If the marking system has any good in it at all, if it has a tendency to promote the best interest of the student, there certainly can be no harm in saying what each has received in his different studies. Often it happens that a student does well in two departments and poorly in a third. Why, then, should he not know wherein he was deficient and to what degree? The very idea of education is the equitable and harmonious development of the faculties. Instead, therefore, of letting a student pursue two studies at the expense of a third, it is better that he should exert himself less upon the former and give more time and attention to the latter. Besides, there is a certain pleasure in knowing what we have accomplished in each study pursued during the term. It satisfies curiosity, and this is by no means to be sneered at. We have considered the matter carefully, and have failed to find any good reason why the faculty follow the course they do in this matter,” etc. It would seem that what the Amherst men desire so much is just what we have got here. Any one acquainted with the system used at Notre Dame—namely, the monthly bulletins, with the import of which the students are made acquainted before the bulletins are sent, and the weekly reading of the class-notes and notes for conduct in public— will see at once the superiority of the system here to that in vogue in most colleges. The student has every guarantee of receiving credit for all he does, both in class and in deportment, and also of rectifying, or having rectified any mistakes that may occur. If his conduct is good, he has the credit of it, both with his fellow-students and his parents or guardians; if evil, he knows that he receives only his deserts, and must take the consequences. The written examinations also, in use at Notre Dame, serve to counterbalance the ill effect to the student of any timidity or confusion that might have acted against him in the oral examinations, and enable him to show his real acquirements in a way to recover his standing—thus leaving nothing to be wished for as regards the examinations. Of course, only the general averages are published, in order to save space in our paper, but the special average of each class is read out in public at the end of the examination. Hence anyone can see that the student knows just where he stands, and the published general average prevents any imposition on the part of students when sending home the special average of each of their classes.
Elsewhere, another editor turns to the same subject, and although he thinks it his duty to use the “ term ’’ foolish for his seeming condescension in calling favorable notice to the rules of another college, yet it will be seen further on that he considers our way anything but foolish. He says: “It is quite amusing to notice some of the methods in vogue at different colleges, whereby the faculty induce their students to better their rank and deportment. At the head of a long list of names in the Notre Dame Scholastic we notice the following: ‘The names of those students whose conduct has given entire satisfaction to the faculty.’ The names of the smart boys are also published. As foolish as this custom may seem, it is said to have a
great influence upon the scholarship and deportment of Notre Dame. It at least has many advantages which the practice of sending home the rank and deportment cannot claim. In the first place, it helps to fill up the college pa-_ per, and is thus a great relief to the editors; again, it requires neither labor nor money. It offers no chance for the stronger and more intellectual members of a college faculty to impose upon a weaker brother the dreadful task of writing 350 letters, while he must ever have before him the inevitable fact that he will some day receive half of them back through the dead-letter office. Again, a student would be in no danger of receiving a reprimand from his parents for getting 45 demerit marks when the average of the class was 69. It must be very mortifying to see a fond son so far below the average.” ’
—The Sunday Register, of South Bend, in an article on the present famine in Ireland and the best means of relieving the peasantry of that country, says “ the English and Irish agree like oil and water.” As regards the British Government, yes; as regards the people of the two countries, no; the people of England and the immigrants from Ireland are pretty well mixed up in the former country, and they agree as well as any one could wish. It is not with the English people the Irish are at loggerheads, but with the bad laws by which they are governed, and the unfeeling, unconscionable Government which makes or carries out those laws. Theoretically, England should have the best Government on the face of the earth; practically, it is one of	For, what is a Government
for but to administer the laws equitably, for the benefit of the people, and to change and amend those laws when they are found to be defective? Yet, the great mass of the people of Ireland are ground down by tyranny of the worst kind. The money of the poor peasant-farmer is felched from him by excessive rents, taxes, tithes, etc., mostly to support landlords who, instead of returning part of this money by trade or industrial enterprises, spend it abroad in England or on the continent, not a penny of it going to Irish merchants for clothing or provisions.
The English, or rather Irish-English, landlord lives in a , foreign country and rolls in luxury on the money wrung from the Irish peasant for rent and even rack-rent that is double what it should be. Thus Irish money is always going abroad, and the country becomes impoverished. In time bad seasons come, and the peasant cannot pay the exorbitant rents—he has not even wherewith to feed and clothe his half-starved family,—then he is evicted by the land agent, his cabin pulled down, and he may starve outright or live as best he can, by alms. And this is British law!
On the other hand, if a poor man take a piece of miserably poor land and improve it, his rent is increased year by year in proportion to the value of his improvements! This also is permitted by British law 1
The Register seems to have faith in a N. Y. Herald movement to aid the Irish poor. No faith can be placed in it Mr. Bennett of the Herald is in league with the powers that be in Ireland, and the aid from them goes, not to the starving and needy, but to those who submit to landlord exactions—who, though straitened, are not yet in actual want. This is proved to have been the case. '
So far, Charles Stewart Parnell seems to have acted fairly and honorably in his use of the funds placed in his charge, and we see no good reason why he may not be
360
THE NOTRE DA;ME SCHOLASTIC.
rusted. He is an Irishman with American training, American instinct, an American’s love of fair play. Much of his time has been spent in this country, and his mother is the daughter of Commodore Stewart, who in the frigate Constitution showed his patriotism and his bravery by attacking at the same time, and taking, three British vessels of war, each of superior armament to his own. Of course all this is no guarantee for Parnell’s honesty, but it is in his favor, and he seems to inherit his noble grandfather’s patriotism and love of justice. At a time when most of his colleagues in Parliament were indulging in a slothful ease, or currying favor by licking the fingers of British snobs, Parnell stood up manfulty for the rights of his starving countrymen, making himself at first the butt of public ridicule, but eventually succeeding in making for himself a powerful following, and bringing the blush of shame to the cheeks of his lazy, good-for-nothing confreres.
All things considered, we think Parnell more entitled to confidence than Bennett and the Duchess of Marlborough. In the famine of ’48, people were starving in Ireland while American grain was rotting in the ships unnecessarily detained by British law, and when the Sultan offered £10,000 for the relief fund, the Queen of England, or her represen-taive, refused most of it on the plea that the Queen herself intended to give but £2,000 and it would not look well to allow others surpass her! This is British humanity!
Personal.
—C. V. Gamache, of ’75, is at present attached to St. John’s College, Stearns Co., Minn.
—Hon. Philemon B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, paid Notre Dame a visit a few days ago.
—Rev. Father Shortis, the beloved Chaplain of St. Mary’s, comes to see us occasionally.
—Mr. J. McCarthy, of Lafayette, Ind., spent a few days at Notre Dame last week, visiting his sons, who are students here.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., arrived at Notre Dame on Saturday last, where he intends to spend a little time before starling on his missionary labors.
—John R. English, ’79, visited Notre Dame the early part of last week. His numerous friends here, among the students and faculty, were glad to see him looking so well.-He is now engaged in busines with his father, senior part net of the firm of English, Miller & Co., wholesale clothing merchants, Columbus, Ohio.
—An esteemed neighbor, Mr. Joshua C. Johnson, who hid been suffering for some time from a scirrhus caucer, died on Thursday, Feb. 12th. Mr. Johnson, as we learn from the South-Bend Tribune, came here with his father, the late Judge Johnson, in 1831. He was in the 57th year of his age when he died. We extend our sympathies to the friends of the deceased.
—The South-Bend Baily Tribune of Thursday announces the death of Prof. D. A. Ewing, formerly Superintendent of Schools in South Bend, and for the past three years occupying the same position in Virginia City. Prof. Ewing was a teacher of acknowledged ability. His studies were made at Mt. Union College, Holbrook Normal School, and the University of Notre Dame.
. —J. H. Ward, ’73, has an extensive law practice in Chicago, Ill., and by all accounts is at the head of his profession. We call the attention of the readers of the Scholastic to his card, which may be found in another column, and we can safely say that all intrusting legal affairs to him may expect at his hands all the attention they may need We wish this talented young lawyer all success.
—We learn from a Chicago daily that Prof. Gregori has
finished a portrait of Mrs. Thomas, the daughter of Mr. George P. Gore, arrayed in a bridal toilet of white, with orange blossoms. Upon his easel is also a comical little piece, “Go to bed ? No.” A little three-year-old has been divested of every garment but one, and gathering the falling folds of that around her she assumes an attitude of defiance and spurns the tempting couch of snowy white awaiting her.
Local Items.
—Have you seen the panther ?
—Lent has set in with its usual rigor.
—Competitions will soon be in order again.
—The weather for the past week has been unusually fine.
—The Thespians are already in pluming for the night of the 21st.
—It is reported that the Seniors are doing some good fasting.
—The work on the new Scholasticate is progressing rapidly.
—Handball seems to be the favorite game amongst the J uniors.
—Business is lively in the shops connected with the Manual Labor School.
—The Minims played some closely-contested games of football lately on their campus.
—Quite a number of professors and tutors now occupy rooms in the College extension.
—We would like to see the box in the main corridor of the College better patronized.
—Coughs and colds are now in season, but many would wish they were out of season.
—“ Moriarty,” as he is now called, has been Snee-zing in the Infirmary for the past two days.
—The Minims have a new billiard table in their recreation hall. Needless to say it is well patronized.
—The Thespians are actively engaged in making preparations to celebrate Washington’s Birthday in a becoming manner.
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion was brought to a close on Tuesday evening by a solemn procession of the Blessed Sacrament.
—If a person takes unto himself a horn in the Band or a flute in the Orchestra, is he thenceforward to be called a “tutor”?
—The Hansard Echo says, “ More colds are now in order.” We have them in abundance, and to spare. Do you want a few ?
—Dan Taylor’s football is the source of much amusement and healthy exercise to the Mimims during their rec-reaiion hours.
—“ Now is the winter of our discontent,” said our friend John on last Wednesday as he saw that no meat graced the breakfast table.
—Mr. Condon, the gentlemanly barber who comes up from South Bend every Wednesday, has always plenty of work on hand.
—A very fine picture of our Saviour has been lately hung in the Junior study-hall. We believe the work was executed by Bro. Albert.
—The broken weather makes colds the order of the day. We see by the papers, and from letters, that it is the same nearly everywhere this year.
—Those who were so kind as to send us the copies of the Scholastic asked for in a previous issue of this paper will please accept our thanks.
—The University Orchestra held its second rehearsal on Wednesday last. We expect to hear some of its sweet strains on the eve of the 22d.
. —There is considerable talent among our Minims for artistic drawing; linear drawing is also studied very successfully by a number of them.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC].	361
—The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association tender a unanimous vote of thanks to Very Rev. Father Corby for special favors.
—Our ice men were in hopes of doing something in their line of business in the beginning of the week; but thus far, we believe, they have done nothing.
—We understand the Minims show considerable anxiety to excel in their studies, and to hold their own in their various classes. This is as it should be.
—This is St. Valentine’s day. As it is customary to send and receive valentines on this day, we suppose many good ones will be received by some of the boys.
—A class of business penmanship is taught in the Juniors every day at 11 a. m. The students attending this class are instructed in the whole-arm movement, etc.
—The work on Prof. Lyons’s room is nearly completed. When finished it will be a specimen of art. We hope to be shortly able to furnish our readers with a description of it.	•
—The Elocution Classes are largely attended this session, and under the direction of their able professor, J. A. Lyons, we may expect to see some good work done before the end of the year.
—Our friend John is glad the winter is nearly over. His centre of gravity puts him in great danger; instead of walking on his feet he seems to be trying to stand on his head and—can’t; that’s all.
—Yesterday we had fine spring weather—to-day it is freezing hard, awakening fresh hopes for skating and an ice crop. Splendid weather -to catch a cold—or be caught by one, rather. If the colds waited till they were caught they would wait long.
—The Chronicle recommends the organization of a by-cicle Club at tne University of Michigan. Tne smooth, hard-beaten and level path on the Senior Campus here presents superior advantages for a bycicle course; why not organize a club ?
—Why do not the students send in more locals ? Lately we have received very few from them. Now, boys, get to work, and help us make this department interesting. We cannot be around everywhere, and many things escape our notice that would be worth mentioning.
—A volume of The Irish Monthly magazine was lately taken from the room of the editor of the Scholastic. Anyone having said book will confer a favor by leaving it at orsending it to the printing-office. It contained a notice of the Scholastic which we wanted for business purposes.
—On last Tuesday a number of the boys had heel-plates put on, their skates taken from the chamois, and brightened up, in the anticipation of having a skate on Wednesday. But, alas, when the ice was measured it lacked an inch and a half of the required four inches. Quite a disappointment!
The 19th and 20lh meetings of St. Cecilia Philoma thean Association took place Feb. 1st and Sth respectively. At these meetings the following young gentlemen delivered declamations: W. J. McCarthy, E. Orrick, C. A. Tinley, N. Weny, and J. A. Gibbons. Masters Parrett and Keena were unanimously elected members of the Association.
—“ Remember, 0 man, that thou art dust, and unto dust thou shalt return,” was what the Church said to all her children on Wednesday last, known as Ash-Wednesday. On that day, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father Granger, assisted by Rev. Fathers Gleason and Kelly as deacon and subdeadon. Father Kelly preached a most impressive sermon.
The 14th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philomathean Association was held Feb. 2d. The following delivered declamations: M. A. Vedder, N. Nelson, 0-Farrelly, A. Conyne, W. Cleary, H. Foote, G. Rhodius, S. Dering, J. Larkin, P. Nelson, F. Becker, J. Boose, J. Cabel, A. Coghlin, J. Seegar, F. McPhillips; Masters Cole, Fletcher, Cleary, Guynn, Greonewald and Croarkin were elected members.
—At Brown University the young athletes have to look out for their clothing, practicing in the gymnasium with their coat and vest on one arm while they develop muscle
with the other; at Harvard, as we learn from the Echo, watches are purloined from the clothing on the walls; and at Notre Dame people must look out for their books—light literature; text-books are never meddled with! Lay a book down, and it is gone.
—The Columbians have in preparation several interesting debates. One, on “The Spanish Inquisition,” judging from the interest taken in it by the debaters, will be well worth listening to. Blackwood’s Magazine, The Catholic World, Edinburgh Remew, Dublin Review, Prescott, Darras, Alzog, Ranke, Llorente, Balmes, D’Aubigne De Maistre, Archbishop Spalding, and others, have been thoroughly searched for arguments.
—The vicinity of Notre Dame is infested just at present by some sort of wild animal that is doing much damage to stock, especially hogs. Two hogs have been killed at Notre Dame Novitiate, eleven on T. B. Chalfant’s farm, and other depredations committed this week by this animal. The farmers are becoming somewhat alarmed over the matter, so much so, that a hunt for the destructive^beast will be probably organized—South-Bend Register. We wish the hunt would take place immediately, so that we may see this strange animal—for strange he surely must be.
—At their semi-annual election, the Thespians elected the following officers: President, Prof. J. F. Edwards; Dramatic Critic, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Vice-President, J. B. McGrath, ’80; Society Historian, T. W. Simms, Law, ’80; Recording Secretary, W. McGorrisk ’82; Corresponding Secretary, F. W. Bloom, ’81; Treasurer, J. B. Berteling, '80; Prompter, R. Keenan, ’84; First Censor, G. Sugg, ’81; Second Censor, B. J. Claggett, ’82. A vote of .thanks was returned to Rev. Father Jones, S. J., of St. Mary’s College, Montreal, for favors received from him by the Association.
—“ What’s in a name? ” A good deal sometimes. There, for instance, is the new memorial Hall at Cornell, which will cost about $100,000—well, the name of Sayles is prefixed to it, making it the “ Sayles Memorial Hall,” which is no sooner done than the trustees can pull in their otfrs and trust to their sails to glide smoothly along. There is a great deal in a name, and if the trustees of Notre Dame could only get one with a few thousand dollars to tack onto, and christen, the projected Lecture and Exhibition Hall here, we think they would agree with us that there is something in a name.
—He was determined to go skating Sunday afternoon,— but what a-little thing will cause a delay! Happening to take a peep at himself in the looking-glass, he discovered that as to his physiognomical appearance everything was not right. “It will take but a few minutes,” he said to himself, “to make matters assume a more engaging appearance.” He went to his toilet-table and set to work, and after two hours and a half of hard labor everything was in perfect order—but the bell being now ringing for Vespers the skating had to be postponed. We wish our friend better success the next time he makes up his mind to glide on the surface of the deep.
—The Thespian Dramatic Association is indebted to that distinguished author Rev. Father Jones, S. J., of St Mary’s College, Montreal, far a manuscript copy of his original college drama entitled “ Hartwell at Hamford.” The good Jesuit has kindly given the Thespians permission to present his play to the students of Notre Dame, which they will do in Washington Hall on the eve of Washington’s Birthday. The play itself has an excellent plot, and it is a true exponent of student life at many of our colleges. The Thespians will put it on the stage in first-class style, and as they are noted for never doing anything by halves we may expect a rich treat.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau has received from Messrs. Clough & Warren, of Detroit, a set of eighteen splendid views of public buildings in that city, among them the City Hall, Detroit Opera House, Mechanics’ Hall and the High School, Waterworks, Chamber of Commerce, Woodward Avenue, and several churches, etc. They are photographs of a peculiar kind, and are splendidly taken—the finest we have seen; the scenery looks so clear and natural, and the people so lifelike that one would almost imagine them realities rather than pictures. The artist ia Louis Glazer, of Leipsic, Germany, and the pictures are
362
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
imported by Witteman Bros., 184 William Street, New York.
—Last Sunday, after Mass, we noticed our friend John perambulating the Junior campus at no ordinary speed. He had an escort of about half a dozen students in his company, who with the greatest effort managed to keep abreast with him. His escort seemed to be in a happy mood, while John was the personification of earnestness. On inquiry, we found that John was of the opinion that he was to fast during Lent on one meal a day. The boys pretended to console him; telling him not to be discouraged, that his health would be benefitted, etc. But he was inconsolable; he said they might fast if they wished to, but for his part he would not attempt it for any man. As John will not be allowed to cast a vote this fall for Grant, Sherman, Blaine, Washburn, or any other man or “ Dark horse,” we advise him to keep cool, and eat his three meals every day in peace.
' —The Lemonnier Library Association gratefully acknowledge the receipt of the following works from William H. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., who has already given seventy-five volumes towards re-establishing the Library: Milton’s Complete Poetical Works; Keats’ Complete Poetical Works; Samuel Butler’s Hudibras, with Copious Notes by Zachary Grey; Scottish Chiefs, by Miss Jane Porter; Homer’s Iliad, Translated by Pope; Lives of the Blessed Virgin Mary, St. Wenefride, St. Agnes, St. Angela, St. Elizabeth, St. Margaret, St. Cecilia, and St. Catharine; The Catholic Keepsake, edited by Prof. Walter. Mrs. A. D. Tourtillotte, ot Toledo, has the thanks of the Association for “ Arctic Adventure by Sea and by Land,” edited by Epes Sargent; and twenty numbers ot various magazines. The veteran American Catholic historian, John Gilmary Shea, LL. D., has given the Library, per Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C., a set of his valuable translation of Charlevoix’s History of New France, in 5 vols. This work is invaluable to all who desire a thorough knowledge of the history of America.
—And now the ’unter’s ’orn is ’eard—not on the hill, but in the band-rooms during recreation time, and loud and soniferous is the sound thereof. Cotton may be in requisition until the new Music Hall is ready, but that mattereth naught—the war is over, and cotton is cheap. From the rising of Sol beyond the eastern hills, until the gentle beams of Luna re-illume the dusky shades, admonishing the weary student that the hour of rest is nigh, doth the babelic torrent of sounds, of pipe and horn, of viol and piano, regurgitate from the mystic halls of Orpheus and Pan, reminding the Senior and Soph of the days of old. So mote it be. But right glad are we that our scriptorium no longer resteth under the lee of the Music Hall,—the argent flames swept it thence—and when the angel of the printing-office calleth in menacing tones for “Copy!” he findeth us prepared to meet him, steel-pen in hand and long lines of Nubian figures arrayed at our command, to give him worthy reception. No longer, as of old, doth he find us unnerved for the bellum verborum by the dulcet strains of Mendelssohn and Suppe, of Concone, Mozart and Beethoven issuing from the enchanted Castle of Sound; and no longer, as of old, may the emissary of the dark art beard the lion in his den. And so may it always be.
—Preludes, by Maurice F. Egan, is one of those books that appeal to reflective minds. To all such we recommend it. Mr. Egan’s Preludes are mainly in the shape of sonnets. In this lorm of poetic art he works with the delightful confidence of a specialist. He has a quick eye for tender color and a gentle touch for delicate chords. He loves Fra Angelico rather than Rubens and Titian.
“Give us the trilling of a pure-toned thrush And take your crimson parrots. Artist-Saint! O Fra Angelico, your brush was dyed In hues ot opal, not in vulgar paint.”
There is a tone of deep religious feeling in many, perhaps most of Mr. Egan’s sonnets, but it is not obtruded, as it would have been by one of less exquisite taste. Yet, fine as are his sacred songs, we are guilty of preferring those which belong to the profane. It is a sweet pleasure to hear the sensuous notes of a pure mind and swift imagina tion; and these are the rare qualities possessed by this poet. We regret to see him choose for subjects anything
lower than the ideal. His sonnets on “O’Connell” and “The Carrolls” and “Bismarck” are good enough; but these subjects are here for the clipped wings to seize. Let our bird of bright eye and strong pinion dive or soar into the remote, and bring to us the immaterial loveliness. Or let । him seek for gold among “ Those who, living not, can ne’er ! be dead.” There is real poetry in Egan’s mythological songs.
The vain love-plaint of “Cyclops to Galatea ” is delicious; observe the quiet humor of the last two lines of this stanza:—
“And Galatea in her cool green waves
Plaits her long hair with purple flower-bells,
And laughs and sings, while black-browed Cyclops raves, And to the wind his love-lore story tells;
For well she knows that Cyclops will ere long Forget, as poets do, his pain in song.”
One of the best sonnets in the book is addressed to R. W Gilder, a young poet, who is thus addressed:—
“In all your songs the birds and trees are heard, But through your singing sounds an undertone— Wind-message through the reeds, not sung, but sighed.”
And Mr. Gilder deserves the praise, even judging alone from his splendid sonnet prefacing the book. But we have harsh words for Maurice Egan as well as these. One who knows how to make sweet music must not be content with a reed. There is an air of slightness about his collection. Fame needs strong supports. An over-refinement easily slips into sentimentality, the merit-stamp of inferior gold. Mr. Egan must respect his genius as well as his subject. He is a poet born, and he must range the sunlight and shadow till his soul is called to sing. It is pitiful to see a poet dig like a gardener till he turns out a rusty nail that he may polish”it.—J.B. O'R. in Boston Pilot.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, M. T. Burns, J. P. Brice, F. Brennon, F. M. Bell, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, W. Connolly, G. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Danahey, H. B. Dulaney, J. Dempsey, H. Deehan, A. Dobson, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, G. Harris, D. Harrington, W. Hamilton, R. C .Johnson, C. Johnson, J. Keena, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, T. Kavanagh, C. Karins, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, F. Lynch, E. Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, J. J. MeErlain, E. Murphy, E. Molitor, P. McCormick, C. Moore, W. McAtee, J. A. McIntyre, L. Mathers, J. F. Mugg, J. R. Marlette, J. Noonan, G. Nester, H. H. Noble, I. A Newton, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. M. Proctor, F. Reeve, J. O. Reilly, T. W. Simms, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, L. Stitzel, W. Scholfleld, J. Smith, L. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, H. Wathan, C. Whalen, T. Zeien, J. H. Delaney, E. Le Beau, H. T. Howe.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
C. J. Brinkman, T. B. Byrne, A A. Bodine, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, G. C. Castanedo, J. V. Cabel, A. A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, L. W. Coghlin, J. Coleman, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, T. F. Devitt, J. A. Davis, F. T. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, J. J. Gordon, F. Glade, F. W. Greonewald, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Hermann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. W. Kuhn, L. S. Keen, R. L. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, A. B. Mergentheim, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A S. Manning, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, R. M. Parrett, G. J. Quinn, A Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, G. J. Rbodius, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Kose, A S; Rock, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. M. Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. A. Simms, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, J. B. Weitzel, J. B. Wilder, W. T. Weney, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, G. P. Van Mourick, J. M. Courtney, G.E. E. Tourtillotte, H. C. Snee, H. A Kitz, G. Woodson, I. J. Smith, J. J. Henry, F. Mattes, C. E. Droste, F. B. Farrelly, W. H. Hanavin, G. C. Knight, J. W. Bannister, J. R. Bender, J. A. Kelly, J. H. Dwenger, A. F. Schmuckle, A. A Molander, J. E. Johnson, W. Wright, J. S. Chaves, E. N. O’Donnell, H. Ackerman, E. C. Campeau, C. C. Echlin, H. Dunn.
f i

-1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
363
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. M. Courtney, G. E. Tourtillotte, E. A. Howard. W. H. Hanavin, F. Mattes, D. G. Taylor, G. Woodson, A. Van Mourick, J. Courtney, G. P. Van Mourick, J. Bannister, J. A. Campeau, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, C. E. Droste, A. A. Molander, A. F. Schmuckle, J. R. Bender, J. A. Kelly, J. J. Henry, M. W. Olds, J. I. Smith, J. Dwenger, L. J. Young, W. V. O’Malley, H. J. Ackerman, H. Dunn, C. E. Campeau, E. N. O’Donnell, J. E. Johnson, C. Young.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
I
—Professor Stace will give a lecture in the study-hall on Thursday evening, Feb 12tb.
—By mistake the name of Miss Agnes Ddlon was left out of the examination report of the Third Senior Class.
—The Rev. Father Fanning, of Fairbury, Ill., and Rev. Father O’Hara, of Chatsworth, Ill., assisted at the semiannual examination.
—The reading in the refectory during the Forty Hours’ Devotion, which took place on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, was “The Holy Eucharist Our Greatest Treasure,” by Rev. Michael Miiller, C. SS. R.
—The second scholastic session opens with a large number of pupils. The banquet, promised by Very Rev. Father General when the Senior Department should reach a given number, was given on Saturday last.
—Visitors: Mr. Mendenhall, of Chicago; Mrs. Brown, Mrs. Uthe, Mrs. Greenbaum, Mrs. Regensburg, Mr. Popu-lorum, Mrs. Berolzheim, Miss M. Kintz, Miss C. Kintz, Chicago; Mrs. Hutchinson, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Reinhard, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Coleman, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. Walzburg, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Miss Akins, Coldwater, Mich.; Miss Oecherting, Mishawaka, Ind.; Miss McCarthy, Lafayette; Mrs. Paddock, Union City, Mich.; Miss Clements, Kincardine, Ont.; Mrs. Kerney, Hartford City, Ind.; Miss Spier, Peoria, Ill.
—On Monday morning, Rev. Father Cooney said the Mass for the Children of Mary. Before the Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament he gave a short but comprehensive instruction on the Forty Hours’ Devotion. The Mass of the occasion is called “ The Mass of Peace,” and the vestments are of purple, instead of white, the color used for the Blessed Sacrament, because by the penance of the worshippers, peace is invited to descend and rest upon the earth. At the close of the Mass the Rev. celebrant presented some beautiful and important considerations.
—On Sunday at High Mass, the Rev. Chaplain gave a clear explanation of the reasons why the “ Forty Hours’ Devotion ” was introduced. At this time of the year, in pagan centuries, the devotion to the heathen gods and goddesses was the signal for the most revolting sports among the young. Ceres, the goddess of corn and grain, was particularly honored. After the dawn of Christianity, and when civilized customs were introduced, before the opening of Lent innocent pastimes were permitted to the young, three days before Ash-Wednesday, as a kind of indemnification for the penances to be practiced during the holy season. In time, these festivities lost their innocent character, and the modern Carnival was introduced. The Forty Hours’ Devotion is a public act of reparation made by the faithful for the offences committed all over the world during the impious Carnival.
—The examination in St. Luke’s Studio was held on Wednesday. The display of studies in pencilling, watercolors and oil, was admirable. The tables on which the efforts of the General Drawing Classes were disposed, were also adorned with some real gems, in the shape of panels in water-colors. A card-basket and Bible, in pencil, on the table belonging to pupils in the Junior Department,
were very much admired. A cross in monochrome and panels of grapes and calla lilies, executed in pastel, by Senior pupils, were particularly noted. There was a fine display of work in porcelain painting, exquisite fruit plates, etc. An unusually fine exhibition of painting inwater-colors, on wooden plates, was to be seen in the southwest corner of the Studio; pansies, strawberries, grapes, poultry, and designs of every description. Industry, skill and taste of no ordinary character, were plainly discernable in the rich fruits of one half year’s labor, spread out in artistic grace before the spectator. Specimens of painting on silk were distinguished as beautiful among the many beautiful things on exhibition. Of the studies in oil, we will mention panels of grapes, morning-glories, autumn leaves and berries, on pine wood; pottery plagues of Iruit and landscapes,—of the latter “ The Arab’s Prayer ” attracted universal attention. Decorated shells were numerous, and skillfully executed. One costly shell— mother-of-pearl—on which was represented Whittier’s “ Barefoot Boy,” was very good. A promising copy of Carlo Dolci’s “ Madonna,’’ not yet completed, .was exhibited ; evidently, the crowning work of the semi-annual display in the Studio. On a table in the southwest comer were exhibited the test-letters of Penmanship. The artist hand was no less visible here, than elsewhere in the Studio, in many of the specimens.
—The closing entertainment of the first scholastic session was given on Wednesday. Among the visitors present were Rev. Father Kittell, of Pittsburg. Pa.; Very Rev. Father Granger, Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Kelly, Walsh and Gleeson of the University, and the Rev. Chaplain and Chaplain’s assistant of St. Mary’s and Prof. Stace of Notre Dame. The following was the programme of the Euteriainment:
Duett and Chorus..............................Mendelssohn
Vocal Class.
“Lucrezia Borgia”.......................’........Thalberg
Miss Dillon.
German, (Selected)...........................Miss Kirchner
Song—“Merci! Jeunes Amies”.............“Vepres	Siciliennes”
Miss Gordon.
Harp Solo.......................................Miss Galen
French (Selected)............................Miss McGrath
“Swiss-Boy” Song....................................Pixis
Miss Kirchner.
Polonaise..................................Ant. Rubenstein
Miss Keenan.
English (Selected)...........................Miss Cavenor
Song—“ L'lnvitation a la valse,”................Von Weber
Miss Silverthorne.
La Campanella.......................................Liszt
Miss Galen.
Chorus...........................................  Robert
Vocal Class.
During the performance of the programme, something belonging thereto seemed to strike some of the Rev. spectators. The name of “ Rubinstein ” had reminded the Rev. Chaplain of past entertainments, and Miss Cavenor was called upon to read “Zebediah Judds,” an amusing account of Rubinstein’s playing. At the close, the Very Rev. President of Notre Dame made some remarks, interspersed with anecdotes that left a very good impression. Professor Stace added a few words, ana the pleasant soiree broke up in the midst of congratulations from all sides to those who took part m the exercises.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Ewing, Neteler, Ward, Ryan, Quinn, Dannaher, lorantha Semmes, Dillon, Joyce, Mattingly, Walsh, Cronin, Loeber, Fitzgerald, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Taylor, Gavan, Baroux, Greene-baum, Regensburg, Thompson, Rasche, Halloran, Angel, Wright, Moxon, Edelen, McCormick, Krieg, Brown, Paddock, Wurzburg, par excellence. Misses Woodin, Keenan, Maloney, Hamilton, Cavenor, Sullivan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, Angela Ewing, Galen, Farrell, Kirchner, Gordon, Lloyd, Neu, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, Smith, O’Neill, Donnelly, De Lapp, Gall, Julius, Bruser, McMahon, English, Palmer, Callinan, Piersol, O’Connor, Hackley, Hamilton, Purdy, Des
364
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
saint, Price, Davies, Orr, Hammond, Homer, McFadden, Kinzie, Salomon, Reinhard, Cleghorn, Leydon, Wall, Tallman, Reynolds, Cox, McCoy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox, French, C. Campbell, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Crummey, Grace Taylor, McCloskey, C. Lancaster, Reutlinger, Paquette, Hutchison, E. Papin, Considine, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, M. F. Fitzgerald, Robinson, M. Baroux, Chaves, par excellence. Misses Feehan, Populorum, Lemonty, E. Hackett, McN. Garrity, J. Wells, Joseph, Moll, E. Ryan, Carter, C. Gibbons, Legnard, Hale, Harrison.
Hotels.
THE MATTEKSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicag । mav be found at the Matterson.
Civil Engineers & Siirvevors.
OSl. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ 1 ingineer of City and . County of Etkhsrt. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. ST A. CE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
TAMES FT. WARD, (of’73.) Attorney and Counsellor ej at Law, Rooms 63 and 65 Metropolitan Block, N. W. Cor. La Salle and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ill.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of’72) Attorney s at Law, No. 225 Bra~y St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS E. CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney at
Law, Notary Pjtblic and Commissioner for all the States, 2(6 Broadway tcor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
YOTTIV E. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office eJ 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
ORVILEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, No-ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
Three Great Cities of the Wesj
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Care, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cara and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
WILEIAM J. CL A.KK.E (of ’74), Attorney at Law.
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
TAMES A.. O’REILLY—of’69—Attorney at Law, eJ t27 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
DANIEL E. HIBBARD, Jr ; (of ’70), Attorney
at Law. Specie attention given to Collec ions. 98 Griswold Street. Detroit, Mich.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Same}.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS
J*
AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Care of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CAES, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Horne,	J. c. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent	Gen’l Manager.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
365
I
I
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. 1?. EDWARDS,
Notbb Daub, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALBB IN' Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
AH Kinds of Engraving Doue.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY. WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
inneapoh*!
ChippewaTalis
inona
c
Crosse
c.
uman
Centre V
Un^a
NS AS C
ope
Menasha
N
Os^
Stevens 2Poi
ason q


CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST !
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset: Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Throughcars arealsomnbetweenMilwau-kee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track Is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars tbat accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dininn Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with theL-S.&M.S., andP^ Ft. W. &C. R. Rds.
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with P-, C. & St. L. R. R.
At La Salle, with Ill. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P.D.4E.; L B. A W.; Ill. Mid.; and T. P. & W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. & St. P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with theB.. C.R.& N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. A F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R.R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction,with B.,C. R. & N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W., St. L. A Pac., and C. B. A Q. R. Rds.
At KEOKUK, with Tol., Peo. & War.: Wab., St. Louis & Pac., and St. L., Keo. A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atcb., Topeka A Santa Fe; Atcb. & Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan.
Cent. R. Rds. _ »
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
PULLMAN PAI,ACE CARS are run throughto PEORIA. DES MOINES, COUNCIL. BLUFFS, KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Rock. Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
jA. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Superintendent.
E. ST. JOHN, Gen’l Tit. and Paaa’gr AgL, Chicago, BL
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
CHAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was char-	J
tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; * the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping ’J Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
' The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world . having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. L The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that ® •' no pains are spared to secure the objects waich the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.	)
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. COBBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0^ Indiana.