


^djalaatic IJear
£
£
Edited by the Students.

6i Labor omnia vincit.”
Vol. I.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY, MAY 16, 1868.
Editors of the Present Number :
A. J. O’Reilly, D. A. Clarke, N. S. Wood.
THE “SCHOLASTIC YEAR” is devoted to the Interests of > the Students, and will be issued weekly, at $2 50 per i annum, payable in advance.	'	।
Students of the University of Notre Dame, and the Pupils of ;
St. Mary’s Academy, may obtain the Scholastic Yeah at the ' reduced rate of Si 00 per annum.	■
Contributions must always be accompanied with name of . author, otherwise no attention will be gven to them.	;
All business letters should be addressed to	' i
‘ W. R. SPALDING, Cor. Secretary, j .	• Notre Dame. Ind. I
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, S. S. C., Director.	’	!
Course of Studies.
The importance of a guide or Mentor to direct the student through his studies, is’ as great as that of the hand which held him up when an infant, and helped him to make his first steps with confidence. Therefore, in every college or University, a programme’of studies, carefully prepared from experience, is laid out and presented to the student, for his guidance through the various branches of learning. From this programme, the student will learn—1st. How long it will take him to go through the course, of his studies. 2d. What studies are more deserving his special attention, year after year or session after session. S.That unless he be perfectly conversant with the rudiments of his later studies, he will labor in vain, or, at least, to an immense disadvantage. 4'. That studies require to be strictly followed up, without intermission; and therefore no thought of attending to other business, or of staying at home "for any length of time, except vacation time, should ever be entertained by the student aiming at an education. 5. He will, during his college life, have time and facilities to acquire gentle manners, or improve those which he may al; ready possess.
Now, the length of time necessary to complete the whole course of studies irf the Classical or the Scientific Department,’ depends on many circumstances. Supposing that the young man is already able to read and write, and nothing more, it will take him six years; beginning with the elements of. Grammar and Arithmetic, etc.,' and going through Latin and Greek, if he studies the classics, or through the higher branches of Mathematics,, if he studies the sciences. Be it understood, moreover, that each course demands * borough studies in Geography, Grammar, ' Composition, Rhetoric, History, Metaphysics, French or German, , Chemistry, Physiology, • Geology, Mineralogy, Botany and Mathematics. With all the best calculations, the most
' I
“3a . -s
! prudent, and best advised plans, it will take the ordinary student no less than six years to complete his studies in either of the two courses. Extraordinary talents or extreme application may, we grant it, shorten the period of time; but, if a good advice is worth gold, it is certainly that which the student needs receive, when he means to strain his mental powers in order to reach' sooner his aims, viz: Festina lente,
j hurry slowly, or, as the Italian proverb says it, I Chi va piano wsano, Chivasano valontano. The । fault committed by the talented scholar, is like-। wise, that of despising the simple rule which.. food sense offers for his guidance; hence his ingenious combinations in adding to the list of important studies supeifluous and unseasonable matters, which will, in time, overtask, his mind in such a manner, that, .with all the depth' and extent of his learning, the new Pic Ueta Miran-dole will be tanto buon che val niente. Of this we, have daily examples under our eyes. It is a pity to see the greatest talents which Provi-: dence had intended for active use, thus' laying waste for want of health and.strength. .
Should the student derive from a systematic plan of studies' no other advantages than those
*3 sa« 1
■2	THE SCHOLA-ST?!?^

of ffoing full' justice to each, branch, of learning, and of leaving the college halls with health unimpaired, it-will be a boon which he will one day regard as invaluable.	'
■ Then, a regular course of studies does not expose a scholar proficient in Latin and Greek to the disagreeable predicament of evincing a complete ignorance of more practical, but too often discarded branches, like Geography, His-ory, Mythology, or Physiology. Sganarelle in-•	“ The Doctor in spite of himself,” could with im-
punity assign the right side of-the chest as the region of the heart, but this was in a comedy, :! and the counterfeit and new theory of the sapient
. Sganarelle could pass off without danger of detection. The same could' not be done with
' impunity in real life. Again, such a course, at ’the same time that it demands from the student not to encumber himself with too many studies, exacts a strict attention, and with ill grace will suffer the least intermission. It is of extreme ’	importance,'that both student and parent should
reflect on the consequences of a pause or rest during school-time. The idea of accomplishing ; '^my - thing by repeated starts of five months : “every year, has long since proved a failure, and ' r’a costly one. We have had an opportunity of . 'seeing’many young men devoting half of the ■ vyear- to what they styled education, and ’ the , 'other half to their business so called, and, after . many half years passed in this manner, forgetting what they had much trouble to learn, and learning again what they had forgotten, giving up in disgust all idea of continuing studies which would perhaps have opened to them the road of fortune and honors, or at any rate would have been to them a source of enjoyment.
Lastly the long stay at college, necessitated -by a regular course, will necessarily, if not give, at least improve the gentle manners of the student. The heathen Mythology speaks of Minerva as the only divinity born perfect, clad from head to foot - in complete armor We, Christians, do not admit of a single instance of beings create 1 perfect. There is no fatalism with us, and although pne may- be singularly favored by nature, yet he will have to learn a great deal in the science of gentle manners. His intercourse with his superiors, with hisftllow-mates; his little troubles, difficulties, the examples of refined persons, the necessity of controlling ■ his temper, of watching over his words, the steadying of his' mind by serious application, an& above all, an unassuming, modest self-esteem,
united to a'deep sense of piety,'of respect and love'of God, (which, by the way, he will acquire here', if he* wishes,) all'this will help-in fashioning and polishing a young man, and in ushering him into the world, a gentleman, the boast and the pride of his Alma MateN	Cio.
■ Tlsc Dying Words of Great lien.
[concluded.]
16th. “I have tasted more satisfaction in my solitude, in one day, than in all the triumphs of my former reign. The sincere study, profession, and practice of the Christian religion, have - in them such joys and sweetness as are seldom found in courts and grandeur.”—Emperor Charles	:
17th. “ It is lamentable, that men consider' not the end for which they were born into the world, till they are ready to go out of it.”—Si?’ Thomas Smith.	-
. 18th. “ The consolations of Christianity are the only true ones and nothing else can give me peace.”—Bernard' Gilpen.	’
19th. “ God, by this sickness, calls me hence to enjoy a better life.”— Queen Jane of Navarre. -
20th. So the heart be right, it is no matter which way the head lies.”—Sir Walter Raleigh.
21st. “My days are past, as a shadow that returnsnot.”—Richard Booher.
22d. “I would not change my joy for the empire of the world.”—Sir Philip Sydney. :
23d. “ It is justly accounted a piece of excellent knowledge, to understand the law of the land and the customs of our country; but how much more excellent is it' to know the statutes of heaven, and the -laws of eternity, and the immutable and perpetual laws of justice and righteousness ! to know the will and pleasure of the Great Monarch and Universal King of the world P’—Sir Christopher Batton.
24th. “ Be merciful unto me, O Lord, for my Saviour’s sake, and receive me into Thy bosom.” —Lord Bacon.
25th. u How much I have to repent of, and liow little time to do it in.”—Sir Henry Watton.
' 2Gth. “ I shall now soon be relieved. I am going to my Father and my God. He has heard me indeed, ! go to Him with confidence.”—Peter du Moulin.	\ ' 1 ■
27th.I repent of all my life, except that part of it which I spent in communion with- God-- and doing good.”—Dr. Donner •' -’ri'- •! ‘	:
28th. “ Oh! if it would please heavemito-pro- ।
YEAR.	.3
I
long-my life, ho w different from the past would be my future conduct.”—'King Philip ILL of Spain.
29th. “My warfare is accomplished, and my iniquities are pardoned.”—Catharine Bretterg. r
30th. “I have seen much, and enjoyed, much of this world; but I never knew how to live till now.”—Chancellor Oxensticrn.
31st. “ I that am a publican.”—Hugo Grotius.
32d. “ The soul is a serious thing':'it must be either sad here for a moment, or be sad forever.” —Cardinal Richelieu.
33d. “O, what joy! 0, my God!”—Lord John Harrington. .	.	•
34th. “Mind the world less and God more.”— Salneasius.
r,35th; “Were I to live again, I would-be a 0 apuchin.”— Cardinal Mazarine.
.,36th'.- “A Christian must suffer.”—Anna Maria •
Schurman. •
37th. “ My God, my all.”—Du Renti.
38th. “ Life is mere vanity.”—John Locke.
• 39th. “I shall shortly be in eternity.”—John
Jarreway. ’
40th. “ I most willingly forsake this world.”—
Lady Rachel Russel.	■
41st. “ O Lord make haste to help me.”—Jane Ratcliffe.
-	42d. “ O! how I long to die and be with my
Saviour.”—Lord Rochester.
43d. “ I do not wish, yet I do not fear death.” —Queen Mary.
44tb. “ O ! God free me by death!”—Herman Boerhauve.
, 45th. “ See in what peace a Christian can die.”
—Joseph Addison. ■	. '
46th. “Enter not into judgement, O Lord, with Thy servant, for in Thy sight no flesh shall be justified.”—Elizabeth Rowe.
47th. “ The business of a Christian is to bear the will of God.”—Doctor Watts.
. 48th. “-Lord! what is this I see?”—Lady Ediz-
' dbeth Hastings.	■
49th. “Farewell,sir! farewell,pain-Housman.
50th. “I hope and trust in God.”—Doctor Philip Doddridge. -
51st. “I know, by experience, that sublunary grandeur and pleasure are vain.”—Louis Duke of Orleans.	.	.
52d. “Be good, be virtuous, Lord Vanentia; you must come to this.”—Lord George Lyttelton.
53d. “Lord, now let Thy servant depart in
. peace.”—James Harvey.
54th. “ Thy will be done.”—Sir Walter Jones.
■ 55 th. “ Independence forever.”—John Q. Adams.
56th. “To-day Ishall taste, the joys of heaven.”
—Zimmerman.	.	.. • . . ,
Great importance is general and very naturally attached to the dying words of great personages. We have presented the “ dying words” of many persons of all classes: Kings, Philosophers, Saints, Popes, Mathematicians, Cardinals, Knights, Emperors, Queens, Doctors, Chancellors, and many others,—in all fifty-six names. Gong-Hi. -
------.
ISay and Niglil.
In the creation of the world everything was arranged for man’s benefit and happiness. The ‘ division of time into day and night clearly proves this to us.	•	. b .... .
Day is that period when the smi- brightens the earth with its rays, and invigorates j, all nature with its light, and heat: Providence, has ; alloted day to labor, but night to repose.and sleep, : for then all nature is absorbed in rest. -	.; .
Day and night, each present many and .varied s objects of admiration, and motives for praise.to ! the reflecting mind. View the surrounding . scenery in the daytime, either in Spring, .or. .in ■ any of the seasons; how beautiful! In spring, the earth clothed in fresh green verdure looks so fair • and bright. The long warm Summer day.may be less agreeable, but it also has its attractions, i and its pleasures; and in its glowing beauty, I and its luxuriant fruits, is often compared to some fabled oriental queen.	=
Do not think however that Day alone is fraught ; with charms; Night is lovely also with its myriads of stars, its fair moon, its silence and.repose. Mountains, hills and valleys, rivers and streams, are lost to sight or only seen enveloped in a silvery mist. Day and Night are fit emblems of the Past and the Present—of Life, and Death.
For those who lived in ages past, the sun once beamed as brightly as it does for us; but their day declined: and now themselves with their words, works, and.homes, are shrouded in the veil of night, and appear to us like objects seen by moonlight: some distinct and clear, others again like frightful phantoms, inspiring fear and horror.
Our day will pass as did theirs, and night will succeed: not, I trust, the dark stormy night of the dreary winter, but the lovely, starry. Smn-mer night, in which we will repose, only to awaken in a bright eternal day in Heaven.
'	:	JW.
THE s CWeWt-I0
! i
■	a Peep at Isaac’s Slail.
;	•	Mishawakee, May 12th, 1868.
•'/My Dear Isaac:—I have just returned my steps, bn the steam-cars, from the City of Philadelphia, and, as I knew you -would be anxious to hear from your parental mother, I concluded, to write to you this afternoon.
Hearing, through the press, that a large and wealthy amount of property was left to a certain Mrs. Partington, and knowing, as the poet, Mr. Shakespeare, once said, that “ there is bliss in advertisements,” nothing daunted, I determined to go and see if I were not the lucky personality. I got there safe and sound. At Walnut street wharf I descended from the steamer; and, as I . wished to make my entry, as the Drench say, in a fashionable and becoming, manner, I hired a ^carriage. Thedoorof the “aforesaid” carriage was ; . encircled with the Partington arms, (when I was getting in.) After stowing my numberous bandboxes and my greemsilk. omberrella in and upon the carriage, I bid the driver take me to a . ‘tip-top hotel. He readily ascended to do so. ! “Slowly we dragged our weary length along” 'through Chestnut St., and arrived at the Continen-‘tal Hotel. ' I am sure all the folks knew me, they stared'at me so. The clerk asked me to please . ’/ascend to my room, and I entered a neat little " department. Thinking myself to home, I cbm-31meneed' to stow away my things; but what'was my surprise when the room commenced to go up. I screamed awfully for help, but the more I / screamed the faster it went; but at last it stopped —so did my screaming. A “ man and brother” opened the door, and, scraping the floor with his heel, and pulling his cap, said, “285, please.” But I wasn’t pleased, and knew he was fooling me, so I made at him with my omberella, and he was pleased to get out of my way. The thing turned out to be a’ hotel car, (not the negro, but the baloon.)
After some little troubles, I found myself quite to home. I took particular notes of the fashion, as I sat at my eighth-story window. I was surprised on being told that the ladies actually wore “bugles” on their bonnets, but what was my amazement to see some on the streets actually wearing “brass bands” on the tops of their" heads. I walked out on Thursday with Rose Magee was also an accompaniment. I was affrighted to hear one remarking that the bulls and bears were very active on exchange; and that there was a “ stock .board” bn Third Street. As I had no exchanging to do, or did not wish to deal in stock,.
(we have some onthe-farm,) I did not go near the places. I do not wish to tire you with all the sights I sawjn that city, so, I will, just say that we got home safe. .	.
Now, Isaac, I hope you are getting along well at : school/i Take, good care of your health, and don’t study too hard. Give my best respex •to all the professors and your students. I re. ceive the/Schoolhouse Year every week, and wish you were an Editor. I am afraid our chickens have got among the distemper; or visay ver-say. Their clucks have nearly all seized. I fear they have joined the “ Q Clucks Clan.” The papers say that this thing is out at nights, and the other night fifteen of our best chickens /went out, and did not return. Tell that. “.Tyrant” not to write any more pieces in the Schoolhouse, • as I put mine in the yard and the chickens.saw it—felt insulted at their supposed aunt’s sisters, and “skedaddled.” Tell that “Ama chewer” that if he don’t quit writing, he might leave the “ Stays,” and get a “ Train-sit” on the cars. They tell me you have a Coronet Band in the col-ege. Who"wears-it? ‘ I hope it is not like the brass bands worn in Philadelphia. Nat S., wood dealer, is now in Mishawakee. You said -something in your letter about a “ sheepskin” you were to get in June for Book-keeping. Now Isaac, do not let them make a sheep of you: we have plenty skins to home, and I dont want you to keep any body’s books. When you get home you will be a cheap hand for me on the farm. I have got another acre—in the jaw this time.
Write soon. Your loving Mother. '
• Yhprum Partington.
We most gratefully and thankfully acknowledge the receipt of seven hundred and forty large and beautifully-colored lithographs from Miss R. V.-Roberts, the gifted lady whose regular poetical contributions in the Ave Maria elicit such universal praise. -	'
This splendid collection of engravings contains Audubon’s “Birds and Quadrupeds .of North America,” and all the zoological (mammals, birds, fishes and shells) and ethnological illustrations included in the “ Reports of the Expedition to Japan,” the “Reports of the Pacific R. R. Exploration and Surveys,” and the “ Mexican Boundary Report.” This precious collection is worth several hundreds of dollars. Miss Roberts, therefore, is fully entitled to the gratitude of the members of the Institution in general, and to our heartfelt thanks in particular.	;
^HETS^H^LAiST.IC YEAR
4'
SSouJiily Certificates,
Instead of the Honorable Mentions announced for this week, we give below the names of the Students who have deserved the greatest number of certificates for improvement• in their studies during the past two months: As our list would be too long if we should publish, the names of all those who have deserved certificates, we will not mention the names of those who have received less than three. At the same time, we beg to say that the small number of certificates is not always a mark of inferiority or demerit in some classes, •and! this applies especially to the Senior Students, •who in general belong to a higher course of studies; and consequently attend only a small number of classes.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. S. Akin, 5 ; G. Atkinson, 3 ; S. R. Anson, 3; H. Bird, 3; W. Barrett, 5; H. Boardman, 4; J. . Buddeke, 4; J. Campbell, 5; J. Claffey, 4; P. Cunnea, 3 ; F. Cousins, 5 ; D. Clarke, 7 ; G. Con-radt,,4; F. Crapser, 4; J. Dietrich, 5 ; J. Dickinson, 4; E. V. Donhoff, 4; J. Duffey, 4; T. Downing, 5 ; J. Edwards, 5; C. Fuhrer, 5 ; J. Fitzhar-ris, 5 ; J. Gibbons, 6 ; J. Gaunt, 3 ; J. Gavitt, 3 ; J. Grogan, 3 ; J.. Garharstine, 6 ; C. Hertich, 4 ; F. HeitmanS; C. K. Hibben, 5; G. Holeman, 3; A. Hoffman, 3 ; J. Hull, 3 ; J. Harrison, 4; W. J. Johnson, 6; T. Johnson, 4 ; J. Keveney, 4; H. B. Keeler, 10 ; J. H. Lecompte, 6 ; J. Lafferty, 3 ; J. McBride, 9 ; C. H. Moqre, 3 ; H. Maierhofer, 3 ; J. Monroe, 3; P. McKeon, 3 ; T. Michels, 3 ; W. McClain, 3 ; A. O’Reilly, 3 ; T. O’Mahony, 5; A. Owen, 5; J. O’Reilly, 6; W. O’Donnell, 3; F. Pape, 4; E. S. Pillars, 6 : W. Rhodes, 5 J.Rogers, 7; P. Rhodes, 4; J. Roberts, 3 ; H. Rodman, 3 ; W. Stace, 5 ; W. Spalding, 5; W. B. Smith, 3 ; R. M. Short, 3; S. Teats, 3; J. Vocke, 4; W. A Valdo, 5; A. White, 6 ; J. Watts, 6 ; W. Walker, 7; N. S. Wood, 5; G. Yeakel, 5; J. Zahm, G; J. W Murphy, 5.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.-
J. Alber, 7; E. Benoist, 4; L. Botto, 7; R. Broughton, 5; D.' .Bell, 9; T. Bateman, 5; E. Bahm, 7; G. Bowers, 6; H. Bcakey, 5 ; G. Butsch, 4 ; J.,Burns, 3_; J. Broderick, 4; E. Callahan, 3; . J. Campbell, 4; A. Cable, 4; J. Coppinger, 5; P. Cochrane, 4; W. B. Clarke, 7; F. Clerget, 3; J. Dooley, 8;- W. Dodge, 5; F. Dwyer, 8;
I C. Dodge, 5.;.J. Dinnen^ji; J. Dunne,4; J. Dougherty, 6; H. Eisenman, 8; D. Eagan, 5; C. Enes, 4; J. Flanigen, 7; G. Fletcher, 5 ; M. Foote, 8; V. Hackman, 8; B. Heffernan, 7C-.Hutchings, 8 ; L. Hilsendegen, 4; C. Humbert, 4;. J. Krauth, • 3 ; G. Kurt, 3 ; J. Kline, 7; F. Ingersoll, 6-;pF. • Kaiser, 5 ; J. Lewis, 5 ; T. Lappin, 5 ; E. Lafferty,; 4 ; J. McHugh, 6 ; J. McGinnis, 9 ; R. McCarthy, 5 ; P. O’Connell, 4; J. O’Neill, 4 ; C. O’Neill, 5 ;
H. Morgan, 3 ; G. Morgan, 3; J. McGuire, 5 ; H., Moody, 4!; M. Mahony, 7 ; C. Marantette, 3; H.: P. Morancy, 6 ; A. Murphy, 3 ; F. Nicholas, "5 ; J. Nash, 6 ; M. Nolan, 5 ; J. Shannon, 7 ; J. Suth-. erland, 6; J. Schmelz, 6; L. Schmeider,'4;^J.; Staley, 4; AV. H. Smith, 7 ; C. Sage, 4 ; Ri Staley,' 7 ; W. B. Small, 3; J. Thompson, 5 ; Gi To’5in'/5 ; J A. Trentman, 4; C. Tierney;' 5 Ji Ruineiy/4; J. Ryan, 5; J. Raggio, 3 ; J. Wilson;J:Win-terbotham, 6 ; C. Walter, 4; Ti’-Pl1 Whitty: (>;**©. J. Wile. 6 ; A. J. Wetherbee,-5; -L.- Wilsdhp9fie
■-:—:—A—.-ri ynbi-jR snw
BASE BALL
One of a series of match games was -placed-on Sunday afternoon, May 3d, between the first nines of the Mutual and Juanita Clubs. : At the end of the ninth inning, the game was called,, the Juanitas being victorious by a score, of,3$ t,o 16.
The Umpire, Mr. J. Wilson, of the Star ot’ the West Base-ball Club, exercised his duties .with credit to himself and satisfaction _ to. all^the Players. '	....
The following is the score:	,. t
. JUAXITA.	0.	R.	MUTUAL. ’	.	-'0^	
S. Anson, c. f. - - -	o	5	C. Ogle, c, - - - - -	2	4.
C. Hibben, s. s., - - -	5	1	L. Teft, c. f., - - - -	6	0
J. Hull, lb.,- - - -	.4	4	J. Garharstine, r. £, - -	5	0-
J. Lafferty, 2 b.,- - -	3	4	A. O’Reilly, 3 b.,		1	1-
A. Anson, 3 b.,- - -	1	3	J. Rogers, lb., - - -	2	2
S. Hibben, p., - - - -	4	3	J. Dickinson, 1. f., - -	O	3
W. Rhodes, 1. f., - - -	4	3	J O’Reilly, p., - - - ■	4	3
W. Smith, c., - - - -	3	4	E. Teats, s. s., - - -	4	1
M. Ryan, r. f., - - -	1	5	J. McBride, 2 b., - -	1	0
	——Ml	M	.		■ ..	
Total,		27	32	Total, ------	27	16
Fly catches—Juanitas, 5; Mutuals, 13.
Foul fly catches—Juanitas, 3; Mutuals, 0.
Foul bound catches—Juanitas, 5; Mutuals, 10.
Scorer of the Juanita, J. C. Keyesey.	.
Scorer of the Mutual, S. Moore.
A Base-ball match game was played last • week between the second nine of the Mutual ‘ and the first nine of the O. K. At the expira- ■ tion of the game, the score was announced' as ‘ follows: O.K. 54; Mutuals 52.1 This is'the ! third time that the O. K.’s are victorious this year, and everything looks propitious for the remainder of the term. . S. Moore', Rec. Sec.

.6
THE S C H G>£ A SrT£ $ gYgEAnR
Additional Students at Notre Dame
Austin1 Crary, John E. Dwyer, George F. Dwyer,
South Bend, Ind.
Chicago, III.
a u
Tables of Honor.
Week Ending May loth.
- SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Zahm, J. McGlinn, D. Tighe, J. Rodman, C. Rastner, F. W. Pape, J. Garharstine, W. Hoynes,’ E. S. Pillars, H. Boardman.
IPeck Ending May 8th.
. r , 1, - SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
'Yeakle, T. Cunnea, W. Stace, J.: Mohrbe,jP. Michels, D. Clarke, N. S. Wood, Gi, Campbell, JJClaffey.
1 ’ '	'	- JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
' 'J^ Alber,-EjBahm, H. Eisenman, H. Morgan, W; Dodge, A.- J.-Wetherbee,- R. McCarthy, C. Engs, C..O’Neill, L. Wilson, J. Rumeley.
department.
E. Haydel, W. Hendricks, H. Jones, M. Smith, E. Wile, W. Byrne.
Festival of the Holy Angels’ Society.
—Friday, May 8th, being the Feast of the Apparition of St. Michael, has always been one of the . festivals of the Holy Angels’ Society. This year they had the advantage of splendid weather, and they secured in addition the privilege of amusing themselves in the grounds attached to St. Aloysius’ Novitiate—a privilege seldom granted, and to few. The boating clubs also kindly abandoned their crafts to their angelic friends, who plied them incessantly back and forward on the lake during the whole afternoon. The banquet in the refectory at one o’clock was a complete success, and attended by numerous and distinguished guests. After the dinner, speeches were vociferously called for, and the young gentlemen succeeded in obtaining some very good ones. That of Prof. McNally, however, surpassing the rest in length and strength, was considered peculiarly the oration of the occasion. This Society, as noticed already in a recent number of The Scho-dastic Year, seems to continue in the prosperous state in which it has existed for many years past.
St,: Cecilia Pliilomathean Society,
mentioned'at a future day.
Reag. -
The twenty-seventh regular meeting of this association was held Sunday, May 10th. At tliis meeting Master Dunn, having presented himself for re-admissibn, read his essay on “Selfishness,’’.giving1 some very good examples of the evils'‘of this vice.. Also Master Botto, another candidate for admission, read an essay on “ Friendship” which was very fine and loudly applauded by the Society. -Both were elected members.
After a few remarks by the President, concerning the play and the “ Mock Court” which was about to take place, Rev. Father Lemonnier was invited to attend the trial:	.	.
The case was “ Queen versus M. Mahoney,” He being indicted for high treason for concealing deadly weapons in his house to be used to carry out the designs of the “Fenian Brotherhood.”
The members of the presentcourt were as follows :
Judge of Supreme Court, J. Flanigen ; Clerk, A. Wetherbee; Sheriff, J. Wilson; Detective, J. Sutherland. Counsellors for Queen, D. Wile and M. Foote; Counsellors for Defendant, W. Reyn-’ olds and F. Ingersoll; Prosecuting Witnesses, G. Bowers, J. McHugh and J. McGinnis ; Defending Witnesses, P. O’Connell, L. Wilson and A. Murphy; Foreman Grand Jury, J. Raggio ; Jury, T. Bateman, R. Staley, W. Clark, F. Kaiser, E. Bahm; F. Dwyer, J. Dooley, H. Moody and R. McCarty, F. Kaiser, L. Botto, J. Dunn.
The Jury having been sworn by legal form, the Prosecuting Attorney (D. Wile) opened in a speech showing the effects of treason and the ruinous state into which the country would be thrown if this was let run on. . The prisoner was then called up and examined, when G. Bowers,-the principal prosecuting witness, took the stand and gave his evidence, but the time for retiring having rolled around before the attorney for defendant had finished cross-examining; the .meeting therefore adjourned. More about this court will be
An eye-witness who takes great interest in the welfare of the St. Cecilia Philomatheans, hears testimony to their superior management of the aforesaid case, whose development has been skillfully planned and shows, on either side, a real earnest study of the indictment pending at the bar. We cannot give too much credit to all concerned, but will defer till the settlement of the case a more lengthy criticism. •	T

^‘HE'S^HO^STrC YEAR.	7
'<Axfew more Words froin’ Ike. "
Isaac has kept very still since the February .examination. The trials and perplexities which beset him as a new student have in, a great measure vanished, and he has become accustomed to the ways of the house. He has little annoyances still, however, as who hasn’t ? ’The following extract from a letter to his mother reveals some, of them.
“ * * * I am getting along pretty well in my classes, except arithmetic, which my book is all stuck together with Spalding’s Prepared Glue, owing to having no room for everything in my desk, and spilling the glue, trying to draw out my duty-book, which was under a piece of mincepie, which was under a pair of slippers, which was under my atlas, which was under part of a boiled chicken, (which we had some days before,) which was under a stocking that I had to take off in the study-room, owing to having blistery feet from running so at base-ball, (and my hands likewise is used up,) which was under my Grammar, which was under the glue, which consequently spilled over the rest of the things, knocking over at the same time my red ink, (which I am studying Book-keeping,) which gives me a good deal of trouble to get things straight again. * * *”
We hope Ike’s experience will convince him of the importance of good order.	'	'
The Alumni Association of Notre Dame, which had been announced in one of our former numbers as about to be formed, was formally established by the resident Alumni of Notre Dame, on the 15th of April last, when the constitutions of ther said Association, having been previously drawn up by a special committee, were approved and sanctioned by the Alumni present at Notre Dame.
A circular-letter has been issued inviting the Alumni to be present, at a general meeting to be held on the 231 of June, for the election of the officers of the Association.
———----------
; Continentals.—This well-known troupe of vocalists favored Notre Dame with a very interesting entertainment in Washington Hall on Alon-day evening. The programme, which was well carried out, consisted of vocal and instrumental music, stereoscopic views, illustrations of songs and the recitation of select pieces. „The illustrations accompanying several of the songs were, in
deed, beautiful,, and, inouriwz&zased<judgment, formed the principal feature of the entertainment. The views representing the various departments connected with the late Paris Exposition were very fine, and, we suppose, fac similes of the originals. Considered as a whole, we are confident that the exhibition was a success, and that all enjoyed a very pleasant evening.
The Weather—One day last week all were panting to get at their trunks for their ’ linen coats, the next day overcoats and shawls were in demand. We think the best way to regulate the weather would be to impeach the clerk;- will some one take measures for so doing?
■ - - ‘
We note this week the departure of one of our fellow-students, David Brady,'Esq.? who hasMeft College and is to commence toTpaddlel'-his canoe” upon the stormy sea .of life. ^Mn^Brady; we believe, was an enthusiastic; member of the Commercial Department.-. Wewish-hini: success.
C O R R E S P OISTE EIS OEf .
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY-d _______________	.a
' ARRIVALS.	*
c " - May 6th.
Miss Sarah Benton,	St. Louis, Missouri.
“ Belle Barber,	Clinton, Michigan.
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, Alice Carmody, Alary Hoyt, H. Lill, K. Jarvis, Alary Claffey, N. Ogle, B. Moriarty, J. Arrington, L. Chouteau, Josephine Greishop.
Junior Department.—Alisses AI. Toberty, J. and AI. Walker, Alary Sissons, Alary Clark, Anna Clark, Adelaide Aletzger, K. Foreman, L. Alills, Anna Garrity, Rosa Conall.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Alisses M. Tripp, H. Brooks, Blanche Walton, K. Doran, Mary Twomey, L. Alurray, Florence Alspaugh.	'
First Senior Class.—Alisses L. and L. Tong,- K. Livingston, K. Cunnea, Laura Lewis, E. Lo'ngs-dorf, Eunice Crouch, C. Wolfe, E. -Pool. '
Second Senior Class.—Alisses S. Rooney, E. Ewing, Mary Carraher, Anna Cunnea, L. Lyons, A. Adams, Agnes Mulhall, F. North, Mary Morrill,
8	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Iola Conway, Rosanna Mukautz, K. Graham, V. Brown, Anastasia Darcy, L. McManman, Erances Gittings, Emma Conan, Christina Thomson, S. Gleeson, JM. Taber, Teresa Stapleton, Ophelia Brady, Emma Carr, R. Millington, M. Noel.
Third Senior Glass.—Misses Lorena Rettig, A. Sissons, N. Thompson, K. Carpenter, Leonena and Louisa Leoni, Clara Foote,z L. Cummerford, L. Bicknell, J. Murray,,K. Conor, Amelia Boyles, E. Lindsday, R. Joslin, B. Gardner N. Sherburn.
First Intermediate Glass.—Misses A. Wiley, B. Acker, E. Thompson, Josephine and Esther Lonergan, Rose and Julia Gittings, M. Hally, Mary Gordon, Mary Oechtering, C. Casteteer, H. Craul, Helen Sprochnle, M. O'Meara, Ida Furbish, A Byrnes. ’
.	Sunday Evening.
One of the most interesting features of a summer evening at St. Mary’s, is the gathering of the entire school in some of the many arbors, to enjoy the pleasures of the pure open air and the delights of social interchange of thought, not within four narrow ■walls, but with stars, trees, flowers and waters to elevate and cheer human companionship, and suggest thoughts of gratitude and noble affection. Such a meeting took place on Sunday evening in the pavilion or arbor of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Beautiful hymns to Mary, the peerless Queen of May, floated sweetly on the air for a time, then low voices in conversation were heard, while at length “ Our Lady of the Sacred Heart,” from the Belfry of Notre. Dame, as if responding to the welcome voices of her children, rang out in eloquent peals of joy, filling the waves of ether with a music that seemed more like the stupendous triumph of heaven, than the expression of any merely human rejoicing. The triumph of love for the Blessed Virgin over the cold-hearted material view that so many, unfortunately, take of life, is indeed a victory to be celebrated fitly only by the richest and most far-resounding melody that art can produce.
WLy Stand ye Here all the Day Idle,
Are you satisfied with your achievements, or think you farther labor is impossible ? Do you expect fame will come to you without exertion on your part, or are you contented to see the laurels which should circle your brow awarded to another?
How have the great attained to their greatness?
Did they stand with their hands in their pockets, waiting, Micawber-like, “ for something to turn up.” No. They rolled up their sleeves, as it were, and turned something up. We are commanded to “watch and fight and pray.” Watching and prayer will avail little, if to these we do not add earnest fighting. Think you that you have accomplished all that it is in your power to accomplish? The’ mind, like the body, grows with exercise. The higher you soar the stronger will grow the wings of your imagination; The deeper you dive into the mysteries of science, the more intricate will you find them, but the strength acquired in grappling with former difficulties will enable you to seize upon the most abstruse truths as if they were the most sithple axioms.
Since Eve bit the fatal apple, .we are told that we are to “ eat our bread by the sweat of our brows,” but since that memorable event, there have ever been those who preferred to eat their bread by the sweat of their neighbors’ brow. All must eat. All will not work, consequently the few who are willing to labor at all, must labor incessantly, if they would accomplish any thing great and glorious. Again, you are willing to do the work but, you shirk the responsibility. Consider: if the task is completed by you to the best of your power, a king could have done no better; therefore, blame would be unjust, and that censure which is unjust should be disregarded. If the task was not accomplished according to the best of your ability the reproof would be merited, and if merited should be endured with the best grace possible.
“ Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well.” “ Whatever your hands find to do, do that with- your might.”	'
Then, vzhy stand you here all the day idle? Are you discouraged that your true sphere of action was found late in life? If you come into the vineyard at the eleventh hour, you will receive your just reward. Do you expect an angelw to appear and announce to you that you are to engage in this or that occupation ? Under natural laws, no such exception will be m^de in your favor. Your'duty, then, is to search till your ■ place is found, and then fill it with industry and ’ earnestness. .	.
“ Let us then be up and doing With a heart for any fate,	.
Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor, and to wait.”
”	. Mary Tripp.
St. Mary’s, May 4th, 1868.