@lje	^ear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
.	Editors of the Present Number!
W. R. SPALDING,	B. H. THOMAS,	H. B. KEELER. '
Vol. I. HSTotre Dame University, Jan. 18, 1868. No. 20.
TO EBIEHDS OP THE DAYS OF OLD.
Notre Dame has nearly reached her twentyfifth, or silver, anniversary. During those twenty-five past years, numbers have left her fostering care, to enter on the active business of life. Those who have fought their way successfully through the first bustle and struggle of making a name and a reputation, in the sphere of activity their genius has prompted them to select, are beginning again to revert in thought to the Alma, Hater where the foundation of their success was laid, and to the comrades who shared their studies in those long past days. Accordingly we have received suggestions from various sources, to form an association of the alumni of Notre Dame, in which mutual acquaintance can be formed and kept up among those already united by a common bond —their attachment to the college in which their studies were pursued. The Scholastic Year kindly offers itself as a medium of communication among old students, and is ready to publish suggestions on any of the following heads:
1st. What are to be the conditions of membership of the proposed society ? The six-year course required for graduation at Notre Dame is so long that many who 'are well-remembered as old students, and who have taken an active part in the literary affairs of the college, have been called away by the pressure of worldly afiairs before the goal of graduation was reached. Do our fellow-graduates wish to be so exclusive as to shut out these from participating in the common interest ? if so, we think, the loss to the society will be severely felt. .
2nd. What shall be the name of the proposed association? It should be at once expressive, . dignified, and original. The institution’s course and method of study,—in fact, the whole college life at Notre Dame, is so different from that in other establishments of the country, that our society should be peculiar also. We have no precedents from which we can copy.
3d. What literary and scientific objects shall be proposed as specially worthy of the interest of the society? Beyond the general object of forming a union among the alumni of the University, there was to be something to make the union productive of mutual benefit, or it will not be lasting.
4th. How often can regular meetings of the society take place. And what general medium of communication can be sustained among the members between times ?
We earnestly invite correspondence on the above, or similar matters, from our old friends. The matter must be discussed in all its bearings before any definite steps can be taken. From the the present time, until the annual commencement next June, there will be plenty of opportunity for all who have a voice in the matter to make it heard.
University Album.—This venerable Album is about to be filled with fine photographs of friends of the college, and of students formerly of Notre Dame. We invite all our friends to send their photographs to Rev. A. Lemoi-iier, who will have Th pm duly placed in the Album. All photographs should be sent before the first of February.
2	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
EXPERIENCE.
“Experience joined with common sense, ' To mortals is a providence.”	.
When the whole world has been agitated in dispute over some great subject, when conflicting powers have exerted all their strength in rivally,-and when worn out by dispute they finely desist, where at last does the wondering and unenlightened world find an answer to the great problem, where but at the shrine of Experience. Tested at this impartial shrine our brighested anticipations of success, our darkest forebodings of disapointment, are alike often subverted. Has not Experience often shown men the utter nothingness of those very traits in their characters, upon which they placed the greatest confidence ? Certainly it has. But, at the same time, it subjects them to this seemingly cruel disapointment, has it not often brought to light some latent quality in them, the existence of which they never dreamt?
One of our oldest axioms says, that “ every man is good at something.” Now, the great trouble with the majority of people is to find out what that “ something” is. They enter the world and choose what ever occupation may best suit their particular fancy. Now, how often does Experience teach them, that though this occupation may be agreeable to theirfancy, it is not to their ability, and consequently they are soon shipwrecked in their hopes.
Man naturally aims at the accomplishment of some particular desire. He sees in the future, some goal which he wishes to reach. The road which leads to this point of desire, is often strewn with so many unforeseen difficulties, that ere he passes over half of it, he looses all he possesses Now, if he is a man of energy, he does not give way under these misfortunes, but, retraces his steps and begins again where he commenced. In his second attempt he meets not the difficulties that he did in his first. Before him there shines a bright star which casts its effulgent rays upon the path he pursues and opens to his view the dangers which impede his course, and which he knows he must avoid. That bright star is Experience. By his former misfortunes he has gained a knowledge which now leads him in safety from the labyrinth of difficulties which surrounds him. That knowledge is Experience.
There are some things which the minds of men cannot instantly fathom. There are some things too deep for their immediate comprehension. There are some things the expediency or
non-expediency of which time and Experience alone can prove. Let us draw an illustration of this fact.	. ..
Not many years ago, Tubular Boilers for Steamboats were invented. Every one thought that these Boilers were a great invention and much superior to the ones formerly in use. In 1S65 we all remember that there were not less than six Steamboats blown to pieces in the short space of one month. Learned men attributed these great catastrophes to these Tubular Boilers.
On the other hand, Telegraphing in its first stages of existence was very imperfect, but owing to successive improvements, brought about by time and Experience, it has arrived at a high degree of perfection. From these two illustrations, we see that Experience accomplishes what man cannot immediately understand, and that it is the true perfecter or destroyer of man’s inventions.
‘	Wai. Spalding.
, DISCRETION.
Under whatever cicumstances we may labor in life, or in whatever predicament we are cast, no quality of character is more essential to our progress, than that of discretion. We may be gifted with extraordinary talents, and furnished with a liberal share’of knowledge; yet without this single paramount attribute, discretion, success in our undertakings is well nigh impossible. It is, nevertheless, true, that knowledge can do much; but if united with discretion, her attainments will far exceed in number the fruits of her separate exertions. Knowledge may induce a man to engage in some important and perilous endertaking, but by the total absence of discretion, he is rendered liable to obstacles entirely unexpected, and perhaps becomes involved in a difficulty out of which he is unable to extricate himself. Knowledge may be said to abound in improvidence; her desires are centerd only on the attainment of conclusions. She plunges in the midst of some promising enterprise, and ere the object of her desires is accomplished, finds herself completely entangled in a labyrinth of embarrassments. ’ On the other hand, if the possession of knowledge is accompanied by discretion, no step will be taken without due consideration on the result; for the deficiency of forethought in one is abundantly supplied by the other, and if occasion demands the services of knowledge, when at the same time she is allied with discretion, no doubt can be entertained of her ability to please and to
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
acquire the end for ’which she is aspiring. There arc comparatively few individuals, who, having in store an abundance of knowledge, possess therewith the gift of discretion. They are found to be void either of one or the other; the deficiency, however, is more common in the latter. The acquirement of knowledge is more through, our own efforts, and our supply of intellect determines the number of our achievements. Discretion is a gift of nature, and one which is highly preferable to the accumulation of knowledge. The discreet man can prosper in the ordinary pursuits . of life without a superlative degree of knowledge. But if he possesses no discretion, however well he may be informed, his efforts to advance will result fruitlessly. Discretion may be termed-the ballast and rudder of the barque of knowledge; by the agency of which she is protected from the dangerous shoals, on which she is likely to be driven by the winds of ambition. Shielded from such perils by the guidance of discretion, she glides swiftly to the haven of all her desires. Finally, after having delineated the effects of this rare attribute of man on his success and wellbeing in life; after having shown the importance of cultivating our respective modicums of discretion, to their utmost utility, I willingly submit my theme to those who are undoubtedly better qualified for the quill than myself, for further amplification.	B. H. Thomas,
w-------
The Impending Crisis.
One of the most exciting and interesting events of “Notre Dame,” is soon to be chronicled in the annals of memory. Each student is preparing to review the labors of the past session, and the Professsors are very lenient, (as a matter of course,) not giving much more than twice the usual amount to each class in general, and a little more to some in particular. The first “Bookkeepers” (asX. Y. Z. calls them) are beginning to look white already; but not in consequence of that famous “ coat of white,” so popular among a certain class of students; and their nervous systems are affected to such a degree, that it is very sensibly manifested in their “ specimens of Penmanship.” But, students, let me conjure you not to be alarmed, for examinations, though not included in the general phenomena of Nature, have happened before, and at least some of us have passed through the fearful ordeal. And judging from experience, as well as the fact that no serious resuls arising from it are recorded in history, it is to be hoped that the coming one may not. violate the general law of the past.
HONORABLE MENTION.
MATHEMATICS.
CIVIL ENGENEERING.
James Cunnea, E. Donhoff, S. B. Hibben, E. E. Hull, Jas. McBride, E. S. Pillars and W. Walker.
ASTRONOMY. y
W. T. Johnson, James McBride, James Cunnea, S. B. Hibben and Edward Hull.
FIRST GEOMETRY.
Charles K. Hibben and Joseph Winterbotham.
SECOND GEOMETRY.
Thomas O’Mahony.
EIRST ALGEBRA.
Henery Eisenmann, A. B. White. Geo. Bowers, C. K. Hibben and Chas. Hull.
SECOND ALGEBRA.
Benton H. Thomas, Dennis Clark, J. Monroe.
THIRD ALGEBRA.
D. J, Wile, J. L. Hull.
FOURTH ALGEBRA.
John Moon, Joseph Mader, Joseph Claffey, S. R. Anson, Jos. Downey, J. Murphy, John Zahm, A. V. Hoffman, J. L. Dickinson, George Yeakel and John Alber.
FIRST ARITHMETIC, (SR.)
A. B. White, Thos. O’Mahony, Wm. O’Donnell, F. Crapser, R. A. Brown, H. B. Keeler, J. D. McCormick, J. Moon, F. Kaiser and J. Buddeke.
SECOND ARITHMETIC, (SR.)
John Gibbons, James Monroe, J. Fuhrer, H. D. Rodman, J. Hefferman and J. Claffy.
THIRD ARITHMETIC, (SR.)
Robert A. Pinckerton, Joseph Mader, Joseph Harrison, Jas. F. Rogers, Wm. B. Smith, Joseph D. Murphy, John Mulhall and Frank Teats.
FOURTH ARITHMETIC, (SR.)
R.	J. Clark, George Atkinson.
FIFTH ARITHMETIC, (SR.)
S.	R. Anson, P. A. Hieber and F. J. Cousins, SIXTH ARITHMETIC, (SR.)
J. C. Foley, C. W. Bennet, W. R. Spalding and Wm. Sterling.
BOOK-KEEPING.
John Moon, Thomas O’Mahony, Wm. O’Donnell, H. B. Keeler. F. Keiser, Louis Garcin, Jas. Claffy, Chas. Clark, F. Crapser, H. C. Boardman, R. Callighan and Joseph Winterbotham.
FIRST ARITHMETIC, (JR.)
Louis Botto, Carlton-Sage, Francis Nicholas,
4	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
C. Hildebrand, E. Morancy, E. Calahan, J. Sutherland and Henry Beakey.
SECOND ARITHMETIC, (JR)
Francis Ingersoll, Robert Staley, Thomas Watson, Louis Garcin and Lawrence Wilson.
THIRD ARITHMETIC, (JR,)
James Wilson, Hazard Dean, D. S. Bell, George Morgan and Austin Cabeh
FOURTH ARITHMETIC, (JR.)
John H. O’Neill, Vincent Hackman, James F. Ryan, George Rockstroh, Joseph Rumely, Charles Hutchings, Michael Branock, James McGinnis, James E. Lewis and Eugene Benoist.	.
FIFTH ARITHMETIC, (JR.)
Thos. Arrington, 0. J. O’Neill, J. Thompson and John Dougherty.

Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
John Fitzharris, C. Hertich, AV. Hayden, W. T. Johnson, Jas. Monroe, Jas. McBride, Jas. McCormick, W. Pape, H. Rodman and W. Spaulding.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
John Broderick, J. Coppinger, H. Eisenman, C. Hildebrand, V. Hackman, F. Ingersol, H. O. Morancy, J. Nohe, J. Schmeltz, T. Watson and L. Wilson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
George Gross, Edward Hydell, George Lyons, Ernest Lyons and Willie Stewart.
Infirmary Bepoit,
Ike still enjoys his usual ill-health, and is living very quietly in the Infirmary.
One of the boys came to Ike’s apartments the other day, sadly disfigured about his frontispiece. The doctor, after examining him, said, that he had “a compound comminuted contused fracture of the ‘ tibula,’ a stellated fracture of the cranium, and abrasion of the osfrontis.”
Ike, when he heard the case decided upon by the doctor, rushed into.the sitting-room, and in a frantic manner, exclaimed: “The boy will die; all the latin pieces in his body are busted!” “Arrival of old students,” is still on the increase. “ Honorable mention ” of the large crowd to be in attendance during Examination, will be duly prepared and published in The Scholastic Year.
We have lost sight of Ike’s brother, and we think that he must either be down east, trying to sell that mare, or else has joined another society. The “Loafing Club” certainly miss him, J. D.
THE PEINOE OE POBTAGE PBAIBIE;
OR,
The'Burning of Bertrand,
We give our readers, in this number, the first act of a burlesque tragedy which was performed by the St. Cecilian Society in December, 1865, with the original cast of characters. Some of the young performers have remained among us until now, either still budding under the fostering care of Bro. Florentius, or already expanded into the full bloom of seniority. One is preparing for the most arduous responsibilities in the sequestered shades of a neighboring retreat. Others have entered on the business of life—the “Prince” among the number. If this should meet their eyes, it may recall pleasant names and faces. It can do little more, for the’play owed its success to the mis en scene, which must be left entirely to the imagination of the reader. The lively action of the whole piece—the beautiful Zouave drill, performed by the St. Cecilians in the dashing uniform they then wore—the startling effect of the sudden conflagration—and above all, the grotesque appearance of the various characters and dresses (particularly the black face of the “Barber”) coming round in the “grand right and left ” of the dance at the end—all these, and many more, beauties—are “ not transferable ” to print. We give it, however, as correctly as type can do, and let the theatrically initiated imagine the rest:
, ORIGINAL CAST OP CHARACTERS:	,
The Prince of Portage Prairie—James Graham. Alexander, his nephew—John Flanigen.
Duke of Goshen, 1 The Prince’s f Joseph Hayes, Marquis of South Bend, J Enemies, ( Wm. Partridge. The Barber of Mishawaka—a negro—James O’Reilly. The Hermit of the Valley—John O’Connell.
A Water Spirit—Charles Braunstein.
A Butler—Joseph Rohan.
Two Spies—John Skelly and John Hayes.	'
Bugler and Drill-Sergeant—A. D. and A. J. Langan. .
Indian Chief—Charles Spencer.
The Arkansas Traveller—Charles Deyo. Zouaves, Attendants, Indians, etc.	,
The scene is laid in the vicinity of Notre Dame, at some indefinite future period of time.
ACT THE FIRST—Scene I.
The Banka of the St. Joseph River, above Bertrand.
2he Prince discovered musing and gazing on the water.
Tn these blue depths how soon relief is found From envy, calumny, and malice dire!
■ 0 world 1 0 treacherous world! How I despise Thy courtly mockeries—thy sugared poison 1 Not long ago, the favorite of the King,
’ I baskek in honors, ruled my sovereign’s court, Ennobled whom I would. Honored by all
I held my head above the clouds, but now ■
*
I
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	-	5	
The dream is past I Foul envy’s work is done!	Burst on thy view. Then find the Barber out
Calumny triumphs, and from power fallen,	-	And bid him come and shave me.
I seek a refuge in oblivion I	Spirit. — I obey. (Turns to go)
(Stoops down and dips his hand into the water)	Hermit.—But first, I beg of you, a moment stay,
’Tis cold—’tis very cold! The suns of May	I’ll take the chance, before you go away,
Have not had potency to warm this flood	To make assurance certain. Tell me true,
Cooled by the frosts of winter. June—yes, June’s	Is this stream Casar’s Arar?
A month far more convenient, and besides	Spirit. — Cresar’s who ?
. I think I’ve left my swimming drawers at home.—	Caesar’s a tinker’s name in Mishawak’ ?
(Goes up stage)	Hermit.—0! horrid profanation 1 (Drops the Book)
Enter the Hermit, with an open Book.	Spirit. —How you talk!
Hermit —(Reading)—Flumen es't Arar, quod per fines Indiano-	Prince.—There, stop your noise, and go about your biz. (Spirit
rum in Michiganum lacum influit, incredibili crookedi-	floats up stream)
tate, ita ut oculis, in utram partem fluat, judicari non	Hermit—(Aside)—I’ll twist the nose from off your^ugly phiz!
possit.	.	How near I got the certainly I craved,
Oh I what a light the spirit of research	But History’s left in donbt that tyrants may be shaved I
Throws on historic annals I Until late	(Ihe Indians here begin peeping from behind the
’Twas fancied Cajsar was a European,	.	scenes)
But modern scientific men have shown	He’ll now receive the punishment he lacks,
That in America his conquests lay;	But I must save myself by making tracks.
’	Each territory, mountain, city, stream,	(Throws his book at the Indians, and exit. The
■ Except the Arar, they’ve identified;	-	Indians surround the Prince, who draws his
And now the glory’s mine to find the link—	sword and kills several. They finally over-
That link thus wanted to complete the chain!	power and capture him.	,
This is the Arar—this majestic strain	' Owns the exalted name that Csesar gave,	Scene II.	■
So falsely claimed by puny Saone in France,	A HAU IN THE PALACE OF THE PRINCE OF PORTAGE
But now restored to rightful ownership—	PRAIRIE.
By me restored!—What triumph in the thought,	Enter Alexander, with a tambourine. He sings a
That hands me down to immortality I	comic song, and then dances a jig. After he has
My proof is easy. Do but turn an eye	danced for some time,
Upon its winding course—now here—now there	Enter the Barber, with^a basin of hot water, and
Now East, now West, now North, now South, it flows	shaving materials.
Non possit judicari!—there’s the proof!	Alex. —Why, friend, what brings yonhere?
You cannot tell which side you’re standing on.	Barber.—Come to shabe the Prince, massa. Fse de barber, ob
(Here he accidentally stumbles against the Prince)	Mishawak’. Come all de way from Mishawak’ dis
Prince.—Halloa, good stranger! Look before you leap!	mornin’. ’Spect you’m de Prince’s nephew. Can you
Methinks politeness would become a knave	tell me whar he am ?
Of thy condition. Dost thou know me not?	Alex. — The Prince has not been home since early morn;
The Prince of Portage Prairie ?	"	But be not therefore troubled. Not in vain,
Hermit.—What care I	Nor unrewarded shall thy journey be;
For Prince, or King, or Emperor, in short	I mean to profit by this accident,
For any earthly power ? The powers of air	For me thy science shall be exercised;
Are ever at my call to do my bidding.	,	In short, friend, you may shave me.
Prince.—Canst thou command the water spirits, too?	Barber.—Yah! yah! yah! I’d shabe you massawid all my
Hermit.—My empire yet does not extend so far	heart. Ony for one thing.
_	As my ambition tends. But what wouldst thou	Alex. — Why, barber, what objection canst thou have?
With spirits of the water?	Barber.—Well, the troof is, dar’s nuffin dar to shabe.
Prince.—I would call	■	Alex.—Villain! wouldst thou insult me? (Ihreatens to
The spirit of this bright meandering strain	strike him with tambourine)	.
Perhaps he might relieve my troubled soul.	Barber.—Oh! no,massa. Tickee! tickeeboy! tickee! G’way—
Hermit.—Is not this river in thy vast domain?	g’way. TH frow the basin at ye.
Thou art its lord! Thou hast despotic sway,	(Enter the Butler and all the servants, running)
Suspend the Habeas Corpus'Act.	1st servant exclaims : Oh, my lord, the Indians. 2d servant:
Prince.—I do suspend it.	-	They’ve carried off the Prince. 3d servantThey’ll
(Soft music. Water Spirit rises)	come and kill us all. 1th servant: And burn down
Spirit.—Why hast thou called me from my oozy bed?	the house—oh, dear!
Prince.— Spirit, I need thee for affairs of weight	Butler.—My lord, we come to break a piece of news most ter-
Above that turning in the river’s course	rible.
That bends its waters northward, knowest thou	Alex.—Oh my prophetic soul! My uncle!
A peaceful village, Mishawaka named?	Butler.—Aye! too well, my lord, you’ve guessed.
Spirit. — I know it well. I pass it every morn.	This morning, by the river’s bank, engaged
Prince.— And dost thou? and know a barber there? An individual	In customaiy meditation, he	’
Of dark complexion ?	■	Was set upon by hostile savages’ w
Spirit. — Ah! you mean a nigger?	From Michigan, and by them carried off.
How should I know him ? Spirits never shave.	(The Barber arranges the shaving materials on a
Prince.—Ah, true .'—too true! But then you might inquire.	table.)
Spirit. — And so I will, to serve my Prince.	Alex.—How learned you this?
Prince.—Then speed	Butler.—A hermit brought the news
Boll back thy waves,—thy foaming tide reverse	Who saw him captured. Since, we have been told
■ ■	Until again fair Mishawaka’s spires .	The savages have fortified Bertrand. '
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
The Prince, our master, lies imprisoned'thcre.
41 e X. — And where are the Bertrahders ? -	-
Butler.—They have fled—	.
’ All that were able—those that conld not flee
■Were scalped without compassion by the fiends.
Alex.—Alos! this news doth overpower my strength, Upset my spirits, and unhinge my brain A frenzy seizes on me 1
Barter.—Now young massa don't git conswamptious. I had an uncle once myself, and 1 know just dizackly how it is.
Alex. — Dad you indeed? You do not say so, friend.
Barter.—Sartin, yes. De fact is, he'm alibo still. Come down to Mishawaka, and Fil introduce you.
Alex. — Mistaken wretch! You little know the grief That fixes on my soul and drives me mad. I had a pocket knife, whose workmanship Was rare and precious. Springs of finest steel Opened and shut it. Seven blades it had For different uses fashioned, and besides It had a corkscrew, toothpick and a file. It was a knife, sir, take it all in all I shall not look upon its like again.
Barber.—But what has all dat to do wid the Prince, massa?
.Alex. — Omost vexatious barber I -
That pocket-knife I lent unto the Prince, To pare his nails—his finger-nails—this morn, ;Tis captured with him 1 Do you see the point ?
Barber'.—I think so, massa.
Alex. — You rejoice my heart I
For I shall never see the point again—
None of the seven points I Oh, I am frantic 1
(To the Why stay you here? Quick I hasten to Bertrand, servt's^) And make those savages release mine uncle. {Exeunt servants.)
t - My pocket-knife, I meant to say. Oh horror!
" Knave, what is this? {Snatches razor) Or do my eyes deceive me?
Barber.—Oh! he’s got de razor.
Alex. — Or bears it the resemblance of a knife ? .
’Tis mine! Fil keep it!
Barber.—No you won’t!	-
Alex.____I will! (Runs off. The Barber follows him. Both reappear, running across the other way. Alex, runs out. The Barber remains.)
Barber.__Oh golly! He’s got de razor; and he’m angry; and he'll cut his trofe. And dey’ll say it am all dis nigga’s fault, and dey’ll hang me. I feel quite pale! Oh—oh—oh!
(Re-enter Alex., running. The Barber follows him out. Alex, comes in alone again and locks all the doors.)
Alex.____Ha! ha! good barber! didst thou fondly think Thou couldst outwit a maniac ? Ha! Pm mad!
And now the end of this great tragedy Must be accomplished. Ere I seal my fate One last, long, loving, lingering, look Fil give To my affection’s idol. (Looks in the glass.) I MUST
Or one alternative alone remains, And that is, I must shave! I think Fil do it. (Lathers and begins to shave. Noise of a crowbar at the door.)	•
Barber—{without.)—Sa.be him. Break de door. He’m mad. He'll cut his trofe.	“	’
Alex. Not half so mad as you, my sable friend.
' In vain your efforts on that door you spend, The sturdy oak can stand it till the end.
Barber—{without.)—Now let’s all shub togedder.
Al. The work’s accomplished! I have smoothed my chin.
-And now Fm satisfied, Ell let you in. (Opens the door suddenly. The Barber, Butler, and servants, all
tumble in togethe r.)	'
AI. — That’s what you get for laughing at my beard! Another time you'll shave me when I ask it.
{10 the And you, you villains, wherefore this 'delay ? servt's.) Go! Hasten to Bertrand, and save the Prince!
A thousand furies! Why! you do not stir!
Butler.—Be patient! and reflect, mygracious lord, The Indians are numerous, fierce, and armed. We are weak—unarmed—few.
AI. — What ? cowards all?
Fear ye to rescue, then, your Prince from death ? I'll go myself, and follow if ye will, Or follow not, it matters naught to me.
I need no coward's aid. Before the sun ■ Shall have completed his diurnal round
I will be master of the hostile ground;
I’ll drive the savage Indian from the land, Rescue my pocket-knife, and burn Bertrand. End of the First Act.
[to be continued.]
-------<•-------
The “Bethlehem of the Minims.”
’Tis too bad that the Minims are so modest in. their endeavors to put themselves before the people! The “Bethlehem” of the Minims was a grand affair,—to us all, but especially to them, and .that, we take it, was the main affair. The cave was most naturally represented by huge rocks placed one upon the other, with the Divine Infant in the manger and Mary and Joseph watching over Him.
But the peculiarity of the Minims’ “Bethlehem” was the front ground; this was beautifully laid off in hill and valley. Here was a tall mountain covered with evergreens-^-there a long valley with a lake in it—and ducks and other .fowl in the lake—and we remarked several ducks, each of which had a private lake all to itself. Flocks of sheep on the hill side,—and one pretty large flock under the charge of a little boy in a green great coat and red hat,—extensive forest, covered the .left hand side of the scene, in the middle of which could be seen a large lake as smooth as a mirror, reflecting the images of the animals drinking on the shore,—while above them could be seen a most ferocious looking lion, ready to jump down upon the cattle,—but he did’nt jump, and that was the fun of it.
That which rendered this landscape so beautiful was that it was designed and executed by the Minims and the material, viz: lion, sheep, angels, etc., furnished by themselves. -
FOE SALE!.
. The undersigned offers for sale, a number of literary articles, pronounced as waif goods. Those who contributed such articles, seem to have forgotten the fact that, irrespective of their ex-'cellence, no anonymous productions are acceptable.	'	We Us & Co.
$
THE SCHOLA MUSIO. A light in sound, a sound like power in light. Kythm in thought arid joyance everywhere. ■	Colrige. There is music in sound, in sigh, and in thought, Music thrilling sweet by the quick ear caught, There is music, sweet music, in Zephyr's play, Gliding soft through the wood in mid-summer days, And tlie bright little bird they enchant the ear With their silvery voices so fresh and clear;	■ There are sounds in the song of the little stream, Like gay tinkling bells, in an infant’s dream. There’s a stirring voice in the thunder’s roil, That wakens the innermost depths of my soul; And music comes forth on the breath of the storm, As it sways the huge boughs with its giant arm ; And on in the dash of the cataract foam Music leaps with the wave to it’s ocean home, And harmony shades too, the cool leafy grove, While the silent elm glows, with a song that I love The violet meek, bowing low neath the shade Of the deep, sighing wood, or the grassy glado Makes eloquent music for the watchful eye; . And the glittering stars in the fair, azure sky ■ Singing anthems that thrill through the sensitive heart, With charms unarroused by the music of art. There is melody seen in the craggy cave, In the bold, fearless bound of old ocean’s wave. There’s lofty song in the gorgeous shroud Of the setting sun in the pillar-like cloud; ‘ But who shall describe, the sweet music of thought,	, Like the whispering of elfins through Zephyrs wrought? Thoughts, are fairy-winged birds with musical throats, Infusing all nature with ravishing notes. On tireless pinions they carry the soul To the depth of the ocean, from pole to pole, But their music is transcient, at discords harsh sound, They hide deep in the soul for congenial ground. M. S. —	 . Mrs. P’s reply to Ike’s Last. Mishawaka, oh Thereabouts, Jan. 15, ’68. I. Partington, Esq,, etc.—Dear Isaac : Your last came to hand safe and am very sorry,to think that you have given way to magnanimity and low sperrits, which for a boy of your age and sex is highly obnoxious. When I was a gal myself and tended the most selectest Decademy in Bost-ing I never gev way, not eving when the kitching chiinely caught fire, which was very trying to the Principle’s temper and nothing for dinner next day but what was full of Blacks. Think what your mother must have suffered on that trying occassion and also in Mathew maticks which I never could understand, but alius got threw some ways by setten next Sary Jane Peasley, which was a mighty smart figger of a gal and was afterwards married to an extinguished Civil Engine near. Isaac, ef you give way to them are low naryous feelings you will never be an Alum Nuss. You will never get a Sheep’s skin on, and you won’t be worth your salt. Just you go up to	STIC YEAR.	7 the Board, and don’t you stand none of thar nonsense. So no more at present from your affected mother, Ruth Partington. ■ ■<-»»■	 The South. Bend Register, the Elkart Review, and the Elkart Union, are the first papers of the St. Joseph. Valley, and come regularly among our exchanges.
	CORRESPONDENCE. Saint Marv’s Academy, 1 Jan. 13th, 1868. J ARRIVALS. DECEMBER 27, 1867. Miss Mary Barnett, Alton, Illinois.	. JANUARY 6, 1868. Miss Minnie Walton, Ypsilanti, Michigan. JANUARY 7th. Miss Kate Clark,	New Carlisle, Indiana. Miss Mary Hally,	Sandusky, Ohio. TABLES OF HONOR. Senior Department.—Misses C. Plimpton, Kate Doran, Blanche Walton, L. & L. Tong, K. Livingston, Mary Barnett, M. Ball, Sarah and Georgian-na Blakeslee, Henrietta Duval and H. Cameron. Junior Department.—Misses J. and M. Walker, M. Sissons, Mary Clark, K. Foreman and Adalade Metzger. HONORABLE MENTION. Graduating Glass.—Misses L. Plimpton, Mary Toomey and Emmogene Schutt. First Senior Class.—Misses Nora Maher, Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, Mary Van Patten, Anna Machin and Agnes Ewing. Second Sinior Glass.—Misses S. Rooney, Emma Carr, L. Lyons, K. Young, K. Graham, Bridget Bergan, Elmira Smith, Mary Carraher, Lilly Chouteau, Rosana Mukautz, Virginia Brown, Mary Morrill, Mary Miller, Frances Gittings, Emma Pickett, Sarah Teetzel, L. McManman and M. Walton. Third Senior Class.^Misses Lorina Rettig, A. Sissons, Alice Dunn, Josephine Greishop, K. Carpenter, Winifred Corby, Emma Conan, Arvada Bragg, Clara Foote, Sarah Gleeson and Leila Mc-Kenny. First Intermediate Class.—Misses Teresa Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, Augusta Sturgis, L. Bicknell, Julia Gittings, Rose Joslin, Harriet Thompson, M. and L. Cummerford.
8	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
WELCOME HOME.
The return of Mother Provincial on Friday, Jan. 3d, was greeted by addresses of welcome, and wishes for a Happy New Year from the Senior, Junior, and Minim Departments.
The tide of pupils returning from their holiday visit, had not fairly set in until Monday, the Festival of the Epiphany, but on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, it stood constantly at high-water-mark. On Saturday the classes (which were regularly resumed on the 7th) and the tables in the Refectory were full, and the aspect of the Academy was the same as previous to Christmas.
The happy histories, (in' countless chapters), containing the narration of pastimes enjoyed at • home, are distinctly revealed in each cheerful face, but now the absorbing object in view is, the approaching Examination. The prompt return of the young ladies, and the spirit of active emulation exhibited, are indications of the good resolutions formed; time will prove how many will sustain them.
EPIPHANY.
This interesting festival, commemorating the visit of the three Gentile Kings to the birth-place of our Divine Saviour, was observed with appropriate solemnity at the Mass and Vespers of ’ the day. Impressive instructions were given, reminding the listeners of the fact that, we are the descendants of the Gentiles, and were represented at the Crib of Bethlehem by the three Wise Men, who presented gold, frankincense and myrrh to the Holy Infant in acknowledgment of His Royalty, His Divinity and His Humanity.
In the evening, the young ladies performed for their invited guests and the assembled school, ingenius Charades, intersperced with verv good music. The Juniors and Minims addressed Very Rev. Father Provincial, in simple and childlike language, while the Seniors submitted the solution of their Charades to him, as a token that the entertainment was given in his honor.
SKATING.
The field of ice—quite unsuggestive however of ice-bergs or of an avalanche, and formed by the benevolent contribution of the hydrant hose atttached to the Engine House, is engaging the sliding and skating proclivities of the young ladies. Some skate very well, others indifferently, and some are making their first attempts to acquire this beautiful and popular accomplishment. A spirited and amusing scene is presented during recreation hours upon this favorite field of sport.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS.
The following Christmas presents were made to the various classes by Mother Provincial: To the Graduating Class, a book entitled the “ Practical Housekeeper." To the First Senior Class, A Checker Board and Chess Men. To the Second Senior Class, A box of Conundrums, and book containing the answers. To the Third Senior Class, Terrestrial Globe and Game of Cards, entitled “ The Battle Field of our Fathers." To the First Intermediate Class, A Game of Cards. To the First Junior Class, A Picture of the Immaculate Conception, and to the Minins, A Picture of the Sacred Heart of Jesus.
POINTS.
How sweet the hours of Sunday night, When darkness gathering scatters light, And we assemble one and all, Within the pleasant Study Hall,
To take our points.
The lamps are burning bright and clear, And we behold a scene of cheer.
To please our teachers we the while Assume a bland and pleasant smile, To take our points.
With anxious hearts and doubtful claims, We patient wait to hear our names
■ Called out, and singled from the rest.	.
“ Come Miss I Yours are among the best.
Come I Get your points.”
Alas for change to all things given!
Another harks to hear her “seven.” Sad disappointment. The decree	.
Tor her instead, is-number three!
She lost her points.
■ With vain conjecture, wounded pride;
“ With strongest effort I have tried My best,” she cries. Who can it bo In rapks that marked me number three?
I hate good points!”
The next is called. She trembling waits And listens to the various rates.
“ General three. Class-Room four. Politeness two..’ Her face has turned an ashen hue.
Sho sighs and says: “ What will I do?
My points are naught!”
From this a lesson wise we learn, They who from idleness will turn1 To well improve each moment given, Will always merit number seven, • And get good points.
Mary Ryan, Second Senior Class.
St. Mary’s, Jan. 13th, 1868.
ERRATA.
In the article from St. Mary’s Academy, dated Jan. 2d, 1868, fourth paragraph, second line, read delighted, instead of “delightful;” and in the fifth paragraph, second line, read merry, instead of “many.” .