Votre Dame Scholastic.
i
i
• Disee qjiasl semper vic turns; vive qxiasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 7, 1878.	Number 14.
A Little Hymn to the Sacred. Heart of Jesus.
i.
0 Sacred Heart I 0 Sacred Heart!
So humble and so meek :
Our stormy spirits, full of pride, In Thee a refuge seek :
0 sweetest Heart Divine!
All love and praise be Thine ! Ah! grant us, we implore, To love Thee more and more.
ii.
O Sacred Heart I O Sacred Heart I
So spotless and so pure : Our weakness and our misery May rest in Thee secure. 0 sweetest Heart Divine! All love and praise be Thine; Ah ! grant us, we implore, To love Thee more and more.
m.
O Sacred Heart 1 O Sacred Heart I .
Consumed with purest fires,— The cross, the thorns, the open wound, Reveal Thy fond desires.
O sweetest Heart Divine 1
All love and praise be Thine;
Ah! grant us, we implore,	,	.,
To love Thee more and more.
E. C. D..
———• • •	, -
The Alleged Bull of Pope Adrian IV to Henry-Il of England.
To the student of history it is a well-known and universally admitted fact that everything advanced by historians as true cannot in all cases be accepted as such. Many things, indeed, have been lightly admitted by writers of history, which they themselves might have believed to be true, but which after the lapse of time were found to be directly the opposite of the real facts. It requires many years—sometimes even centuries—before a true judgment • can be passed upon certain actions. Only then, as it often f happens, documents and records are produced which entirely change the previously accepted state of things.
•; Therefore it is a matter of the greatest difficulty to form a । correct judgment of certain persons and events of past times unless information is obtained from unquestionable sources. Yet, many writers of so called history were, we •	know, men more or less biased by partisan prejudice, and
i	many others were either incompetent for the task or failed
Ito make such accurate researches as would place their writings beyond question.’
There is one point in history which has been given
even by trustworthy historians, without, we believe, questioning its truth in the least, namely the alleged Bull of Pope Adrian IV to Henry H of England, justifying his assumption of authority in Ireland. This Bull, or rather forgery, for it is now known that no such Bull was ever granted by the Pope, was evidently gotten up by Henry himself, and he produced it to work out his own ambitious designs. By doing so he succeeded in deceiving a few of the Irish Bishops; and the most prominent English, chronicler of those times, the venal Cambrensis, set down the event in such a manner as to mislead those who followed him, leaving it to be understood that the alleged Bull was genuine. The fact that Pope Adrian was an Englishman gave coloring to Henry’s scheme in after-ages, and much undeserved oclium has been heaped upon his memory on account of it. That this odium was undeserved the sequel will show.
Adrian IV (Nicholas Breakspear), the first and only Englishman that ever was elevated to the Pontifical throne, was elected Pope in the year 1154, the same year that Henry II was crowned king of England. At this time, as well as for many succeeding centuries, the Sovereign Pontiff was by common consent appointed general arbitrator between the sovereigns of Christendom, and his voice, as such, was recognized as the highest authority in international affairs by all nations. All disputes, either in Church or State, were therefore, according to the mutual understanding before mentioned, referred to him. Moreover, “ all islands, by ancient right and by a donation of Constantine the Great,” were considered as under the dominion of the Roman Church, and in this grant Ireland of course was included. Henry II had a wistful eye on Ireland, but as he was acquainted with the relation in which it stood towards the Roman Pontiff he knew he must arrange matters first to blind the European powers, who would undoubtedly support the Pope’s prerogative.
According to the statements of the upholders of the Bull, Henry deputed John of Salisbury to go to Rome in order to obtain a letter conferring on him authority to correct the many abuses, both civil and ecclesiastical, which, he represented, then existed in Ireland. Therefore, in order to give the Bull its force, supposing it to be obtained under this plea, as its supporters allege, the real circumstances in Ireland must be such as Henry asserted them to be. Henry claimed that anarchy and all kinds of disorders, both civil and ecclesiastical, existed in that country: but if we examine contemporary history we find that Ireland at that time (1154-5) was in a well-organized and peaceful condition, generally speaking. It had to a great extent recovered from the disastrous wars carried on for several centuries against the invading Danes, and the Irish hierarchy and clergy had almost succeeded in extirpating.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
those vices and disorders which are the natural consequence of long wars. Therefore, it is not likely the Pope could be so far deceived as to grant the Bull in question; and even were he to grant it, we see that'Henry would have obtained it under false pretenses, making it null and void.
In the Bull, as given by its supporters, nothing can be found on the authority of which Henry might exercise the right of sovereignty over the Irish, if they were unwilling that he should bold such, and Henry when in Ireland did not demand the lands of the natives to be handed over to him, but required only homage to be paid him. He did not attempt'at once to overrun the country and reduce it to subjection, but, having acquired a foothold, he trusted to time and his own nefarious policy to accomplish his object of bringing Ireland finally under the sway of England.
It is stated by some, in support of their opinions, that Adrian was aware of Henry’s intention, as well as that of his predecessors, to annex Ireland to the English crown; that he also knew that Henry would undoubtedly invade Ireland whether the Pope willed it or not, and, therefore, wishing to have him enter the country with views the most favorable to religion and the improvement of the people, he on these conditions gave him the grant. Moreover, that he might have intended it as a. great blessing, and not what it afterwards proved, the greatest scourge that ever was inflicted upon any nation.' This supposition falls of its own weight. Anyone who is aware of the great authority in temporal matters which the Popes as arbiters exercised at that time, will see that I he Pope’s fearing to exercise his authority over any sovereign would not be a likely occurrence. If Henry attempted to invade Ireland during Adrian’s lifetime, without that Pontiff’s permission, all the Pope would have to do would be to call to his aid the other sovereigns of Europe, and they, especially the King of France, would most willingly oppose such a measure by force of arms. To deceive those kings might, therefore, have been one of the objects which Henry had in view when he forged the document, for they were all jealous of his power and would not wish to see him conquer Ireland.
Among the writers who assert that Adrian gave the Bull, the principal is John of Salisbury, who it is claimed was the person who received it from the Pope. It is mentioned in a book entitled ilddogicun, written by John of Salisbury, but it is doubted whether he ever wrote the portion of the book in which the Bull is mentioned. It is objected that it was not till after his death this was added to his work, in the shape of an appendix, by some of Henry’s partisans. Giraldus Cambrensis, another historian of that time, also supports the authenticity of the Bull; but in connection with this writer (who is, by the way, its principal supporter) it might be well to ask how far we can trust the authority in this matter of a historian whose writings are noted for glaring errors. Even in his history of Ireland we find, among other errors, the statement that “ the River Shannon runs into the North Sea,” which everyone now knows to be false, for that river runs in the opposite direction.
On the other hand, we have as authority for denying such a Bull many writers of high standing and probity. Among these is the Abbe McGeogbegan, who asserts that the supposed Bull was nothing more nor less than a forgery. Commenting on it, he caustically asks: “ Is it likely that any Pope would select such a monster as Henry II to effect
a reformation of a nation’s morals ? ” This question is indeed a pertinent one, for the more we consider the character of Henry, the more evident does it become that the Pope, knowing his private character, would not appoint a man to reform a nation who was looked upon with suspicion, and who so greatly needed reforming himself. The Most Rev. Dr. Moran, Bishop of Ossory, speaking of the pretended Bull, says: “ Indeed the Irish nation at all times, as if instinctively, shrank from accepting it as genuine, and unhesitatingly pronounced it an Anglo-Norman forgery.”
It was the common opinion amongst writers that the Irish accepted the forged document as genuine: but time, which divulges the truth of all things, proves that this opinion is opposed to history, and also to a report of the Lord Judiciary and Royal Council of Ireland sent to Rome in the year 1325, to Pope John XXII. In this report, amongst other crimes the Irish are charged with rejecting the supposed Bull. “Moreover, they assert that the King of England, under false pretenses, and by false Bulls, obtained the dominion of Ireland, and this opinion is commonly hdd by them."	‘
Some of the reasons advanced for denying the genuineness of the disputed Bull are: That it was neither produced nor heard of for nearly twenty years after the time it was claimed to have been issued, that is from 1155 to 1174 or 5; and that Pope Adrian at the time it was published had been dead for fifteen years. Why did not Henry, when he was in Ireland in 1172, produce the document if he had one? But he did not then do so, nor for several years .afterwards, although it would very likely serve him well to have done so. He was well aware with what re-, spect and obedience the Irish at all times regarded the mandates of the Pope, and by producing the Bull, if he had one, the difficulties of conquest would be materially diminished. This, it appears, was what afterwards induced him, or some of his followers, to forge the Bull and endeavor to deceive the Irish by it.
If we examine carefully the facts, we may perceive a reason for Henry’s not forging the Bull when he first entered Ireland. At that time he thought his own followers and those that were already in the country would be able to conquer the natives; and he endeavored to gain the country in this way. But in 1174 he was surrounded by many difficulties. The Scots were pouring down from the north; his own children were in open rebellion against him; the barons and neighboring princes had combined against him. To uphold himself in England he had to withdraw nearly all his followers from Ireland; but, wishing to retain his hold on the latter country, he caused the Bull to be forged and read before a synod of Irish Bishops. It produced a profound effect upon the assembly; they were astonished—utterly dismayed to think that the Pope should give the liberty of the nation into the hands of their enemy. Many of the Bishops at once perceived the true nature of the Bull, and rejected it as false; while others, considering that it might have been obtained from the Pope, and fearing that in rejecting it they would reject the commands of their spiritual superior, submitted. In this they were followed by many of the people, who were accustomed to follow their pastors in all things. So that we see the forged Bull was not generally accepted as genuine when brought forward, but, contrariwise, that even those who yielded to it did so under a kind of protest, under a doubt, and only until the doubt was cleared. The troubles which followed ip Ireland threw the country jptq
*1
*}
1
I J > i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
215
Buch confusion that it is not surprising the matter of the alleged Bull was in a measure lost sight of, and in the general wars and persecutions which took place before and after the Reformation many, nay most, of the Irish historic records were destroyed.
Another fact that helped materially to screen Henry’s forgery was the disturbed state of Italy at the time. During the 12th century we find that the country was involved in innumerable difficulties, and kept in a state of almost continuous revolution, so that for the greater part of the time the Popes were compelled on account of these disturbances to flee from city to city. As a consequence many valuable papers and public records were lost. Many false bulls (examples of which are given in Cambrensis Eversus) date from this period; and as the Anglo-Normans of the time were not behind the age in such matters, as has been proved by the finding in the ruins of an ancient monastery, founded by De Courcey, one of Henry’s commanders in Ireland, a matrix for forging Papal seals, it is not at all improbable that they forged the pretended “ Adrian Bull.”
Another reason which we have for denying the authenticity of Henry’s Bull is that neither the original document nor any record thereof can be found in any collection. The second Bull brought forward bv Henry, purporting to have been received from Alexander III, Juts since been proved, beyond all doubt, to be a forgery, and this of itself goes far to weaken the claim of the previous one, if not to nullify it. Henry did not think those sufficient, but endeavored to obtain a genuine Bull from Lucius III, who succeeded Alexander; but that Pontiff positively refused it. If Henry had lived until after that Pope’s death, he might possibly have added another crime of forgery to those already spoken of.
“ If,” says Fronde, “ the Anglo-Normans forged such a sanction to color their conquest, they committed a crime which ought to be exposed.” This they did do, and the crime which remained so long hidden under the mantle of obscurity has been exposed only within the last few years, in all its hideousness, to the view of nations. It is a crime without parallel in history.	F. C.
Religion and Heroism.
PART THE SECOND.
“God has concealed in affliction a restorative and mysterious balsam,” says Lacordaire, and this was in many ways the lesson taught by the invasion. The French people learned then, as never before, that the spirit of sacrifice is the first of all duties. Flushed with the glory of their victories and successes of every kind, they could not dream even-that a time of sacrifice was rapidly approaching; still less could they dream that the prestige which had so long surrounded the soldiers calling was so soon to receive such a cruel blow. The time soon came, however, when every man was called upon to take a part, more or less active, in the war; when every Frenchman, without exception, was called upon to sacrifice himself to the good of his country. We desire only to recall, here, the sacrifices made by the village cures.
The Abbe Miroy, cure of the village of Cuchery, near Rheims, had just learned that his father and mother had perished in the conflagration of a neighboring hamlet "burned by the Prussians. A few days afterwards some inhabitants of the village begged their cure to allow several fowling-pieces to be concealed in a garret of the presbytery. Overwhelmed by grief, or perhaps wishing to aid them, the Abbe Miroy let them do as they wished. The next day the cure was arrested by the Prussians, carried to Rheims, thrown into a dungeon, judged by a council of war, and condemned to death. On Sunday morning, February 12th, 1871, at six o’clock, while the day was scarcely dawning, and sharp cold and silence reigned in the city of Rheims, the measured steps of many men resounded in one of the streets leading to the principal gate, and through half-open windows the inhabitants of the city could see the gleam of bayonets. Twelve Prussian soldiers, armed and wrapped in their dark cloaks, were marching in two lines; Jjetweep them* walked gjleotly ft French Catholic priest.
dressed in his cassock, his head, covered with a black velvet skull-cap, bowed slightly on his breast, and his hands bound behind his back, so that he could not touch the Rosary which hung around his neck. The end of the cord was held by a corporal—the Abbe Miroy was going to the gate of Rheims to be shot. Since his arrest he had been kept in a damp prison, and given only black bread and water; but in spite of bodily weakness his soul remained steadfast. The day before, he had refused to sign a petition for pardon, saying: “I desire only to join my father and mother in a better world.” The city clock struck six. A shot was heard—and the body of the Abbe Miroy rolled bleeding on the ground. He died with the resignation of a martyr and the courage of a soldier. This crime was committed during the armistice, four days after the general elections. Pious hands gave Christian burial to the martyr, his grave was covered with immortelles, and on a monumental cross these words are inscribed: “Here rest the Abbe Charles Miroy, who died the victim of his patriotism.”
The following episode of the war was gathered from French soldiers escaped from Montmedy:
We are from the J ura, soldiers of the 4th battalion of chasseurs. Taken prisoners in the battle of Monzon, fifty-three of us were guarded by a platoon of Prussian cavalry. On the fourth day we arrived in a little village of La Meuse, exhausted with fatigue, as were also our conductors. In order to guard us more easily, the Prussians demanded from the curd the keys of the church, and we were confined there, the door being strongly barricaded and watched by sentinels, so that we had no hope of escape. The curd had asked leave of the Prussians to remove the Blessed Sacrament. The church was ancient; there were chapels of feudal times, and walls pierced with holes looking toward the altar, exactly as in the church of Pesmes (Jura), which is near our home. We had made ourselves as comfortable as we could on the benches, and I think I had fallen asleep, when about midnight I heard a voice calling, “ Chasseur, chasseur 1” I rubbed my eyes, looked around, and saw the head of the curd projecting from a square hole in the wall, which I had taken for a cupboard to hold the cruets. “Do you want to escape from the Prussians ? ” asked the curd. “ Indeed we do. How can we get away?” “Here : make your comrades leave the candles burning, which I have lighted on purpose, and make no noise, for the Prussians are close at hand.” We were soon ready, and one after another we climbed into the opening in the wall. This opening led to an ancient chapel, in which were kept some church furniture. The window, which had no bars, was rather high, but the curd had placed a ladder, by which we descended to the garden of the presbytery, each man carrying his shoes in his hand. Thence a little gate let us out into the country, and the curd said, “Are you here ?” “Yes, Father,” replied a sergeant. “Well, my friends, put on your shoes, and let us be off! ” We followed the good curd in silence, no longer conscious of fatigue, for the idea of freedom gave us wings. When we had been walking two hours, the curd said, “My friends, your are out of danger from your guards. At dawn you will see three villages where there are no Prussians. You must separate, and try to find clothes. And now. a pleasant journey, and may the good God guide you.” “But you, Monsieur le Curd, what will become of you ?” The Prussians will be furious. If they find you, they will shoot you.” “ They will not find me, for I cannot go back.” “But they will burn your house—your church.” “Is it not worth while to risk my house and my church for the liberty of fifty-three such brave so1-diers as you are ?” We wept with emotion. The curd embraced us, and we set off. Ob, the brave man I And the rascals say that the curds brought on the war and the Prussians I Let them ask the 4th Battalion of Chasseurs.
On their entry into Sarreguemines, the Prussians demanded the keys of the church of the curd, the Abbd Muller. The old man refused. “Monsieur le Curd,” said an officer, “your resistance is tiresome. We are conquerors— every thing belongs to us. If you do not instantly give up the keys of the church, we will take them by force, and you shall be—”
“ I understand,” interrupted the venerable priest. “In a military execution, how many balls do you fire upon the condemned man?” “Eight, and the coup-de-grace'’ “Well! before you enter my church to profane it, you may fire eight balls into me, and you may give me the coup-de-grace—then only shall you enter the church over my body.”
The cure of Neuville, iu the department of the Ardennes, was the Abbe Cor, more than eighty years old. Accused of having favored the march of the French, and retarded that of the Prussians, the old man was arrested. The Prussians fastened him to the tail of'a horse, and in that manner dragged him over the roads and ploughed land. Often the old man fell, but a Prussian cavalier pulled him by a cord fastened to the leg of the cure; his hands and face were bleeding, his Jimba bJWseO, his clothes in rags,
216	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Finally, the Prussians threw him into a ditch by the roadside. Seeing him thus covered with blood and mire, one of his parishioners said to him: “ Monsieur le Cure, what a state you are in ’’ “ Oh,” replied the cure, “ it is only my old cassock.” Where in all history can we find a finer reply, or one so simple, so philosophical ? “ It is only my old cassock!” The body has nothing to do with it, and the soul still less.
After the battle of Forbach, the cure of Gunstatt was seized, and carried before a kind of Prussian court-martial. It is not known what was required of him, but he gave the most explicit refusal to the demands of the enemy. Some hours were given him for reflection, at the expiration of which he again refused. The council condemned him to death. A respite of two hours was still given, which the priest passed in prayer. When the Prussian soldiers came to lead him to execution, he said in German, “I prefer death to the crime of treason to France.” A few moments later he was shot.
At a great official dinner, given on the 26th of February, 1872, at Rome, by the Bavarian Ambassador, M. de Tauff-kirchen, to the Prince Frederick Charles, the Prince spoke these words, which find an appropriate place here: “ There is in France only one class upright and dignified, worthy and patriotic, this is the clergy. It was impossible not to admire their conduct on the battlefield.”
At the beginning of the last war, a strong French column, escaping from the pursuit of the enemy, and trying to rejoin the corps d’armee to which it belonged, reached a village of Lorraine. The wooded and broken country, and lack of information about the strength and position of the Germans, rendered the retreat difficult and dangerous. On entering the village, the French General Camb--------halted his troops, and summoned the authorities. The mayor and most of the inhabitants were gone, but the cure remained at his post. When the cure appeared, the General, who was studyingasmall and imperfect map, could not conceal his disappointmeut, for, indeed, the good priest seemed little fitted for the post to which the chances of war had destined him. More than seventy years old, below medium height, prodigiously stout, with head close upon his shoulders, face bloated, hands swollen, and feet in heavy sabots, the curd walked with difficulty, leaning on a staff. He told the General that he was tormented with gout, and that he was only a poor ignorant servant. The General, who was not stupid, discerned in the physiognomy of the priest great intelligence: his small grey eyes sparkled beneath thick eyebrows, his smile was full of expression, and under an air of rustic good nature, the General saw a quick wit, an energetic character, and the frankness of a brave and honest man. “Monsieur le Curd,” said the General, “you and I must hold a little council of war.” The curd took his snuff-box, opened it slowly, and taking a pinch, said gaily, “ I might remind you, General, that history has often shown us the Church enlightening the councils of sovereigns, and pointing out the best route for their armies. But let us come to the point. What is your aim, General ? Where do you come from? Where are you going? Do you wish for fighting, or do you wish to avoid it? ” The General replied to these questions with complete confidence. The curd took a pencil, and traced some lines on the map, then, after a moment’s silence, he said to the General: “The enemy is twenty or twenty-five kilometres from here, at a point which I have marked by an A; they will not come up with you before to-morrow morning. Your troops are weary, and must rest, but not in the village, which is commanded on all sides by hills. Three kilometres on, following the road, at the top of this little ascent, you will find a plateau, surrounded by the river, which forms a wooded peninsula, and there you will be in safety. To pursue you, the enemy will leave the highway, which is longer than the cross-road, and requires the passage of the bridge which you have seen; fearing that the bridge may be destroyed, the Prussians will come by the wood, following the line A B. They will come out, then, to-morrow morning at B, where we are; as soon as they appear, you will hear the bell of my church. The twenty or thirty soldiers whom you will leave in the village will withdraw without firing a shot—not by the road, that would indicate your direction—but by the little path B C. You will yourself leave the highway, and turn to the left, at the point D, where the inn of the Cheval Blanc
is. Thus you will withdraw from the enemy and put between you the river E F, which has only one ford. Your march will be masked by hills. At evening you will have rejoined your corps d’armee. I will now point out to you the village houses where you will find what you need; I shall make a note,of what you take, and you will sign me a receipt; but I beg of you, let there be no disorder, and respect the property of others. All the inhabitants will contribute in proportion to their means, for our defenders must live; besides,” added the curd, taking another pinch of snuff, “as the Prussians are going to pillage us to-morrow, we need not be too miserly to-day.”
After a moment’s silence, the priest resumed: “ General, you must give me four soldiers, two shall be stationed in the belfry to observe the distance, the two others shall lie in ambush with me on the edge of the village, near the fountain. Choose two brave fellows, insensible to the cold of the night and the temptation to sleep—give me two tried soldiers, for I do not know what may await us.” “ Monsieur le Curd,” cried the General, “you are a hero! ” The merry laugh of the old priest brought on a violent cough, the snuff-box came to his aid, and he said: “ The seminaries are full of heroes of my sort, and the barracks too. To love one’s country is not heroism.” The night was long and cold; under a thatch-covered shed three men were watching, crouched behind faggots of vine branches, listening to the least breath, and gazing intently into the darkness. They were listening for the enemy while the troops slept. Two among them were young and active grenadiers, the third was easily recognized by his cassock and white hair. The soldiers leaned upon their guns, the priest held in his hand a little altar-bell, which he was to ring when he saw the Prussians, and the men in the belfry were to sound the tocsin at the signal of the curd. All was silent except for the low tones of the old man, who prayed to God. Towards three o’clock in the morning, the curd laid his hand on the shoulder of one of the soldiers, and with his finger pointed out an object almost invisible in the depth of the forest. At a distance of a hundred metres from the shed, great trees formed a vast circle; the soldiers saw nothing but motionless trees, and shrubs stirred by the morning breeze. “ See,” whispered the curd, “ they are creeping along behind the trunks of the oaks; they are stopping to listen.” “I see nothing,” said a grenadier. “ Nor I,” said the other. “ They are assembling,” resumed the old curd; “ and are about to start—an officer is speaking to them in an undertone—it is time to ring. You, my friends, go quietly, and do not show yourselves. May God protect you.” “ We will not leave you, Monsieur le Curd: what will become of you?” “I, my children, am old and infirm; the good God will provide for me. The order of the General is for you to withdraw at the sound of the bell; obey! I give you my blessing.” So saying, the priest sounded the little bell, and the tocsin responded from the belfry of the church. Shots resounded, the forest was illuminated with a thousand fires, a sudden clamor broke the stillness of the night, and clouds of smoke rose in the air. The curd knelt, made the sign of the Cross, and had only time to repeat the words “Our Father, who art in heaven.” A ball struck him, and he fell. The French column retreated without losing a single man, and in the evening rejoined the corps d'armee. The priest was not mortally wounded. Brought before a council of war, during his convalescence, he was condemned to death for treason to the German army, the sentence being commuted to imprisonment on account of his great age.
A terrible conflict was raging a few leagues from the village of Les Horties. The curd was at the altar, praying for his country, while around him the terror-stricken villagers besought God to protect them. A body of German reinforcements halted for a short rest at some distance from the scene of battle. In spite of the vigilance of the sentinels two young men crept noiselessly from bush to bush and fired four shots upon the Prussians, then bounded away and concealed themselves in a field of corn. Twenty balls whistled harmlessly about their ears, while three Prussians fell, struck in the breast, and a fourth ball grazed the eagle on an officer’s helmet. A detachment of German soldiers marched immediately to the village, where they seized six inhabitants at random and carried them before the mayor. The leader of the detachment said to this functionary—“ You are the first authority here;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
217
I come, therefore, in the name of my august sovereign, to tell you that the soldiers of his Majesty have been fired upon near your village. Being nearest to the scene of the crime, you are responsible. You must give up to us the guilty men, or six of your inhabitants will be shot for the sake of the example. Make haste to decide; I will wait till eleven o’clock to-morrow. The execution must take place at noon, therefore you have no time to lose; meanwhile your village is under military occupation, and I keep the six prisoners.” It would be useless to attempt to describe the despair of the poor villagers; with sobs and tears it was agreed that the victims should be chosen by lot. Those who had fired upon the Germans did not belong to the village; they came from a distance, and had P	followed the Prussian column, to choose a favorable
;	moment for their vengeance. The day passed in discus-
i	sion, in grief, and in despair. The mayor, the cure, M.
i	Geri, and two old men more than eighty years old, vainly
I	besought the Prussian officer for pardon, proving to him
l	that the inhabitants were strangers to the attack. All in
I	vain. The six unhappy men who had been chosen by lot
i	were delivered to the Germans at five o’clock in the even-
’	ing, and confined in the school-room, on the ground floor
[	of the mayoralty. The Prussian officer authorized the
!	cure to give them the consolations of religion. He found
■	them in such a state of prostration that they hardly under-
f	stood his words; two seemed to have fainted, and one was in
[	the delirium of fever. At the end of the line, upright and
.	apparently calm, was a man of forty, a widower and the
'	only support of five young children. At first he seemed
to listen with resignation to the words of the priest, but, 1	overcome by despair, he gave way to the most fearful im-
1 ,	precautions; then, passing from despair to tenderness, he
bewailed the fate of his children, abandoned to poverty, perhaps to death. After vainly endeavoring to restore peace to this tortured soul, the cure left him and went to the headquarters of the officer; the latter, smoking calmly a great porcelain pipe, listened without interrupting. “ Cap-<’	tain,” said the cure, “ we have given you six hostages, who
;	will be shot in a few hours. None of them fired upon your
troops, the guilty men having escaped. Your aim is not to punish those who attacked you, but to give an example to thejnhabitants of other places. Il matters little whether you shoot Peter or Paul, James or John—the better known the victim, the more salutary will be the example. I come then to ask that you will allow me to take the place of a poor father, whose death will plunge five little children into poverty. We are both innocent, but my death will be more profitable than his.” "Very well,” said the officer. Four soldiers led the curd to prison, where he was put in bonds '	with the other victims, and the peasant returned to his
i	home, congratulated by all. By daybreak the curd had
।	revived the courage of his companions; the miserable
;	men, stupefied by fear, had become, thanks to the words of
I	the priest, glorious martyrs, sustained by Christain faith
'	and the hope of a better life. At eleven o’clock the pris-
|	oners were led away, the curd walking at their head, re-
;	citing aloud the Office for the Dead. As they approached
the place chosen for the execution, the attention of a Prussian major, who chanced to be passing, was attracted U by the sight of the priest. The captain explained to him the affair, which seemed less a matter of course to the major than to his subordinate. He ordered the execution to be suspended, and sent a report to the General, who summoned the curd to his presence. The General was a man of courage, and after a short explanation understood the whole, saying to the curd: “Monsieur, I cannot make an exception in your favor, and yet I do not desire your death. Go, tell your parishioners that, for your sake, I pardon them all. Let it be the first and the last time.” When the curd was gone, the Prussian General said to the officers who had witnessed the scene: “If all the French had the courage of this simple priest we should not be long on this side of the Bhine.”
With one or two narratives of the devotion of the Sisters of Charity during the war, w’e must close, although our author gives many most striking and interesting instances of the noble work done by these Sisters, who were so often both nurses and mothers to the soldiers, recalling « to them, when far removed from home and home influences, all that was best in their past lives. Indeed, General Ambert remarks that he has observed soldiers are
cured of homesickness much sooner in hospitals served by the Sisters of Charity than those served by regular nurses. “ The Sisters alone have the secret of true charity; and homesickness is much more a mental than a bodily disease.”
On the day of the battle of Reichshoffen, during the terrible retreat, a young Sister of Charity was seen making her way timidly among the crowd of disorderly soldiers, while shot and shells were cleaving the air and spreading havoc among the mass of men. Amid the tumult, she heard a cry behind her: a soldier had just fallen. The Sister stopped, knelt beside the wounded man, and was tenderly caring for him, when a cannon ball struck her, taking off both legs, and she fell near the soldier. M. Blandeau, who relates this incident, adds: “Who can tell her name? She had none—she was a Sister of Charity. Yes ; a Sister of Charity, killed in battle, near a wounded soldier: she asked nothing of us, and she gave us her life.”
At Paris, during the siege, forty-seven Sisters were nursing at Bic&re the soldiers attacked by smallpox. Eleven Sisters were struck down by the disease in a few days. The remaining thirty-six, exhausted by fatigue, and suffering from the infected air, were insufficient for the service of the ambulance. Application was made for eleven more Sisters. Thirty-two presented themselves, from whom the required number was chosen by lot. Does not this seem like one of those heroic pages of history, where brave soldiers dispute the honor of leading an assault?
An officer relates the following incident :
Near Chalons he met a Sister of Charity and a soldier, coming towards Paris. The soldier was blind, in consequence of a wound in the head. The Prussians had left him on the road, and his comrades, made prisoners, had been unable to help him. Every door was closed to the wounded soldiers, and this unhappy man, still wearing the French uniform, had been forced to beg a piece of bread to eat and a little straw to sleep upon. He would have perished by the roadside but for the Sister of Charity. The soldier, who had passed a stormy career in Africa, had no relations and no property ; ill-tempered and violent, he seemed to repel all sympathy. The Sister of Charity took this man by the hand to lead him to the Invalides, where, she said, he would find an asylum. As they travelled along on foot, through rain and snow, often in want, and the soldier often complaining, the Sister sustained his courage and made him blush for his weakness. She begged for him, giving him always the best, and making herself his servant Little by little, she spoke to him of God, of another life, and he began to listen. One morning the blind man heard the song of a lark. He stopped to listen, and a ray of brightness seemed to come over his face. Then the Sister made him kneel down. On the highway, this man, bronzed by war, hardened by excesses, without belief, without faith, and almost without ideas, knelt: his face raised to heaven, his hands clasped, his staff and his “kepy” in the dust near his knapsack, and, standing before him, the Sister of Charity made him repeat his first prayer: “ Our Father, who art in heaven. ” From that day the conscience of the old soldier awoke from its long sleep; he understood the act of the Sister, and from this act his thoughts rose to Him who had inspired it—to God. One night the soldier slept upon the straw in a barn,’while the Sister had been taken in bjT the housekeeper of a country cure. The Sister passed the night in prayer. Next day as they were stopping for a short rest, the Sister said to the soldier: “Your eyes were not directly affected by the wound. At the ambulance, the surgeons could only heal the wound in the head. I dare not give you hope, which perhaps is only a dream; but I have a plan—instead of leading you to the Invalides, I shall take you to the first surgeons, the best oculists in Paris, and I will pray them on my kuees to give you their service for the love of God, and also for the sake of patriotism. If the good God restores your sight, be a good Christian for the rest of your life. Do you promise ?" The veteran fell on his knees, and remained a long time prostrate without speaking a word, his whole frame shaken by sobs. Three months later the miracle of charity was accomplished: the soldier had recovered his sight, and the Sister, having returned to her school, was teaching little peasant girls to read. If you go to the Church of Notre Dame des Victoires, towards five o’clock in the evening, you will see a man kneeling by the altar-railing—it is the soldier, who is praying for the Sister of Charity.
—“ I don’t see how there can he so many words in the world! ” exclaimed a girl who was studying her spelling lesson. “Why, sis,” said her brother, “ they come through folks quarrelling. Then, you know, one word always brings on another.”
218	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—The largest diamond hitherto found at the Cape is the “Spalding” diamond, found in the river diggings some years since, which weighed 288^ carats. At Dutoitspan field another large diamond has been recently found, weighing 244 carats, which is said to be free from flaw, and will cut well.
—Chevreul supports the view of artists and dyers that there are only three simple colors—red, yellow, and blue. By an apparatus having a maximum motion of one hundred and ten to one hundred and twenty turns per minute, and a minimum of sixty turns per minute, the complementary of every color may be produced.
—A new exploration of the vast districts between the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Indian Ocean, in the so-called Northern Territory of South Australia, is about being undertaken by Mr. Ernest Giles, the well-known and successful traveller. The object is to carry some 20,000 to 30,000 sheep and 10,000 cattle across the continent to the vast tracts of grass lands along or lying near the Indian Ocean in the Northern Territory. These animals will be divided among several parties, each under its proper head, and all controlled by Mr. Giles. The time occupied on the journey will be at least seven months.
—Sig. Matteucci, the commander of the Italian Scientific Expedition which is about to set out for Shoa, was on Nov. 12th received by the Pope, who manifested a keen interest in the success of the enterprise, and bestowed his benediction upon its leader. Cardinal Simeoni, the Prefect of the Congregation of the Propaganda Fide, has furnished Sig. Matteucci with letters for the three Apostolic Vicars in Abyssinia. The Italian Geographical Society has held a meeting to discuss the proposed explorations, and expressed the opinion that the two expeditions under Sig. Matteucci and the Marquis Antinori respectively should afford each other mutual assistance.
—Gaugain has recorded the curious fact that a bar of steel magnetized at 400 degrees or 500 degrees C. not only loses its magnetism gradually as it is cooled until it becomes zero, but that then magnetism of contrary sign appears, and increases until the bar reaches the temperature of the air, never becoming, however, as the original magnetism. On again heating it the same effects are produced in the inverse order, and they may be reproduced many times without remagnetizing. To account for this the author proposed the hypothesis that the bars which presented the phenomena consisted of two layers of magnetism of contrary name, which were differently modified by the variations in the temperature of the bars.
—Vesuvius hesitates to take any decided step. As at the full moon, so at the new moon there was a flare-up; and those not in its secrets, as our friend Prof. Palmieri is, confidently expected a great eruption. For one or two nights before and after the new moon, there was a brilliant spectacle, so far as the dense clouds on the summit would allow us to see it. But this has all ceased. Still, in that brief period the lava gurgled over and reached the edge of the old crater, over which it threatened to pass and roll down the sides of the mountain towards Somma. It is calculated that upwards of 100,000 cubic metres of lava have accumulated within the old crater. For some time yet people must dread the caprices of Vesuvius al the changes of the moon.—Academy.
—Writing to the London Times, Mr. Richard A. Proctor points out that Kepler was the first person to suggest the probability of moons accompanying Mars. In a letter to his friend Wachenfels, in 1610, Kepler says: “I am so far from disbelieving the existence of the four circum-jovial planets that I long for a telescope to anticipate you,.if possible, in discovering two around Mars, as the proportion seems to require six or eight round Saturn, and perhaps • one each round Mercury and Venus.” It was from this suggestion, no doubt, says Mr. Proctor, that Voltaire and Swift borrowed their guesses; which, however, they present in such a way that some supposed they had really seen the satellites, an idea utterly inconsistent with possibilities, even if Kepler’s original suggestion be overlooked.
—A correspondent of the Washington Post, writing
from Cincinnati, says that a Miss McLaughlin, of that city, has discovered the Limoges glaze, and is to-day producing specimens of faience which, in beauty of construction and decoration, are second to none. There are two methods of painting on china, known as underglaze and overglaze work. The former is the most rare and difficult process known in pottery, and it was for a long time a lost art to modern ceramics. A process for doing it successfully was discovered in France in 1873. An enterprising American, Haviland, obtained it and went into the manufacture of “ Limoges,” or what is better known as the “ Haviland faience.” Dech, who applies this method to Persian faience, and Haviland are the only two manufacturers of this underglaze work in the world, and their methods of work are kept strictly secret.
—In a recent number of the NineteentZi Century, by Mr. Lockyer, the writer very strongly questions Dr. Henry Draper’s discovery of oxygen in the sun. Mr. Lockyer says he has gone carefully over the whole ground, and finds (1) that the photograph on which Dr. Draper bases the discovery is not one competent to settle such an important question; (2) that he does not find the coincidences between bright solar lines and oxygen lines in the part of the spectrum with which he is most familiar; and (3) that comparing Dr. Draper’s photograph with the fine photograph of the spectrum obtained by Mr. Rutherford, he “ fails to find any true blue line in the sun whatever coincident with any line of oxygen whatever.” Recent observations at Greenwich, by Mr. Christie, and by Dr. John C. Draper, of the city of New York, have led to a similar conclusion, and the whole subject, so far as the opinions of scientific men are concerned, may be said to be in an unsettled state.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Liszt is said to be at work on adaptations for the piano of some of the numbers in Wagner’s last opera.
—Mr. Tupper, who still lives, has not been able to. find a manager willing to bring out his great drama of “ Washington,” in eleven acts.
—The life of the late Cardinal Cullen will be written by his nephew, Mgr. Moran, Bishop of Ossory, who is already collecting materials for his work.
—A new and complete edition of Edgar Allan Poe’s works, edited by John H. Ingham, his English vindicator, is published by Adam & Charles Black, Edinburgh.
—Within a year or two Jules Verne will publish a history of travel in three volumes simultaneously in Paris, London, and New York. It will differ from his former works in being sober and practical.
—The King of Bavaria has ordered that a certain percentage of the net profits of every performance of “Fidelio ” at the Royal Theatre shall be accorded to Caroline von Beethoven, a niece of the great composer.
—The second Symphony of Brahms, performed at the first Pasdeloup concert, bad been savagely condemned by most of the Paris critics, who find it “ without brilliancy or grandeur, and with orchestration colorless, without fineness, and badly balanced.”
—Mr. Herman Ritter, a German musician who reconstructed the viola into a new instrument, styled by him viola alta, and which was warmly recommended for orchestral purposes by Wagner, and introduced in the Bayreuth Festival, has written a concerto with which to display the instrument.
—The Eastern papers contain many notices of the wonderful Goodale children, the first edition of whose book of poems, puplished by the Putnams, was almost instantly exhausted. The sisters are 15 and 12 years of age respectively, and their poems are much more mature than their ages would indicate. Their promise is something more than that of precocious children.
—An original document relating to the American war of Independance has been discovered in an antiquarian bookstore in Baireuth, Germany. It is the manuscript diary of one of the officers of the Hessian troops who served
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
219
in the British army, and embraces the period from January, 1778, to March, 1779. The author kept a daily record, not only of events, but also of the news and rumors of the day.
—The English public, says The Academy, will learn with interest that there exists in a Swiss library an album which contains an automatic entry of John Milton’s. It is the album of one Johannes Zollikofer, which has found its way into the Vadian Library in St. Gall, and is preserved there under No. 92A. Johannes Zollikofer, who was born in 1633, and died in the year 1692, travelled as a young man in France, Holland, and England.
—A work bearing upon the archtenlogical and military topography of the Rhine and Weser has just been issued by the Society for the History and Archaeology of Westphalia. The author is L. Hcelzermann, who was killed at the battle of Weerth, and whose labors have been supplemented by O. Preuz. Dr. Falk has contributed 2,100 marks from the public funds towards the expenses of printing this costly work, which forms a large octavo volume, and contains two charts of the seat of war between the Romans and the Teutons. Saxons, and Franks, marking the fortifications that existed between the Rhine and Weser, as well as fifty plates representing various remains of interest. The Roman military roads, camps, etc., are indicated, and deductions drawn thence as to the Roman policy of war. Unfortunately, the work which is of extreme interest for the knowledge of Roman influence in Germany, only relates to a small tract of country.
—At the request of a number of prominent citizens of Cincinnati, the College ot Music will reproduce the oratorio of the “Messiah” during Christmas week. That oratorio, it will be remembered, was one of the distinguishing features of the festival last spring. The chorus, it is stated, will number 500. Mr. Whitney has already been engaged, and Marie Van will take the soprano solos. In this connection the following from Mr. Thomas’ pronuncia-mento to the chorus will give an idea of his discipline: Each member of the chorus is furnished with a ticket bearing thereon his or her name, and a number clearly printed. This chorus ticket must be presented at the door at each rehearsal, and must be carefully preserved, as it will also admit to the concert. The number of this ticket corresponds to a similar number on a tally sheet. This tally sheet is kept at the entrance to the hall, and is the record of attendance. Absence from two rehearsals deprives the absentee of membership in the chorus. No person will be permitted to sing at the rehearsals who does not intend to sing at the concert. These rehearsals will take place at the Music Hall. No person will, under any circumstances, be permitted to take books of music from the hall.
—At the sale of the Odell Library in New York last week some high prices were reached. There was spirited bidding for Publicius’ “Oratorite Artis Epitomata.’’ In his “ Bibliotheca Spenceriana,” Dr. Dibdin attempted to prove that the edition of this book printed in 1485 was the first, and that the edition said to have been printed three years earlier was a myth. The copy sold was a genuine editio princeps, printed by Erhard Ratdolt, Venice, 1482, containing sixty-seven leaves, thirty-one lines to the page, with the grotesque letters and woodcuts, and it was sold for §110,—two or three times its weight in gold. The largest price fetched was for a copy of Halliwell’s Shaks-peare, in sixteen volumes, for which a buyer giving the name of St. John paid §640. This edition of Shakspeare was limited to 150 copies, each of which were signed by the editor and the printers. The copy in question is number fifteen. The 1,630 edition of the works of John Taylor, the water-poet, bound by Riviere, brought §42. This sale effects the dispersion of part of a library that Mr. Odell has been more than twenty years collecting. Many of the books sold for more than they cost him, a larger number lor less; but the proceeds of the sale amounted to several thousand dollars. Three or four bidders, buying upon orders for private collectors or public libraries, took a majority of the lots sold, and their active competition made an unflagging market, at high prices, throughout the five days sale. The second volume of the catalogue is in press, and the extraordinary library will be sold during the winter.
—The most ancient pieces of wrought iron known in our days are most likely the scythes found by Belzoni underneath the basis of the Sphinx at Karneck, near Thebes, a sword blade found immured, by Colonel Wyse, in the great Pyramid, and a saw, excavated by Layard, in Mesopotamia. These objects are now in the British Museum. It is thus proved by these antiquities that iron and the art of forging it have been known at a much earlier period than was hitherto generally supposed; that this art was kept secret, and that it required thousands of years before it reached Europe for general use. Asia is therefore the cradle-land of iron and steel.
—A most interesting discovery has been made in the Sea of Tiberias of a fish which incubates its young in the cavities of the mouth; and, what is the more remarkable, it is the male which performs this part of the family function. As soon as the female has deposited its eggs in the hollow of the sand, the male approaches and draws them into the cavities of the mouth by the process of aspiration. Here they are distributed between the leaves of the gills; and in the midst of the respiratory organs the eggs rapidly develop, distending the mouth of the male fish in the most extraordinary manner. Finally, the young fishes maketheir appearance, packed in the gills like so many herrings, all with their heads directed towards the opening. From, this place of retreat and safety they run in and out until they are large enough to take care of themselves.
—A young merchant going to Boulogne, who did not know Turner even by name, has left the following sketch of him: “I have fortunately met with a good-tempered, funny little elderly gentleman, who will probably be my companion throughout the journey. He is continually popping his head out of the window to sketch whatever takes his fancy, and became quite angry because the conductor would not wait for him whilst he took a sunrise view of Macerata. ‘Hang the fellow,’ says he, ‘he has no feeling.’ He speaks but a Tew words of Italian, about as much of French, which two languages he jumbles together most amusingly. His good temper, however, carries him through all his troubles. I am sure you would love him for his indefatigability in his favorite pursuit. From his conversation he is evidently near kin to, if not absolutely, an artist. Probably you may know something of him. The name on his trunk is J. W. or J. M. W. Turner.”
—We have received (says Nature) from Messrs. Elber-stein of Dresden a specimen of an interesting “walkingstick for naturalists or tourists.” The stick is a perfect multum in parvo, and contains quite a museum of scientific instrumenis. The handle alone contains a compass, a double magnifying glass or pocket microscope, and a whistle. Below it there are a thermometer on one side of the stick and a sand-glass on the other. The body of the stick is partly hollow, and the interior holds a small bottle, which is intended to contain chloroform or ether for killinginsects. Along the outside of the body there is a half-metre measure, showing decimetres and centimetres. Near the end of the stick a knife-blade may be opened, which serves for cutting off objects which cannot be reached by hand. At the extreme end a screw may hold in turn a spade (for botanists), a hammer (for geologists), a hatchet, or a strong spike, which would be of great use on glaciers. The whole is neatly finished in black polished wood.
—A funny street incident is related by a paper about a dog which, being bothered by a bee one hot day, as he was dozing by a grocer’s door, incautiously snapped it up in his mouth. He made a sudden spring to his feet as if he had just thought of something that he had to do in a hurry, and the hair all over him raised on end as if he had been electrified. Then he pranced around a moment, shaking his head frantically as if he was worrying a rat. A little black object dropped from his mouth, which he looked at inquiringly for a brief instant, and then started off in haste to see a man around the corner, howling dismally as he went. The man was not there, and the dog came back, and: once more made an inspection of the little black object that lay on the sidewalk, and poked it timidly with its paw. He perhaps wanted to be able to recognize one of those little things if he should ever encounter one agian.
220
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
f Mitt
Wotre Dame, December 7, 1S7S.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.	'
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Christmas Holidays.
We would call the attention of parents and guardians to the great inconvenience and serious loss of time caused by the interruption of studies during the Christmas Holidays. Were it possible, classes would be continued with but little interruption during Christmas week, but since many parents insist upon having their sons spend these holidays at home it becomes impossible to have the various classes go on with regularity.
Even as things are, it would be better for all the students to remain at Notre Dame instead of going home, for the distraction which comes from the holidays unfits the student for serious work for some time after the classes have begun, and if parents were seriously to consider this fact we believe that the number of those who go home at Christmas time would be largely diminished.
But if parents and guardians will insist upon their sons or wards spending the holidays with them, we trust that they will not give heed to the entreaties of some students who wish to extend the time of their Christmas vacation. We would also call their attention to the fact that classes will continue up to the morning of Monday, December 23d, and that it is the desire of the officers of the house that all who go home this year shall leave on Monday, and not before. It is hoped that no one will ask that their children leave before that time, as their departure will seriously interfere with classes and the general order of the house.
Classes will be resumed on Thursday, January 2d, and it is the desire of the authorities of the College that all students be here on that day, since much time is lost and great trouble and inconvenience caused not alone to the one who remains away but likewise to the teachers and to the pupils who spend their vacation here. We hope, then, that parents and guardians will see that their sons or wards return promptly, in order to be on hand for class on the 2d of January, and resume their studies.
Catholic College Journalism.
We may be permitted to add of our journalist friends of Notre Dame that they bid fair to reverse the proposal of some of our estimable confreres who advertised for eolleae graduates to be instructed in Catholic journalism.—Catholic Universe.
We thank the Catholic Universe for its kind notice and graceful compliment, all the more flattering since it comes from the pen of one who has so thoroughly mastered the art of journalism as Mr. Manly Tello. We are likewise happy to learn that the admiration which the Scholastic entertains for the talented editor of the Universe is shared by the Catholics of the diocese of Cleveland, as is evinced by the hearty support which they extend to his interesting journal.
The contributors to the columns of the Scholastic cannot but feel stimulated to renewed exertions by the words of encouragement and praise with which leading journals like the Boston Pilot, the Catholic Universe, and others, have for some years past been kind enough to greet their efforts. The students of Notre Dame should be fully alive to the importance of the advantage they enjoy in possessing in the Scholastic what competent judges have repeatedly declared to be an excellent school of journalism, and we trust that this feeling will soon have the effect of sensibly increasing our list of regular contributors. There is certainly no reason why the privilege—and we use the word intentionally—of writing for our little journal should be monopolized by a comparatively small number of students. It is a privilege to which all should aspire, and which all should exert themselves to obtain. But if the “gallant few” who have rallied to the support of the Scholastic are to be left undisturbed in the enjoyment of their privilege, they have every reason to feel satisfied with the encomiums which their woik has elicited from the leading representatives of both secular and college journalism.
One of our exchanges in alluding to the financial troubles of a contemporary Catholic college journal takes occasion to remark:
“ College journalism can afford to lose neither the Journal nor the Notre Dame Scholastic. As to The Scholastic, we have no fear that it will be obliged to suspend from lack of support. Old Notre Dame counts her cherished sons by the thousands—sons who will ever glory in the prosperity of their Alma Mater. They will ever hail the Scholastic as a souvenir to remember her—a link that binds the past with the present. And to others who can appreciate what is beautiful and good, the Scholastic will be interesting and profitable. Catholic college journalism owes a great deal to the Scholastic. It was the first in the field, and at present, in point of neatness and literary ability, is second to none of our exchanges.”
These flattering words from one of our spicy contemporaries, The College Message, will no doubt be full of encouragement to our young contributors by showing them how highly their efforts are appreciated, while at the same time they should inspire them with a new zeal never to allow the Scholastic to fall below the standard of excellence which is expected of the pioneer of Catholic college journalism.
We are sorry to be obliged to state that we cannot endorse all that our good friend, the Message, says in regard to the enthusiastic support given by our old students. That the vast majority of the former students of Notre Dame remember their Alma Mater with the warmest affection is a fact of which we are fully convinced; but, through some unaccountable negligence, many who are constantly reported to us as anxious to hear all the news from their old college home, and as filled with pleasure at learning of her

>
i
I
J
I
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	221

prosperity, have as yet failed to enter their names on our subscription list. Why this should be the case we cannot well understand, and we trust that all old students will soon begin to find it equally difficult of comprehension. We have always looked upon it as the mission of a college paper not only to promote the progress in literature of the students of the present, but also to keep alive feelings of friendship and affection between the college and the students of the past. If old students could only be brought to consider matters in this light, it is tolerably certain that many an excellent college journal would not, as at present, find the struggle for existence so taxing. Colleges, as well as everything else, have felt the effects of the hard times within the past five years, and very few Catholic college journals have-managed to survive. The Georgetown College Journal, the Niagara, Index, the College Message, and a few others, constitute our whole exchange list. Granting that their existence is a proof of the doctrine of the “ survival of the fittest,” let us hope that with the coming of the era of prosperity, which is now predicted to be at hand, a brilliant future awaits each and every one of them. We trust that the efficient editorial staff of the Niagara, Index will soon be able to realize their wish, to see the paper issued weekly instead of semi-monthly, as at present. Every good thing deserves encouragement; and for an institution like a college paper, from which students can derive so much profit, “ Excelsior ’’ is the only fitting watchword—but never a thought or mention of retreat. In this way, and in this way alone, may we expect to see realized the hope which, we will confess, we have often been presumptuous enough to form, viz., that from the ranks of the college journalism of to-day may be recruited journalists of whom American Catholics may justly be proud to-morrow—that among our own contributors, perhaps, may be found the John Boyle O’Reillys and Manly Tellos of the future.
Personal.
—	Michael Kinsella (Commercial), of ’75, is in business at Dubuque, Iowa.
—	Louis Heeb (Commercial), of ’66, is engaged in busi ness at Dubuque, Iowa.
—	Thos. Nelson (Commercial), of’78, is employed in his father’s office in Chicago.
—	E. L. Spitley (Commercial), of ’72, visited Notre Dame on Wednesday last.
—	W. B. Walker, of ’78, is clerking for his brother, B. r Walker, Nos. 318 and 320 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo.
—	Thos. H. Quinn (Commercial), of ’77, is keeping books in the establishment of Heraty & Co., Philadelphia.
—	Clarence Faxon (Commercial), of ’77, has accepted a situation in the office of the Western News Company, Chicago.
—	Among the visitors this last week were Messrs. Jos. Smith, Circleville, O.; J. Finnon, Troy, N. Y.; and M. Brown, Dubuque, Iowa.
—	We were pleased to meet with Henry Faxon (Commercial), of ’76, a few days ago. Mr. Faxon is still in the employ of A. T. Stewart & Co., Chicago.
—	John W. Buehler (Commercial), of ’75, is in business at Independence, Iowa. Like a good, sensible fellow, he subscribes for The Scholastic. We are happy to say that Mr. Buehler is prospering.
—	Rev. M. Noll, the erudite, energetic and popular rector of the Church of St. Vincent de Paul, Elkhart, Ind., and who attends the missions of White Pigeon and Sturgis, Mich., dropped in to see us on Wednesday.
—	We were pleased to meet, a few days ago, our friend
Horatio J. Colvin, of ’62. Mr. Colvin is a member of the firm of John Alston & Co., Manufacturers and Importers of Paints, Glass, Varnishes, etc., Nos. 179 and 181 Randolph St. Chicago. He is doing a large business and deserves to succeed because he has the true metal in him.
/ —Among our visitors of the past week was Dr. J. J. Gordon, of Cairo, Ill., who came to see his son at Notre Dame and his daughter at St. Mary’s. Dr. Gordon is a most .amiable gentleman, and possesses the esteem and confidence of his fellow-citizens. A short while before his departure for Notre Dame, the Mayor of Cairo, in the name of the citizens of that place, presented the Doctor with a handsome gold medal in remembrance of his earnest and charitable work in behalf of those sick of the yellow fever.
/ —The Chicago Times has the following of Prof. Gregori, who painted the decorations in the new Church at Notre Dame: “At O’Brien’s there is a large group of the four children of Mr. James M. Seymour, by Prof. Gregori, with landscape surroundings. ‘Robbing a Bird’s Nest’ is the idea on which the group is constructed. The eldest boy, who has evidently stolen the nest from an adjacent tree, stands with his hat in one hand while with the other he is applying a handkerchief to his heated temple. Seated upon the ground at his right are two smaller boys, the younger of which is holding the nestfull of fledgings in his lap, the while glancing inquiringly at an elder sister, who, seated on a rock at his right, suspends the process of assorting a lapfull of flowers long enough to frown upon the proceeding. At his studio in the Academy building Gregori has a portrait of a little son of Mr. Chapin, of the firm of Chapin & Gore, now dead. The likeness is pronounced perfect by the parents. Gregori is especially happy in small pieces, such, for instance, as one in his studio representing a mother and child.”
Local Items.
—	There was not much done in the Societies the past week.
—	Rev. J. A. Zahm will lecture in Phelan Hall next Thursday evening at half-past seven.
—	To-morrow the Missa Regia will be sung. The Vespers are from the Common of the Blessed Virgin.
—Mr. J. B. Haffey, of ’74, of Fairbury, Ill., has contributed ten dollars for the Chapel of the Sacred Heart, /
—The game of “ shuffle board ” has been introduced inUr the Junior Department. The boys speak of it as a very in- • teresting game.
—Bro. Michael deserves the thanks of the community ,/ for the fine walks he has made between The Scholastic office and his coffee-house.	z
—As there was rain last Wednesday, most of the day was./ spent in the recreation halls. Checkers, billiards, etc., were the principal games.
—There are eighteen different games played in the ^ Junior Department. There is no doubt but what the Juniors will pass a fine winter.
—The members of the two Archconfraternities will receive Holy Communion in a body to-morrow morning, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
—We understand that the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association will give a literary Entertainment on the evening of the Thursday preceding Christmas.
' —On Wednesday the rain interfered with the games of i baseball in the Junior department. The Reds and the Blues had each won an inning when the rain came on.
—The College Message will please accept thanks for a friendly notice. A long career of usefulness, we trust, may be the lot of our esteemed contemporary.
—Many thanks are returned to the Senior Orchestra by the Seniors for the Orchestra’s fine music on Wednesday afternoon last, and also to Daniel Donohue, on the same occasion.
—We have received from the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York, “The Young Girls’
222
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Month of December,” by the author of “ Golden Sands.” Price, 10 cts.
—The students in the Junior Department should remember that the prize offered to the one whose name was on the Roll of Honor oftenest will be given on the Sunday before Christmas.
—Our typos having made a mistake in setting up a line last week, a correspondent writes to know whether in the item about “ the awqard squad ” there was not some a wk ward , spelling. Tally one for him.
I	—At the meeting of the Sodality held Wednesday, the
4th, the ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. P. Johannes. Papers were read by Messrs. James Fenton, Thomas Maloney and Charles Maley.
—G. Schnull, of Indianapolis, Ind., had the best Bulletin in the Junior Department for the month of November. J. Kurz, of Dubuque, Iowa, had second best, and F- B. Phillips, of Fort Wayne, Ind., the third best.
—We have received the first number of the La Salle Advance, published at La Salle College, Philadelphia, Pa. It gives every promise of being a spicy and readable paper. We welcome it to a place among college journals.
—Rev. P. Lauth has introduced. Gregorian Chant in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend. He has been very sue cessful so far, having a choir of twenty young men to begin with. The entire Vesper service is now sung in the church.
—All those who are to go home during the Christmas holidays should remember that the Bulletins for December will be sent off w hile they are at home. It should be the endeavor of all to have good bulletins sent to their homes at that time.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, held on the 2d, the ten-minute instruction Jwas given by Rev. J. A. Zahm. Papers were read by vMessrs. J. F. Mugg, E. B. Piekenbrock, and J. M. Scanlan. The music was good, as usual.
—The following subscriptions for the Chapel of the Sacred Heart have been received: Thomas Ewing, of *69, $15; John G. Ewing, of’78, $15; Francis C. Ewing (Commercial), of'78, $15 f Neal Ewing,$15; and Edward'Ewing, $15. All of which are gratefully acknowledged.
—The avenue leading to the College has been entirely ,graded. As soon as the weather permits, a large drain ' ^will be made from the road in front of the post-office to St. Mary’s lake, through which the water will be carried off in rainy weather. This will secure us a good road to South Bend in all seasons of the year.
—All parents should subscribe for The Scholastic directly with our office. We know of many who depend upon their sons for the paper, and we know many students who fail to send home their Scholastic unless their names ‘are on the Roll of Honor, the List of Class Honors or the List of Excellence. By subscribing, parents can see when their sons’ names are not on these lists. Address, Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
—Competitions among the students of the Junior department are becoming quite common. During the month of ■ November Master M. Wolf and another competed for a prize -i. which was presented by one of the Junior prefects. It was presented to M. Wolf by the Rev. Prefect of Discipline on last Friday evening after the notes for the week were read. M. Wolf received during the month only 6 notes. Mr. Wolf's opponent was not disheartened by his defeat, but expressed his desire “ to try it again.”
—The steam-trap lately put into the boiler-house is now , in successful operation. For a time, owing to want of at-■'i tention to some of the incidental fixtures, the trap would not work. Mr. Thos. Barrett, a student in the Senior Department and an excellent machinist, was then called in and soon had it in fine working order. This trap is rather a curious piece of mechanism, and serves the double purpose of condenser and pump. It is a great economiser of fuel and labor as it refuses steam in circuit and pumps the warm water from the condensed steam direct into the boiler. Like the ordinary condenser, it works automatically.
—With the number of the Ave Maria for the first week
in January, 1879, the editor of that paper will enlarge it four pages. This enlargement will enable-him to give greater variety of matter, larger installments of serial articles, and will allow an extension of each department in the paper. A new serial is to begin with the first number. Lady Georgiana Fullerton will in the course of the year begin a story; Aubrey de Vere will contribute poetry. The author of “ Tyborne,” Henry Lasserre, Miss O’Meara, Rev. J. Lambing, Eliza A. Starr, Rev. J. Adam, Elenor C. Donnelly, the Misses Howe, and others, will continue to write for its pages. Altogether, the Ave Maria will begin the year with the brightest prospects and with the promise of furnishing more original reading matter than any Catholic journal in America.
—Last Wednesday the Junior Blue and Red foot-ball clubs procured a new ball, and concluded to test it by playing for a barrel of apples. At two o’clock, p. m., Captain . Rogers and his team, the Blues, made their appearance on lthe Campus; they were soon followed by the Reds, cap-jtained by J. F. Mug. An umpire was selected, and game called at 2.15. After a struggle of twenty minutes, a shout went up from the Blues, the ball bad entered the goal, and they were credited with first inning. Captain Mug, nothing daunted, gave a few instructions to his men, and the ball was again tossed in the air. After ten minutes the snow commenced falling, and amid a blinding snow-storm the Reds forced the ball within the goal; then a shout went up from the scarlet-collared boys that woke the night-watchman, who was taking his afternoon’s nap, a quarter of a mile distant. It being too stormy to continue the game, the umpire called it a draw.
—At the reception tendered Very Rev. Father Sorin by the St.'Edward Columbian Club in remembrance of his first Mass at Notre Dame, the following programme was carried out: Overture, Seniors’ Orchestra; Address to Father Sorin, M. Burns, of Washington, D. C.; Piano Solo, G. Cochrane, of Chicago; Essay, “Life of Edward the Confessor,” R. Keenan, of London, Canada; Declamation, R. Mayer, Cleveland, Ohio; Guitar Solo, B. Claggett, Lexington, Ill.; Essay, Poetry, G. Sugg, Chicago; Declamation, P. Hagan, Dungannon, Ohio; Violin Solo, J. Thompson, Washington, Ind. These exercises concluded, Father Sorin, addressed the members of the Club. His glowing description of the beautiful life of the sainted Indian missionary, Father de Seille, brought a tear to many an eye and planted a desire in many a heart that it also might dedicate its services and energies to the living God after the example of this good and holy priest. After the address the Columbians were introduced individually to Father Sorin, who had a kind word for each of them. This pleasant reunion will long be remembered by the happy participants.
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arentz, J. B. Berteling, J. P. Brice, A J. Burger, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Bakeri J. F. Buchanan, Thos. Barrett, M. H. Bannon, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, T. F. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, C. B. Cones, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, F. W. Cavanaugh, D. S. Coddington, G. Cochrane,- E. T. Chalfant, J. M. Carroll, E. Calkins, J. H. Delaney, D. Donohue, P. J. Dougherty, L. J. Evers, M. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, P. J. Hagan, J. C. Herrmann, M. J. Hogan, L. Horne, J. T. Harrison. J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, A M. Keenan, M. Laughlin, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, W. J. Murphy, Thos. Mackey, R. P. Mayer, J. B. McGrath, W. B. Mc-Gorrisk, AI. J. McCue, J. J. McErlain, M. J. McEniry, Wm. O’Brien, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, 8. 8. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, J. J. Shugrue, R. D. Stewart, T. W. Simms, A. Scheiber, C. L. Stuckey, T. 8. 8ummers, P. Shea, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, E. 8chifferle, J. Thompson, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogle, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, W. Ryan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. '
W. P. Adams, T. G. Arthur, M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkmann, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, O. C. Eigholz, J. M. Eisenhauer, H. J. Fenner, E. F. Fogarty, M. L. Foote, J. W-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
223
Guthrie, W. D. Cannon, J. A. Gibbons, F. H. Grever, E. G. Gallagher, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, J. L. Halle, H. M. Haerly, J. Haney, J. Kurz, J. Kennedy, E. Murphy, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. F. Mug, J. N. Osher, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, J. L. Perea, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A. S. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Sheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, M. Wolf, R. T. Williams, E. 8. Walter, A. F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. Gordon, W. A. Coghlin, W. A. McDevitt, C. B. Crowe, G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, A. Hartrath, P. F. Brady, W. F. Reinhardt, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, G. Woodson, C. S. McGrath, J. A. Crowe, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, J. 8. McGrath, H. C. McDonald, J. J. Inderrieden, A. H. Chirhart, O. Farrelly, G. Knight, E. Howard, J. H. Garrity, F. T. Garrity, C. M. Long, E. 8. Chirhart, T. McGrath, J. Chaves. H. A. Kitz, C. J. Welty, H. C. Snee, L. J. Young, A. F. Schmiickle, F. B. Farrelly, P. Campau, A. J. Campau, F. Parsons, A. Rheinboldt.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
A. Casey, C. Brinkman, F. Grever, A. Rock, G. Orr, T. Conlan, P. B. Larkin, M. Hogan, J. Herman, J. N. Byrne, M. English, 8. P. Terry, A. Keenan, L. Horne, R. Anderson, R. P. Mayer, T. Summers.' J. Arentz, J. Q. Johnson, A. Lent, C. Stuckey, E. Calkins, E. Dempsey.
The name of A. Zahm should have appeared on the Class Honors for the Preparatory Course last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, J. M. Courtney, W. Coghlin, F. X. Campau,‘O. Farrelly, G. J. Rhodius, N. P. Nelson, A. Hartrath, P. F. Brady, J. S. Courtney, G. Woodson, C. S. McGrath, C. L. Garrick, F. C. Omer, J. J. Inderrieden, A. H. Chirhart, G. Knight, J. J. Gordon, W. F. Reinhardt.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—A. Scheiber, S. P. Terry, T. Con-lau, G. Orr, J. W. Guthrie, A. Caren, R. Williams, A. B. Mar-gentheim ; Grammar—R. Anderson, S. P. Terry, T. Conlan, C. L. Stuckey, J. Kurz; Arithmetic—J. Herman, J. Lumley, J. Mug, W. Rietz ; Penmanship—W. Cox, G. Schnull, J. Kurz, W. McCarthy, F. Phillips, J. Eisenhauer; Geography and History— J. W. Guthrie, A. Caren, J. Kurz, J. English.
The honorable mentions for Book-Keeping will be given next week.

—The usual religious service on Thanksgiving Day was attended by all the inmates of St. Mary’s.
—One evening last week the pupils enjoyed their annual dance. Music was furnished by a Quadrille Band from South Bend. An oyster supper was served afterwaids.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mr. W. D. Condon, Laporte, Ind.; Chas. Bunson, Kingston, New York; Mrs. J. W. Pampel; Miss Mary Grover, Wilmington, Ill.; R. Martel Clarke, Chicago, Ill.; P. A. Campbell, Washington, Ind.; Mr. F. C. Sullivan, Michigan.
—Impromptu evening entertainments are frequent in the recreation hall, generally gotten up by the “merry lasses” for the amusement of their companions. Tableaux— “Illustrated Scenes in School Life. The “Wood-in Phonograph,” and the famous “Thomas Orchestra,” afforded last Friday evening laughter enough to refresh the severe students.
—To commemorate the thirty-sixth anniversary of the ar- rival of Very Rev. Father Sorin in South Bend, all of his
early friends still residents of the city were invited, with many others of later acquaintance, to meet him at St. Mary’s. A short Entertainment had been prepared by the pupils in St. Cecilia’s Hall, in honor of Father Superior General and his distinguished guests, carrying out the following programme:
Overture to Figaro..........................(Mozart)
Misses Spier, Kirchner and Galen.
Vocal Duett from “Lucia”...................(Donizetti)
Misses L. Kirchner and Silverthorn. Accompanied by
Miss Geiser.
Address—Senior Department................Miss Russell
Harp Solo.................Mrs.	Fitzgerald, of New York
Song...................................Miss O’Connor
Oration by Hon. Andrew Anderson, of South Bend Duett—Harp and Piano—from “L’Elisire d’Amore”— (Bochsa). Mrs. Fitzgerald and Miss Geiser.
Song.......................................(L’Arditi)
Miss Devoto. Accompanied by Miss Silverthorn.
Chorus—from “Semiramide....................(Rossini)
Private Vocal Class. Accompanied by Miss Galen. Response by Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., Sup.-Gen’l. Grand Galop...............................(Ketterer)
Misses Buck and Keenan. Refreshments.
Hon. Andrew Anderson of South Bend would not allow his eloquent "speech to be called an oration”; with this short preamble he addressed the assembly, giving a graphic description of the uninviting log cabin home of the future Superior General and founder of tbe many grand educational establishments throughout the land. Tne speaker dwelt upon the great good one man can effect when he bends his whole energy to one object, of which, the whole life of Father Sorin had been a bright example; that the country had reaped the benefit of that life of abnegation, in the education of her sons and daughters, and all this for the honor and glory of the Master he had imitated, the Founder of the Church to which Father Sorin had given his youth, his manhood, and now waiting the eternal reward. The honorable speaker, while relating many of the early reminiscences of the years of hardship and toil incident in the history of the foundation of Notre Dame, paid a tribute to the first Brothers who accompanied the Father to the Western world—one, Brother Lawrence, whose memory he revered for his uprightness and self-denial. Of that devoted band there are but few now living. Amid the applause of the guests whose sentiments he had expressed, the Hon. speaker took his seat. Very. Rev Father General rose to express his thanks and delight to share with all his dear friends present the anniversary congratulations, for they had all co-operated in the work and helped to build those seats of learning which are the pride of their city. “What would he, a poor, simple priest, have done in those days of labor, and fatigue of mind and body, without their encouragement? And every year has only added to his grateful memory of their kindness. Not to him, but to his noble confreres and faithful friends, is the success due, and to God the glory.
Mrs. Clara Semmes Fitzgerald, sister to Admiral Semmes, a lady who is spending the winter at St. Mary’s, added much to the enjoyment of the occasion by her charming performance on the harp. Her execution of a difficult arrangement of “ Home ” was very fine, but her artistic skill and expression were charming in’ the duett from “L’Elisire d’Amore, and were highly appreciated by the lovers of music.
To the strains of a lively march, the invited guests, 80 in number, repaired to the refreshment room; sitting informally in groups, everyone enjoyed the abundant repast and the tales of by-gone days. The pioneers of South Bend recalled many events of the 30th of Nov., 1842;—and thus ended cheerfully the Feast of St. Andrew, Nov. 30th, 1873.
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly.
1st Senior Class—Misses Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Ellen McGrath, Annie
224
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin, Annie Maloney, Mary Birch, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey.
2d Sb. Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Jessie Grover, Philomena Wolford, Catharine Danaher, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Hackett, Ellen Galen, Annie Ryan, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Adella Gordon, Catharine Lloyd, Emma Shaw, Harriet Buck, Marie Plattenburg, Catharine Ward, Alice Farrell, Grace Glasser, Agnes Brown, Elizabeth Schwass, Elizabeth Walsh, Angela Ewing.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Alicia Donelan, Anna McGrath, Adella Geiser, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Ella Mulligan, Annie Jones, Lucie Chilton, Margaret Carroll, Mary Mulligan, Margaret McNamara.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Alma Moe, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Eilena Thomas, Ina Capelle, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Mary Mullen, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Tam, Mary English, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Anna Herman, Mary Campbell, Ollie Williams, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French, Annie Orr, Della McKerlie, Mary Hake, Mary Ludwig, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Alice Hiltman, Margaret Cleghorn, Frances Sunderland.
Junior Prep.—Misses Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Julia Butts, Mary McFadden, Marie McN. Garrity, Sophie Papin, Catharine Campbell, Mary Lyons, Genevieve Sunderland, Ella Cavanaugh.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Jessie Pampell, Julia Cleary, Mary Poquette, Bridget Haney, Elise Lavoie.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Sil-verthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Galen, Henrietta Rosing, Marie Dallas, Aurelia Mulhall, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, L. Kirchner, Mary Casey, A. Ewing, M. Birch.
3d Class—Misses Louise Neu, Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Alice Hiltman, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Laura French, Julia Butts, Genevieve Winston, T. Walters.	_
4th Class—Misses Ollie Williams, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Frances Sunderland, Emma Gerrish, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Wells, Annie Jones, Mary English, Adella McKerlie, Catharine Lloyd, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner,'Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Annie Herman, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Mary Ludwig, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Caroline Gall, Charlotte Van Namee, Ellen Kelly.
4th Class—Misses Mary Tam, Mary Fitzgerald, Margaret McNamara, Alice Donelan, Julia Butts, Catharine Hackett, Mary Zimmermann, Catharine Ward, Sarah Purdy.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.	.
1st Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier,- Teresa Walters.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Aurelia Mulhall, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary McGrath, E. Lange.
4th Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Anna Cortright, Jessie Grover.
2d Div.—Misses Alice Wells, Caroline Gall, Genevieve Winston, Mary English, Catharine Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Annie Cavenor.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Sarah Purdy, Marie Platten-burg, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass, C. Danaher, Mary Mulligan.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Amy Jones, Rebecca Neteler, Agnes Brown, Eleanor Thomas, Mary Casey, Lulu Wells, Martha Pampel.
2d Div.—Misses Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Lucie Chilton, Julia Kingsbury, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Orr, Mary Feehan, Martha Doxey, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity, Ellen Cavanaugh.
7th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Tam, Mary McFadden, Margaret Ryan, Catharine Ward, Philomena Wolford, Caroline Hopkins.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Manuelita Chaves, Ada Clarke.
Harp—2d Class—Miss E. Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell Minerva Spier.
Organ—Miss Criep.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Teresa Walters.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Clara Silverthorn, Catharine Hackett, Adella Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall, Anna Woodin.-
5th Class—Misses Marv and Annie McGrath, Sarah Purdy, Angela Ewing, Charlotte Van Namee. Henrietta Hearsey, Mary Birch, Mary English, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw, Annie Jones, Mary Casey, Zoe Papin, Eleanor Thomas, M. Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Dallas, Angela Ewing, Teresa Killelea, Jessie Grover, Angela Dillon, Eilena Thomas, Elizabeth Schwass, Sophie Papin, Catharine Campbell, Laura French, Mary Campbell, Mary Sullivan, Ella Mulligan, Maud Casey, Aurelia Mulhall, Julia Kingsbury, Julia Butts, Minna Loeber.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Genevieve Welsh, Rebecca Neteler, Sallie Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg, Harriet Buck.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, Lulu Wells, Ada Clarke, Annie McGrath, Catharine Campbell, Laura French, Sophia Papin, Margaret Cleghorn, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Butts, Maud Casey, Agnes McKinnis, Jessie Pampel, Annie Orr, Martha Doxey, Mary McFadden, Johanna Baroux, Mary Feehan, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Lyons, Mary Chirhart, Jennie McGrath, Mary Garrity, Elise Dallas, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Poquette, Elise Papin, Margaret Ivers, Elise Lavoie, Bridget Haney, Blanche Garrity, Alice King, Alicia Esmer, Elizabeth Constantine, Man-uelita^Chaves, Julia Cleary, Amelia Morris, Mary Haney, Minnie Fisk.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Tam, Teresa Killelea, Mary Usselman, Eleanor Thomas, Agnes Brown, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey, Annie Jones.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Hake, Annie Woodin, Mary Sullivan, Alice Hiltman, Linda Fox, Marie Plattenburg, Emma Lang, Catharine Ward, Angela Dillon.
- PLAIN SEWING.
Misses Mary Usselman, Emma Lange, Nellie Galen, Nellie Keenan Annie Maloney, Annie Cavenor, Katie Hackett. Mary Mullen, Alice Donelan, Eilena Thomas, Alma Moe. M. Brown, AL Loeber, A. Ryan, Katie Ward, M. Ludwig, Julia Barnes, Mary McNamara, Teresa Killelea, Teresa Zahm, Annie Herman, Ollie Williams, Mary Tam.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
I
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, C. Silverthorn, R. Neteler, M. Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Annie Maloney, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Emma Lang, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Adella Gordon. Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett. Alice Farrell, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Elizabeth Kirchner, Catharine Ward, Jessie Grover, Grace Glasser, Mary Plattenburg, Mary Usselman, Henrietta Rosing, Margaret McNamara, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Mary Carroll, Emma Gerrish, Adella Geiser, Annie Jones, Alicia Donelan, Teresa Walters, Annie Purdy, Mary Mullen, Alma Moe, M. English, Julia Barnes, Eilena Thomas, Caroline Gall, Mary Hake, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Fitzgerald, ■ Kathleen Wells, Mary Ludwig, Della McKerlie, Mary Tam, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zahm, Ollie Williams, par excellence. Misses Mary Casey, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Aurelia Mulhall, Eleanor Keenan, Zoe Papin, Annie Woodin, Lucie Chilton, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Genevieve Sunderland, Mary Campbell, Martha Pampell, Elizabeth Walsh, Harriet Buck, Emma Shaw, Frances Sunderland, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins, Ella Cavanaugh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart Alice Esmer, Manuelita Chaves,' Martha Zimmer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
225
man, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Marie Poquette, Margaret Ivers, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Ellen Mulligan, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Julia Wells, Catharine Campbell, Elise Dallas, Marie McN. Garrity, Julia Butts, Jessie Pampel, Mary McFadden, Minnie Morris, Alice King.	'
—Felix Mendelssohn was a gifted man, a true genius; and he might have shone in several other fields as well as in that of music had he not solely dedicated himself to that art. He was a good pictorial artist, and made spirited sketches. He was an excellent classical scholar; and once at the house of an English musical Professor, whose son had been brought up for the Church, and had been a University student, there chancing to arise a difference of opinion between him and Mendelssohn as to some passage in the Greek Testament, when the book was taken down to decide the question Mendelssohn proved to be in the right. He was well read in English literature, and largely acquainted with the best English poets. Once, happening to express a wish to read Burns’ poems, and regretting that he could not get them before he left, as he was starting next morning for Germany, Alfred Novello procured a copy of the fine masculine Scottish poet at Bickers’, in Leicester Square, on his way down to the boat by which Mendelssohn was to leave, and reached there in time to put into his hand the wished-for book, and to see his gratified look on receiving the gift. It is perhaps to this incident we owe the charming two-part song. “ O wert thou in the cauld blast.”—Recollections of Writers.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Les fenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City tnd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J' C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
All "Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. ID, 1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2	25 a. m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at_Toledo 9 50; Cleveland230pm; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50 and4 pm, Way Freight.	■
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
$ $5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
4 50 n m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.	-
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
Time Table, in Effect MAT 19, 1878.
Going- North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.23 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.C3 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p. m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.1-7 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a. m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. -	- Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - - -	- - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - -_- - - Plymouth, - -- - - - Rochester, - - - -	- - - Denver, - - -- - - - Pern, - - - - -	- Bunker Hill. - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - - -	- - - Tipton,- - - -- - - Noblesville, - - - -	- Indianapolis, - - -- - - - Cincinnati, - - - -	- - Louisville, - - -- -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 855 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 1132 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.U0 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p.m.
“	“	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to IndianapolisI
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late-Breakfast Hour.
E^Berths §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1£64 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Ill.; afterwards in St. Louis. Mo.
Please address,	“The Scholastic.”
shicKey, proprietor of the
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. SHICKkY.
226
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
To perpetuate the memory of him whose dying words were	■
“ Take care of the Church which Z have Loved so well and Guarded so Sacredly,” The Continental Publishing Company have published a beautiful Mezzograph portrait of His Holiness
Read the following Letter from Archbishop Purcell:
Cincinnati, February 22,1878.
Archbishop Purcell begs to return to the Continental Publishing Company, his sincere thanks for their highly appreciated engraved likeness of the lately deceased Pontiff, Pius IX. He hopes to see many evidences of like merit from their establishment.
Very Respectfully,
 J. B. PURCELL, Archbishop.
Have also published as a companion-picture to the above,
MH EE® XH1
These beautiful portraits are on heavy plate paper, 2 ft. long by H ft. wide. Either, or both of the above portraits will be sent—pre-paid—to any address, on receipt of nineteen (19) cts. to pay postage and tubing. Send Currency or postage-stamps.
CHRONOS.
ANY OF THE JTOLT^ONVXING CHROMOS SENT PRE-PAID OPT RECEIPT OJF
The Cherubs, (new)
Holy Family, .	.	.	18x24
Mater Dolorosa, .	.	. 18x24
St. Patrick—with the snakes, (new) 18x24
50 CENTS EA.CH.
Ecce Homo, . Guardian Angel, Pope Pius IX, .
24x30
18x24
. 18x24
18x24
Address all orders to CONTINENTAL PUBLISHING- CO.,
No. 4 Home Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Do not fail to order THE CHERUBS, the Handsomest Chromo Published.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
■ ES” The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the Best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating-Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev.
Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.	■
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.	_
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address,
’	MOTHER SUPERIOR,
‘ St, Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P, 0., Indiana.
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Colmnljus 5 ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.-
Sign of the Big Indian.
101 Main St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLiARK ST., opposite Shermaii House,
-	- ■ Qhie^gQ, Illinois,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	227
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR fof ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.	;
ARTHUR J. STA.CE [of’64], County Surveyor for | St.'Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbas, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE AIARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. 'Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip ion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the' Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. FLVNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QpS CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZitJ neatly printed; for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
'	Mishawaka, Ind.
Qp? CENTS will obtain you a Copy of Tse Scholastic ZiO Almanac for 1878. Address
. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BRO W W <fc HAR V kY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL TN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS T5. CLIEFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN id. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN ZF. IMoUTTGrll [of ’72), Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
BODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
Mo JEtktTDZE <fc TVTTT.T. A I r.TA (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of ihe U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WITjUTA-MZ J. CU A.RZK.U (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A_. O’REILLY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law
527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOH1V ». MoCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Daniel b. hibbard, Jr., (of’70), circuit Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold Street, Detroit,	wplW-ly
THE SUN FOR 1879.
The Sun will be printed every day during the year to come Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of everybody and everything save the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy which has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
The Sun is the newspaper for the people. It is not for the rich man,against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hates. It is for the honest man against the rogues every time. It is for the honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does not take its cue from the utterances of any politician or political organization. It gives its support unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspiracy of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence. In this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not less in the year 1879, than in 1878, 1877, or any year gone by. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before the people, The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 a magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and women of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of to day. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the coming year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements of the leaders in every section of the Republic will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest may be added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudulent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Sun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before ; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or §7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of Thb Sun is also furnished separately at §1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is §1 a year, postage paid. For clubs ol ten sending §10 we will send an extra copy free. Address
I. W. ENGLAND,
Publisher of The Bun, New York City.
JAMES BONNEY THE mOTOCS-XLATPHTBIL
Comer Michigan ani Washington Sts., sovtb: bsjstjd, lasrDiASTA. -
228
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Xoy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	iSight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 « 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 »	19 00 p m tl 15 “ 2 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jacsson Express.		
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		+Pacific Express.	^Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson'..... “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 ■*	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 - 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52'•	638 «• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “N. Dame— 740 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. $Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk- Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Rond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.	-
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS •
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	. Martov Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.	Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,			No.l, Fast Ex. 11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	No. 7, Pac. Ex. 9.00 A.M. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	No .3, Night Ex. 1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	No. 5, Mail. 6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 «
Alliance,									
Orrville,’	 Mansfield,					
Crestline,	Arrive				
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12.25 a.m. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••
Lima,..					
Ft.Wayne,					
Plymouth					
Chicago,	Arrive				
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 A.M. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m.	
			8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 A.M.	
Ft” Wayne,					
Lima,							
Forest,				2.33 “ 4.05 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				• ••••
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,			12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “• 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 Par. 3.30 “
Orrville,						
Alliance, „					
Rochester,						
Pittsburgh,	Arrive				

Trains Nos.- 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman- Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at ail principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS, NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, 0Ct5-tf LaPorte, Tndinnn.