3
8
!
i J
?
i i
»
*
«
i
S^olastic IJear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. Notre Dame University, Oct. 5, 1867. No. 5.
List of Pupils Arrived at St. Mary’s since the 26th ultimo.
St. Mary’s Academy. Oct. 3, 1867.
Miss Vada Bragg, Paw Paw, Michigan. Emma Conan, ‘ Pox Lake, Wisconsin.
• Sarah Service, New Carlisle, Indiana.
Maggie Ball, Lafayette, “
TABLE OF HONOR IN SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses K. Livingstone, Anna Machin, Mary Van Patten, Mary Tripp, K. Doran, Anna Adams, C-Bertrand, Agnes Mulhall,. Ida Runaids, Belle Gardner, Rena Rettig and Clara Poote.
The points in the Junior Department will be henceforth given on Saturday evening; therefore the Table of Hanoi' will not be changed until ' next Saturday, Oct. 5th.
HONORABLE MENTION.
The following young ladies, beside those at the Table of Honor, received the highest points in Lessons and Conduct :
Graduating Glass—Misses C. and L. Plimpton, and Florence Alspaugh.
- First ■ Senior Class—Misses L. and L. Tong, Nora Maher, Emma Longsdorf, K. Cunnea, Laura Lewis, J. Arrington, Agnes Ewing and L. Lyons.
Second, Senior Class—Misses S. Rooney, Anna Cunnea, Emma Carr, Alice Radin,' EL Young, K. Graham, Bridget Bergan, Elmira Smith, Mary Carraher, Rosana Mukautz, C. Davenport, F. North, Virginia Brown, Mary Morrill, Mary Miller, Minerva Ryan, Frances Gittings and H. Lill.
Third, Senior Class—Misses N. Ogle, H. Seeley, Mary McCaully, Emma Barclay, Amanda Sissons, Georgiana and Sarah Blakeslee, Emma Raustead, Maria Drulimer, N. Simms, N. Thompson, Anna Bryson, E. Miller, Sarah Miller, Josephine Grei-shop, K. Carpentei and M. Shirland.
First Intermediate—T. Stapleton, Alice Tarrant, Augusta Sturgis, Sarah Walker, Ellen Lindsday, S. Thomson, Mary Simms, Clara Casteeter, L. Becknell, R. Gittings, Julia Gittings, Amelia Boyles, and Anna Boyles. ‘
Second, Intermediate—Misses M. B. Walker, Eva North, and Hellen Sprochnle.
First Junior—Ada Metzger, and Mary Clark, and in the Third Junior little Leo Mills.
At the Reunion of Teachers and Pupils on Sunday evening, presided over by Very Rev Father Provincial, the following compositions were considered worthy to be publicly read: “ The Melody .of'Hope,” by Miss J. Schutt, “True Beauty,” by Miss Gertrude Leedey, “Independence of Character,” by Miss Agnes Ewing, “ Curiosity,” by Miss Alice Gates, and “ Rhetoric and its difficulties,” by Miss C. Plimpton.:
Compositions selected from the First Senior Glass.
Independence of Character.
This is an important trait, and will exhibit itself in a very young, child, even when he’can no more than lisp a few words. It is often very hard to control young persons who possess an independent disposition; but they should not be reproved harshly, for such treatment will only exasperate them; but, kindly spoken to, as they grow older they will learn to respect the advice of their superiors and friends, and yet will remain firm and steady when it is necessary for them to take a stand.	.. .
One with an independent character is' seldom known to hesitate. When he knows what is right he will maintain it, let it cost what it will. One of this character is, in fact, alone qualified to govern. All Americans should applaud independence of character, for had it not been for this grand quality in the poor human race, we might never have- had the happiness of saying we were born in America, the home of independence,— for, to finish my assertion, had it not been for the fearlessness of character belonging to Isabella of Spain, and to Christopher Columbus, would America ever have been discovered ?
Columbus is a model in this, for each and all of us. He was a man of firmness and self-reliance. Although he was thwarted on every side, and his opinions as to the existence of this beautiful land
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.'	3
ridiculed and scoffed at, notwithstanding all this opposition he overcame his enemies, and main-'tained his views with a courage and constancy never to be forgotten. For his compensation we see that his most sanguine hopes have been more than realized.
Stubbornness is frequently mistaken for independence. The mule, that ungraceful animal, is a symbol of the latter. The sagacious and faithful hound, who will peril'all for his master, may represent the former.	•
One who is stubborn never reflects, but obstinately persists in his opinion without reason; he never stops to -weigh considerations. But mark the difference with one possessed of true and noble self-reliance. He quietly does that which he judges to be right. He never fails to reason, and when convinced that he has taken a wrong point of view, he has too much self-respect to permit his continuance in error. '	*
Firmness of character prevents one, however, from being controlled by every one, and any one who may offer an opinion. Reflection is habitual with him, and though when convinced of having done wrong, he will nobly acknowledge it, he is not liable to be deceived. The obstinate person, though, on the other hand, will change his mind without reason, and will to-morrow defend that which he opposed yesterday, and will cling to his position to show he is not changeable.
It is the weak-minded and uneducated who are generally obstinate: the cultivated and wise who are independent.
St. Mary's Academy, Sept. 25th.
Rhetoric and its Difficulties. ’
Oh, the sorrow that one has to undergo, before she can be considered what the world calls, a finished young lady /
Take the one great trial of a school-girl’s life, that, of learning to express her thoughts correctly. She is told that to compose well, will confer upon her the “ command of language,” in conversation, in letter-writing, and in whatever occupation this command is'desirable. We are required to present a written exercise, moulded from our own brain, filled with our own thoughts, and couched in our own words. This must be per-.formed every week, but in the meantime we are told that we must employ “ figurative language,” yet above all, we must be exceedingly careful in its use. Let figures of Rhetoric be improperly worded, and you may render the most beautiful thoughts, insipid, confused, or ridiculous. We
are told, that correctly used, they beautify, and explain our subject, and destroy the tiresome monotony of common,, plain language, but to be sure and not permit the dress, whereby we clothe our thoughts, to usurp the importance that should belong to the thought itself.	-
Well, the eventful day comes, and we write. Of course, after all the kind advice offered the week before, we are very careful, and. with a bright face, take the important piece of paper, which, when covered by our rhetorical pen, will be scrutinized, criticized and corrected.
Oh, how our faces sadden when we behold the ruthless inroads made by the pencil, forcing its way over our most elaborate and studied sentences, inverting our ideas, canceling our figures, (rhetorical, we mean —but, alas! not our debt to the Rhetoric teacher,) condensing the prolonged ' periods designed to fill out the page, and putting a point to something that we had persuaded ourselves could never have a point. .
Again we commence, determined not to fall into the dry, labored, or feeble styles, and never to permit our compositions to be common-place, or repeated from those we have heard before.
The dry style ? Oh, could the critics who accuse us of this, when they hear our compositions on Sunday evening, but see the tears shed over them, they would not wonder that we can never believe our style should be regarded as dry. And the labored ? Why, should our efforts in the end possess even the grace of a Washington Irving, after we have worked so hard over it, how could they be any thing else but in the labored style ? And the feeble style ? We write at two o’clock, after employing the whole day, from eight o’clock in the morning, in strict mental labor, at class, music lessons, practice, etc. Writing under such circumstances, what intellectual giant, even, could perpetrate any thing but the feeble style, with such a merciless burden upon his mental shoulders ?	-	•
We commence anew, with the various injunctions ringing in our ears, and we gather up the little “stock in trade” we have to work upon, and hope that this attempt, at least, will not prove a failure. Proceeding finely,-we congratulate ourselves on our fluency, tact and courage, quite sure of success, and we allow the exercise, thrice subjected to the crucible of our earnest brain, to be once more criticized; but how we feel when told (very kindly, of course,) that here we have compared a rose to our grandmother’s pin-ball—made the rose ridiculous—and the dap-
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
4
pled sky to a bowl of curd^-detracted from the very glory of the heavens—and that we have totally neglected both unity .and propriety; that' our hyperboles are inappropriate and tame; in short, that we appear not to comprehend the application of Rhetoric in the least degree.
- We will not attempt to reveal our consternation at the result; and although we are assured that we have done “ very well,” we wonder what “ill” can be if eliciting more changes than our bumble efforts seem to demand. Returning to our desk, a “sadder and a wiser girl,” weare more than ever impressed with the necessity of perfecting ourselves in Rhetoric.
Should you happen to be at St. Mary’s, any morning, from the hour of nine to ten, you will find us working on, endeavoring, by diligent and ’careful practice, to improve in that grand branch, which has given birth to most of the great names of the world, and in a few more years we hope that our efforts will meet our anticipations, and repay us for our toil.
St. Mary’s Academy, Sept.-29th.
Society of the Children of the Holy Angels.
This Society was reorganized on Sunday, September 29 th. The following officers were elected:
Directress—Sister Praxedes.
President—M. Shirland.	? ..
Vice-President—M. Toberty.	"
Secretary—Emma Ruger.	•
Treasurer—Laura Shultz.	.
Librarian—Anna Clark.	*
Society of the Children'of Mary.
This Association, designed to encourage the imitation of the virtues belonging to the Blessed Virgin, held its annual election on S.unday morning, Septembes 29th. The officers are:	,
Directress—Sister Fidelis.
President—Miss Nora Maher.	.
Vice-President—Miss Lula Murray. Secretaries—Misses L. and L. Tong. Treasurer—Miss K. Doran.
Additional-List of Students of Hotre Dame, . .	’ SEPTEMBER 30TH.	•	-
M. C. Peterson, Chicago, Illinois. ■ Wm. Knight, .	“	“	. ...
' OCTOBER 1ST. ---	-
Frank Clerget,”	- ■ Louisville, Kentucky.
Wm. T.'Reynolds, - Cincinnati, Ohio.
OCTOBER 2d. .
John Moon’.	* Warsaw, Indiana.
’ OCTOBER 3d.
Andrew J. Dornan, Mineral Point, Wis.
; Tables of Honor.
• SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. CampbelVW. T. Dunlap, J. Harrison, Frank Holeman, Stacey Hibben, Peter Michaels, Joseph Mader, Porter Rhodes, Denis Tighe, Geo. Yeakel and Frank Waters.
- ‘JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Thomas .Batman, R. Broughton, Chas. Dodge, Marcus Foote, B. Hackman, E. Laiferty, Rufus McCarthy, F. Obert, Jos. Smeltz, Otis Walker, T. Watson and L. Wilson..
-	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Harvey Bouton, John Qhandonai, Daniel Cooney, Homer Holden, Henry Templeton’ and Oliver Tong. ’	’ ■ .
■ . <1>
NotPuE Dame, Oct. 4th, 1867.
Mr. Editor: Please publish the following in The Scholastic Year : _
The Thespian Society, under the supervision of Professors Ivers and Von Weller, held their first regular meeting Sept. 25 th,1867, and elected the following, viz:	’
President—James McBride.
' Vice-President—R. M; Short.
Secretary—N. S. Wood.
Treasurer—Frank Guthrie.	.
Prompter—John Keveny.	.
1st Stage Manager—J. Fitzharris.	- - ‘
2d « .	E. Hull.
We are at present rehearsing a splendid comedy, which, I think, will give great pleasure to the large audience we expect to have on the 13th.
JAMES McBRIDE, Brest. ' -. N. S. Wood,’ Sec’y. ■
• *■
St. Joseph’s Academy^ South Bend.—We know that there has been a very fair opening of classes in this popular institution*.©! South Bend, but have had no “ official” intelligence from the place. This delay has not come from any want of interest in The Scholastic Year, for -we know that the young ladies of South Bend are not only capable, but also willing, to contribute-to the columns of* our paper. We are sorry that the serious illness of-theJSuperioress has been the cause of the silence. We are glad, however, to know that the Superioress is improving in health, and that we shall soon hear from St. Joseph’s Academy.

IMH
THE’ SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
5
* - - ■?.
LOCAL.
To Parents.	'
.	e
In the first number of The Scholastic Year we announced that The Schol astic Yeah would be sent to all the parents of our students for §2,50 for the ten months that we publish the.paper; and that the Ave Maria would be sent with it - if we received’no instructions to the contrary.
Many have already sent in the amount of their subscription, but others have failed to notify us of their desire to subscribe. Now we send our No. 5—this number—to all, and shall send No. 6 also, but after that number we will send The Scholastic Yeah only to those who shall have told us,of their desire to receive it, and paid the amount of subscription.
We are obliged to do. this in order to save our- • self from heavy expense, for paper, etc. . •
The weather changed suddenly, on the 3d, and . overcoats were, not unwelcome the'.morning,-. of tliat day. .AH who have any care for their health should put on warm under-clothing now, and keep it on, though we may yet have some'tolera-bly warm days.	■	-
“ Tout de suite” said the Professor, a little impatiently, as one of the orchestra bothered him by asking when he was going to practice that . new overture. “’But I can't toot sweet,” said the ; despairing tyro, with a clarionet, imagining the remark intended for himself.	’
-sr
We .understand that Mrs. Partington will arrive at Notre Dame in the course of the coming week. She intends to place Ike at school here. She has heard that the Pope is going to' have an economical council at Borne, ’ and she presumes that there will consequently be a great reduction in the terms of all Catholic institutions. We hope Ike will behave; -	.
. ----------**------- -
A New View ok Art.—A young gentleman attending one of our grammar classes, being di-‘rectedj in common with his classmates, to write a composition on “Art,” commenced as follows: “ Art is the second person singular of the present indicative of the vert) to be.” He liad evidently learned how to parse. We commend this view of Art to all students of the aesthetic.
We have been called upon to give the names of some of the writers of articles appearing in Yhe Scholastic Yeab. It is evident to all that unless some false statement has been published, for which “ restitution” should be made, that we are bound to keep the “Editorial .Secret.” Of course, if we consider that the name ought not to be given, we render ourselves responsible for the article.	=	■


Skedaddling was in vogrte some years ago. We thought that the male portion had discarded, that fashion at the same time that" the fair half of creation did away with balloon hoops and filters. * It appears, however, that a very few young lads are behind the times, and think skedaddling is still in fashion ; just as some of the young girls imagine that they are perfectly comms il faut with the monstrous hoops of- a year ago.	•	-	*
Both show considerable greenness. .

-XV
We have often heard of Dru.adiers—in fact we have quite a number in the Junior Department- who make considerable noise—but they cannot begin to compare with the noise made by drummers of certain houses, who sometimes find their way to our Institution. Of course we listen to the tones of these mellifluous chanters of their respective “ Houses,” and treat them in a hospitable manner as long as they remain with us; it is our nature to do so, yet ces messieurs must not forget that courtesy naturally supposes that courtesy should be returned. Verbum sap.
■-----«>»---- ’
Debating Societies.	:-
Want of space prevents us from giving a synopsis., of the first debate by the members of the Philodemic. The subject of debate was Capital Punishment—whether it ought to' be abolished or not —Messrs. W. Johnson and Pillars taking the affirmative, and Messrs. George Dixon and J. Cun-nea the negative. The debate was very interesting, the young gentlemen of both sides showing that they had not only “ read up” the matter extensively, but that they had taken the pains to think for themselves, and arrange their arguments in a telling manner.	.
We greatly approve of Debating Societies when well conducted. The only objection we have to them in colleges is, that from the frequency of the debates, there is not sufficient time given for

6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR’
r
preparation to those who are still pursuing their classes; and that consequently, students attempt to speak on subjects they know very little about. They thus get into a habit of speaking at random, and far from profiting by their speaking, they do themselves harm. . From the synopsis of the first debate of the Philodemic Society, we are glad to see that our only objection is removed as far as this Society is concerned; and .that the talented young men who compose the Society do not rely on the “ inspiration of the moment,” but that they show their respect for their coudisciples, by thor-
. oughly preparing for debate. Prosit. ■	cee
The County Fair.—We have been waiting for communications from some of the many who visited the County Fair, but up to the present time have received none. Perhaps all who went were ; so bitterly disappointed in the aftair that they arc squeamish in admitting they were there at all. We learn, from various sources, (what we already knew, before the Fair, would be the case,) that the Fair, this year, -was no improvement on the one of last year; and the one of last year was so poor that all thought it would or should be the last.	.
We listened with much pleasureito a rehearsal of the orchestra last Wednesday niorning in the parlor. We do not wish to anticipate the favorable critique which some competent correspondent, we are sure, will send us after the grand festival of the 13th. Besides though we like music, from the scientific playing of the music box in the Junior’s Study Hall, up to the Te Deum sung by forty-thousand voices, we do not consider ourself the right man in the right place„ when we write about music. We therefore depend.on some • of our musically inclined friends for information concerning the' Orchestra,'the Cornet’ Band, the Philharmonic Society, and for the grand Mass that is in preparation.
Tire Base Ball clubs are all organized and the nines are perfecting themselves in their various duties: practically we know little of the game, as in our youthful*days—when we were young— -the nearest approach to the present scientific game, with its multifarious rules and many officers, was Town Ball, or “ Two Old Catyet we can enter with zest into the spirit of the game, and when some bold catcher gets his thumb
knocked out of joint, we- can sympathize with him and wish him better luck next time.^
We expect to see some fine playing next St. Edward’s Day. The Cornet Band, the Orchestra, and the Philharmonic will delight our ears with music; the literary societies intend putting forward some of their best men, and the Thespians have promised to astonish us with a new play never before presented to the audience of Notre Dame. But this all comes off in the evening, and we rely on the Base Ball clubs to help the turkeys in making the.day go by pleasantly.	-
------w------- *
Bulletins.—In a short time the first official Bulletin of Classes and Conduct will be.sent to the parents of our students. In order to indicate, in a brief and plain manner, the standing of each student, we have recourse to figures, ranging from 1 to 6. The note 1 is considered the best note, and 6 the worst that can be givqn.
Notes 1,^3 and 3 are all .good notes—1 signifying’ perfect, 2 very good, though not altogether perfect, and .3 good.	..
A student receiving no note highen than 3 is considered in good standing.
The note 4 signifies tolerable, that is, though the student, is not'satisfactory in his conduct, yet extenuating circumstances induce us not to put him among the 5’s, or bad ones.	.,
The note o^means^bad; that is, that the student has failed to give satisfaction in his classes, or in his general conduct.
The note 6. signifies very bad, and a student receiving this note successively for two or three weeks shows that his connection,with the Institution should be stopped for his own good, and especially for the good of his fellow-students.
Music in the Am.—All who have been in the 'yard during'recreation time, must have, at times, observed the decided improvement in the music produced by the chime bells. The old way of playing a tune every hour by means of the cylinder, has been superseded by playing on a keyboard connected with the bells. This key-board, originally made in France by M. Bollee, who also made the peal of bells, and our big bell, has been perfected by the artist who plays upon it. He has added several pedals, by means of which he can play with his feet as well as with his hands ; and the music in’the air—high up in the steeple— which he-makes, is, as we before remarked, a

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
great improvement on the grind organ style of the cylinder music. We do mot mention thename of the musician, for we know his modesty is, so great that there would be much danger of his discontinuing his charming chimes in the church tower if we were to publish his name in The Scholastic Yeah.	'
May good weather long continue, that he also may continue to ring sweet harmony from the melodious bells. r '	-
Washington Hall.—This time-honored, and much-put-about building, is going to be fixed up in Sunday-go-to-meetin’s, by the same able and efficient corps of painters and grainers who transformed our college walls from plaster into wood. A new coat is generally worn outside, but Washington Hall prefers to take it internally, as the rheumatic patient said .when the doctor ordered ’ him to rub his knee-joint with Bourbon whiskey. Washington Hall’s new coat -is to be of white, gold and blue in glorious combinations. The ceiling pale pink—“sunset on the lake”—with natural stars. The .white panels are to be frosted, so that the new coat may be called a frieze coat. All this is to be done in time for the coming festival. We beg to remind our Thespian-friends that what did very well in the frowzy looking hall, as it used to be, won’t be sufficient for frosted panels and gold stars. The stars on the stage must rival, if not surpass, the stars on the ceiling. That splendid’new comedy of which they speak of in our present number, must be done up brown. That same old stage has been graced^by many a talented amateur, Jrom the time’ when it first suddenly started into existence, just in time for the Annual Commencement of 1862, upto., the present epoch, when it has scarcely settled itself in the position it was shoved into by the innovations of 1866. The history of Washington Hall * is a subject for reflection, as imaging forth the vicissitudes of human life. Its foundations laid and left so, till the project of erecting it seemed to be abandoned—its sudden rise in a few days— its long unfinished state for a year and a half before the galleries were erected—its removal last * year to the place where it now stands—its occasional evenings of splendor contrasting with its usual faded appearance by daylight, like the gleams of light and warmth in a gloomy lifetime —its assembled throng of hearts hewing with varied emotions on commencement days—all combine to mak'ethe memories thatliangaround that building more interesting, perhaps, than those of
any other at Notre Dame. It is now commencing a new era in its existence. We hope it will be an era of brilliancy commensurate with the increased prosperity of the University. The Thespian and musical societies must make this their chief care. They have an opportunity of causing their names to be remembered by their* fellow-students for many coming years.’
The Missionaries’ Home.—There is an old story of a one-eyed man who was not only insensible to what the world considered his misfortune, but even maintained that it was an advantage enabling*Iiim to see twice as much as his neighbor, Two-eyes. When Two-eyes, thinking he could see as far into a millstone as most people, .indignantly demanded an explanation, he received for his reply: “ I can see two eyes in your countenance, and you can only see one in mine.” The application we intend to make of this old ' story will be evident to our readers when we inform them that the view from the top of the Missionaries’ Home, even in its present unfinished' state, far surpasses the view from the top of the College. We went up the ladder at the risk of' our precious neck yesterday, and came to that conclusion nem. con. Tfhis conclusion is somewhat important—we mean that it is somewhat important that all should come to this conclu-_sion,’as we understand that the Missionaries’ Home is to be the local habitation of the telescope. A firm pillar of masonry is to be built at the northern extremity , to secure that perfect steadiness which is essential to the satisfactory use of the instrument.
Hunting.—Some of. our Junior students have been very much preoccupied with the state of the feathered tribe^n the neighborhood. Pigeons are shy, and ducks scarce, and the*consequence is that a great amount of powder and shot and balls is expended for a very small quantify of game. Jarvis, however, never goes out without bringing down something. It must be remarked in this • connection that to kill chickens is considered fowl play.	*	.	'
” ------------------
The Philharmonics—We notice with pleasure that the Philharmonics are in real earnest about the great festival of the 13th. Should they in any way disappoint us, let them see to it!

Oe Jdholotif	.
A PEHIODICAZ.
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contains matter under the following heads:	•	'
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
2d. Honorable mention of Students, both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors.
5 th. Bulletins of General Health.	.
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports, Boating, etc.	•
Sth. Matters of General Interest.	•
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.
All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
.	BEV. K. H. GILLESPIE.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA.
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
Matriculation Fee................................A......................•.......$	5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per '
Session of five months........................................................ 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each................................. 10	00
Instrumental Music..........................■..................................... 12	50
Use of Piano...................................................................... 10	00
Use of Violin...................................................................... 2	50
Drawing.........................................................:................. 10	00
Painting.......................................................................... 20	00
Use of Philosophical and	Chemical	Apparatus.................... 5	00
Graduation Fee.................................................................... 10	00
Students who spend their	Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra...... 35	00
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
The First Session opened on Tuesday last. The Second Session opens on the 1st of February. For further particulars address
■	KEV. W. COBBY, S. S. €., President.
ft. Wnnr’ji JVnukio,
ISTotre Dame, St. Joseph County, Indiana,
' TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND,	•
HAS earned its wide-spread popularity by the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to render it the perfection of an educational house. In the .Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers aie secured.	.	•
TSR3IS, §200 P2S Ai’sNUS. "
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the “Twelfth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866-7, or address
MOTHEat AMGELA, §Esperi©ress.
Notre Dame Post Office, Indiana.
£***&