Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras moritrunis.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 18, 1879.
Number 20.
A Poem by the Pope.
An English photographer recently took an excellent picture of the Pope, at which his Holiness was so pleased that he wrote the following epigram:
ARS PH0T0GBAPHICA.
Expressa solis spiculo Nttens Imago, quam bene Frontis decus, vim luminum .	Refert, et oris gratiam!
0 mira virtus ingeni 1
Novumque monstrum! imaginem Naturse Apelles semulus Non pulehriorem pingeret
Leo P.P. XIH.
These words Father Lawrence Johnson has thus tendered in our own tongue for the London Weekly Register:
THE PHOTOGRAPHIC ART.
Sparkling likeness, swift touch of the sun, By a ray instantaneously, splendidly done! Minutely and truly reflecting each grace, Noble brow, beaming eye, and beauty of face ! What a triumph of skill, as wondrous as new! E’en the rival of nature, Apelles, ne’er drew More beautiful picture, or portrait as true!
Winckelmarm. ■
The eighteenth century, which it has been customary to describe as carried away by philosophical investigations and by the care for the positive interests of life, showed for the fine arts a generous enthusiasm, of which sufficient account has not been taken in appreciating its genius. This was the period which saw opened all those beautiful museums which are the principal ornaments of the capitals of Europe. At Rome, Pope Clement XH formed the Museum of the Capitol; Pope Clement XIII began, at the Vatican, the museum which Pius VI completed, and which on that account is called Pio-Clementino. In Saxony, the Elector Augustus III, with the gallery of the Duke of Mrdena and other acquisitions made in Italy, established the famous Museum of Dresden. Maria Theresa in Austria, and Louis XV in France, opened, to all, those collections which up to that time had been reserved for the court, and which thus became the foundation of the museums of Vienna and Paris. This became one universal outburst which reunited in a common and perfectly disinterested admiration the people and sovereigns of Europe.
Winckelmann was, as it were, the eloquent voice of this general movement of his time. At first it might seem strange that he should he heard in Germany, from which
was supposed to have come that reaction against antiquity under the name of Romanticism. But an entirely different idea must be formed. The cultivation of ancient letters, which in the fifteenth century was the special glory of Italy,—in the sixteenth, the passion of France,—in the seventeenth was found in the Provinces,—at the commencement of the eighteenth century passed over from the universities of Holland to those of Germany, where ever since it has had its most brilliant seat. In thus successively traversing all modern nations, antiquity shows itself under different aspects, and in ever unveiling itself permits to be seen the very depths of its spirit. Thus it appeared to Winckelmann in the first fever of the transformation which it still undergoes.
But Winckelmann was not the first German struck by its rays. Before him, Lessing had collected the judgments passed by the ancients upon the productions of their artists; he interpreted them, aided by an intelligent enthusiasm. .His Laocoon is one of the most beautiful essays which has illumined the theory of art The author of this admirable dissertation was engaged in writing the notes annexed to his book—which perhaps are even more precious than the book itself—when he learned that Winckelmann was setting out for Italy with the purpose of writing the history of ancient art. He interrupted his labors to accompany by his good wishes the happy traveller whose courage and leisure he envied. Another German had already preceded Winckelmann in the peninsula. The painter, Raphael Mengs, whom the illustrious critic was to find at Rome, had been brought thither in his infancy and there raised by his father: after having passed some years at the Court of Saxony, he left it and returned again to the places in which he had been educated. His avocation and his spirit exercised a great influence upon Winckelmann. In the paintings of Mengs and in the books of Lessing, Antiquity presented herself as the supreme directress of taste and the only model of genius; and, save several differences of application, in both the works of the artist and those of the writer, antiquity was interpreted by the doctrine of the ideal. Mengs conceived the one, absolute beauty as God. who was its source; Lessing imagined a diversified beauty, as man and the universe, who were its sensible manifestation. But both agreed in seeking a certain general beauty above and beyond nature, of which they saw that the ancients had given the most perfect examples. Such were the opinions which these brilliant innovators scattered through Germany, and which Winckelmann, placed among them, gathered at their very source.
One work especially, without making the least allusion to productions of art, taught him its essential developments. A rhetorician of Asia Minor, Dionysius of Halicarnassus,
310
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
had, in his treatise—but too little read—on The Arrangement of WordSj expressed the principal ideas which the German critic applied to the history of art. There, for the first time, was found clearly formulated the distinction between the essential characters which necessarily mark the successive manifestations of human genius. The harsh style is the expression of force; the florid is that of elegance; while both styles combined reunite all the conditions of art. The first constitutes the sublime; the second, the graceful; and the third, the beautiful. Such are the ideas that Winckelmann found in Dionysius of Halicarnassus, who, transferring them from theory to history, and uniting one to the other, based the entire system of aesthetics on the division of epochs. According to him, the sublime or angular style, the principal character of which is rude force, marks the infancy of a people and the period when in the forms of nature they perceive and reproduce only grand fundamental lines. The beautiful style, which, without abandoning primitive nobility, would make itself less fierce, marks the youth of society and the period when, to the still simple customs of the primitive age, it adds an agreeable diversity, more truthful details and a more elegant delicacy. The graceful style marks the last period, in which men, no longer dreaming of the austerity of primitive ages, seek for life, and in life, happiness; prefer variety to uniformity, the agreeable to the beautiful, and fall into affectation in running after nature.
With this theory, Winckelmann, from a picture of Grecian art, made a painting of human art itself. In retracing the phases of Hellenic genius, he divined and marked out the steps that should be taken in the same career by all nations that accomplish their destiny. More attention has been paid to his other accessory theories on the imitation of nature and the choice of the beautiful; the majestic unity which we have endeavored to make known. In it resides his true title to glory; by it he has singularly passed the horizon of his age. The critic, up to that time lost in the pursuit of a single type of perfection, suddenly found presented before him these three different orders, and each received the homage of a lawful admiration according to the time of its development.
Johann Joachim Winckelmann was born in 1717, several years before Lessing and Mengs—who, being more favored by fortune, were sooner known. But his talents soon made him remarkable in the schools of his native town, and, supported by friendly aid, he was enabled to enter the Gymnasium at Berlin and afterwards the University of Halle. In 1748, Count Bunan made him his private librarian. This brought him into the neighborhood of Dresden, where he passed much of his time in examining its stores of art and treasures and frequenting the society of artists and literary men. Here, in 1754, he was converted to Catholicity, and shortly afterwards set out for Borne. In Italy he lived honored and respected by all. In 1763 he was named custodian of the antiquities of Borne and made librarian of the Vatican. He died at Trieste, in 1768.	__________ _ ___________
—P6re Montrousier details the following experiment that he has made. He immersed a long-snouted weevil so as to cover it all but the tip of its antennae with a coating of wax, on presenting to it oil of turpentine, it became violently excited and endeavored to escape. Another now had the tips only of its antennae coated with the wax, and neither turpentine nor any other strong-smelling substance at all affected it.
The Organs of the Human Body.
The study of the science of Physiology is not only one of the most important, but also one of the most interesting to all classes of people,—the young, the old, the learned, the unlearned; as it is of the greatest use to them at all times.
After having acquired a solid knowledge of the primary branches, every scholar, boy or girl, should proceed to the study of this and kindred sciences. By acquiring also a knowledge of these branches, they thereby learn the structure, composition and combination of the human body, which “the Lord God formed of the dust of the earth,” and “He breathed into his face the breath of life” Genesis, (ii); the development of the corporal power and functions; the preservation of health, and the prevention of disease. But I will endeavor to show at more length the advantages or rather the necessity of a knowledge of these sciences.
Anatomy treats of the structure or “make-up” of animals and plants, and is divided into human, comparative, vegetable and animal anatomy. Physiology has a duplex meaning. It treats of the functions of the organs of animals and plants. It is also the “Science of Life.” Hygiene is the science of preserving health by certain laws.
Nature is divided into two great classes of bodies—organic and inorganic. Organic bodies are living bodies; inorganic bodies are lifeless. Organic bodies, as the term already implies, possess organs, and have life, which depends upon the functions these organs exert over the living body. Man, animals, and plants constitute the class called organic bodies. Metals, minerals, rocks and earth constitute the inorganic class. Organic bodies grow by the constant addition of new particles of matter to all the parts of their substance, and life becomes extinct when the body is deprived of nourishment. On the other hand, inorganic bodies grow only by the addition of particles to their outer surfaces.
The human body rests upon a foundation or frame of bones denominated the skeleton. The most important part of the skeleton is the spinal column, consisting of 24 bones. I shall detain the reader as little as possible by the terms given to the different parts of the body by anatomists, as these are not necessary. The top of the column . is crowned by the skull, which contains the most important organ of life, namely the brain; if this organ is injured to a great degree, all other organs cease their work. The brain itself is divided into three parts. The uppermost is the largest, and covers the other two; it is the organ of the mind, and its faculties are reason, judgment, and memory. The second is smaller than the first, and the third is the smallest, and is so tender that when the spinal column is broken very high up, and a minute piece of bone lacerates its substance, it immediately ceases the movements of respiration, and instant death is the result. The next important organs are the eyes. Because they are a very tender, delicate organ, they are situated in the sockets of the skull, where the least possible injury or accident can befall them. They are, so to say, the windows of the living body; for through them we perceive what is going on about us. The eyelashes resemble so many sentries, protecting that most tender organ. The eye itself is of a globular shape, has three coats or skins, lens, etc. The coats are the sclerotic, a hard, resisting, strong and white fibrous sac, which envelops the whole eye; the choroid coat, of a brownish black color; it is softer than
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
311
B
the sclerotic, and its function is'to absorb the light reaching it and to prevent reflections; and the retina, the most important part of the eye. The function of this last is the perception of sight. If injured too severely, it ceases this function and the person becomes blind. The eye also possesses a lens, a transparent body of peculiar shape, which concentrates the rays of light passing through it a certain distance beyond. The lens in the eye is called the crystalline lens, and it enables us to perceive the form and outline of things. The eyelids serve the same purpose that shutters do to windows. They also have the property of cleaning and keeping the eye moist at all times. We have two eyes, for the reason that the field of vision is thereby much extended, just as in the stereoscope the effect of vision is heightened by a double picture. Some may perchance have noticed that the lacrymal secretion of the horse’s eye is thick and glutinous. It is owing to his large eye and the constant exposure of it that it is provided with a ropy secretion, which cleanses the eye, and removes the dust quicker and more securely than a watery secretion would. Again, some may have seen bloodshot eyes. This arises from existing causes of inflammation, the blood-vessels becoming distended. It should be borne in mind that the eye, like the other organs, ought, after some use, to be rested. And sudden changes of light should be avoided. Long-continued oblique positions of the eye should not occur, as cross-eyedness is the-result, for in that condition one eye only is called into operation in viewing the object to which the mind is directed. By surgical operations this defect is remedied, and the position of the eye corrected. The eyes should every morning be washed out with pure cold or tepid water, rubbing them as little as possible. At all times, however, the matter at the angle of the eye should be removed.
Curious investigations in regard to the eye have been made known. An American doctor made the following experiment. He examined the eye of a man who had been murdered. At first he suggested the saturation of the eye in a weak solution of atrophine, which enlarged the pupil. The pupil of the eye is the circular opening in the muscular curtain in front of the crystalline lens. This curtain is called the iris, on account of its variations of color, which are black, brown, blue or gray. On perceiving an enlargement of the pupil, the doctor next touched the end of the optic nerve with the extract, thus making the eye instantly swell out. He now applied a powerful lens, and discovered in the pupil the rude, worn-away figure of a man with a light coat, at whose side were a stone and a handle stuck in the ground. The remainder was debris, on account of the separation of the eye from the brain. He affirms, if the operation had been tried on the eye, while.in the socket, and in connection with the brain, he should likely have obtained the entire picture of the last idea on the mind of the unfortunate man, as the eye of a dead person is said to retain the impression of the last picture that falls upon the faithful retina.
The nose is given us for a twofold purpose: smelling and respiring. Odors generally arise from the earth, and for this reason the cup or funnel of the nose is turned downward and placed directly over the mouth, to prevent us from eating or drinking anything not edible or potable. In the nostrils we see hairs: their use is to prevent dust and insects from intruding. The nose is the custom-house officer of the body. If the brain and nerve of smell, called the olfactory nerve, are in good health, and the lining jnembiane of the nose be thin and moist, the acuteness o
the sense of smell is very great. The nose in that condition is then capable of detecting the two hundred thousandth part of bromine vapor. The sense of smell is more acute in some animals than in others. The hound will track a rabbit or hare over the ground for miles, guided only by the smell left in its flight. He will also, by the same acuteness of this sense, find his master in a crowded thoroughfare, amid the thousand and one other odors he may hit upon. The horse also possesses this acuteness of smell. African travellers were apprized of the presence of lions in the vicinity, by the fact that their horses moaned and trembled. Eye or ear were utterly incapable of detecting anything, but the horse’s nose apprehended the imminent danger.
The mouth accomplishes a fourfold duty. It is the I organ of taste, as it contains the tongue; it is the organ of sound, of mastication, and respiration. All the parts of the mouth are in employment, except in breathing. In eating, the lips, teeth, and tongue are in operation; in speaking, the lips and tongue are in employment. Underneath the tongue and along the sides of the mouth are distributed glands which during the process of eating send forth a secretion called saliva. This saliva is composed of the following ingredients in a thousand parts: water, nine hundred and ninety-five and sixteen hundredth parts; albuminous matters, one and thirty-four hundredth parts; mineral ingredients, one and eighty-eight hundredth parts; mixture of epithelium, one and sixty-two hundredth parts.
In the act of speaking, the lips, teeth and tongue are brought into employment. As all know, or should know, certain letters and sounds are produced by the teeth; others by the tongue coming in contact with the roof of the mouth, called the palate; others, again, by the lips. The chest supplies the air, which is governed by an organ called the vocal chord. At the back of the mouth are two openings: one conducts the food to the stomach, and is denominated the oesophagus; the other supplies the lungs with air, and is called the trachea. In the upper part of the mouth are three openings—one into the nosej and one into each ear; to prove this, notice the following: when you have a cold in the head it is usually accompanied by partial deafness, which is caused by inflammation or swelling of the lining membrane of this tube. Again, close the nose and mouth, blow heavily, the air in this tube can be strongly felt until the air again descends through the same passage, and the feeling, unpleasant as it is, soon dies away. The tongue has a twofold duty: speaking and eating. But, alas! how much better were it not for the profane .and vulgar to have no such thing as a tongue. The tongue, like most of things, is much abused—by the utterances of foul, profane words, thus destroying the blessings of speech. The teeth are the organs of mastication: they are to the body what the grinding-stones are to a flour-mill. But many are ignorant what a noble position the teeth hold with regard to man. Let us see. In construction, composition and growth, they are entirely different from any of the bones, which by-the-by, I neglected to make mention of when speaking of the skeleton. Dissimilar to the other bones, the teeth are constantly exposed to the atmosphere and to foreign substances. Another fact worthy of notice is, when a bone of the system is fractured it generally unites, but a broken tooth never unites. The teeth are placed in bony sockets in the upper and lower jaws, to which they are more firmly attached by a red, fibrous substance called the gums, thus rendering the extraction of a tooth sometimes very difficult. There are two sets of
312
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
teeth: the first appears in the years of infancy, and numbers twenty; the other set appears at the age of from six to fourteen, and numbers thirty-two. There are two teeth that make their appearance at about the age of twenty, and are called the wisdom teeth, because at that age a person is believed to arrive at maturity of discretion. The teeth are not formed of the same ingredients as the bones; the former are composed of ivory and enamel; the latter, principally of lime carbonate, and gelatine. Undoubtedly most people know that the finest sort of ivory is derived from the elephant’s tutsk.
The ear has for its object the sense of hearing; it delights in melodious sounds and in pure, chaste language. That insects, as the ignorant say, penetrate the ear to the brain is an absurdity of the first class. Fancy a drum: there are two sides covered with parchment, stretched to great tension, but closed on their entire surface. The inner ear, that is the invisible part of the ear, resembles a drum, and when insects do intrude into the ear they can crawl no farther than this drum; the pain caused by the walking of the insect on it produces pain, which the afflicted person imagines is in the brain.
A person is walking along a crowded thoroughfare. See how active the muscles are in walking. They are put into action by the volition of the mind. By the term volition, I mean the nervous act by which the muscular movements are excited intentionally. There are two kinds of muscles: the one bending the limbs, and the other returning them to their primitive position. By means of these muscles the person goes along the thoroughfare. The eye is the governor of his step. He presently comes to a gutter: instantly the eye, through the optic nerve, communicates the fact to the brain, whence the nerves are stimulated; these in their turn stimulate the muscles. The person then makes a longer step; or, if he cannot do it, he goes around, thus avoiding a fall. What organ performed its duty in this case? The eye. The person now continues to walk; presently, from behind, imminent danger of being run over by a lightning express train presents itself. How does he find it out ? In this case, the ear has its duty to fulfil. Like the eye, it communicates it immediately, by means of the auditory nerve, to the brain, the seat of all the actions and thoughts of man. From this the nerves and muscles are notified to escape the danger; they turn the body sideward and save it. The eye saw it not, but the ear heard it, and told the eye the direction to give the feet. Let that selfsame person go along the road till he comes to a vitiated cistern. Theeyeseesitnot,theearhearsitnot; what apprises the person of the danger of inhaling, perchance, a deadly fume? The nose, having its cup turned downward, detects the vapors immediately. As before with the eye and ear, it instantly communicates to the brain through the olfactory nerve the disagreeableness of the stench. The nerves and muscles are stimulated to their duty, the eye points out the situation of the cistern, and the feet the path the person has to take to avoid inhaling any longer the vitiated fumes. The walk is nearly at its end. A friend is desired to be seen, but the person does not know the residence; neither eye, ear nor nose can inform as to this, but the tongue now accomplishes its duty by asking a bystander. Again the walk is continued, and finally the person calls at the door, enters, sits down and rests himself. The muscles, before so active, are now allowed rest to invigorate themselves again for the journey. While the muscles were hard at work, the blood had to feed them freely; it now glides slower through the veins; anc| the
lungs, purifying the blood during the journey, and perchance heaving like the waves of the ocean, are also now less at work.
All the above descried actions take place on account of volition. But now there’ is a sort of motion we have no control over. It is the motion of the heart. To notice the beatings of the heart, place your fingers upon your pulse and between the fifth and sixth ribs on the left side of the chest. The heart is said to be a little larger than the clenched fist. It is conical in form, somewhat like the shape of a pear; in position it is situated obliquely, with the pointed end downwards, on the left side. Its mechanism is similar to the steam-chest of the steam-engine. It is one of the organs that never partakes of any rest, while the eyes, ears, nose, arms and legs are in sweet repose. Why is this ? Suppose the heart were to cease beating for three minutes, perhaps less, life would be extinct An apoplexy of the heart is dangerous, inasmuch as the heart then ceases beating. Thus we see that man has no control over his heart’s motions. Through days of toil and moil, sorrow and grief, joy and happiness, at work or at rest, nay, in the hour of our deepest sin against God, the heart keeps on beating, never ceasing for a moment’s rest. Let us see. After a hard day’s labor our arms become weary, our limbs are tired, the mind itself becomes overtaxed, and we fall soundly asleep. Eye, ear, nose, the sense of touch, are all at rest, and unconscious of all that goes on about them; but the heart keeps on, and on, and on, with the only exception that as sleep deepens, its motions are slackened, for it has not so much blood to supply, the limbs being all dead, so to say. But as soon as we awake, it commences its motions at the usual speed, and so on from the day we come into this world to the day we shall leave it. The lungs and muscles of the chest and stomach are at work also every moment of man’s life.
Such are the functions of the principal organs of the hu man body; and, by a consideration of these, and the other organs we may see how wonderfully man is made.
P. F. S.
Henry III of England and Simon de Montfort.
The reign of Henry III of England was one of those in which the feebleness of the sovereign gave unlimited scope to civil disorders. The Bishops who possessed baronetcies were at the same dependent both on the king and the Pope; the lords, nearly all of whom were possessed of estates both in England and on the Continent, were undecided as to whom it were better to pay their allegiance—his majesty of France or of England. Everything was in confusion: spiritual and temporal affairs, privileges and obligations were all confounded; there was no positive rule to be guided by, and everyone was for himself. If the king assembled Prelates or nobles, it was only to solicit assistance from them; always alleging a thousand new excuses for the act. Not satisfied with the imposts thus levied, his officers, with his consent, pursued a system of extortion on strangers, and forcibly deprived merchants of their goods in order to sustain the Court. Masters of merchantmen, say the annals of this epoch, avoided English ports as being but so many nests of pirates under the royal protection. They stripped merchants of their ' cargoes with such rapacity that the commerce, formerly « so flourishing between that island and the Continent, soon became totally destroyed, FUhermen evep dare4 pot

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	_	313
risk carrying the product of their nets to the market, but . were obliged to cross the channel and brave the perils of the ocean in order to escape the rapine of the regal purveyors. “ Your acts of piety,” continue these annals, addressing the king, “which should edify your subjects, are to them but shameful scandal and sacrilege when they learn that the numberless tapers and silken vestments which illuminate your altars and decorate your priests in processions have been violently torn from their rightful owners.”
These reproaches, addressed by the lords and Bishops, , drew no other reply from the king than counter-charges on their own park In fine, violence and injustice reigned paramount.
Among the king’s favorites was the son of Simon of !	Montfort, who in the crusade against the Albigense, had
j	acquired so sad a record. This son possessed in the right
|	of his mother, Arnica, the earldom of Leicester, and came
£	to establish himself in England, where in a short time he
J	married Eleanor, sister of the king and widow of the Earl
of Pembroke.
C	Although his title of stranger and the favors of Henry
A had at first rendered him odious to the nobles, he soon discovered a method to ingratiate himself into their good C ’ graces, and he became their chief against the king and his undertakings. Henry had appointed him steward of ?	Guienne, where he exercised his authority with such
- ;	rigor as to raise up against him many enemies and accusa-
■	tions. The king endeavored in vain to have him con-
U	demned, and insulted him in open court with the name of
i	traitor. “Traitor!” repeated Leicester; “ah! sire, how
‘	truly sacred is the name of king to-day, otherwise thy word
| (	had cost thee thy life!” He then retired, deeply exas-
l	perated, and only burned the more fb avenge the blow
aimed at Magna Charta.
: ■	The king having convoked, in 1258, a great council at
r Westminster, in order to procure subsidies for the con; quest of Sicily, which had been conferred on his son by the ; Pope, Leicester assembled at his house, the day before the :	council was held, all persons of nobility, both among the
clergy and laity, to incite them to resistance. On the morrow, all presented themselves in the council chamber, armed cap-a-pie. Among them were Higer Bigod, countmarshal of England; Humphrey Bohun, grand constable; and the powerful Counts of Warwick and Gloucester.
\ As soon as the king appeared, they unsheathed their ;	swords, demanded new assurances, on oath, that the
£	articles of Magna Charta would be put into execution, with
the further addition that twelve lords of the court be appointed to see that the necessary reformations be made. On accepting these conditions was the king to receive the asked for subsidy.
Henry accepted them, and summoned a new Parliament to meet at Oxford, June 11th, 1258. The king there swore again not to infringe Magna Charta, and made important concessions, known as the Statutes or Provisions of Oxford. This Parliament was called by the royalists “the mad Parliament.” In fact the king was really the prisoner of the Bishops and lords. These latter formed themselves into a committee which immediately dismissed twenty of the king’s royal castle governors, nearly all the sheriffs, . the treasurer, the judiciary and the chancellorship. Important changes were made.
*	In the first place, it was decided that Parliament should
. assemble three times a year: in the months of February, June, and October.
That the free-holders should elect a new sheriff every year.
That the sheriffs, the chief-justice, general treasurer and chancellor should render an account of their administration annually.	’	.
That barons who refused to attend the judicial sittings of sheriffs should not be subject to fine.
That foreigners should not be appointed tutors nor guardians of castles.	_
That no one should for the future plant new forests, or farm out the revenues of earldoms.
In a word, the Parliament, i. e., the body of earls, barons and land-holders of the crown, appointed twelve of their number to assist at the regular meetings, so as to spare the rest the trouble and cost of going to them.
Henry III was desirous to profit by the excesses of the new Parliament, and of the jealousies that had arisen between Leicester and Gloucester, once more to regain his ancient power. The result was a civil war, in which Leicester, aided by the prince of Gallia, forced Henry to sign a shameful treaty (June, 18,1263). Hostilities recommen ced shortly after, and were terminated by the king’s being taken prisoner at the battle of Lewes, in Sussex.
Leicester, henceforward absolute master, enriched himself by all sorts of exactments, and only laughed at the Pope, who had excommunicated himself and the other rebellious barons. The nobility soon began to desert him, and he sought support in the lower classes by modifying the constitutive elements of Parliament. Besides the barons of his party and a few ecclesiastics, non-dependants of the crown, he introduced into it two chevaliers from each county and some representatives for the boroughs. Thus to him in reality is owing the origin of the constitution that rules England to-day. The admission of the commons into Parliament was, however, not legalized till the time of Edward I, in 1295. This was accomplished by a writ of the prince declaring that “ what was to the interest of all ought to be approved of by all, and that the dangers which were common to all, ought to be repelled by a united all.”	'
Nevertheless, Prince Edward, whom Leicester retained as a hostage for the fulfilment of the king’s promises, succeeded in escaping, and put on foot an army which came unawares upon the rebels, whom they exceeded in numbers, and had the advantage of in position. Leicester saw at once that he was lost, and gazing upon the beautiful appearance of the enemy’s battalions: “By the arm of St. James!” said he “ they have profited by our lessons. May God have mercy on our souls, for our bodies are theirs.”
In effect, he was vanquished, and killed in the battle. His head was sent to the wife of Roger Mortimer, his. most implacable enemy. Leicester’s rapacity and ambition were the scourge of England while he lived; nevertheless it cannot be denied that his attempts at reformation proved highly beneficial at a later date to the united kingdom, by enlarging its constitution and introducing therein the germs of all national liberties.
—Tommy came home from school and handed to his father the teacher’s report on his progress - during the month. “ This is very unsatisfactory, Tom; you’ve a very small number of good marks. I’m not at all pleased with it” “ I told the teacher you wouldn’t be, but he wouldn’t alter it”
314	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—It is stated that the volcano of Cotopaxi is in such a state of activity that the clouds of ashes and smoke issuing from it can be seen at Guyaquil, on the shores of the Pacific.
—The Chemiker Zeitung, No. 42, for 1878, states that immense deposits of gold have recently been found in Patagonia, extending from the Cordilleras to the ocean, and from Santa Cruz to Terra del Fuego.
—A gentleman of Brussels named Vanvenheym, has just purchased in Paris a landscape by Theodore Rousseau, “La Hutte du Charbonnier,” for 100,000f. A countryman of his, M. Krabbe, has bought from the same source the picture by Meissonier, “ Une Halte de Cuirassier,” which was shown at the Exhibition, for the sum of 275,000f.
—Mr. William Brain, of the Trafalgar Collieries, in the Forest of Dean, after several years devoted to careful experiments on the application of electricity to lightning the colliery workings, made a successful experiment last week in lighting the pit banks. The result leads Messrs. Brain to hope that they may constantly use this light at their extensive works.
—Prof. Baker of the University of Pennsylvania, a thoroughly competent authority, having had the principle of Mr. Edison’s adaptation of the electric light communicated to him, has pronounced that the invention is both new and successful. Mr. Edison maintains that the essential part of his invention is entirely novel. A minute investigation into all known applications of the light has failed to detect anything corresponding to what he has achieved.—Athenaum.
—Sir William Armstrong, best known as the inventor of the Armstrong gun, lights his library at Craigside successfully with an electric current produced by a waterfall fifteen hundred yards distant. A Siemens machine of the smallest type is employed to generate the current, and this is conveyed to the lamp and back again to the machine by a copper wire of three-tenths of an inch diameter, suspended at intervals from iron posts. Sir William intends to put up a large machine at the source of water-power, and to use the smaller one as a motor for workiug the lathes and other tools at his experimental workshop during the daytime, while reserving the faculty of lighting his principal apartments in the evening.
—In a paper read before the London Meteorological Society, Nov.28th, Mr. G. J. Lymons, F. R. S., said: “The vertical sun raises large tracts of the ocean to the temperature of 80 degrees and upwards; considerable evaporation ensues, and each cubic foot of the air in the tropics may be said to contain roughly eight grains of vapor at the temperature of 76 degrees; if that air be transported to these islands and reduced to their average temperature of 50 degrees, it must part with nearly half its vapor, and would even then remain fully saturated. When one substitutes for grains and feet tons and miles, and reflects ou the vast extent of the tropical oceans, there is no difficulty in understanding why winds from those regions deposit rain on all colder countries over which they blow. As the chief cause of rain is condensation by cold, and as hills are usually colder than the winds blowing against them, we naturally find the largest amount of rain in hilly districts exposed to currents of air coming direct from warmer oceans.”
—The French Minister of Public Works (according to the iloniteur Scientifique) has been experimenting on the River Lot, in Aveyrou, with an electric apparatus designed to reproduce automatically, from a higher to a lower point of the river, the variations of level, so as to give immediate warning ot floods, and enable the inhabitants to make what preparations they can. The experiments were made between two points about a mile apart. At the higher, Laroque, is a float which follows the upward and downward motion of the water (without being affected by the current). It communicates its movements through a battery and conducting wire to the needle of a graduated scale at Capdenac, the lower point, and the needle thus indicates all the fluctuations of level. At a certain point on the scale is the word “ Danger,” and when the needle reaches this it sets in action a number of bells in the houses
on the banks, connected by wire with the instrument. Thus the inhabitants are warned to make ready. This curious apparatus is the invention of Mr. Gros, of Rodez, and it has met with high approval from the Ministry of Public Works and the General Council of Aveyron. The need of something of the kind has been strongly felt, as floods in that region have proved very disastrous.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Prof. Boyesen’s long-promised biographical and critical study of Goethe and Schiller is almost ready for publication.
—John Boyle O’Reilly, of the Boston Pilot, has been elected President of the Papyrus Club, of Boston. Membership in this club is, we believe, confined to journalists.
—Anton Rubinstein has published the piano forte composition dedicated to Mme. Annette Essipoff. It has orchestra accompaniment, and is called “ Caprice Russe,” op.	-
102.	(.
—Prince Metternich, who has a great taste for all the | arts as well as literature, is amusing-himself with compos-	j
ing -ballets, which are represented by friends, at his	/
chateau in Bohemia.	j
—Sarah Helen Whitman left behind her the materials I for a prose volume which will include a little monograph, { “ Edgar Poe and His Critics,” that was first published in 1860 as a defence of the dead poet.
—It is estimated that not more than thirty thousand persons, or less than one-tenth of the city’s reading population, visit the Boston public library in the course of a year, and nine-tenths of these come for novels.
—The “Hut of the Charcoal Burner,” painted by the late Theodore Rousseau, has been purchased by a Mr. Vanveinheym of Brussels for §20,000. Meissonier’s “ Halt J of the Cuirassier,” exhibited at the Exposition, has been “ sold to a Mr. Crabbe, also of Brussels, for §55,000.
—Five small volumes of Gladstone’s essays are to be	'
brought out under the title “ Gleanings of Past Years,”	j
and will embrace his most important contributions to	;
periodical literature during the entire period from 1843 to	(
1878. The first two volumes are nearly ready for publi-	t
cation.	<
—Some of the gems from the collection of pictures in the 1 Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, are to be brought to London, and will be on view at the Winter Exhibition of Old Masters held by the Royal Academy. The works in question are three Hogarths, a Ruysdael, a Hobbema, and	)
a Van der Velde.	<
—Massenet is at present at work on a new opera, in five acts and seven tableaux, which is to be entitled “ Herodi-ade.” He is soon to start for Milan, where he will direct in person the last rehearsals of the “Lahore,” and will	!
read the first three acts of the “ Herodiade ” to the director of La Scala, for whom this new work is destined.
—Mr. F. Maddox Brown’s picture. “ The Entombment,” t , representing the carrying into the rock chamber of the	|
corpse of Christ, two figures bearing the burden, with lookers-on at the side of the composition, a design of rare dignity, pathos, and perfect originality, is at present to be seen at the Fine Art Society’s Galleries, Bond Street, London.
—Five operas new to Vienna have been selected for performance next year at the Imperial Opera-House: “Die Got-terdammerung,” the only part yet represented of the Nibelungen Tetralogy; “Annchea von Tnarau,” already successfully produced in Hamburg, music by Hofmann, book by Feis; “Don Carlos,” by Verdi; “Le Roi de Lahore,” by Massenet; and “Paul et Virgine,” by Masset.
—The Paris Figaro gives an account of a battle royal which occurred a tortnight since between the members of the ateliers of MM. Cabanel and Gerome, respectively. The schools were closed by order; but inadvertently, the boxes, colors, etc., were left inside M. Gerome’s studio, and its doors were smashed by the rioters in endeavoring to 1 obtain them. Such affairs as this do not occur in the res- * pectable Royal Academy.
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.
315
—The Paris correspondent of the New York Evening Post, writing of the performance of d’lvry’s “ Romeo and Juliet,” says: “Musically, indeed, the thing was a failure. Mlle. Heilbron was never a great singer, and Capoul’s voice, which had just passed its meridian of power when he visited the United States in 1872, is now almost entirely gone. With the eyes shut it was impossible to believe that it was Capoul who was singing.”
—Sarah Bernhardt, painter, sculptor and balloonist, has become an author. Her first book is just published in Paris, and is called “Dans les Nuages—Impressions d’une Chaise,” being an account of a balloon ascent made by the author last summer. In no instance does she mention herself, but the chair, which tells the story, manages to say some clever things about her. The book contains a large number of full-page illustrations from sketches made by an artist who accompanied her.
—Mr. Leopold Delisle has just brought before the French Academy of inscriptions and letters, a manuscript found in the library of Lyons and originating from the 6th century. It contains chiefly Latin versions of Genesis, Exodus and of Deuteronomy anterior to the Vulgate. The principal want of this MS. treating of the books of Leviticus and Numbers, is supplied by another of the same time now in the historical cabinet of Lord Asburnham, so that it constitutes the entire Pentateuch in a Latin version independent of the Vulgate.
—In the Print Room, British Museum, they are engaged on an important work, the usefulness of which will be acknowledged by all students. It is the cataloguing of all the portraits which occur in printed books and come under the cognizance of the officials. A very large number of the books and magazines of the last and present centuries are enriched with engraved portraits of eminent persons; these, to the number of many hundreds, have already been catalogued with references to the volumes in which they occur, so that they become available to inquirers.
—Mr. John Jacob Astor has lately presented to the Astor Library some very valuable books. One of these, costing $15,800, is an early printed book, the first edition of the “Catholicon” of Joannes Balkus de Jenna, dated 1460,—a treatise on grammar and rhetoric and a Latin dictionary,—the printing of which is attributed to Gutenberg. Another valuable early work is a German Bible, printed by Lanier, of Augsburg, in 1477,—a fine example of early printing with Gothic type. Another rare work is a beautiful Greek manuscript of the apostolic epistles, in quarto, of the eleventh century. This is in very fine preservation, and is from the collection of the late Duke of Sussex.
—The appearance of a new work by M. Gustave Dore is an event in art. Messrs. Hachette have just published a splendid folio edition, in 650 pages, of the “Orlando Furioso,” translated by M. du Pays, with over 500 illustrations by M. Dore. Ariosto could not have wished for a worthier interpreter, and one rises from the contemplation of the pictures with a feeling of having been coursing over the grandest and strangest landscapes, peopled by beings such as the ardent imagination of Ariosto alone could conceive. This work would have been enough to save Gustave Dor£ from oblivion, if his preceding productions did not protect him from the indifference of contemporaries and posterity—London Times' Paris Correspondence.
—Says the London World of Dec. 4th: “The admirers of the Laureate will hear with dismay that the great lyrical poet perseveres in the infatuation that he has a dramatic genius. If ‘ Queen Mary ’ was poor, and * Harold ’ deplorable, we may expect still worse things from ‘Thomas a Beckett ’—a subject so full of difficult religious controversy that it can hardly have satisfactory treatment in the hands of an author who is so independent of authorities as to have written his ‘Queen Mary’ without ever having looked into Lingard. I believe I am correct in saying that Mr. Tennyson was quite ignorant until after the puc-lication of that drama that any Roman Catholic had been put to death during Elizabeth’s virginal reign for religion alone.”
—By a new disposition of the officers in the household of the Holy Father, it has been ordered, that beginning with the 15th of December, the different museums in the
Vatican shall be open to visitors and students of fine arts on certain days, from 9 a. m. until 3 p. m. The museums of sculpture will be open daily, with the exception of Sunday, Thursday, Saturday and festival days. The Egyptian and Etrurian Museum as well as the Arazzi Gallery will be open every Thursday. The Loggias of Raphael, the Pinacoteca and the Sixtine Chapel are open daily, with the exception of Saturday, Sunday and festival days. These notices will be very valuable for parties intending to visit the Eternal City. Tickets, free of charge, can be obtained at the Secretary’s office of the Majordomo situated in the court of Saint Damasus at the Vatican, from 9 a. m. till 1 p. m.
—The famous genre painter, John William Preyer, at Dusseldorf, recently celebrated his 75th birthday. The artist, who is a dwarf, has the appearance of a boy 8 years old, and the entire graceful body is of the most blameless growth. The parents of the artist, who were of a regular normal size, had, besides, two other dwarf children, the senior of whom became a merchant, and the junior brother a painter. Both died in the prime of manhood. John William Preyer is the senior of the Dusseldorf School of Painting, and at the same time the oldest celebrity there. His fruit pieces are reckoned among the best pictures of this kind. The National Gallery at Berlin has a painting of his, bought in 1832 by the founder of the collection, Consul Wagner. It represents a large filled bumper (Ebmerglass), surrounded by delicious fruit, the sparkling wine reflecting the artist’s graceful figure. Preyer celebrated his jubilee birthday full of health and vigor, and had the satisfaction of seeing his two children, a son and a daughter, in the ranks of his colleagues, since both are noted painters of the Rhenish School of Fine Arts.
—Von Bulow writes to the Leipsic Signale: Four years ago, on the occasion of a performance of Glinka’s opera of “A life for the Czar,” in Milan, I expressed my conviction in the Augsburger Allegemeine Zeitung of the agonies of the Italian and birth of the Russian, or, if you will, Slavic music, which I thought destined to fill the place in musical history to be left by the death of the former, and called attention to the hopes which might be felt from Tschaikowsky’s development. They have been completely fulfilled, and I now have the pleasure to refer to another genial, novice who stands related to Tschaikowsky about as the latter does to Glinka, the father of Russian music. This novice is M. Rimsky Korsakoff, in St. Petersburg, whose programme symphony, in four movements, “ Antar,” a glorious tone painting, announces another tone poet. You ask what I mean by the expression? ... A tone poet is, first of all, a romanticist, who, however, when he develops >into a genius, can also become a classicist, as for instance, Chopin. Among younger tone poets I count as examples Edward Greig and Hans von Bronsart. . . . Another thing: Master Anton is in the habit of saying, as you know, “Music is an aristocratic art." A tone poet is, of course, an aristocrat par excellence. Ctceerum censeo, that the best original music, and as the music of to-day is German, the best German music—aside from those who are first and foremost, Brahms and Raff—is fabricated in St. Petersburg and Paris (Saint-Saens, Lalo, Massenet, Delibes).”
Books and Periodicals.
—The January number of The Harp is filled with excellent reading matter. The Harp fills a place in Catholic journalism not occupied by any other publication, unless we except Donahoe's Magazine, and deserves the hearty support of the Irish Catholic people. It is published by Gillies & Callahan, Montreal, P. Q., and is sent, postage prepaid, for one dollar a year in advance. ,
—Vick's Illustrated Magazine for January is a real gem. Vick stands unrivalled in the work he does. Not content with publishing The Floral Guide, a handsome quarterly, he issues monthly a magazine which is deserving the attention of lovers of flowers. Every month it contains a beautiful colored plate representing some family of flowers. The publisher is James Vick, Rochester, N. Y. Terms, $1.25 a year. '
316
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTICS
|}anw
Notre Dame, January IS, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 IT’ei- Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Study of English Literature.
There is no branch of education more important to the American student than the study of English literature-The character of the language, so heterogeneous in its for. mation; its rapid assimilation of foreign elements; its wonderful flexibility, its almost perfect reproduction of whatever is excellent in other languages, be they ancient or modern; the great activity of the English-speaking people in discovering all kinds of knowledge or of« appropriating it when found by others, all tend to make this literature a grand storehouse in which may be found the riches and treasures of the past and everything valuable of the present.
In order that the student may be able to enter upon these collections of all ages with pleasure and profit to himself—that he may recognize in them whatsoever there is of good, and may know that which is worthless—to increase his love for that which is good, beautiful and true, and to refine and improve his taste, are what is aimed at by schools in the study of English literature. Now what are the best means of attaining these ends? How shall these things be accomplished without exhaustion to mental energy? We have many excellent treatises on English literature, in which there are biographies of every writer who has attained any distinction whatsoever. There are other text-books in which there are hasty criticisms given by men who could not possibly have given the authors that attention which was needed. Will the mere study of these biographies and criticisms suffice for the student who desires to take up English literature with the ends in view as mentioned above? We think not. Something else is wanted. We are apt to look upon this study as something different from every other branch taught in the schools. The student is generally satisfied with the opinions of the author. But tastes differ, and in literature everything mostly is a matter of taste. What a professor of one school admires, another may condemn. Ought the stu
dent, then, to rest satisfied when he has the opinion of the author of the text-book? We think not. The student should receive from the teacher the canons of criticism, or rather he should have received them before entering the class, and should by examining the works of authors test their merit by these canons and judge accordingly.
The fact is, we do not follow our teachers thoroughly in their teaching. They would have us apply the rules of criticism to authors, but we do not do it. We wish to study our English literature in a way that would be ridiculous were we to follow it in any other branch. What would be thought of- the student who in order to learn chemistry would begin by studying alchemy ? And would not that student be thought mad who would begin a course of astrology before he began astronomy ? It is the sanfe thing with us when we would endeavor to acquire a knowledge of literature by studying simply the biography of writers; and we act even more stupidly when we content ourselves with the dictum of another as to the merits and demerits of this or that poet.
We must, then, if we wish to study English literature with profit—if we would desire to increase our love for the good, the beautiful and the true—if we would improve and refine our tastes—read authors intelligently and critically. We have here every opportunity for doing this. In the Lemonnier Circulating Library there is a good selection of English works, the intelligent and critical reading of which will amply repay any expense incident to becoming a subscriber thereto. Every one who desires to improve himself, who desires to derive more good from the instructions of the Professor of English Literature, should not hesitate or delay in taking the steps to become a member of the Library Association, knowing as he does that there is an excellent selection of books on its shelves.
Drawing.
There are always to be found people to decry the study of those arts which are called the beautiful. They do not find fault with the study if be who engages in it intends following it for a livelihood; but that'a young man who intends to follow commercial pursuits should study them, they hold absurd. This more especially they say of drawing; but we believe that it is a great means of developing the mind. Its value as a means of mental development, however, will be better felt when we recollect its nature and what its relation to other branches of education is. Drawing is a method of expressing thought, and is, philosophically, associated with other forms of language. As we regard language as a means and not an end, so should we use drawing. Its value consists in embodying thought, and in communicating one man’s thoughts to another. Separate it from thought, and it becomes worthless. Mechanically, a picture may be perfect, but unless the thought of the artist glows in it the picture is of no account Especially does the process of picture-making become useless in an educational point of view. And not only should the thought of the artist appear in the picture, but each line and mark necessary to complete the expression should appear, while every line which is not required to show forth the thought should be discarded, because, being superfluous, it injures the thought which is to be made to appear.
The thought, then, ought to be that on which the primary attention is fixed, because that is the main thing re-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	317
quired of a pupil: secondary attention should be given to the expression. In all true educational work, this is the case. In the study of the sciences the great endeavor while using the text-book is to master the ideas contained in the book, and the words are considered as useful only inasmuch as they show forth the ideas fully. It is well known that if a writer has a clear idea of what he wishes to say, he will express his thoughts clearly. Vagueness of expression is the result of looseness of thought, not of any lack in the use of words. As we said before, drawing is a kind of language; and, such being the case, the primary attention should be concentrated upon the form to be portrayed. The method of representing this form should be incidental, as the words of the orator or poet. If there are defects in lines, these may be corrected by more accurate observation of the form.
Drawing, then, demands continually close and accurate observation. It thus cultivates the perceptive faculties, and by it the mind is stored with distinct ideas of form. It also by this reason causes the mind to make comparisons and discriminations, and fixes it upon real objects. When the perception is thus developed, .keenness and activity of observation become habits of the mind, thought is increased, culture broadened, and life enriched.
But thought must always be accompanied by expression. Ideas are embalmed in a general way by the use of words, and ideas of form are defined and preserved by drawing. What the eye perceives must be expressed by the hand; but the hand must be trained to do this perfectly—and, to attain this, training practice is required. This practice brings into play the observation of the pupil to its greatest extent.
Not only is the cultivation of perception and observation assisted by drawing, but it may even be made an auxiliary in the development of the higher faculties. By it the imagination is brought into exercise. The first efforts at invention are perhaps failures, and are so because the imagination has not been aroused. The mind has moved along the path of the real without any effort at rearrangement or new combination. The creative faculties of the mind have never been employed. But step by step the mind is led from the real to the ideal. The imagination becomes awakened. The possibility of creating new figures becomes a reality. The mind is stimulated to do something greater, and is led to greater achievements.
But the imagination must itself then be controlled so that its new combinations produce definite effects. The designs produced must be harmonious and symmetrical. Thus reason is exercised; for reason is that faculty which perceives the different relations upon which these qualities are founded, and which directs and controls the imagination.
Besides these, drawing develops our conception and cultivates our taste. But we have said enough to show the great advantage which drawing is to the student by developing his mental faculties. That all our students will avail themselves of the opportunities presented to them of following this delightful study, we sincerely hope. At some future day we may show, or endeavor to show, in what manner drawing is an aid to science, and what is its practical value.
Personal.
—	J. Philip Best (Commercial), of ’76, is in Europe.
—	E. J. McMahon (Commercial), of ’78, is doing well in Chicago.
—	F. N. Gibbons (Commercial), is prospering in business in Chicago.
—John H. McConlogue (Commercial), of ’78, has removed to Searsboro, Iowa.
—George Darr (Commercial), of ’72, is studying at the University of Gottingen, Germany.
—We have heard that Mr. Thos. Carroll, C. S. C-, is quite sick with lung-fever aL Watertown, Wis.	"“’S,
—T. Hooley (Commercial), of ’71, is in business with his father, R. M. Hooley, proprietor of Hooley’s Theatre, Chicago.
—J. H. Ward (Commercial), of’74, is President of the Mignon Social Club, one of the ton-ton clubs of the West side, Chicago.
—J. Rice (Commercial), of’69, is reading law in Chicago. He is also President of the Juaneta Social Club, of the West side, Chicago.
—T. Logan, of ’76, spent the holidays at his home in Chicago. He and Logan D. Murphy are doing a very successful'law business at Pickneyville, Ill.
X —We are told that Virgil McKinnon, of ’78, has fallen heir to a large fortune in Australia, by the death of his uncle. Mr. McKinnon will soon leave for that country to look after his property.
—Rev. T. Vagnier, C. S. C., arrived at Notre Dame from Watertown on the 13th. The same day Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., came home from his trip to Cincinnati, Ohio. Father Cooney, has however, since gone to Milwaukee.
—P. J. O’Connell, of’73, has formed a partnership with A. J. Haire, at 218 West Madison St, Cnicago. The firm name is Haire & O’Connell, and the business is that of importers, and wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods. We were pleased to receive azvisit from Mr. Haire on the lath. He is an excellent business man and gentleman.
—James A. O’Reilly, of’69, has been appointed Solicitor for the Board of County Commissioners of Berks County, Pa. We congratulate him upon his honor. The Beading Times and Despatch says: “The Solicitor, James A. O’Reilly, Esq., is a rising young member of the Bar, an excellent lawyer and safe counsellor, and is fully deserving of the confidence reposed in him.”
—James E. Wood (Commercial), of’75, is editor of the Evening Advertiser^ published at Savanna, Ill. In his advertisement of his paper he says it is “the smallest and worst paper published in North America. If you don’t believe it, try it one year for the small sum of 75 cents.” ' That it is the smallest paper, we may concede, but it certainly is not the worst. Judging from the specimen copy before us, we are sure that Mr. Wood has the making of a good editor in time. It will not be long before the Advertiser will enlarge.
/ —Among the visitors lately at Notre Dame were H. P. Dicdson, Indianapolis, Ind.; J. D. Oliver, South Bend, Ind. ; Henry M.Utley, Detroit, Mich.; E.D. Meagher, Mansfield, Ohio; G. M. Roe, Cincinnati, Ohio.; E. G. Logan, Louisville, Ky.; G. G. Lewis, Louisville; Hoyt Post, Detroit, Mich.; R. S. Pierce, Cleveland, Ohio; F. N. Lewis, Louisville, Ky.; and A. McHardy, Owosso, Mich. All these gentlemen attended the banquet given at South Bend to his agents by Messrs. J. D. Oliver & Co. Besides these Mrs. and Miss McHardy, of Owosso, and Miss MCrawford, of Port Huron, Mich., visited the place.
—A certain learned sergeant who was apt to be testy in argument was advised by the court not to show temper but to show cause.
—Neil Ramsay, Laird of Dalhousie, was asked how he liked the sermon to which he had been after the Reformation. “ Passing well,” said he. “ Purgatory he has altogether done away with; if to-morrow he will do away with hell, I will give him half the lands of Dalhousie.”
316	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASilQ.

Notre Dame, January IS, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Study of English Literature.
There is no branch of education more important to the American student than the study of English literature-The character of the language, so heterogeneous in its for. mation; its rapid assimilation of foreign elements; its wonderful flexibility; its almost perfect reproduction of whatever is excellent in other languages, be they ancient or modern; the great activity of the English-speaking people in discovering all kinds of knowledge or of* appropriating it when found by others, all tend to make this literature a grand storehouse in which may be found the riches and treasures of the past and everything valuable of the present.
In order that the student may be able to enter upon these collections of all ages with pleasure 'and profit to himself—that he may recognize in them whatsoever there is of good, and may know that which is worthless—to increase his love for that which is good, beautiful and true, and to refine and improve his taste, are what is aimed at by schools in the study of English literature. Now what are the best means of attaining these ends? How shall these things be accomplished without exhaustion to mental energy? We have many excellent treatises on English literature, in which there are biographies of every writer who has attained any distinction whatsoever. There are other text-books in which there are hasty criticisms given by men who could not possibly have given the authors that attention which was needed. Will the mere study of these biographies and criticisms suffice for the student who desires to take up English literature with the ends in view as mentioned above? We think not. Something else is wanted. We are apt to look upon this study as something different from every other branch taught in the schools. The student is generally satisfied with the opinions of the author. But tastes differ, and in literature everything mostly is a matter of taste. What a professor of one school admires, another may condemn. Ought the stu
dent, then, to rest satisfied when he has the opinion of the author of the text-book? We think not. The student should receive from the teacher the canons of criticism, or rather he should have received them before entering the class, and should by examining the works of authors test their merit by these canons and judge accordingly.
The fact is, we do not follow our teachers thoroughly in their teaching. They would have us apply the rules of criticism to authors, but we do not do it. We wish to study our English literature in a way that would be ridiculous were we to follow it in any other branch. What would be thought of- the student who in order to learn chemistry would begin by studying alchemy ? And would not that student be thought mad who would begin a course of astrology before he began astronomy ? It is the same thing with us when we would endeavor to acquire a knowledge of literature by studying simply the biography of writers; and we act even more stupidly when we content ourselves with the dictum of another as to the merits and demerits of this or that poet.
We must, then, if we wish to study English literature with profit—if we would desire to increase our love for the good, the beautiful and the true—if we would improve and refine our tastes—read authors intelligently and critically. We have here every opportunity for doing this. In the Lemonnier Circulating Library there is a good selection of English works, the intelligent and critical reading of which will amply repay any expense incident to becoming a subscriber thereto. Every one who desires to improve himself, who desires to derive more good from the instructions of the Professor of English Literature, should not hesitate or delay in taking the steps to become a member of the Library Association, knowing as he does that there is an excellent selection of books on its shelves.
Drawing.
There are always to be found people to decry the study of those arts which are called the beautiful. They do not find fault with the study if he who engages in it intends following it for a livelihood; but that a young man who intends to follow commercial pursuits should study them, they hold absurd. This more especially they say of drawing; but we believe that it is a great means of developing the mind. Its value as a means of mental development, however, will be better felt when we recollect its nature and what its relation to other branches of education is. Drawing is a method of expressing thought, and is, philosophically, associated with other forms of language. As we regard language as a means and not an end, so should we use drawing. Its value consists in embodying thought, and in communicating one man’s thoughts to another. Separate it from thought, and it becomes worthless. Mechanically, a picture may be perfect, but unless the thought of the artist glows in it the picture is of no account Especially does the process of picture-making become useless in an educational point of view. And not only should the thought of the artist appear in the picture, but each line and mark necessary to complete the expression should appear, while every line which is not required to show forth the thought should be discarded, because, being superfluous, it injures the thought which is to be made to appear.
The thought, then, ought to be that on which the primary attention is fixed, because that is the main thing re-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	317
quired of a pupil: secondary attention should be given to the expression. In all true educational work, this is the case. In the study of the sciences the great endeavor while using the text-book is to master the ideas contained in the book, and the words are considered as useful only inasmuch as they show forth the ideas fully. It is well known that if a writer has a clear idea of what he wishes to say, he will express his thoughts clearly. Vagueness of expression is the result of looseness of thought, not of ‘ any lack in the use of words. As we said before, drawing is a kind of language; and, such being the case, the primary • attention should be concentrated upon the form to be pori	trayed. The method of representing this form should be
i	incidental, as the words of the orator or poet. If there are
’’defects in lines, these may be corrected by more accurate j	observation of the form.	•
[Drawing, then, demands continually close and accurate observation. It thus cultivates the perceptive faculties, :	and by it the mind is stored with distinct ideas of form.
|	It also by this reason causes the mind to make compari-
| sons and discriminations, and fixes it upon real objects.
When the perception is thus developed, .keenness and acl	tivity of observation become habits of the mind, thought
'	is increased, culture broadened, and life enriched.
But thought must always be accompanied by expression. Ideas are embalmed in a general way by the use of words, and ideas of form are defined and preserved by drawing. What the eye perceives must be expressed by the hand; but the hand must be trained to do this perfectly—and, to ।	attain this, training practice is required. This practice
;	brings into play the observation of the pupil to its greatest
extent.
:	Not only is the cultivation of perception and observa-
J	tion assisted by drawing, but it may even be made an aux;	iliary in the development of the higher faculties. By it
the imagination is brought into exercise. The first efforts at invention are perhaps failures, and are so because the imagination has not been aroused. The mind has moved along the path of the real without any effort at rearrangement or new combination. The creative faculties of the mind have never been employed. But step by step the mind is led from the real to the ideal. The imagination becomes awakened. The possibility of creating new figures becomes a reality. The mind is stimulated to do
' something greater, and is led to greater achievements.
But the imagination must itself then be controlled so that its new combinations produce definite effects. The designs produced must be harmonious and symmetrical. Thus reason is exercised; for reason is that faculty which perceives the different relations upon which these qualities are founded, and which directs and controls the imagination.
Besides these, drawing develops our conception and cultivates our taste. But we have said enough to show the great advantage which drawing is to the student by developing his mental faculties. That all our students will avail themselves of the opportunities presented to them of following this delightful study, we sincerely hope. At some future day we may show, or endeavor to show, in what manner drawing is an aid to science, and what is its practical value.
—A certain learned sergeant who was apt to be testy in argument was advised by the court not to show temper but to show cause.
Personal.
—	J. Philip Best (Commercial), of ’76, is in Europe.
—	E.~J. McMahon (Commercial), of ’78, is doing well in Chicago.
—	F. N. Gibbous (Commercial), is prospering in business in Chicago.
—John H. McConlogue (Commercial), of ’78, has removed to Searsboro, Iowa.
—George Darr (Commercial), of ’72, is studying at the University of Gottingen, Germany.
—We have heard that Mr. Thos. Carroll, C. S. C., is quite sick with lung-fever at Watertown, Wis.
—T. Hooley (Commercial), of ’71, is in business with his father, R. M. Hooley, proprietor of Hooley’s Theatre, Chicago.
—J. H. Ward (Commercial), of’74, is President of the Mignon Social Club, one of the ton ton, clubs of the West side, Chicago.
—J. Rice (Commercial), of’69, is reading law in Chicago. He is also President of the Juaneta Social Club, of the West side, Chicago.
—T. Logan, of ’76, spent the holidays at his home in Chicago. He and Logan D. Murphy are doing a very successful law business at Pickneyville, Ill. z ’ /—We are told that Virgil McKinnon, of’78, has fallen heir to a large fortune in Australia, by the death of his uncle. Mr. McKinnon will soon leave for that country to look after his property.
—Rev. T. Vagnier, C. S. C., arrived at Notre Dame from Watertown on the 13th. The same day Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., came home from his trip to Cincinnati, Ohio. Father Cooney, has however, since gone to Milwaukee.	_
—P. J. O’Connell, of’73, has formed a partnership with A. J. Haire, at 218 West Madison St, Cnicago. The firm name is Haire & O’Connell, and the business is that of importers, and wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods. We were pleased to receive azvisit from Mr. Haire on the 15th. He is an excellent business man and gentleman.
—James A. O’Reilly, of’69, has been appointed Solicitor for the Board of County Commissioners of Berks County, Pa. We congratulate him upon his honor. The Beading Times and Despatch says: “The Solicitor, James A. O’Reilly, Esq., is a rising young member of the Bar, an excellent lawyer and safe counsellor, and is fully deserving of the confidence reposed in him.”	-
—James E. Wood (Commercial), of’75, is editor of the Evening Advertiser, published at Savanna, Ill. In his advertisement of his paper he says it is “the smallest and worst paper published in North America. If you don’t believe it, try it one year for the small sum of 75 cents.” That it is the smallest paper, we may concede, but it certainly is not the worst. Judging from the specimen copy before us, we are sure that Mr. Wood has the making of a good editor in time. It will not be long before the Advertiser will enlarge.
/ —Among the visitors lately at Notre Dame were H. P. Dicdson, Indianapolis, Ind.; J. D. Oliver, South Bend, Ind.; Henry M. Utley, Detroit, Mich.; E. D. Meagher, Mansfield, Ohio; G. M. Roe, Cincinnati, Ohio.; E. G. Logan, Louisville, Ky.; G. G. Lewis, Louisville; Hoyt Post, Detroit, Mich.; R. S. Pierce, Cleveland, Ohio; F. N- Lewis, Louisville, Ky.; and A. McHardy, Owosso, Mich. All these gentlemen attended the banquet given at South Bend to his agents by Messrs. J. D. Oliver & Co. Besides these Mrs. and Miss McHardy, of Owosso, and Miss ^Crawford, of Port Huron, Mich., visited the place.
—Neil Ramsay, Laird of Dalhousie, was asked how he liked the sermon to which he had been after the Reformation. “Passing well,” said he. “Purgatory he has altogether done away with; if to-morrow he will do away with hell, I will give him half the lands of Dalhousie.”
318
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
.	—The Scholastic Almanac is meeting with quite a ready
sale.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm will not lecture next Thursday evening.
—The monthly bulletins will be made .out on the 29th of this month.
—We are under obligations to Mr. George H. Cochrane for favors received.
—Week after next, all the Societies will elect officers for the second session.
—The Philopatrians have postponed their Entertain' ment until the spring.
—The members of the New-Year’s Club sat down to an oyster lunch on the 14th.
—A heavy snow-storm visited us on the 15th, preventing . all skating on the lakes.
—There is to be a musical soiree in the course of a week or so; at least so we were told.
—After the real cold weather we had been visited with, it seemed quite fine at the beginning of the week.
—It is said that there is great danger of some members of the Junior department injuring their health by the close study of Catechism I
—The semi-annual examinations will begin on the 27th of this month. The names of the examiners on the various boards will be published next week.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Holy Guardian Angels was held last Sunday, Jan. 12th. .The usual five-minute instruction was given.
\ —Will the Elocution Class undergo a public examination in the parlor, at the end of the session ? We know of many people who hope the members will.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are those of the Second Vespers of the Feast of the Holy Name, page 114 of the Vesperal. In the morning the Missa de Angelis.
—The College Librarian acknowledges the receipt from Mr. Steiger, of New York, of copies of his “Educational Directory for 1878 ” and “ The Year-Book of Education for 1876.”	'
—An abundance of ice has been packed away for summer use. It is almost a pity that there is not a larger icehouse here, so that ice enough for two years might be put away.
—As may be seen by his advertisement, Mr. C. Polack, the popular tobacconist, of South Bend, has removed to No. 64 Washington Street, where he will be pleased to see his many friends at Notre Dame.
I	—The Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879, compiled
'J by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the Notre Dame University, is just out It is as neatly gotten up and its contents are as inter-'■esting as those of its predecessors.—Chicago Tribune.
—We have a complaint from a musician that some of the singers in church “ drag ” too much. This is a fault that we trust will be overcome. Gregorian music, to be good, should be sung properly, and without dragging.
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo. demic Society was held Tuesday, 14th. A question was 4 answered by Mr. J. B. McGrath. An essay was read by Mr. A. B. Congar. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. J. P. Quinn, A. Herlzog and W. J. Murphy.
‘ —The 17th meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean As-jsociation was held Jan. 11th. The debate on “Capital Punishment” was well carried on. The speakers were Messrs. Bloom, McGrath, Donnelly, Brady, Murphy, Fogarty, Scanlan, McCarthy, Burns, and Kurz.
—A well-known student in the Junior Department has developed quite a liking for Latin, and regularly at table treats his hearers to some select quotations in that language. As he gets mixed up in it occasionally, some malicious people claim that his knowledge is only second hand.
—The 9th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed < Virgin Mary was held on Wednesday, Jan. 15th. Master M. Buchmeire read an essay on “The Ephiphany,” and
questions were answered by W. Healy and C. Pawlick. The ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. Father Toohey.
—Very Rev. Father General has the best thanks of his little favorites, the Minims, for the large pyramid cake he sent them last week. It could not come at a better time. The excitement it created, as it entered the study-hall, helped not a little to cure the “homesickness ” of those who r had just returned after the Christmas vacation.	'
—The Scholastic Annual for 1879, compiled by Prof. J. A. Lyons from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic, has just been received, and may be had of the compiler. All that need be said of it is, that it is a choice selection from the repertory of a most interesting and excellent paper, together with the usual matter found in almanacs.—Ave Maria.
, —The 16ih regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-\patrian Sjciety was held on the 10th. Declamations were ^delivered by Messrs. Van Mourick, Crowley, Dimick, 0’-sDonnell, Pleins, Scanlan, Castanedo, Canoil, Mergentheim, Phillips, Morgan, Manning, Adams, Rietz, Kennedy, French, Fenner, Becker, Perley, Halle, Guthrie, Foote, and Cannon.
—The 1st regular meeting of the Sorin Literary Association was held Saturday, Jan. 11th. Declamations were delivered by Masters Snee, McGrath, McDonald, Coghlin, Courtney, McDevitt, Brady and Garrity. Masters C. Crowe and Jno. Inderrieden were elected members. It was agreed that the regular meetings of the Association be held every Saturday evening.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic begins the new year with fresh life and vigor. The Scholastic is not only a college paper, but a paper for all Catholics. It is thoroughly satisfactory in every particular. The whole Catholic press unites in commending it, and it is regarded by those outside the Church as a very able representative of Catholic literature.—McGee's Illustrated Weekly.
—Vicks Floral Guide is before us, and those who send five cents to James Vick, Rochester, N. Y., for it, will be disappointed. Instead of getting a cheap thing, as the price would indicate, they will receive a very handsome work of 100 pages, and perhaps 500 illustrations—not cheap, but elegant illustrations, on the very best of calendered paper, and as a set-off to the whole, an elegant colored plate, that, we would judge, cost twice the price of the book.
—During these cold days it is very hard to hunt up locals. In a place like Notre Dame there is, during this weather, but little change. Day after day passes with, the same routine of work. However, by a little extra exertion we manage to hunt up some items; still it is hard work, and if the clerk of the weather does not give us some nice balmy weather, during which the boys can get out of doors . and enjoy sports that will furnish us locals, we will send
-pur interviewers out so as to fill these columns.
! —Some of our French friends have expressed surprise at never having met with the works of the Abbe Tire-bouchon in the original. The fact is, they only exist as yet in manuscript. Rev. John A. Zahm during his visit in Paris last summer called on the Abbe, among other persons of distinction, and obtained a copy of the manuscripts, which were not yet prepared for publication. We are, then, enabled to get ahead of our French contemporaries, who will snap up the original as soon as the Abbe, who is a very fastidious man, deems them fit for publication. The translation progresses slowly, of course, owing to the difficulties of rendering the Abbe’s peculiarly happy style into English not altogether unworthy of the elegant French in which. / thej’ are composed. Father Zahm crossed the Arar in' company with the Abbe.
—The literary editor of the Chicago Times, in noticing the Scholastic Almanac for 1879, says: “ This is one of those rare little works that are so fortunate as to meet with constantly-increasing encouragement. It is now three years past since the first issue made its appearance, and year by year a reception more and more gratifying has been granted it. The fact that the literary matter is taken from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic is a sufficient guarantee of its excellence. It is on account of the abundance of literary work contained that the little messenger appears at

i
&
$
I

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
319
the beginning of this fourth year under the title of The Scholastic Annual and Almanac. Concerning the astrologi-'cal predictions for the past years, Mr. Lyons greatly prides himself—taking particular pains to show that they were to a very great extent correct.”
—The members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Associa-ation gave a very agreeable literary Entertainment on the evening of the 16th. The exercises were well conducted, and reflect honor upon all who took part in them. The Philodemics this year are energetic and active. Indeed we believe that we may say the Association has not for many years been so prosperous. The following was the programme:
Overture—“ Ruebezahl”—Fla tow... .University Quartette
Essay..............................John Coleman
Declamation—“Parrhasius”.............J. A. Burger
Music—“Robin de Bois”—Weber........String Quartette
Debate—“ Should Capital Punishmpnt be Abolished?”
J M. J. McCue ( W. J. Murphy j A. Hertzog 1 J. J. Quinn
Affirmative...........................
Negative..............................
—We have received the Fifth Annual Report of the President of the Carroll Institute, of Washington, D. C. This institute is in a flourishing condition, and is doing much good, not alone for the young men of the Capitalcity, but for the country at large, by furnishing good reading-matter for the Catholic soldiers, and in other ways. We are glad to record the fact that in the work of supplying Catholic papers to the rank and file of the army" a gentleman at Notre Dame has done much. We know that he sends every few weeks a large number of papers, which are distributed among the Catholic soldiers stationed in one of the territories. The work is a praiseworthy one. We wish the Carroll Institute that success which it deserves; and not only do we wish success to this institute, but to eveiy young men’s Catholic Society in the United States. May we have more of them!
—Very Rev. Father General honored the Minim Department with a visit last Monday. After the students of both classes were assembled in the study-hall, the Very Rev. Father addressed them on the necessity ot employing every day of their school-life well—showing them that the prosperity of their whole future life, as well as the position they should occupy in society, depended upon the habits of industry, good manners and solid education which they should acquire at college. He also made some beautiful remarks on the respect and obedience due to their parents, and to those who took the place of their parents while they remained at college. He proposed for their model the example of our Blessed Lord’s obedience to His Holy Mother and St. Joseph, as shown in the text, and He ■was subject to them (St. Luke, ii, 51). This text he wished to have pi mted in large characters, and placed in a conspicuous place in the study-hall. Very Rev. Father General’s speech was a rare treat to the Minims, and he could not fail to see their high appreciation of it, from the rapt attention with which they listened to every word. The Minims only hope that their Very Rev. and beloved Father General may soon find time to lavor them with anoihei such visit.
RoH of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, J. B. Berteling, James P. Brice, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, Thos. Barrett, J. F. Buchannan, A. J. Burger, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, Thos. F. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, W. H. Claggett, F. W. Cavanaugh, J. M. Carroll, E. Dempsey, D. Donohue, P. Dougherty, L. J. Evers, A Herizog, J. P. Hagan, M. J. Hogan, J. Heimanu,T. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, J. Q. Johnson, B. Kratzer, F. Keller, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, M. Laughlin, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, M. J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, W. B. McGorrisk, W. McGee, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, 8. 8. Perley, Jas. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, "Wm. Ryan.M. Roughan, M. Reilly, 8. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms,
G. Sugg, J. J. Shugrue, J. Simms, O. Schaufert, E. Scheiferle, P. Shea, A. Scheiber, C. L. Stuckey, T. 8. Summers, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, R. D. Stewart.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, J. M. Boose, H. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, G. C. Castanedo, H. E. Cannoli, A. A. Caren, W. D. Cannon, T. F. Clarke, G. EL Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, IL L. French, E. F. Fogarty, M. L. Foote, J. A. Gibbons, H. G. Guynn, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffbey, J. L. Halle, H. M. Hearly, J. Haney, J. A. Kurz, J. Kennedy, J. A. Lumley, F. T. McGrath, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, J. F. Mug, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. Rietz, W. Rietz. C. Rietz, A. 8. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, G. A. Schnull, J. L. Nelson, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, Max Wolf, F. E. Weisert, R. T. Williams, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm, R. Emmet O’Connor.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. Gordon, O. Farrelly, J. 8. Inderrieden, C. M. Crowe, N. Nelson, J. 8. Courtney, A. Hartratb, G. Tourtillotte, W. Cogh-lin, H. McDonald, A. Chirhart, F. Orner, J. McGrath, F. Brady, G. Knight, W. Reinhardt, H. Kitz, J. A. Crowe, C. J. Welty, C. Long, J. H. Garrity, J. Chaves, F. Parsons, T. McGrath, L. Young. C. Young, A. Schmuckle, F. Garrity, P. Campau, E. Chirhart, F. Farrelly, T. Williams, J. Inderrieden.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
F. Grever, W. McCarthy, A. Rock, T. Conlan, P. B. Larkin, J. Hermann, J. M. Byrne, M. English, S. P. Terry, A. Keenan, L. Horne, R. Anderson, R. P. Mayer, T. Summers, J. Arentz, J. Q. Johnson, C. L. Stuckey, E. Dempsey.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. Snee, C. Long, H. Kitz, J. Inderrieden, C. Welty, F. Parsons, E. Esmer, H. Bachmann, E. Howard, J. Garrity, J. Chaves, A. Reinboldt, E. Chirhart, T. McGrath, A. Van Monrick, P. Campau, A. Schmuckle, F. Farrelly.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Grammar—S. P. Terry, T. Conlan, W. O’Brien, P. B. Larkin, R. Anderson, J. Kurz; Reading—T. Conlan, A. Caren, F. McGrath; Orthography—3. Terry, F Phillips; Penmanship-; Geography—C. L. Stuckey; Arithmetic—M. English, W. J. McCarthy ; Book-Keeping-----------------------------.
—Review of studies is now the all-important. Examination is near.	'
—The postponed sleigh-ride to Niles came off on Tuesday. Visiting the photograph gallery and candy stores helped to pass the time agreeably, and all returued happily, without accident.
—Among the visitors of the week were: Miss T. Milburn, and Miss M. Shetland, of South Bend; Mrs. James Drouillard and Miss Oechtering, of Mishawaka; Messrs. James and John Toole, Miss Alary Toole, ami Miss Alary . Fonda, of Three Rivers, Mich.; Air. P. Garrity, of Chicago; Air. Krost, of Crown Point, Ind.; Miss. M. Sherman, of Waukesha, Wis.; Air. D. Wile, of Laporte, Ind.; Miss A. Birch, of Indianapolis; Airs. Hiram Purdy, of Burlington, Iowa; Mrs. Aitken, and Miss Aitken, of Alishawaka; Air. J. O’Connell, of Dubuque, Iowa; Mr. R O’Connor, Miss Alary O’Connor, of Chicago, Ill.; Rev. Mr., Mrs., and Miss Perkins, of South Bend; Miss Walker, of Laporte, Ind.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau very kindly sent the Children of Mary a present of blessed bread on the Epiph
320
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
any. The cake was baked in a mould representing the dolphin. This custom dates back to the days of the Apostles. “The symbol of the fish was used by the early Christians, aud had several homogeneous meanings. It alluded to the regenerating water of Baptism, typified the believer as the little fish caught by the ‘ fishers of men,’ and expressed also the Person of Christ Himself, who is called the ‘Fish’ by early writers, and it especially obtains favor from the mystical combination of letters forming the Greek word for fish, which represented the first letter of the words in the Greek sentence, ‘ Jesus Christ, Son of God, Saviour.’ ” These cakes are also taken in commemoration of Christ blessing the loaves and fishes.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Sr. Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zo6 Papin.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Jessie Grover, Mary Brown, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Angela Ewing, Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Cavenor, Catharine Hackett, Genevieve Winston, Adella Gordon, Mary Sullivan, Agnes Brown, Catharine Lloyd.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Annie McGrath, Lucie Chilton, Margaret Carroll, Ella Mulligan, Mary Usselman, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Alma Moe, Ellena Thomas, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber.	'
2d Prep. Class—Misses Della McKerlie, Johanna Baroux, Ollie Williams, Anna Herman, Teresa Zahm, Linda Fox, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Agnes McKinnis, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Annie Orr, Charlotte Van Namee.
Junior Prep.—Misses Julia Wells, Julia Butts, Mary Lyons, Catharine Campbell.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Poquette, Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Elise Papin, Elizabeth Consadine, Jessie.Pampel.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Annie Herman, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Catharine Hackett, Alice Donelan, Agnes Joyce, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward, Adelaide Bisby, Maud Casey, Julia Butts.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman. Genevieve Welsh.
3d. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan, Louisa Neu.
2d Drv.— Misses Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Alice Farrell, Mary Campbell, Annie McGrath, Emma Lange, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh.
4th Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Mary Mullen, Jessie Grover, Annie Cortright, Anna Maloney, Marie Dallas.
2d Drv.—Misses Genevieve Winston, Caroline Gall, Mary English, Alice Wells, Kathleen Campbell.
5th Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Mary Danaher, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, Annie Woodin, Della McKerlie, Emma Gerrish.
2d Div.—Misses Laura French, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Sarah Purdy, Minna Loeber, Catharine Danaher, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Mulligan.
6th Class—Misses Alma Moe, Martha Pampel, Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Linda Fox, Eleanor Thomas, Annie Jones, Mary Casey, Agnes Brown, Rebecca Neteler, Ellen Mulligan, Julia Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, .Maud Casey, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux, Agnes McKinnis, Mary Feehan, Lucie Chilton, Catharine Lloyd, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas.
7th Class—Misses Caroline Hopkins, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Mary Ryan, Grace Glasser, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary McFadden, Bridget Kelly.
8th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Blanche Garrity.
9th Class—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Julia Butts, Emma Fisk, Manuelita Chaves, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Alice King.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell.
. Harmony—1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silverthorn.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
Theoretical Classes last Saturday were full of life. Answers, intelligent and prompt.
vocal department.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Miss Adelaide Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Genevieve Winston, Adella Gordon, Clara Silverthorn, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown, Adelaide Geiser.
4th Class—Misses Annie Woodin.
5th Class—Misses Mary and Annie McGrath, Della McKerlie, Angela Ewing, Eleanor Thomas, Zoe Papin, Mary Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Miss Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Marie Dallas, Teresa Killelea, Angela Ewing, Angela Dillon, Mary Sullivan, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Catharine Campbell, Julia Butts, Sophie Papin, Maud Casey, Ellen Mulligan, Minna Loeber.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Sallie Hambleton, Genevieve Welch, Marie Plattenburg, Jessie Grover, Agnes Joyce.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Jessie Grover, Martha Pampel, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Catharine Hackett, Margaret Carroll, Henrietta Rosing, Lucie Chilton, Anna (Cortright, Margaret Whealan, Catharine Danaher, Adelaide Bisby, Agnes Brown, Grace Glasser, Sarah Purdy, Ollie Williams.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR -DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Jessie Grover, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Adelaide Geiser, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Margaret Carroll, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Alma Moe, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Adelaide Bisby, Caroline Hopkins, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Mary Ludwig, Mary Hake, Della McKerlie, Mary Campbell, Annie Herrman, Teresa Zahm, par excellence. Misses Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Adella Gordon, Emma Lang, Genevieve Welch, Catharine Lloyd, Martha Pampel, Ella Cavanagh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Mary McFadden, Ada Clarke, Mary Chirhart, Amelia Morris, Elise Papin, Elizabeth Considine, Edse Lavoie, Mary Poquette, Jessie Pampel, Jane McGrath, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer, Martha Zimmerman, Alice King, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Mary Lyons, Elise Dallas,.Catharine Campbell; Marie Mc-N. Garrity, Minnie Fisk.
—A man named Gil Migota, who in his youth had his hour of celebrity, has just died at Cracow, at the advanced age of ninety-six. It was he who, during the Russian campain, saved Napoleon I when the French army rapidly evacuated Moscow, set on fire by Rostopchin. A troop of Cossacks pursued the Emperor’s carriage, but Gil Migota escaped from them by his skilful manoeuvres and the rapidity of his flight. Thus Napoleon twice owed his life to the address and skill of his postilion—it being well known that it was to bis postilion Cesar’s, crossing the Rue Saint-Nicaise so rapidly, that the First Consul escaped from the explosion of the infernal machine.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGHAPHEB
Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts., .
SOUTH BEISTID, HtTDI-A-IiT-A.-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	_ 321
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and
. County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
AR'l'H iJ Ft J. STA.CE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
'W'eeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COnLTJM:BTA.]V.published weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, 52 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. V JU M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
THE BOND UOTJsSE, a. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDW ARD T». FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Ob' CALLING CABDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic XiO Almanac for 1379. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc NITTCTIIimn [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special, attention given to Depositions.
FANNING «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOTT1V IT. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OYIVTTL.TYE T. CHAMBER JCA.T1N (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office
41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WTITEjFAM J. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES a. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Daniel b. hibbard, Jr., (of’70), circuit Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan,	cep 14-ly
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 1010pm; Buffalo,4 am.
12 16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540pm. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4am.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 am: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight_____
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 am, Chicago 6 am.
8^5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laport^S 50 am; Chicago
4 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend-
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup't West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North.		STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m.	3.20 p.m.	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m	8.05 p.m.
12.55 “	2.30 “	- - - - La Porte, - - -	10.25 “	855 “
12.23 “	2.08 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 “
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walker on, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “
11.27 p.m.	1J'7 “	- - - P'ymou’h, - -	11.47 “ 12 40 p.m	10.33 “
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - .		1132 “
9 55 “	11.26 a.m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	1212 a.m.
9.25 “	10.47 “	- - - - Peru,' - - - -	2 00 “	12 40 “
9.*‘3 * 41	10.26 “	- - Bunker Hill. - - -	2.22 “	1.01 “
8.33	9.56 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3 00 “	135 “
7.52 “	9.13 “	- - - - Tipton,- - - -	3.38 “	216 “
7.10 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3 02 “
6.10 “	7.25 “	- - Indianapolis, - - -	5.25 “	4.00 “
		- - - - Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - -- - Saint Louis, - - -	10.00 « 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 neon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	1119 “	- - -	“	“ 255a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
[^"Berths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Geu’l. Manager, Indianapolis
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Colunnbas 5 Ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
Sign of the Big Indian.
64 Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
322
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
The Sun will be printed every day during the year to come Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of everybody and everything save the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy which has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
The Sun is the newspaper for ttie people. It is not for the rich man,against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hates. It is for the honest man against the rogues every time. It is for for honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does not take its cue from the utterances of any politician or political organization. It gives its support unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspiracy of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence. In this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not less in the year 1879, than in 1878,1877, or any year gone by. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before the people, The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879]a magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and wo men of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of to day. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the coming year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements ol the leaders in every section of the Republic will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patri. otic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest may be added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudu'ent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Sun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight page sheet of fifty six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or $7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at $L20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is $1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free. Address	-	"
L W. ENGLAND,
Publisher of The Sun, New York City
SHICKEY
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F, SHICKEY, *
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Jnion Depo\ West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices ■ at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.........................  .7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to sei cure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Bev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN	.
Watches, Clocks,
-A.3STI3
JEWELRY.
All ’ Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	323
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express. 19 00 p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	
“ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit						
			♦Jackson Express.		
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	t Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.u 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 pm 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen'l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its	.
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAT AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt, _
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. E. LINE.
CONDENSED TEWE TABT.E.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest. ,
GOING WEST.
	■ No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5/ Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	900 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 a.m.
Rochester,				12.53 a.m.	1012 “	255 “	745 “
Alliance,		3.10 “	12 50 p.v.	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,		4.50 “	226 “	7.13 “	
Mansfield,			7.00 “	440 “	920 “	311 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		925 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,		10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		350 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,		Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	1
GOING EAST.
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, A tian. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,		9.10 pat. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 “ 11.30 “ 1.30 A.M. 233 “ 4.05 “	
Crestline,	Arrive					 		
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 622 “ L30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 « 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated PUllman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F R. MYERS, G- P &.T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAE MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and. LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB W’lLE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octs-tf La Porte. Indiana,
324
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
To perpetuate the memory of him whose dying words were
“ Take care of the Church which X have Loved so well and Guarded so Sacredly,” The Continental Publishing Company have published a beautiful Mezzograph portrait of His Holiness
pop® pros ix,
Read the following Letter from Archbishop Purcell:
Cincinnati, February 22, 1878.
Archbishop Purcell begs to return to the Continental Publishing Company, his sincere thanks for their highly appreciated engraved likeness of the lately deceased Pontiff, Pius IX. He hopes to see many evidences of like merit from their establishment.
Very Respectfully,
t ( J. B. PURCELL, Archbishop.
Have also published as a companion-picture to the above,
These beautiful portraits are on heavy plate paper, 2 ft. long by U ft. wide. Either, or both of the above-named portraits will be sent—pre-paid—to any address, on receipt of nineteen (19) cts. each to pay postage and tubing. Send Currency or postage stamps.
C H R 0 M 0 S .
.AJVY OP THE FOLEOWING CHROMO8 SENT PRE-PAID ON RECEIPT OF
The Cherubs, (new)
Holy Family, .	.	.	18x24
Mater Dolorosa, .	.	. 18x24
St. Patrick—with the snakes, (new) 18x24
50 CENTS EACH.
Ecce Homo, Guardian Angel, Pope Pius IX, .
24x30
18x24
. 18x24
18x24
Address all orders to CONTINENTAL PUBLISHING CO.,
No. 4 Home Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Do not fail to order THE CHERUBS, the Handsomest Chromo Published.	dec 7-4t
NOW XCEAJOY.
The Scholastic Almanac
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, seed about 18 years, Was a Minim in 1864 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame. Ind. Resided in Chicago, Hl.; afterwards in St I<ouis. Mo.
Please address,	“Ths Scholastic.”
For 1879
J’fyCE 25 CTS.
Look to Your Health.
Table of Contents:
Introduction, Our Predictions for 1878, Astrological Predictions for 1879,
Names and Titles, Days of Obligation, Days of Abstinence, Eclipses for 1879, Movable Feasts, Bates of Postage, An Astronomical Myth, Calendars,Astronomical and
To Signor Gregori, Good Books, Some Curious Words, The Catechism, Purple Days, Napoleon on the Divinity of
Christ,
Mutability,
An Evening Picture, The Papacy, The Things of God, Grasshoppers,
Ecclesiastical,	Shall it Ever be Thus?
Wild Flowers,	Wolves in the Street,
The Court of Charlemagne, Hens and Their Poetical
At Our Wit’s End, Our Alma Mater, Indirect Egotism, Address,
Lays, Berenice’s Hair.
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CL ARK ST., ojDosite Stam House,.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Lea Genworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kfuisas and Southern Missouri Thia is acknowledged hy the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 n m
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m.	9 45 a m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m.	6 80 a^m
E. ST.JOHN, A.KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent.	General Superintendent.