Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moritTurus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 18, 1879.
Number 7.
The Age of Louis XIV.
BY DOCTOR DAVID CERNA.
The history of no other country is more attractive to the student than that of France.
There are four ages in the history of the world that have for years, nay, for centuries, engaged the philosophic attention of the ablest thinkers; and they stand pre-eminent for the reason that although in many respects they have tended to diffuse the evil germs of destruction into the atmosphere of human life and activity, nevertheless, in many others they have done much to create the elements that form the basis of a peaceful and progressive social intercourse and the incentives to cultivate feelings of refinement. They have done much for the high culture of the mind, of the taste, for the advancement of art, for the unlocking of the beautiful temple of truth, for the development of science, and, sometimes, for the amelioration of our common nature, and for the creation of the moral restraining pow- rs that have ever labored to repress those natural evil proclivities so prone, if not guarded against, to disturb the harmony of mankind. These periods are, in antiquity, the age of Pericles in Greece, and that of Augustus in Rome; in modern times, the age of Leo X in Italy, and that of Louis XIV in France. It is to the latter that I wish to call the attention of the reader at present: in so doing I do not claim much originality, but it is simply my desire to give a sketch of an age that cannot be too attentively studied. In this essay I propose speaking of the period in general, leaving for a future article a critical description of the writers of that famous age.
On the death of Louis XIII, his son, under the title of Louis XIV, became the ruler of France. He was then but five years of age, and was therefore unable to discharge the duties of a monarch. Anne of Austria, his mother, with the aid of her chosen counsellor, Cardinal Mazarin, an Italian, conducted the affairs of the nation. Students of history well know the consequences that followed—the disastrous calamities that so frequently convulsed the country, and threatened to launch it into a gloomy abyss of ignominious destruction. Mazarin, in time, became the master of France, through the ascendency which he gained over Anne, the queen.
It is true, however, that during this time France was winning brilliant laurels abroad. The Thirty Years’ War, which still raged, was brought to an end by the peace of Westphalia (although the trouble with Spain still continued), the victories, under the great Conde, being in favor of France. Mazarin, caring little what turn the affairs of the nation took, was the cause of much dissatisfaction and of serious trouble among the people. He gave rise to internal dissensions that came nigh precipitating into a deep gulf of national misery—from a political and a
social standpoint—a country that had almost reached the pinnacle of glory in all that, in the eyes of mankind, contributes to the greatness of nations in their full bloom of prosperity and success. Cabals originated that almost threw France into bankruptcy. The Fronde arose, which for five years fought bitterly and justly against the court party; but it gradually vanished, unfortunately, without achieving the national good that it sought to accomplish. A brilliant future, followed, however, by mournful consequences, was awaiting France,—consequences that in the course of events subverted the destinies of a progressive nation. The intruder, Mazarin, that foreign disturber of the civil peace of France, died at last, and Louis X1V, then twenty-three years of age, became the sole master of his nation.	-
No sooner did Louis XIV ascend the throne than the whole nation gave a long sigh of relief from the oppression she was subjected to while‘under the despotic power of Mazarin;Tittle imagining, perhaps, that this sigh was but the forerunner—for such it may be considered to have been —of a still greater oppression under the bloody, and tyrannical rule of the new monarch.
In the department of history there are immutable laws by which the narrator is bound to be governed, and which he must not disregard, but obey in every respect. Truth, so essential to history; truth, which is designed ever to be associated with it, is one of those laws. Eradicate veracity from historical narration, and the foundation of such a beautiful and useful structure of hiynan knowledge as history, one that is so intimately connected with human life and action, will necessarily undergo a serious loss,—an injury that may become an irretrievable one, for such a procedure will lead to the saddest errors. It must be remembered that on the statements found in historical writing, comments are made and judgments passed upon not only individual character, but also upon the character of nations Hence it is that the faithful historian cannot be too careful in observing and obeying the law of truth, one of the grand and majestic pillars that sustain the gorgeous temple of history. The history of the French, under Louis XIV, as told by many and divers narrators of equally meritorious standing in their special branch, is, in nature and point of fact, so essentially the same as to leave no room for doubt as to its true character. And what does such a history present to the unprejudiced observer? Socially, politically, and from many other points of view perhaps, everything that is beautiful and worthy of admiration; morally, however, nothing that is elevating.
The epoch of Louis XIV has been styled the golden age of France. It was certainly so in many respects. It was the period of taste and genius in France; and Louis, ignorant though he was himself, ardently encouraged both. Commerce and industry were stimulated, which served to develop the naturally great resources of the country. Incentives were given to the useful arts, and thus we sud
98
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
denly behold with admiration the great canal of Languedoc, establishing communication between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea—a work, indeed, that might have done credit to our boasting age of civilization and material progress. Literature and science were patronized, and it was in that remarkable epoch that the French mind attained the highest degree of intellectual development; for those were the glorious days of Fenelon and Bos-suet and Massilon, of Mabillon and Thomassin, of Pascal and Descartes, of Corneille and Racine and Lafontaine. Mili. tary discipline being rigidly enforced, it was then that France achieved the most brilliant conquests, and added many jewels to the beautiful and costly diadem of her military glory. At the armies of Conde, of Turenne, of Luxemburg, of Villars, nations looked with wonder and dread, while the powerful navy under Duquesne and Tourville spread astonishment and admiration over the world. The arts were liberally patronized. Splendid buildings were erected; elegant and costly libraries formed; gorgeous academies and other magnificent institutions were raised for the advancement of learning, for the encouragement of art and science. Architecture exhibited its grandeur in the beautiful palace of the Louvre; while Versailles, indeed, may be said to have been the symbolic work of that reign.
With regard to the court, it was in those palmy days that the French mind was imbued with the most extravagant ideas of gaudy show; for never before in the annals of history were exhibited such magnificence and such splendor as were displayed in the French court under the rule of the despot Louis XIV. Culture and refinement in manners seemed to be exalted to the highest point of perfection, to be environed in the gorgeous dress of excellence. It was certainly a most brilliant, a most wonderful court; the glittering splendor there displayed exceeding, perhaps, the most extravagant Oriental pomp. Conversation, which became an art, sparkled with a polish and brilliancy never before known. Indeed, in time, the French language and style and French fashions held supremacy not only in France, but also over the other countries of Europe, and to those it may be said these countries submitted more readily than to the unjust arms of Louis XIV. The monarch, who in the words of Bolingbroke “ was the best actor of majesty that ever filled a throne,” strove to his utmost to make everything in his court appear grand and imposing. He himself pushed politeness to the verge of ridicule; every lady he met he greeted with the profound-est bow; nay, Louis XIV, according to St. Simon, never passed any woman, even his chambermaid, without lifting his hat It was all, however, external show, and there was nothing, so far as the court is concerned, to proclaim for it solidity in political virtue, liberty, and the other elements that contribute to the furtherance of national happiness. In no other instance could the excellent maxim be better applied that “ all that glitters is not gold.” The theories of despotism were developed, the fine qualities that reside in man’s moral nature were, to a great extent, smothered by the profligate spirit of the age, while vices were encouraged which are deleterious to the human race. It would be unphilosophical to regard the French court of those times as worthy of praise, for beneath the flimsy veil of brilliant display calculated to excite admiration and astonishment, there lay a sink of rottenness and corruption. Poisonous elements were filling the atmosphere of France, which for he time, at least, seemed to raise the nation to the highes
point of glory, but which, nevertheless, only accelerated her destruction.
But let us turn to the king himself, the frivolous leader of the conrt, the representative of all the characteristics of the age; to him who boastingly remarked, “DEtat c'est moi.” His character, never solidly grounded in good, ever fluctuated towards the side of evil. A libertine in practice, he sought every opportunity to destroy the very foundation on which woman’s happiness rests—virtue. He it was who revoked the Edict of Nantes, established by Henry IV, and this act is one of the most impolitic and cruel measures ever chronicled in the annals of political history.
Louis XIV grasped firmly the sceptre, frequently stained as it was with blood, under which his people were held submissive. He strove to embellish the^exterior, the superficial, while at the same time he allowed the worm of corruption to gnaw at the very foundations of man’s moral nature. Hypocrisy held sway over all his actions. It is true that he endeavored to elevate his court and his country to the pinnacle of worldly greatness, that the rest of the civilized world might pay homage to both. But his motives for such a measure, let us conclude, were worse than selfish, and calculated to delude mankind. Fearful of failing to reach the object of his ambitious aspirations by fair means, he allowed himself to be entirely governed by his evil tendencies. He eyed the other flourishing European countries of those times with an invidious hostility. Like Alexander or Attila or Caesar, he nursed the awful passion of conquest, and gave it vent at the sacrifice of thousands of human lives. He became subordinate, as it were, to desires at war alike with justice and human sympathies. Wishing eagerly to become, if possible, the sole master of all Europe, he gave rise to unjust wars—wars which were entered upon by him under false pretexts, for which Louis XIV has been and for which he will ever be severely condemned.
France had reached a high point of glory from a literary, social and political point of view. The wars of Louis, which had contributed greatly to the aggrandizement of his country, had nearly exhausted all the resources of his prolific realm, and this led eventually to disastrous consequences. Time passed on, and Louis XIV lived to feel the decline ot his power, and to see the greatness of his nation disappear before his very eyes. In the eloquent words of Macauley: “ He left to his infant successor a famished and miserable people, a beaten and humbled army, provinces turned into deserts by misgovernment and persecution, factions dividing the court, a schism raging in the Church, an immense debt, an empty treasury, immeasurable palaces, an innumerable household, inestimable jewels and furniture. All the sap and nutriment of the state seemed to have been drawn to feed one bloated and unwholesome excrescence. The nation was withered.”'
Such alas! has been the sad fate of other countries whose bright days are mere things of the past, whose story of glorious fame is like a fairy tale; nations that have fallen like Lucifer, never to rise again! Thus it is that history tells us of the deterioration of polished Greece, and of the decline and fall of the once powerful Roman Empire.
» —Don’t live in hope with your arms folded. Fortune smiles on those who roll up their sleeves and put their shoulder to the wheel that propels them on to wealth and happiness.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	99
Notre Dame Thirty-Four Years Ago—A. D. 1845.
Thirty-four years will in a very few days have come and gone since your correspondent, then a wild, untutored urchin of fifteen, put in his first appearance at Notre Dame, and asked to be placed upon the students’ roll.
Early in November, 1845, he left Detroit, a respectable city of thirteen thousand inhabitants, for South Bend, Indiana, and after a weary day’s ride over the miserable strop rail that covered the Michigan Central Railway, reached its then terminus, Marshall. A hundred and odd miles still remained to be performed through the backwoods of Southwestern Michigan and Northern Indiana, which was made inside of twenty-four hours, by hard driving over primitive roads. His compagnons de voyage were a German priest, now a venerable Archbishop,—an elderly young lady, candidate for the Sisterhood of the Holy Cross (she did not persevere) and a red-headed boy who since has adorned the holy ministry for many a long year in a religious community. Night was just closing in bright and cold, when our Jehu drove up to the Pavilion Hotel, at Niles, Michigan, “ run ” by mine host, Charley Chester. We soon learned that, unless we were disposed to hire a private conveyance, “ Charley ” would “take us in and do for us ” until the following morning at 7 a. m. Suffice to say, that the present Archbishop of M., who was travelling incognito so far as your correspondent was concerned demurred, and consequently had to hire a horse and buggy, and at 7^ p. m., Wednesday, Nov. 11th, 1845, started for Notre Dame with the writer as his driver.
All went well that clear, frosty night, until about a mile beyond the village of Bertrand,, then a thriving place, where the road forked. Which fork to take was then the question. We stopped a moment. My companion crossed himself and said, “ Boy, in the name of God take to the right hand” ; which of course the “boy” did. We made good speed for over an hour through the “ oak openings ” that skirt the boundary of Michigan and Indiana, until the moon disappeared somewhat suddenly and left us in darkness. The horse was left to his instinct, trusting that in due time he would bring us safely to our destination, which, if we were on the right road at all, could not be more than a mile away. It took him, however, but a very short time to dump us that cold November night into the very bottom of an Indiana mud-hole. How horse and buggy, driver and confrere in misery, got out of it need not be told; suffice it to state that it was by the assistance of one farmer Bulla, who, attracted by our cries, reached us just as the College bell rang out a merry peal and the few students then at Notre Dame (not a quarter of a mile from us) gave three cheers for the eclipse of the moon which had just taken place, Wednesday night, November 11th, A. D. 1845.	‘
It took us about a half hour to reach the College gate, where we met a Mr. Steber, and by him were conducted through the yard, and up the steps that led to the College portico, where we found the College Faculty chatting over the eclipse. A moment after, all were in the parlor, greeting the arrival of the Right Rev. Bishop Henni, then newly appointed^ but now the venerable Archbishop of Milwaukee.
There were present at that meeting the venerable Father Badin, the first priest ordained in the United States and the original owner of the beautiful section of land on
which the college buildings now stand. Fathers Sorin, Cointet, Granger, and Weinzopflen, with seminarians Gouesse, Dooner, and Moses L. L’Etourneau; Brothers Vincent, Laurence and Gatian completed, as near as I can remember, the party.
THE COLLEGE, A. D. 1845, consisted of a four story building, about eighty feet long by thirty-six in width, without any pretentions to architectural beauty. It was surmounted by a tower, on which stood an iron cross 18 feet high. In the tower was a fine clock on the dial of which read, “Tempus fugit'' Along the entire front and two ends of the building ran a brick walk ten feet wide, flanked by a wooden wall four feet high, which was built to keep out the sandy soil thrown up during the excavation of the foundation. The basement of the College consisted of four divisions, paved with red brick. The western part was the refectory, under the care of Brother Patrick; it contained a reading stand, and tables, with benches, for the accommodation of thirty or forty boys; next to it was the kitchen, under the care of Mr. Coffee; then the furnace room, for an attempt was made to heat the College by hot air (a total failure); then came the study-room, which was furnished in the most primitive manner, with desks about twelve feet long, to which were attached seats without backs. Monks could not wish for more penitential stools. They were evidently modelled after those in use during the middle ages, when comfort was a secondary consideration for those in quest of knoweldge at those great mints of thought—the mediaeval universities.
The second story consisted of a main entrance and a hall about twelve feet square, to the right of which was the parlor, and next to it Father Sorin’s room; to the left of the entrance hall was the Exhibition Hall, and on this story was also the Museum, under the special care of a Mons. Brecport. The third story contained the Professors’ rooms, the Library, and the Infirmary under the care of old Sister Providence. The fourth story had the dormitories, which were neatly fitted up with wooden bunks and screened by curtains. The attic contained, on the east side, a chapel, and on the west, the sleeping-room of the Brothers and the trunk-room of the few students.
The yard in front of the College contained about half an acre, with here and there a fine oak, whilst thence to South Bend, where now you see the grand avenue, was a dense forest. The old stage roads to South Bend ran, one to the east of the College, one fourth of a mile, and another, the most travelled, to the right, at the foot of St. Mary’s Lake. The front yard fence was flanked by two small one-story cottages—one occupied by Mr. Steber, as a little furnishing store for the boys; the .other by the good old porter, Brother Cyprian, who was the shoemaker of the community. At the rear of the College, to the east, stood the Manual Labor Establishment—having a tailor-shop, under care of Brother Augustus, and a printing-office, under Brother Joseph. I remember well the good Brother and his two apprentices, who were working hard, printing in a most wretched manner “ Mrs. Herbert and the Villagers.” Still a little -further back stood the carpenter-shop, in a log hut, under Brother William. To the east of it stood the blacksmith-shop and gardener’s house. To the right of you, to the left of you, in front of you and behind you reigned the primeval forest. I dare say there were not thirty acres of clearance on the whole section of land belonging to the College. Lakes St. Joseph and St. Mary
100	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•were there, as now, beautiful—but there was then direct water communication between them; and on what was then known as “ The Island” was being completed the Brothers’ novitiate—a plain, tastefully designed, but wretchedly constructed brick building. Father Weinzopflen, a worthy German priest who had been liberated after a two or more years’ imprisonment in the Indiana state’s prison at Jeffersonville, upon false charges, lived on “ The Island ” acting as master of novices and confessor to the Brothers and students. I recollect him as a good, holy and zealous priest, one who was truly a martyr for his faith. Down by St. Mary’s Lake, near the present old barn, the first part of which was then building,—stood the old log church—half of which was occupied by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who were daily watching the completion of a small brick building near by, that early in the spring of 1846 became their motherhouse at Notre Dame. The Professors were, Fathers Sorin, Granger, Cointet and Brother Gatian, assisted by Messieurs Dooner and Moses L’Etourneau, with old Brothers Francis and Stephen as prefects.
FATHER SOBIN IN 1845
was, in my recollection, a spare, dark-complexioned man, active as a deer, with an eye that searched you from top to bottom with its glance. He was an excellent singer, and occasionally would play a bar or two on the clarionet, whilst to my positive knowledge and experience he was a first-class shot at marbles. His faith knew no bounds; he fully believed that he could convert all the surrounding people, and really worked in season and out of season for that great end. Father Cointet was his chief assistant; I remember him as a rosy-faced, energetic, humble priest, a ripe scholar, and a devoted religious. I have seldom, if ever,, met his equal in those qualities which should be the prominent characteristics of a missionary priest and well may his Alma Mater, Chateau Gontier be proud of the life and death of its saintly eleve. He died of cholera in 1853. Father Granger had arrived the May before I came, and all that I now remember of him is his sweet smile, and also that his stock of English comprised little more than the words “Yes! yes!” accompanied by a gentle nod; God bless him!—he has gained many to God’s Church by that meek “Yes,” and sweet smile! “Brother Gatian?’ was a genius—an incomprehensible Frenchman! he was capable of doing anything, and everything. He was at that early day the intellectual soul of the institution, and used to pride himself, too, on his roaring voice and bad clothes. Peace to his ashes! He sleeps in California. Monsieur Gouesse, soon afterwards a worthy priest, was the musician of the house, and did his best to form, from very poor material, a band. Moses L’Etourneau, brother of the Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, was.our prefect, a most diligent disciplinarian, and had he been spared life, would have been beyond doubt foremost in the ranks of his Order today. Mr. Dooner taught English. Mr. Steber did the reading for us, the preaching being done by the first priest ordained in the United States, the venerable Father Badin, who also taught the students Cathechism twice a week. Father Badin never kept any rule save his own, and hence was not a little troublesome to the community. He had his right hand, I think, partially paralyzed—but he would nearly always make up for any deficiency of power in it by the free use of his left on the ears of the unfortunate lad who from time to time was selected to serve his daily Mass. I shall never forget the first cuff he gave me. Though very old, he never missed his daily meditation and I
spiritual reading, and well has his name gone down to posterity as a model missioner.
I must now close by glancing at the students’ roll. We then, including Manual Labor boys, who at that time used to attend studies morning and evening for an hour, numbered thirty-two. James Whelan, now a prominent and wealthy Buffalo politician, was the “Magnus Apollo ” of all mischief; he could idle his time, trick a prefect, and yet stand first in his class with little or no trouble. Francis Hacquin was another genius, full of talent and mischief. Michael Clarke, of Carthage, New York, was the steady boy; he afterwards became a worthy priest, and died some years since with his harness on. Louis L’Etourneau, who had won the premium of honor at the “ Commencement,” and his chief opponent, Noel Degenet, of Terre .Haute, Indiana, were as honest and manly boys as ever I met. Louis Hitz, of Lafayette, Luke Murphy, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Fred Steber, shone like bright stars in our midst; whilst John Hayes, and Theo. Comparet, of Fort Wayne, brought up the rear guard. The scholastic year in 1845 closed August 2d, and opened on the 3d of October, whilst, as I have already stated, your humble correspondent entered on November 11th, 1845.
An Old Boy;

Review of the Diocesan School Board Report.
-	(Continued.)
Editor “Notre Dame Scholastic”:—Another very important item we draw from the different reports of schools of the Diocese of Fort Wayne is, that the schoolbooks or text-books in use in the different schools are the greatest conglomeration we can imagine. There are in use
(a) 11 different Catechisms.
(&) 5 different Sacred Histories.
(c)	9 different Readers.
(d)	9 different Spellers.
(e)	8 different Arithmetics.
(f)	9 different'U. S. Histories.
(g)	7 different Geographies.
(70 6 different Grammars. -
(0 .8 different systems of Penmanship (copy-books).
Casting a glance at this chaotic mass of school-books in only one Diocese, we must at once be convinced that this is a matter of serious-import, as it is of evil consequences, to parents, pupils and teachers. . We are, however, glad that the School Board sees this matter in the proper light, and is determined that it shall be looked after; and we are also glad that our Rt. Rev. Bishop will second their efforts.
Uniformity in school-books is very much to be desired but there is at the same time no need of being in too great haste about it, as there is necessarily no little expense connected with it. We would propose, with the School Board’s kind permission, a plan which, we believe, would greatly reduce the expenses, and bring uniformity in a very short time. Let the School Board at their next meeting decide that; for instance, one and the same Catechism and Sacred History be introduced in all schools of the Diocese at the beginning of the next scholastic year, in September, 1880. Then, in the following scholastic year, 1881, uniformity of Readers, Spellers and Grammars. Next, in 1882, uniformity of Arithmetics, Geographies, U. S. Histories, and copybooks for writing. In this way we think that, with but very little expense to parents, the most desirable uniformity
■5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	101
of text-books can be obtained throughout the entire Dio cese.
Of the merit of the different books now in use, we prefer to speak at some other time, except with regard to the different Catechisms and Sacred Histories. Of the 11 different kinds of Catechisms now in use, Deharbe’s is taught in 9 schools, Butler’s in 6, McCaffrey’s in 3, Bp. David’s in 3, Mueller’s in 4, Abp. Purcell’s in 2, National Council’s in 2, Spalding’s in 1, and A Priest’s in 1. Of these, Deharbe’s Catechism was first published in 1847, in Germany, and met with such general favor that in 1853 it had numbered 21 editions. It has been approved by all the Archbishops and Bishops of Bavaria, by nearly all those of the other countries of Germany, and by those of Switzerland. It has been reprinted in the United States with the approbation of Archbishop Purcell, and has been introduced into the German schools; in a word, it has superseded nearly all the various German Catechisms previously used in the dioceses of those countries, and is now almost the only authorized and standard Catechism of the whole German nation. It has been translated into many languages, and lately into English also. Deharbe’s Catechism is in three numbers. No. -1 is a full Cate chism, specially for higher schools and colleges; No. 2, for advanced parochial schools, and children who are preparing for their First Holy Communion; No. 3 is for beginners. All three numbers are now published by the Catholic Publication Society, New York. They were revised and corrected by an American Bishop, and are, with but very few exceptions, - clear and simple. These Catechisms _are decidedly the best that have ever been published, and we have learned that in many dioceses in the East they have been introduced by the express command of the respective Ordinaries. It is therefore sincerely to be hoped that this may also be the case in the diocese of-Fort Wayne.
Of the Sacred Histories now in use, Bishop Gilmour’s is found in 22 schools. Little need be said of the same; that it is excellent in every respect, no one will deny. I have always found that the children took a delight in learning it. Of all the text-books, this is the most uniform in the schools. Hence very little expense need be incurred in introducing this Sacred History into all the schools.
Of the other text-books, more anon. In order to throw all possible light on these matters, it would be well to have the opinion of other Rev. gentlemen who are well versed in educational affairs.	M.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A. musical dictionary in Magyar has just been brought out in Hungary. Curiously, the Abbe Liszt, although a Hungarian, does not know his native tongue.
—The statue of General Lamoricitire in the Cathedral of Nantes will be unveiled on October the 29th. The Archbishop of Tours, the Bishops of Larissa and Laval, and Senator Baragnon, are to be present.
—The Catholic University of Paris, according to an official statement, numbers about 400 students, and there have been this year 334 examinations in law; 189 before the mixed jury, and 145 before the state jury.
—Mr. Arthur Sullivan for a fortnight now has been back again at his post as conductor and musical director at the Covent Garden promenade concerts, and has, we .are glad to know, completely recovered from his illness.
—The first printing-press set up in Paris was at the Sorbonne. ’ The first to patronize Caxton in England was Thomas Milling, Archbishop of Hertford, and Abbot of Westminster, in which abbey Caxton established his printing office.
—The Rev. Matthew RusselL. S. J. author of “Em-manual,” and editor of the clever Ais/i Monthly magazine, contributes “A Batch of Translations ” to the present number of the Ave Maria. The same will appear in the next number of the Irish Monthly.
—When the art of printing was invented, years before the so-called Reformation, the Church was prompt to appreciate its value and to utilize its services. It was the
Popes who assisted the first printers, the workmen of Faust and Schoffer, on their removal to Rime. •
—The seventh of eight stained-glass lights in the win-dow over Shakespeare’s tomb has been placed lately. It is said to represent the “ Seven Ages of Man.” This window has been so far filled with pictures by means of subscriptions given by citizens of the United States.
—A valuable picture is on exhibition at the Fair held in aid of St. Peter’s Church, Dorchester, Mass. It is a copy of the Madonna from Murillo’s Immaculate Conception. This picture is for sale on shares at fifty cents each. It is valued at $500, and may be seen every evening during the time of the Fair.
—The Paris Globe says that an American millionaire has ordered at Rome a copy of the statue of . St. Peter at the Vatican. That statue has often been copied, though always in a miniature size; but the copy ordered by the American amateur is to be of the size of the original, and of bronze, costing 100,000 francs.
—Dr. Joyce’s new epic poem, “Blanid,” has appeared. It is a grand work, and it places the author’s name in even a nobler niche then “ Deirdre” won. The poem is splendidly published by Roberts Bros., of Boston. The same publishers have just issued, in beautiful form, a third and revised edition of “ Moondyne.”—Boston Pilot.
—The earliest printing-press in Italy was in the monaa tery of St. Scholastica, Subiaco, the productions of which are much sought after on account of their great beauty. In 1474 a book was printed by the Augustinian monks in the monastery of Rheingau. In 1440 a printing-press was set up in the English Abbey of St. Alban’s, and another in the Abbey of Tavistock.
—The Right Rev. Bishop Hedley has had the gratification of seeing his address on “Religion for Children,” published by Messrs. Burns & Oates, reach a second edition. We are convinced, says the Gatholie Times, that this second edition will not be the last. The address, so simple in its language that it may be said to be made up of words of one and two syllables, is full of beauties and full of wisdom.
—One of the Yale College newspapers says: “The defeat of Yale’s crew and ball nine in the past ten or fifteen years has been so continuous that those who really have the muscle and the skill to occupy the different positions keep in the background because of the idea that it is nonsense to train for seven or more months with the surety-of being defeated at the end. This is the shot that strikes into the very vitals of Yale athletic interests and the curse of the college.”
—A statue of Thalberg was recently “ inaugurated ” at Naples. The statue of the great pianist is the work of Monteverde, one of the first sculptors of the day, and has been presented to the city by Mme. Thalberg. The base as well as the figure of the statue are of white marble. The maestro is represented near a stool by a piano-forte; the right arm extended, and the left hand inserted in the pocket of the pantaloons; the coat is closed over the breast by two buttons.
—The late Rev. Joseph. M. Finotti was an industrious collector of books, and amassed a library of great value. His collection of Catholic newspapers issued in this country was probably unrivalled, and he was very rich in the earliest Catholic books printed in this country, especially in such as have a bearing on the history of the Church. In other departments, theological and historical, his library is very valuable. We learn that it is to be sold at auction by Messrs. Bangs & Co. on the 16th, 17th, and 18th of October.—H. F. Tablet.
—Is it fair? Arthur Sullivan, who wrote the music.of “ Pinafore,” gets nearly all the credit of the opera, while W. S. Gilbert, the genius who conceived the pleasant satire, and wholly worked it out in words, writing all the songs and dialogue, is scarcely mentioned. This is wrong. The poet is the better man; without his work the musician could not popularize his strains—he would be a creeper without a tree. The credit Sullivan gets reminds a friend of ours of the remark of an Irish laborer who said he had “ only to carry a hod of bricks up the ladder, and there was a fool up there who did all the work.”—Boston Pilot.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.,
—The Italian Government is about to construct a large observatory on Mount -Etna. A site has been selected at a height of 9,652 feet above the level of the sea. The purity of the atmosphere is so great at this elevation that the planets can be observed with the naked eye almost as well as with telescopes of low power through the thick atmosphere of towns. Venus, when shining alone in the heavens, casts a distinct shadow. This will be the second loftiest observatory in the world, the United States Signal Station at Pike’s Peak, in Colorado, at an elevation of 14,337 feet, being the loftiest station, and, indeed, the loftiest inhabited building of any kind in the world.—Jfc-Gee’s Illustrated Weekly.
—Old Harvard is falling from its high position, according to Zion’s Herald, a late number of which speaks thus: “With the drinking habits now openly prevalent there; with the customs among the students of frequenting Boston nightly, so that Parker’s has been called an outlying branch of Harvard; with frequent attendance upon the most vulgar theatrical performances; with the social worldliness and the liberalistic tendency of thought, philosophical and theological, a young man of any sensibility, with unformed habits and principles, stands an excellent chance of moral ruin when submitted to such a test as is now offered at this ancient and time-honored school.—Democratic Weekly Dispatch.
—The Papyrus Club held its first meeting since the summer vacation at the Revere House, last Saturday night, President John Boyle O’Reilly presiding. Tne attendance was full; Messrs. George F. Babbitt, Benjamin Robbins Curtis, George M. Towle, Henry M. Rogers, B. E. Woolf, Alexander Young, Edgar Parker, Frank Hill Smith, Dr. Frank Harris, Dr. R. D. Joyce, Dr. J. R. Chadwick, Geo. P. Lathrop, F. P. Vinton, W. T. Adams, M. P. Curran, and others being among the gentlemen present. No literary exercises had been provided, but after the members had dined the President called attention to the fact that they met upon the publication day of Dr. Joyce’s poem, Blanid, and Mr. Arthur Dodd was called upon by the chair to read two lyrical passages from that volume. Remarks were then made by several members, on the late William M. Hunt and Henry Adams, who were valued members of the Papyrus. After some further proceedings the club adj oumed, and the remainder of the evening before final dispersion was spent in social converse.—Boston Courier.
.	Scientific. Notes.
—The following compound is claimed to render wood incombustible without affecting its natural color: Sulphate of zinc, 55 pounds; American potash, 22 pounds; American alum, 44 pounds; oxide of manganese, 22 pounds; sulphuric acid of sixty degrees strength, 22 pounds, and water, 55 pounds. The solids are first placed in an iron vessel containing the water at a temperature of 55 degrees centigrade, and when they are dissolved, the sulphuric acid is added in small quantities at a time, until the whole is saturated. The wood is then laid, with half an inch space between each piece, on iron gratings in a suitable apparatus, into which the mixture is pumped until all the spaces are filled. Heat is applied, and the wood is boiled in the mixture for about three hours, when it is taken out and dried for use in the open air. After this treatment, it is said wood resists very intense heat, its surface only being charred slowly, while its fibre remains intact
—The Minute Organisms of Water.—Mr. Starr, of New York, some time ago exhibited in Hartford, Conn., through the compound microscope, a water insect, contained in a drop of water, and in size 1.300dth part of an inch, which the microscope revealed as a large, hungry fellow, carrying in front of his mouth a very complete water-wheel.* This apparatus was seen to be in motion, like'an old-fashioned mill wheel turned by a dam of water, but with this difference—that in the case of the insect’s wheel it was made to revolve by swimming through the water. The revolutions of the wheel, by creating a partial vacuum, drew into the creature’s jaw certain minute living organisms too small even for the compound microscope to determine much about them, beyond the evident fact that
they were eaten alive, and that this water arrangement— itself all invisible to the naked eye—was one of the endless wonders in nature’s provisions for the support of her infinite forms of animal life. Another invisible inhabitant of the water-world was developed by the microscope into a a creature with a graceful, swan-like neck. Another-— brought up from the bottom of Narragansett Bay, and invisible, if we remember rightly, to the unassisted eye—was one of the Tinapetra, a creature of bright hues, and marked on its back with as perfect an anchor as was ever forged. This insect’s colors were produced by polarizing the light, and making a double refraction.
—Stonyhurst Observatory.—Annie O’B. writes:—It will doubtless interest your readers to learn that Stonyhurst Observatory, under the guidance and direction of that distinguished scientist, the Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry, S. J., (M. A, F. R. S., F. R. A. S., etc.), still continues to hold its own in the field of celestial physics, including meteorological and magnetic phenomena—second to none not even the public Observatories of Greenwich, Edinburg and Kew. The meteorological and magnetic work carried out during the past year possess rather more than the usual average of scientificvalue, embracing, as we are informed, the preparation for publication of the observations of Ross ana Crozier at Christmas Harbor, Kerguelen 1840, supplementary to the Paper on the Meteorology of the same locality deduced from the Transit of Venus observations of 1874-75. The meteorological work of the Challenger during her stay at the sam.e island, being also in course of reduction. It is satisfactory to record that, in addition to assisting the Meteorological Office with a weekly report of agricultural statistics of weather, this Observatory is the referee for Catholic physical research (if the expression be permissible) throughout the world—the Manilla Observatory, the meteorological, magnetic, and topographical branch of the mission just formed in the South of Central Africa, and the Observatory of Zi-ka-Wei in China, all working in connection with it. In conclusion, it may, perhaps, be well to add that that versatile, inventive genius—the author of no less than 658 papers on various scientific subjects—whose brilliant scientific career dazzled the world for nearly a quarter of a century, Secchi, first acquired his taste for meterology and astronomy within the walls of Stonyhurst, where he was ordained.—Indo-European Correspondence.
—The Northeast Passage has at length been discovered by a learned descendant of one of the Vikings,. Professor NordenskjOld. The Swedish exploring vessel the “Vega,” which started in July, 1878, reached Yokohama on Thursday with the deed accomplished. On July the 20th the gallant little steamer. passed East Cape, midway through Behring’s Straits, and a salute from the tiny gun on board announced to a frozen world that a memorable feat had been achieved. The splendid success has been splendidly deserved. Leaving Gothenburg on July 4, 1878, the “ Vega,” sighted Nova Zembla on the 28th, and anchored, on that day off a village on the Samoyed peninsula, at the entrance to the'Kara Sea. On August the 1st, last year,' the “Vega ” proceeded very slowly eastwards, dredging and sounding continually. No ice barred the way, for the loose rotten floes that abounded hardly deserved the name, and in five days the steamer was safe in Dickson’s Haven, destined, so says Professor NordenskjSld, to be in future years one of the chief exporting ports of Siberia. Bears were numerous, and reindeer also,- while the vegetation struck the explorers as being very rich. On the 10th, the “Vega” resumed her course, and treading her way through unknown islands, usually bound together by strong bands of ice, but now separated by straits of floating “ sludge,” reached a fine harbor situated in the strait between Taimyr Island and the mainland—Actinia Haven. -Leaving that on the 18th, they coasted northeast, and next evening came to anchor in a bay off Cape Chelyuskin or Severo (or, as a telegram calls it, Cape Tsejdskin), the most northerly point of Asia. This was the first time the formidable headland had been turned. This noble promontory stands in 77 deg. 41 min. N., and 104 deg. 1 min. E. On the 21st the voyage was resumed, and by the 23d they reached the mouth of the Chatanga river, and going on shore shot bears and wild fowl to their hearts’ content, and saw the great colonies of.
I	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	103
loon and gull rise startled from the shore and cliff at this the first invasion of their dwelling-place by man. At Kolnitchin, on the 28th, the “Vega’s engine-fires were put out, and the sails stowed away, and winter life in the pack ice fairly entered upon. For 264 days they remained ice bound, but at last the floes began to thin and scatter, : ' and on July the 18th the “Vega” once more floated, and on the 20th, steaming through Behring’s Straits, fired the mimic salute that told of the great end achieved. Accompanying Professor NordenskjSld are the following officers and staff: Lieutenant Palander, Drs. Kiellman (botanist), and Stuxberg (zoologist), all comrades of their leader in k former fights with Polar terrors; Dr. Almquist and Lieutenants Hovgaard, Brusewitz, Bove, and Nordquist. In the future the result will be the opening up of the trade t of a vast expanse of Asia hitherto sealed to the world, and . the contribution of its products to the world’s markets
Books and Periodicals.
—The Kentucky Military Institute News, a little paper \ published by the Cadets of Kentucky’s famous military r school at Farmdale, Ky., is one of the most regular of our ; exchanges, and a welcome one. The boys get up quite an original little paper, and no doubt it helps to keep things , lively around the K. M. I.
—“Everyday Songs,” a neat little volume of partsongs suitable for schools, has just reached us from the press of Car roll & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. The author, ' Henry Schoeller, has given, besides his own compositions, » a number of the most popular selections from operas, together with an elementary course of 24 pages, and we have no doubt this collection will make its mark among he large number of similar works already published.
—As a proof of the popularity of the “ Vatican Library Series,” we need only say that a copy of the latest issue of s the series, “The Crucifix of Baden and Other Stories,” which was sent us by the publisher and which we intended to notice this week, has disappeared, and neither tale nor J	tidings can be had of it. We had merely time to glance at
f!	it—sufficient, however, to see that there were eighteen (if
:	we remember rightly) stories in the book, and some of
F ■	them, if not all, very choice and interesting ones—as, for
f	instance, “ St. Oren’s Priory,” etc., (which we had previ-
>	ously read). If we can get back the book we will try to
give it such a notice as it deserves and space permits; in case it should not be returned, well, all we can say is that we would advise all our readers who have not yet got j	“The Crucifix of Baden and Other Stories,” to send 25 cts.
si	immediately to Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay St., New York,
and a copy of it will be sent them. Such as act on our suggestion will thank us for calling attention to the “ Vati-' can Library Series,” and to this number of it in particular. '	—Donahoe's Magazine for October gives a fine list of ar-
ticles, keeping this magazine fully up to the high standard of previous numbers. The following are the principal articles of the present number, with several of shorter ones i on various subjects: I, Irish and English Freemasons, and *	their Foreign Brothers; H, Monument to Pdre Marquette—
Poem of Rev. Father Cronin; HI, Young Mortara’s Scath-F	ing Reply to a French Deputy; IV, That Meek Young Man
with the Spectacles; V, The Italian Renaissance; VI,'The Thundering Legion; VII, The Bar-Life of O’C nnell; / VIII, The Lady-Killer, a Drama for Children; IX, The / Archangel Raphael; X, The ‘.Battle-Fields of Catholics;
XI, The Origin and Growth of St. Joseph’s Union, etc., together with the usual Departments of “ Useful Knowledge,” '	“Humor,” “ Gaelic Department,” “YoungFolks,” Current
Events, etc. Donahoe's Magazine is chiefly eclectic, and Uie >~r. editor shows discernment, and makes good use of the wide field before him. The magazine is ably edited, and deserving of patronage. Its low price places it witbin the reach of nearly everybody. 480 pages of choice reading-matter monthly for $2 a year. The veteran Patrick Donahoe is the editor. Published by T. B., Noonan & Co., Boston, Mass. <	—Our excellent contemporary, the North-Western Chron-
•' ide, of St. Paul, Minn., has been scourging the human , fiends of that city for some time past, and with a splendid f.	result, as the following extract from a late number of the
paper will show: “The result of our war against the soulkillers of St. Paul may be summed up. One paper stopped, with no loss to this office, but at a sad loss to ex-subscriber’s family; one saloon sold out; the backdoor, private entrance, and dark chamber of another closed; Satan’s Sunday congregation at the brewery dispersed; the other dives forbidden to sell liquor to women and minors, under penalty of forfeiting license: the police on the gui mne to capture the first offender; all saloon-keepers enraged, vowing vengeance, and threatening to mob the Chronicle office; the law-abiding citizens of St. Paul loud in praise of the Chronicle's course; and the Chronicle staff, from the fighting editor down to the printer’s devil, unanimously resolved to ferret out all the agencies of the demon in the city, and to make them objects of public execration. In conclusion, a word of warning to a certain saloon on Seventh Street.” We wish the Chronidesnacessin its praiseworthy undertaking, which we watched with interest from the beginning, and which, we were glad to see, was conducted without any of that nauseous personality or grossly offensive language that characterize such undertakings on the part of the secular press. Every respectable.household in St. Paul should show their appreciation of the Chronicle's work by subscribing for the paper.
Society Notes.
—The Thespians will hold their meeting Saturday night.
—The St. Cecilians held an informal meeting Tuesday afternoon. They discussed several large cakes and other edibles.
—The Columbian Club held their regular meeting Thursday night. Speeches were made by Messrs. Spalding, Keenan, Claggett, and Simms. Rev. Father Condon, C. S. C., was elected an honorary member of the Association, and Bros. Theodore, Marcellinus and Timothy were elected promoters.
—At the 4th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association, held on the 12ih inst., the following were the principal deciaimers: Masters Castanedo, Vedder, H. and W. Devitt, Becker, N. Nelson, P. Nelson, Start, J. Boose, Rettig, A. Coghlin, Guynn, P. Nelson, Cabel, and Rheinboldt.
—The Philodemic Literary Society held its third regular meeting Tuesday evening, Oct. 14th. Mr. Clarke read an essay. The question—“Is the reading of works of fiction more beneficial than*injurious? ” was discussed by Messrs. Burger and Berteling on the affirmative, and Messrs. Russell and McGorrisk on the negative.
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Edward’s Literary Club was held on Wednesday, October 15th. An essay was read by Master D. Clune, on “ The Camel.” Declamations were delivered by T. O’Hara and M. Buchmeier. Masters C. Heithaus, T. Victory, T. Arthur, P. Crowley, W. Fitzpatrick, A. Brown and J. O’Donnell were elected members.
—The seventh regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Society was held Tuesday evening, Oct. the 14th. Master F. Quinn read an essay. The principal declamations were delivered by W. McCarthy, E. Orrick, A. J. Buerger, F. Grever, C. Tinley, Jos. O’Neill. Readers for this week are M. J. Burns, W. McCarthy, E. Orrick, G. Foster, J. Weitzel, and Jos. O’Neill. Master J. McDermott was admitted to membership. A lively debate will take place at the next meeting.
—The 6th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association took place Thursday evening, Oct. 16th. Masters J. Garrity, T. Van Mourick, W- Hanavin, J. Farrelly, G. Woodson and E. Howard delivered declamations. The society is fortunate in the possession of a piano, and as several members have excellent voices, the meetings are made'entertaining with vocal and instrumental music, Among those who sang at this meeting were Masters Snee, Woodson, Garrick, Welty and Farrelly. Master Jos. Courtney was elected Secretary in place of Leo Spalding, who resigned.
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4

Notre Dame, October 18, 1S79.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thibteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip oi the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Eostpaid.,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Very Bev. Father Sorin’s Feast-Day.
The gala day par excellence of the students of Notre Dame, is St. Edward’s day—the feast of Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., the venerable founder of the institution. It is looked forward to by every one, young and old, as a day of joy and festivity. In former years the exercises of the day "were ushered in by the reading of congratulatory addresses and a play in Washington Hall, the evening previous. This year, however, it was found impossible to follow the usual programme. Washington Hall—or as it has been known since the fire, “Hotel de Washington”—was occupied by the workmen, who use if as a dormitory, and there was no other place in which an exhibition could be conveniently given; consequently the students had to limit themselves in their exercises, and be content with offering, through a few representatives, their congratulations to Very Rev. Father General on the return of his feast and the successful issue of the great work which had been commenced only a few short months before—to replace what had been destroyed on the memorable 23d of April last. After Vespers on Sunday they accordingly repaired to the grand rotunda in the new building, where addresses were read by representatives of the various departments of the University. The address of the Minims was read by Master Jos. Courtney, and those of the Seniors and Juniors by Messrs. Thos. W. Simms and W. J, McCarthy respectively. The Latin address was read by Mr. Jno. Berteling, the Greek by Mr. J. B. McGrath, the French by Master Le Bourgeois, and the German by Master J. T. Homan. After felicitating him on the happy continuance of his life-work, which many had feared the fire of last spring had brought to an untimely end, they expressed their regret at their inability for want of a suitable place to get up a greater demonstration in his honor, but hoped to have that pleasure at no distant day. At the conclusion of the addresses, and the excelleht music by the
band, Very Rev. Father General thanked the students for their kind wishes, and told them he never felt happier in his life than then. He was particularly glad to meet them in the rotunda, where he could hear and see all of them so well, and which he thought was an improvement upon the Exhibition Hall even for the purpose for which it was temporarily used. He said he would be pleased to meet them frequently- in the same place, especially after the completion of the dome, which he assured them should be finished early next spring, if not sooner. He stated also that it was the intention of the authorities to push forward as rapidly as possible the work on the new Music Hall, and have it ready for use at the earliest possible date. This, he said, should be especially interesting to them, as this building, a gem of architecture, was to be entirely for their benefit. After a few more words of encouragement and advice, he again thanked them for their kindness, when all retired pleased with themselves and everybody else.
These exercises constituted only the prologue, as it were, of the celebration proper of the day to revive in the hearts of all former participants, the same happy feelings so often felt before, to tell all the new-comers the reason of their joy, and instil into their hearts the same, that they might be united upon the following morning in giving forth the general expressions of happiness proper to the occasion, and rendering its celebration an entire success. This we can safely say was accomplished in all its parts. Even Old Sol remained true to his task; in fact we feel inclined to charge him with a slight over-enthusiasm—which was, however, we know, an excusable fault to all the boys.
The day opened bright and cheerful, and at 8 o’clock a. m. all joined together in that first exercise so becoming to the programme of the day—the solemn celebration of the Mass—to show that they realized whence these joys and blessings came, and thank the generous Giver for them. It was sung by Very Rev. Father General, Very Rev. Father Granger being deacon and Rev. Father L’Etoufneau subdeacon. After Mass, visits were made by the Faculty and by the members of the different houses of the Community, to greet Father General, with the appropriate sentiments of joy and congratulation. The College Faculty was represented in an able manner by Prof. Wm. Ivers, whose address we have heard spoken of by all who attended, in terms of the highest praise, as one both beautiful and eloquent. After this came the out-door sports, which were indeed more than good. Entered into with interest and animation by all the students, they were kept up until evening, suspended only for a short time at noon, that all might partake of the bountiful feast prepared, which is, by the way, an indispensable feature of the festival, and which was appreciated and enjoyed by all, we know.
The field-sports were composed of • those peculiar to the day, consisting of foot-races, sack-races, hurdle-races, throwing, jumping, etc., and for all of which there were numerous and handsome prizes. They were carried out by each department in its turn, and enjoyed by all the rest. As to the description of each, and the names of all the victorious participants, our local reports afford a full and extended account; suffice it to say here, that they were highly enjoyed by all taking a hand in them and very interesting to the crowd of spectators that looked on. One thing, however, we noticed of which we feel bound to speak, and that is the excellent and gentlemanly behavior of all the students throughout the day, their orderly conduct and the truly magnanimous and friendly feeling

4
5
1
4 4
j!
A
•j
1
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	105
shown in all the games; free entirely from any of those quarrelsome contentions or jealous words which are so apt to occur in these exciting contests, all seemed to strive to make each other happy, and proud to see another win. This was not only deserving of the greatest praise for the boys, but highly creditable to the kind and able prefects who had charge over them.
Thus passed off pleasantly our festal day, bringing the same joy that it always bespeaks, and the usual number of happy incidents and scenes, long to be remembered by those participating in its celebration.
<•
L'
>

Personal.
—J. J. Fitzgibbon, ’62, was one of the visitors here on St. Edward’s day.
—Mrs. Phillips and Mrs. Wolf, of Fort Wayne, and Mrs. Cole of Peru, Ind., were among the visitors who came to see their sons last Wednesday.
—We are pleased to see that Mr. Thomas Hansard, who was a student here, in ’76, is now connected with our valued contemporary the Catholic, Universe, in the capacity of travelling agent.
—We had the pleasure of a call last Thursday from Mr. D. J. Wile, of ’71, and Mr. Alanson T Bliss, of Laporte, both of whom were engaged as counsel in a case in the South Bend law courts.
—Mrs. Rhodius and Mrs. Hug, of Indianapolis; Mrs. Bachman, of Noblesville; Mr. Tourtillotte, of Toledo; and Mr. Claggett, of Lexington, Ill., were among the visitors on Father Sorin’s feast-day.
—From the Lafayette Sunday Times, the columns of which paper is crammed with city news and gossip, we learn that Mr. John F. McHugh (of ’73) haa a case in the Circuit Court there last Monday. It this or any case that he has-taken up were lost, we feel sure it was not the fault of Counsellor McHugh.
—Hon. Patrick Gibbons, who has resided for the past two years at South Bend,1 has lately returned to his home at Keokuk, Iowa. South Bend and Notre Dame have found in Air. Gibbons a highly intelligent as well as energetic and public-spirited gentleman, and his departure will be regretted by the large circle of friends whom his genial qualities have made for him.
—We were gratified to learn from a circular recently issued by the mercantile house of Philip Chaves, Belen, New Mexico, that Mr. Chaves had entered into liquidation and taken into partnership his son-in-law, Mr. Vicente M. Baca, of the Commercial Class of ’73. The house, which is one of the strongest and most substantial business houses in New Mexico, will hereafter be known by the firm-name of Philip Chaves & Son. Mr. Baca has our congratulations and best wishes.
—Mr. W. T. Ball, of ’77, was at the College on Monday, St. Edward’s day. On Tuesday he took dinner with Vice-President Walsh in the Junior refectory, and when the signal for recreation was given the large apartment resounded with lusty hand-clapping, given in greeting to the former Phil-opatrian and St. Cecilian—for Mr. Ball, when a Junior, belonged successively to both societies. Mr. Ball says Mr. x Berdel, another of the Cecilian graduates, promises a visit. We feel sure the new boys will give him as hearty a welcome.
—Rev. Father Kielty, of ’53, is the energetic paster" of the church of the Immaculate Conception, St. houls, Mo.—Notre Dame Scholastic of the 20th Sept.—1. That isn’t the way to spell his name. It should, be K-e-i-l-t-y. 2. Father Keilty was at the church of the Immaculate Conception some eleven years ago, when it was on Eighth and Chesnut, but that parish is abolished, and a new one of the same name formed uptown. 3. Father Keilty is rector of the church of the Holy Angels. 4. Bev. P. F. O’Reilly is rector of the church of the Immaculate* Conception. 5. Father Keilty was not one of the class of ’53: he taught at Notre Came in ’52. 6. He is energetic and that’s about all the truth in the “Scholastic’s.” item. 7. Hasn’t the “Scholastic” a“ Sadlier’s Oirectory?”— Western Watchman, St. Louis, Mo.
In republishing the above excerpt from the columns of
the Watchman it may be necessary to say that it is given letter for letter from that paper. By reading it carefully the editor of the Watchman can at once see that types are not always to be depended on, and a word written one way may appear differently in print. For. instance, we did not say Rev. Father Keilty was “paster” of the Church of the Immaculate Conception, nor do we think the editor of the Watchman intended to charge us with saying so; yet that is the way the Watchman prints the word. This may do to excuse our misspelling of the name. As to the 2d, 3d and 4th clauses, we presume me editor of the Watchman is right, as he is in a position to know the facts. In regard to clause No. 5, we did not say that Father Keilty was of the Class of ’53, but ’53 was his last year here; and, further, Father, then Mr., Keilty, was not a teacher at Notre Name in ’52, nor at any other time that we have been able-to discover. He is hooked here as a strident 'in ’51, ’52 and ’53, as we have been at the trouble of ascertaining since the Watchman's note in correction appeared. If he ever taught here, his classmates would be likely to know of it, and their memory goeth not str far. Furthermore, if he were a teacher in ’52 he would hardly have taken part in the Commencement Exercises of ’53 as’ a student, when “ Slasher and Crasher ” was on the boards, and Mr. Keilty (now Rev. Father Keilty), with other students who have since become excellent priests, took a part in it.
Local Items.
—Warm.	----
—Can’t pull.
—Dear George!
—Grease your boat.
—I’ll bet on Boston.
—The Band plays well.
—Hurrah for the Band 1
—Field-day was glorious.
—You will run, will you?
—Don’t dispute the umpire.
• —The regatta has been postponed.
—It wasn’t a “ circuitous ” on a stick.
—The dome will be erected in the spring.
—The Seniors’ address was well delivered.
—The athletes slept soundly Monday night.
—Straw hats and linen dusters are d la mode.
—Considerable excitement among aquatic men.
—Tn what direction do you turn around the buoy?
—Who is the guilty man in the Philosophy Class ?
—Very Rev. Father Sorin is in his sixty-sixth year.
—Desmoines is well represented, and still they come.
—The steps leading to the Sepulchre need repairing.
—Our friend John failed to procure his dejeuner on Monday.
—The Sophomores extinguished themselves on Fieldday.
—Warm is not expressive enough, the heat is simply intense.
—Where did the winning crew of last Wednesday leave their buoy?
—The Buckeyes are the best and the worst boys in the University.
—Show your love for literature by helping to found a good library.
—The new addition to the navy is well built and beautifully shaped.
—Monsig. Capel is expected to visit here during his stay in this country.
—Jones forgot to grease his tub, consequently he didn’t win the scrub-race.
—A greased boat-race was substituted for the greased pig-race last Monday.
—The rotunda and the corridors leading to it make a fine place for public exercises.
106
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The students’ retreat, we presume, will come off at the end of the month, as usual.
—The Literary Entertainment reflected credit on all thoses who took part in the exercises.
—President Corby has the thanks of the students for the prizes given them on Field-day.	■
—The new crew of the Minnehaha ought to invite their coxswain to resign his position.
—The oldest settlers say they have never experienced a warmer October than the present.	<
—The boat-race on the thirteenth was the most exciting one ever rowed on St. Joseph’s Lake.
—The rotunda and refectories were beautifully draped and decorated on our founder’s feast.
—Competitions this week in the course of Modern Languages, Fine Arts and special branches.
—Judge Spalding has several important cases to dispose of at the next session of the moot court.
—We hear that the Right Rev» Bishop will soon confer Holy Orders on one of our young levites. -
—Who took the “ Crucifix of Baden ” ? Anyone having it will confer a favor by returning it to us.
—The regular monthly visit of the-Director of Studies to the Preparatory Department is now going on.
—Ohio men direct four departments of the University,— the Scientific, Law, Commercial, and the Musical.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin, had twenty-two private audiences with the late Holy Father Pius, the Glorious.
—When you want your boat to glide swiftly through'the ■water, grease it well before daylight with fresh butter.
—The cresting on the ridge of the roof and the crosses on the gables of the College were put in place this week.
—Bro. Frederick and his faithful assistants are kept busy painting, graining, and otherwise decorating the new buildings.
—The professor of Physics expects to go to Indianapolis next week to purchase several instruments for his department.
—It will contribute very much to the improvement of the singing in the church if all would sing in their proper choir.
—The ex-Minims hold head positions in their new classes. This speaks well for those who had charge of them last year.
—How did that chair get on the top of that 50-foot tree ? Probably it was intended for the President of the Horticultural Bureau?
—Who can tell us what has become of the picture of Father Badin which used to hang on the parlor walls of the old, old College ?
—The Seniors enjoyed their sans souci sociable in their recreation hall, St. Edward’s eve. Claggett’s band furnished the music, and Dan did the calling.
—The Medics indulged in holiday expressions on Fieldday. One of their number, Mr. Ashe, of Memphis, came out second best in the running race.
—Ike is making progress in etymology,—he thinks he has discovered that Elizabeth is formed from Clovis. Thus: Clovis, Lovis, Louis, Louise, Louisa, Lisa, Elizabeth.
—Of the devoted band of Brothers who came with Father Sorin to found Notre Dame, only one remains, Bro. Xavier, who is now a hale and hearty man of sixty.
—It was universally admitted that the third oarsman of the Minnehaha in the boat-race on Wednesday distinguished himself both by his strength and the graceful movements of his oar and body.
—Master Frank Phillips, of Fort Wayne, Ind., had the best bulletin in the Junior Department for the month of September. Hereafter we will publish the names of the three students in each Department who receive the best bulletins.
—The South-Bend Herald of Wednesday publishes a finely written editorial notice of the work done here since the fire. We would like to reprint it, to show our friends ,
abroad what the neighbors think, but must postpone it till next week.
—Prof. Ivers’s address to Very Rev. Father General on St. Edward’s Day is spoken of as a touching and eloquent effort. At the close he received the warm congratulations of the other members of the Faculty, for whom he had acted as spokesman.
—The Professor of Astronomy acknowledges with thanks the receipt from Washington of Nautical Almanacs for the years 1876,-’77,-’79,-’80, and ’81. These have been kindly sent by the Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac Office, to replace those lost in the great fire.
—The statement that afforded the students the most pleasure in the address of Very Rev. Father General, on Sunday evening last, was the announcement that it was the intention of the authorities to complete the recreation and exhibition halls without delay, and have them ready if possible by Easter.
—The impromptu boat-race rowed on St. Joseph’s Lake, Wednesday afternoon, was the source of much merriment to a large crowd of spectators. A number of Freshmen manned the Minnehaha, and several Sophomores paddled the Hiawatha. The Freshmen came out one length ahead of the Sophomores. Of course no crabs were caught!
—Bro. Augustus and his assistants in the tailor-shop are kept busy making nobby suits, so much so that the director of the shop had to go to Chicago this week for a new supply of goods. He is furnished with choice samples of merchandise by the principal dealers in Chicago and the East, and the care which he take's to have the most approved styles and to give a neat fit cannot fail to satisfy his customers.
—An interesting game of baseball was played on St. Edward’s day between two picked nines of the Minim Department. Captain Woodson’s nine won the prize offered for the winning side. They were composed of the following: Guy Woodson, F. Mattes, G. P. Van Mourick, G. Tourtillotte, J. A. Kelly, J. N. Courtney, Wm. Cool-baugb, J. Chaves, and W. Hanavin. Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., acted as umpire. Score, 10 to 6.
—Brother Robert, in whom the horticultural spirit has survived the great calamity, takes occasion from the remarkable spell of growing weather experienced since the beginning of October, to remodel the little garden between our office and the Infirmary. We there observe the first sacred words of the Angelic Salutation appearing in a growth of pinks, whose aromatic odor next spring will do fragrant homage to the sacred words they convey.
—To-morrow, the Feast of the Purity of the Blessed Virgin, Missa Panulorum, page 38 of the Kyridle, will be sung. Vespers of the Blessed Virgin, page 37 of the Vesperal. (The Hymn proper to the feast is not in our books.) 1st Commemoration—Similabo, page 52; 2d Commemoration of the 20th Sunday after Pentecost, Cognovit, page 106 of the Vesperal. The boys would do well to make a memorandum of these notes every week and put it in their books.	.	,
—The careful educator will always seek practical illustrations of the principles he inculcates: so, if you are teaching a class in conic sections, you can bring in the new tables in some such shape as this: Now, gentlemen, let us suppose that you sit at an elliptical table, the cruets occupying the foci, the major axis being ten feet in length and the eccentricity one-third. If the longitude of your perihelion is thirty degrees, how long must your radius vector be to reach the mustard-pot ? This will be turning the tables on your class. .	/
—The Curator of the Museupl returns thanks to Mr. Ruppe, of Michigan, for beautiful specimens of native copper from the Lake Superior region; to a friend in Burlington, Iowa, for a valuable collection of minerals, shells etc.; to Dr. Jno. Cassidy, of South Bend, for a number of rare and curious coins; and to a friend of science for a collection of specimens of agate, jasper, carnelian and amethyst. He also gratefully acknowledges and returns his thanks for a very handsome donation to the Cabinet of Numismatics, as also the receipt of an interesting collection
*

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
107
r*-
I5"1
of quartz crystals, from Mr. John G. Brady of Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
—The Band, which added so much to the entertainment on last Sunday, is certainly deserving of a great deal of ' praise. No organization had been effected up to 10 o’clock of the same day, the musical director was unwell, but the former members of the Band, headed by L. J. Evers, resolved that the 13th should not pass without instrumental music. They therefore met, practiced, and in the evening played so beautifully that ever since only words of praise for them have been heard. Bravo, boys! You did well in showing your appreciation of the day, by doing the best you could—which was splendid.
—The field sports on St; Edward’s day in the Minim Department were much enjoyed by the little fellows. Their efforts to succeed in carrying off prizes in the different contests were encouraged by the presence of a large number of their friends,—their near neighbors, the jolly Juniors, being the most numerous. The prize in first footrace was won ex aqua by G. P. Van Mourick, of Detroit; F. Mattes, Desmoines, Iowa. 2d foot-race—Geo. Tourtil-lotte, Toledo, Ohio. 3d foot-race—Frank Garrity, Chicago, Ill. 1st hurdle-race—Guy Woodson, Cheyenne, Col. 2d hurdle-race—A. Schmuckle, Fort Wayne, Ind. 3d hurdle-race—Harry Kitz, Indianapolis, Ind. 1st three-legged race—Wm. Hanavin, Columbus, Ohio, and Marshall Olds, Columbus, Ohio. 2d—Jno. A. Kelly, Washington, D. C., and Jose Chaves, Belen, New Mexico. 1st throwingmatch—James Courtney, Washington, D. C. 2d throwing match—Jos. Courtney, Washington, D. C. Best time in velocipede race—A. Van Mourick, Detroit. 2d best time— Chas. Droste, Cincinnati.
—The 1st prize for the great trial of endurance among a few of the Seniors, the run around the Campus, was won by Joseph R. Kelly, of St. Louis, Mo., who ran 7J4 miles in one hour. The 2d prize was won by H. Ashe, of Memphis, Tenn., who made 6% miles in one hour. The 1st Senior prize for the hurdle-race was won by J. Jordan, of Decatur, Mich., and the 2d prize by Geo. Pike, of Waverly, Ky. The 1st prize for the first foot-race was won by J. Jordan; the 2d by L. Stitzel, of Loudonville, Ohio. The 1st prize in the 2d foot-race was won by B. J. Claggett, of of Lexington, Ill., and the 2d prize by R. Keenan, of Lindsay, Ont. The prize for the three-legged race was won by Frank Bell, of Lima, Ohio, and A. Lent, of Waterloo, Ind. First prize for bag-race was won by Frank Bell, of Lima, Ohio, and the 2d prize by R. Campbell, of Taylorsville, Ky. First prize tor throwing ball, was won by J. Jordan, and the 2d prize by Theodore Campbell, of Taylorsville, Ky. The prize for standing-jump was won by J. Jordan and A. J. Burger.
—An exciting game of base-ball was played between the second nine of the Star of the East, of the Senior Department, and the Junior nine. The following is the score:
JUNIORS.
R.
0.
STAR OF THE EAST.
R.
0.
O’Connor, c..... Scheid, p.......
Rock, s. s...... Hellebusch, 1 b.. Gibbons, 2 b.... Klein, 3 b ..... Bodine, 1. f...... J. McCarthy, c. f. Dever, r. f.....
Total
Innings.
Juniors.
Star of the East.
1
1 0
3
1
1
2
1
1
4
4
5
1
3
4
3
3
3
Pike, c......... Campbell, p.... Ashe, lb....... Stitzel, s. s.. Clarke, 2 b.... Mug, 3 b....... McNamara, 1. f. Molitor, c. f...
Marlette, r. f....
3
2
1 0
0
0
1
1
2 3
3
4
5
3
5
2
3
11
T"
30
3
Total
4
5
6
7
8
9
. 9
16“
30
1 0
0 0
1
1
4
0
0
2
1
4
0
0
1
0
1
2
2 0
11
9
F. T. Dever of the Junior nine distinguished himself in right field by his fine playing.	_
Scorer—C. Tinley. Umpire—A. Rietz.
—At the very mention of St. Edward’s day and its “ fieldsports,” memories of the past crowd upon us—going back as far as seven years ago, when the writer beheld for the first time at Notre Dame those trials of endurance and skill
for which St. Edward’s day is famous. But few who participated in them then are here now to enjoy them. What a number of old and familiar faces have vanished! What a number of familiar voices echo out of the past! Seven years have made a great change, but St. Edward’s day is ever the same, and while recording the deeds of the living present, we must in simple justice say they were entered into with the same vim that characterized the games of old, and awakened the same interest and enthusiasm. First in order came the foot-races. The Juniors were separated into three divisions, according to age. The largest boys ran the first race, which was a closely contested one. J. K. Schobey, of Danville, Ill., came in first; G. Foster, Yankton, Dakota, second. The second foot-race was won by C. A. Tinley, of Covington, Ky., with J. Guthrie, of Carroll, Iowa, closely behind him. In the third, L. W. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio ,was the victor, H. Guynn coming in second. . Next on the programme was the hurdle-races, which not only gave good muscular exercise but were also a source of fun. The boys were divided as in the foot-races. The reason for so doing is, that the students in the Junior Department range from thirteen to seventeen years of age. Quite a large number of the ablest-bodied Juniors entered for this race. They were drawn up in line about twenty paces from the first hurdle. At the word “go,” it is perhaps superfluous to say that they went. Master B. made a graceful finish in the unprecedented time of three seconds, but unfortunately he made it at the first hurdle, over which he executed a double somersault that would have kindled enthusiasm in the heart of the average showman. Master Dever, of Ashland, Ky., immediately took the lead, when suddenly he diminished his chances by making a sudden “spurt,” amidst the most intense enthusiasm. But the flight was a short one. On one of the last hurdles, he was observed to fall like a shooting star, and strike a graceful and becoming attitude. Whether he assumed this position in the~wild exhilaration of the moment, or was forced to it by the attraction of gravitation, we cannot say. • A smile of hope now stole over the features of H. Rose, of Evansville, Ind., and it was confidently expected that he would come in first, which he eventually did. Mr. J. P. O’Neill, of Salt Lake, Utah, who kept close on Master Rose’s tracks, gracefully skipped over the hurdles and became the successful candidate for the second premium. The second and third hurdle-races were a repetition of the first. The second was won by F. Rettig, of Wabash, Ind., J. M. Kelly, of Chicago, taking the second place and prize. The third race was won by Sherman Dering, of Anderson, Ind., A. Rheinboldt, of Cincinnati, coming second. Next came the “three-legged” race, which from its title would suggest the idea that none but extraordinary phenomena in the shape of three-legged men could engage in it. However, nature not having furnished a supply of the triped individuals, the race is performed by couples having their inside legs bound together. Alex Rietz and Frank Phillips were soon swathed in a twin-like embrace. M. J. Burns kept looking around for a partner, and finally induced R. McCarthy to encase his inner limb with his, and the latter went through the tying and trying performance with that calm resignation and confidence of expression observable in the eye of a gallinacious fowl when undergoing a like operation. In a short time some ten or twelve were prepared, and waiting patiently for the signal. When the word was given they bounded off, amid a shout from the spectators. Masters Burns and McCarthy commenced with a slow motion, like that of an engine, but gradually increased the speed until, towards the end, they came within a hair’s breadth of winning; but, as we have often heard a miss is as good as a mile, and so it happened here—Alex and Frank bearing off the palm. Masters Burns and McCarthy came in second, and were awarded the prize. P. Nelson of Chicago and O. Farrelly of the same city took first prize in the second race. C. Brinkman of Terre Haute, Ind., and F. Grever, of Cincinnati, were the victors in the second race. The first sack-race was won by R. O’Connor, of Chicago,—J. F. Brown, of Brownsville, Texas, taking the second prize. The second sack-race was won by P. Rasche, of Oakland, Maryland;—C. J. Burmeister, of Chicago, taking the 2d prize. The third race was won by A. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, and S. Dering of Andersonville, Ind. The burden race, in which every student carried another
108	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'.
I
on his back, was taken by E. A. Otis, of Lincoln, -Dakota. The first prize for standing jump was taken by G. Foster, Dakota; 2d prize, J. Gordon, Cairo, III.; 3d prize, H. Guynn, of Chicago. The last of the field-sports was a trial of endurance, in which Alex Rietz of Chicago won the 1st prize, F. J. Rettig the second, S. Dering the third. So ended the athletic sports in the Junior Department on St. Edward’s day.
[From the South-Bend Daily Tribune.]
St. Edward’s Day.
HOW IT WAS OBSERVED AT NOTRE DAME.
St. Edward’s day has long been considered as one of the greatest festival days of the year. The veneration for the tounder, Very Rev. E. Sorin, is so great that all, from the Faculty down to the^smallest Minim, do everything in their power to show their esteem for him who has done so much to make Notre Dame what it is. This year, owing to the fact that Washington Hall is still occupied by the workmen, all histrionic effort had necessarily, though to the grief of the St. Cecilians and Thespians, to be dispensed with. However, on last evening the students were called together in the rotunda, which was beautifully decorated with festoons of evergreen and white and pink ornaments. Life-sized likenesses of Pius IX and Very Rev. Fr. Sorin occupied prominent positions. An improvised brass band was organized for the occasion, and furnished all the music—playing nearly a dozen pieces, and doing it exceedingly well. All having been comfortably seated, addresses were given in various languages. The Juniors were represented as follows: W. J. McCarthy, English; R. Le Bour-• geois, French; and J. Homan, German. The Seniors chose the following representatives: J. Berleling, Latin; J. B. McGrath, Greek, and J. Simms, English.
The address of Mr. Simms is spoken of as a model of good English, and was delivered with a power and sonorousness of voice showing the materials for a finished speaker in course of time. The Minims’ choice for speaker was Master Courtney, who read clearly and distinctly. At the conclusion of the addresses Very Rev. Father Sorin arose and thanked the students for their good wishes, and assured them that the work on the rotunda should be continued until the cold weather would necessitate a cessation, and should be resumed in the spring and pushed to completion. He reiterated his thanks, good-nights were said, and all retired pleased with what had been said and done. This morning at 8 a. m., Solemn High Mass was sung, with Very Rev. E. Sorin as celebrant, Very Rev. A. Granger, deacon, and Rev. L. L’Etourneau subdeacon. The singing was excellent; but, although some words from the Very Rev. Father General were expected, he being wearied did not give them. After Mass the Faculty in a body called to tender their congratulations. Their spokesman was Prof. W-Ivers; ana he in a few well chosen words tendered the good wishes of the Faculty, expressed the joy of the teaching body at the grand and wonderful lesurrection of Notre Dame, and the hope that Very Rev. Fr. Sorin would long be spared to guide the affairs of the Congregation of the
-- Holy Cross. The Father then returned thanks for the kind words spoken, encouraged all to renewed exertions to make Notre Dame still more useful, blessed the Faculty and its labors; whereupon the body adjourned to President Corby’s parlors and passed a half hour in social converse.
At 10 a. m. a boat-race was on the programme, but owing to some misconception of the proper use of hog’s lard (it was never intended as an aid in such performances) the race was declared off
Foot-races, hurdle-races, sack-races, and pig-races occupied the time to noon. The dinner was an exceptionally good one, and was highly relished by the young athletes of the morning. This afternoon is devoted to baseball, more races, etc. The prospects are that St Edward’s day of ’79 will long be held in grateful remembrance by all concerned.
KoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those'whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.)
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Ashe, R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, M. T. Bums, J. P. Brice, W. Boulger, J. B. Berteling, F. W. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, F. Bell, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, J. Casey, B. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R. 8. Campbell, D. Donohue, Geo. Donnelly, J. Delaney, L. Duginger, H. Deehan, J. Dempsey, M. English, E. Fogarty, AL Falvey, E. Gooley, I. Gittings, C.Hagan, F. Humbert, J.Halloran, D. Harrington, A Hayden, G. Harris, T. EUndeling, J. Jordan, R. L. Johnson, AM. Keenan, J. Keena, J. R. Kelly, J. Kurz, F. Kinsella, A. A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, P. McCormick, W. B. McGorrisk, Ed. McGorrisk, J.-B. McGrath, L. Marantette, J. J. McErlain, AL J. McEniry, J. R. Marlette, E. Alurphy, Ed. Molitor, J. D. AIcRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, W. Magee, J. F. Alug, L. Mathers, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, G. Nester, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Pike, H. Pollock, R. E. Russell, J. Rogers, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, S. T. Spalding, T. W. Simms, T. Summers, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, W. Schofield, J. Strawn, J. Solon, L. C. Smith, F. C. Smith, J. S. Smith, Joseph S. Smith, S. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, C. B. Van Dusen, J. AlcNa-mara, F. Wall, H. Matthew, W. ’Wilson, A Zahm, T. Zeien, C. H. Zarley, P. F. Shea, J. Carter. J. Brady, Thos. Kavanagh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Brown, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, J. M. Boose, A. A Burmeister, T. P. Byrne, A. A. Bodine, H. Bachmann, Frank Becker, AL J. Burns, G. C. Castenado, F. L. Carter, J. V. Gabel, A. A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, L. Cole, A. AL Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, T. F. Devitt, S. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, E. H. Gaines, M. E. Herrick, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Herrmann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, L. R. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, F. McPhillips, C. J. B. Weitzel, C. J. McDermot, J. L. Alorgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy. R. E. AlcCarthy, A. S. Manning, S. E. Alere-dith, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neill, E. A Otis, G. A Orr, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A R. Kheinboldt, Alex. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, F. J. Rettig, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A S. Rock, J. AL Scanlan, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Sehobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, F. C. Scheid, C. A. Tinley, C. H. Theile, M. C. Vedder, W. T. Weney.	'
MINIM DEPARTMENT..
C. L. Garrick, G. P. Van Mourick, D. G. Taylor, J. M. Courtney, W. R, Coolbaugh, W. H. Hanavin, G. Woodson, J. S. Courtney, W. AL Olds, C. E. Droste, L. Spaulding, F. J. Leach, G. E. Tourtillotte, J. S. Chaves, J. A Kelly, J. E. Johnson, J. H. Dwenger, J. H. Garrity, F. I. Garrity, H. A. Kitz, E. N. O’Donnell, L. J. Young. A. F. Schmiickle, J. W. Bannister, E. A Howard, C. J. Young, F. B. Farrelly, J. R. Bender, C. V. O’Malley, W. J. Wright.	_

>
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past	'
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. B. McGrath, A. J. Burger, J. P. Kinney, J. B. Berteling, F. W. Bloom, R. H. Russell, M. McEniry, R. O’Brien, R. Stewart, B. J. Claggett, M. T. Burns, G. Sugg, J. Norfleet, W. B. McGorrisk, A Zahm, AL J. Burns, W. J. McCarthy, T. Simms
List of ExceHenee.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy*----; Logic—T. Campbell, W. McGorrisk ; Latin—J. B. McGrath, F. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, R. Rus-seU, A. J. Burger; Greek—J. B. McGrath, E. Murphy, Bloom • Algebra—J. Kurz, J. Jordan, A Rock; Geometry—E. Orrick, A Zahm, C. Van Dusen, J. Norfleet, B. Claggett, W. McCarthy P. B. Larkin, F. Brennan; Trigonometry—AL J. Burns - Calculus—G. Sugg; Afechanics—G. Bugg; Botany—E. Murphy, A S. Rock; Physiology—A 8. Rock, B. Murphy; Zoology—M J Burns, R. D. Stewart; Alineralogy*-; Astronomy—G. Sugg-
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	W
Geology*-------; Physics*------; Chemistry*------; Composition—J. Norfleet, G. Donnelly, T. Conlan, J. Mug, W. McCarthy, J. Gibbons, F. Quinn; Rhetoric—J. Noonan, G/Clark, A. Rock, W. Connolly, P. Larkin, A. Zahm; English Literature*------; History—J. B. Berteling, G. Clarke, M. J. Burns, R. Stewart, S. T. Spalding, P. B. Larkin.
*No report has been handed in from the above classes. The name of J. R. Marlette was inadvertently omitted from the List of Excellence for Arithmetic last week.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On Sunday, at High Mass, the young ladies of the Gregorian Society sang a Mass arranged expressly for the Feast of the Maternity of the Blessed Virgin. Their efforts were highly commended. The sermon by the celebrant, Rev. Father Shortis, was a most learned and choice discourse.
—Wednesday, at the regular meeting of the Christian Art Association, Mother Superior briefly explained its object and advantages. The Society is directed by Mother Superior, assisted by Sister M. Florentine. President, Miss Killelea; Vice-President, Miss Buck; Secretary and Treasurer, Miss Hambleton.	'
—At the weekly Academic reunion. Mother Superior proposed that as it was the eve of St. Edward’s Feast, and the proper celebration of a feast commences at the first Vespers, if the teachers and Prefect of Study found no objection, she would give every one 100 par excellence. No objection was raised; the favor-was granted, and was received with joyful hearts.
—Visitors: post-graduates—Miss Anna Cunnea, (Class of ’70), Morris, Ill.; Miss Rosemary Spier, (Class of ’74), Peoria, Ill.; Miss Helen Foote, (Class of ’76), Burlington, Iowa; Miss Ida Fisk, (Class of ’79), Chicago, III.; Miss Dedie Cavenor, Miss G- Breeze, Chicago; Miss F. Lloyd, Muskegon, Mich.; Miss Ella Proctor and Mr. C. M. Proctor, C. E. (Notre Dame Class of ’75), Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. E. Colvin, Buchanan, Mich.; Mrs. W. W. Palmer, Budd Noble, Chicago; Mrs. S. Palmer, Miss Bettie Monroe, South Bend; Mrs. J. C. Rogers, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. Newell, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. H. L. Reed, Adrian, Mich.; Mrs. M. T. Clarke, Chicago; Rev. Robert W.Haire, Flint, Mich.; John Walsh, New York; I. Hbadley, A- Reinhardt, George Moffat, Niles, Mich.; Emma Campbell, North Liberty, Ind.; Mrs. L. Devall, Lewiston, Ill.; Mrs. Glynes, Capitola Harsh, South Bend; Jno. G. Smith Agent, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. L. D. Cortright, Master Edward Rosing, Hyde Park, Cook Co., Ill.; John Wilkinson, Fort Wayne, John Grant, Detroit, Mich.; Louise Devitt, New Carlisle, Ind.; Mrs. J. M. Snee, Jno. J. Fitzgibbbn, Mrs. E. P. Har-rick, Mrs. S. B. Cavenor, Chicago; Mr. E. McCormick, Carrie L. Vannostrand, Three Oaks, Mich.; Mrs. Catharine Bachmann, Noblesville, Tenn.; W. T. Ball, Jr., Chicago ; Mrs. J. C. Hall, E. B. Reynolds, Boone, Iowa.
—On St. Edward’s Day, low Masses were said at 6 o’clock in Loretto and in the Convent Chapel. At the latter, the Catholic pupils received Holy Communion. At eight o’clock there was High Mass, Rev. Father Saulnier celebrant. The Convent choir sang Bordesi’s Mass. The instruction by Father Shortis was a beautiful eulogium of the saint of the day, and a filial tribute to his Superior, whose patronal festival was celebrated. The career of Very Rev. Father General, from his entrance as a boy upon his collegiate career in France, through his arduous, but successful missionary labors, down to the present time, was briefly reviewed. At the close of the Mass the choir sang a hymn composed for the occasion, “ To St. Edward.” At about four o’clock p. m., Very Rev. Father General, accompanied by Very Rev. Father Granger, the Very Rev. President of the University, and most of the Rev. clergy and the Professors of Notre Dame, entered the Hall, in response to the invitation of the young ladies, and the following programme was given in honor of the Feast of St. Edward, patron of our revered Father General.
Gallop—Chromatique...............................-Liszt
Miss Keenan. -
Chorus......................................Vocal Class
Address—Seniors...........................Miss Cavenor
Song—“Prayer and Barcarolle”................Meyerbeer
Miss Silverthorn. _ Address—Children of Mary..................Miss Ewing
Music—“ Fairy Story ”............................Haff
Miss Dillon.
Felicitations Frangaises...................Miss	Silverthorn
Song—“O Lucie !”.................................Donizetti
Miss Gordon. Address—Graduates..;.............................Miss Ewing
“ El Cocoy 6.................:..................Gottschalk
Miss Galen. Address—German...................................Miss Gall
Valse Cantabile...................................L’Arditi
. Miss Kirchner.
Juniors’ Address—E. Lloyd, L. Populorum, S. Semmes, C. Gibbons, C. Lancaster, A. Clarke.
Vocal Trio—Barcarolle...........................Campana
Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner and Callinan.
Minims’ Address.....................The entire Department
Taren telle..........................................Liaff
Miss Geiser.	’
The vocalists who have been under .instruction for the past year showed marked improvement, and in the choruses many fine voices were noticed among the new pupils giving fair promise for the future.
Civil Engineers &> Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of ’75], civ 1 ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STAGE [of’61], County Surveyor for YA St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Hotels.
THE MATTERSOX HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicag ma? be found at the Matterson
C. P. ATMORE, Cen’l Pas’ger * Ticket Agt. IpnlwUle, Ky.|
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY LINE.
C. F. ATMOBE, General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
110
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.	CT. ZMUSZET
ZKeejps the Best Tjine of
CIGARS, TOBACCO and SMOKERS’ ARTICLES In the City.	-
AN ELEGANT LINE OF COSTUMES ALWAYS ON HAND.
ODD FELLOWS’ BLOCK,
South Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table,’Nov- IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1 Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,...		11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,..		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance,....		3.10 “	12.50 p.m.'	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville			4.50 “'	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield	 			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,^...	..Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestiin		...Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	_ . * . — — — *
VoreRt		925 “	7.35 “	11.25	
Lima			10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	240 ‘	
Plvmnnt.h					3.50 “	2.46 A.M.	4.55 “	
Chicago.....		7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	- No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ L30a m 2.33 “ 4.05 “		
Forest,					
Crestline,	Areive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,-	 Alliance,	-... Rochester,	 Pittsburgh	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 622 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 1L15 “ 1.20 a.m. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 A.M. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11:20 “ 2.00 p.m 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. AU others daily except Sunday
>- This is the only Lifie thar. runs the celebrated Pttt.t.-wa-w Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York -without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T, A.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago 85 North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Ils CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee,.Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE . is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and al points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston' Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
4
Michigan Central Bailway
’	’	z
Time Table-May 35, 1879.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “ ■	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 " 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Man	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	+Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo --“ Niles - - - -• “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 » 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35a.m 12 15 p. m 2 37 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m	9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 530 “ 8 00 “ |	5 30 p.m 940 “ 12 35 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame—8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles — 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. ,, tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. Hbnbt C. Wentwobth, .	- H. B. Ledxabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Bl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	Ill
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in'iSTZ for the use of the Students-
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, <fcc., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address'
J. IF. EDWARDS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
-A. MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa. La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair-field, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
PALACE CABS are run through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the ** Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address, A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Genl Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt, and Pass’gr Agt,
Chicago, Ill.
EDWARD BUYSSE, BEAKER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinda of Engraving Bone.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana ” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne & Chicago R.Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At La SALLE, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P„ P. & J.; P.. L. & D.; I.B.S W.; III.Midland;and T.. P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R.R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & North-Western R. R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R.R.R.(inNeb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C-. B. & Q-R- Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe: Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At LEAVENWORTH, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
C/W
{HAIN BUILDING.'}


4
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was chartered by the Legislator o of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution. ■
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but]students willjbe received at-any time, their termlbeginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,
1

