1
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Oisce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA., JANUARY 20, 1877.	Number 20.
[Selected.]
Hymn of St. Francis Xavier.
0 God, I give my love to Thee, Not for the heaven Thou’st made for me Nor yet because who love not Thee Will burn in hell eternally.
In dying throes on Calvary, My Jesus Thou didst think of me, Didst bear the lance, the nails, the tree Rude scoffs, contempt, and infamy And pangs untold, all lovingly,— The scourge, the sweat, the agony And death itself,—all, all for me, A sinner and Thy enemy.
Why, therefore, should not I love Thee, O Jesus, dead for love of me ?
Not that I may in heaven be, Not that from hell I may be free; Not urged by dread of endless pain, Not lured by price of endless gain, But as Thou, Lord, didst first love me So do I love and will love Thee.
To Thee, my King, I give my heart, For this alone that God Thou art.
Deirdre.*
In this age of rapid writing, when the science of bookmaking is reduced to a mere matter of the unique or startling; where the title is expected to attract attention, blunt the point of criticism and bring' larger returns to the publisher’s coffers, the careful reader rarely expects to find literary merit of a high order, and he is seldom pleasantly disappointed. Occasionally a little book makes its appearance in the countless host of “new publications”—in which there is little new save the paper—and it at once leaps into public favor. Its air of modesty, a certain coy reserve, as if the author shunned public notice, commends it at once to the generous reader, and, despite adverse criticism, it en-enjoys a season, caressed by loving hands, and then retires to blissful repose among the more pretentious volumes that cumber the upper shelves of the library. This is true in every branch of literary composition, but more especially is it the case with poetry. And with reason. Poetry is a creature of the senses, a product of the imagination, and only in the didactic class does it exercise the deeper func tions of the human intellect and leave a permanent record on the human mind. There be mono poets too, men who write but a single poem, or volume, and having exhausted
* DeirdrS. A Poem. Boston: Roberts Bros. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg <fc Co., 117 and 119 State street. 1876. Price $1.00. No Name Series.
the stream whence they drew their inspiration, relapse into the silence and repose of an ill-fitting literary tomb. But there are always others to take their places; the world has never experienced a dearth of poets, such as they are, and probably never will. But the intervals between the eras of great poets, in English and American literature at least, are quite extensive. It may be questioned if we are not just now passing under a kind of poetical eclipse in which the penumbra, past and future, imparts to us only dim visions of what was and what may be. In this damp shadow,—a healthy atmosphere for ephemeral productions, like the transcendental wave that rocked our literary centres two generations ago—a class of poetry has sprung up which has not a single element of permanent in its composition, but which neither the condemnation of discerning critics nor the idle vampings of literary mountebanks has been able to effect. It appeals to a taste which like itself is novel, and it will last so long as the shadow endures. Swineburne paints its pictures in the East, and Bret Harte is its ablest Western exponent.
Are we emerging from this shadow? There are occasional glimpses of brightness, ignesfatui perhaps, but little upon which to predicate even a hope. In the second volume of the No Name series we have the brightest gleam of sunshine that has illuminated our literary world for years and years. Deirdr& is a poem alike an honor to its author, whoever he is, and to our country, where it was unquestionably written. We say our country, because the poem was written by one who knows and appreciates the freedom and bold independence of which he sings. That it is the great epic for which we have waited so long we are not willing to affirm, but it-is certainly a fine heroic poem, reminding one frequently of Pope’s Iliad. The strong warlike spirit of the poem is its most striking characteristic and its greatest beauty. One cannot read of those great deeds
“ Whose blazing sheen lighted the lurid heavens” without a throb of conscious pride that brave men have lived and died for martial renown. In those valorous days of chivalry the love of fair women always swayed .supreme control, and it is fitting that a divinely beautiful woman, Deirdre, should be the heroine of this martial recital.
The action of the poem, as the author tells us, begins near Armagh, in the north of Ireland, in the ancient palace of Emania, where dwelt at that time Connor, the renowned and powerful King of Ulster. It then changes to the northern islands, thence to the land of Mah and Olild, thence to Alba or Scotland, and finally returns to Emania, where the brave Naisi, who defied the king’s wrath and wedded Deirdrfi, is decoyed by his treacherous sovere gn, and together with his valiant brothers and vassals is foully murdered to gratify the vengeance of his cruel king.
306	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
DeirdrS, the unconscious origin of all this dreadful carnage, possesses that fatal kind of beauty for the possession of which brave warriors through all ages have lost their reason and laid down their lives. In the opening chapter this is foretold by the king’s story-teller on the night of Deirdre’s birth, and to avert it the king has a palace prison built where he orders Deirdrfi to be placed till she is old enough to become his wife. But “ love ever laughed at locksmiths.” Young Naisi came, and with him she fled, despite the vigilance of the king. The story is a recital of the valiant deeds of this bold clan, and terminates in their total destruction. The tragedy is completed by the death of Deirdrd beside the lifeless body of her murdered husband. There is enough of plot to show the author’s fine dramatic talent and keep alive the reader’s interest to the very last page. The language of the poem is chaste, concise and elegant. It is evidently the offspring of a cultured mind. The rhythm is occasionally faulty, but in every case it is made subservient to the sense. Strength is never sacrificed to beauty. The descriptions of scenery are, in numerous passages, unsurpassed in the English language. Any careful reader cannot fail to admire such language as this:
-----from out the North,
' The Wind-God sends his blasts against an isle Shaggy with oak and birch, for many a mile Fiercely they rise, and on their foamy path
. Fan the wild billows into rage and wrath, And scourge the isle till all its tossing trees • Find tongues of thunder, roaring winds and seas Defiance, while the winds and seas reply, Booming along the shore ”-------
And further on:
“ Three days they marched in thunder, for they knew No safety now but o’er the ocean blue To spread their sails and seek another coast Would shield them from the king’s pursuing host; And on the third day, at the evening hour, With thankful hearts beheld the mountains tower Over the friendly bay, that on its breast Painted each precipice from foot to crest.
They saw their numerous galleys side by side Ranged in fair order on the glassy tide.”
The book abounds in passages as beautiful as the above, culled at random, whose highest praise is that they are true to nature. We are not prepared to say this book will receive the recognition its merits warrant, so fickle is public taste, but it will certainly form a very interesting companion for a quiet hour and will be read with pleasure aud profit by the appreciative student of pure English.
Correggio.
There is now on exhibition at O’Brien’s Gallery, Chicago, a genuine painting by Correggio, which has excited not a little curiosity. This painting—an. Ecce Eomo—has quite an interesting history. It seems that Sigismund Polu-binski, grand chamberlain to Stephen Bathori, King of Poland, in 1575, procured a leave of absence and spent some time in travelling through Italy. While there he purchased this painting, and from that time until the present day it has always been in the possession of the Polubinski family, the members of which have ever guarded it with the strictest care. At the dismemberment of Poland, in the year 1772, the family estates of Zbigniew Polubinski, in Wilna, were confiscated. To save the painting from forfeiture, it was concealed in a cellar and thus was preserved
to the family. A search made within the last sixteen years	1
by Russian soldiers brought it to light, and it would have	|
been destroyed but for a consideration paid to a Cossack	|
officer in command to save it. 'It was then concealed by	f
the owner, John Polubinski, until his death in 1873, when	/
he bequeathed it to his nephew Paul Polubinski, who	I
brought it with him to Chicago, where he now resides. Such is the s-tory as told by its present owuer, who was at first unwilling under any consideration to allow it to pass from his hands sufficiently long to permit its exhibition.
That the picture is a genuine Correggio, all connoisseurs • who have examined it unanimously declare, and they do not hesitate toexpiess their surprise at the work as a product of art, while it bears every evidence of its antiquity. Professor Gookins, of the Chicago Academy of Design, than whom there is no superior authority in the West, after hours of study, gives it as his opinion that one or two of the heads are unequalled—that the evidence of great age is conclusive, and that the authentication of the painting as the work of the great Italian master of the fifteenth century, Correggio, is worth the expenditure of such time and money as would be required to place it before the national art galleries of Europe.	/
A Chicago newspaper critic, while visiting the Centennial	J
collection of paintings, approached the British artist in charge of the Queen’s collection with a description of the Chicago “ Ecce Homo,” and was told that the picture stood a fair chance to turn out a genuine work of Correggio, since it is known that this master painted more than one “ Ecce Homo,”—one painting on the subject bearing all the minutia of the one brought to light in Chicago	J
being now held and prized beyond the estimate of money	*
by the British Government, in the London National Gal-	.
lery.	’
Mr. Borgella, at present of Chicago, and an artist of great experience, having seen the works of Correggio in	I
nearly every national collection of Europe, says that the	I
evidence of the master’s hand is seen in the Chicago “Ecce Homo,” and needs no other proof. He asserts that the work is an extra fine one even for Correggio, aud is of priceless value—the wonder being, first, that the picture is	•
found in America, and second, that a poor man should	<
own so valuable a relic of art. ’	j
Seiior Leon y Escosura, the celebrated European artist	!
of the Franco-Spanish school, on the day of his recent re- ' ception at the Highwood Gallery, in Chicago, examined the work “Ecce Homo,” and besides expressing his admiration for the specimen, declared his unbounded surprise at encountering such a painting in the centre of America.
The work itself is thus described by a writer of the city, in which it is now exhibiting: “ The expression and attitude of Christ are grand and sweet—even the deepest grief not disfiguring His features. The power, as expressed in the face, to bear all things with patience, and give no sign of the agony and shame within, is wonderful to be-holfl. The pathetic action with which He holds forth His 4 hands, being bound, itself expresses the depths of suffering. On the left is a Roman soldier, of rude but not ignoble aspect, and evidently touched by pity and wonder. Pilate, to the right, a head of marvellous expression and coloring, pointing to the spectators, is a marvel of art—the whole picture expressing in color the wonderful history of the trial of Christ, and the efforts made by Pilate to release the Saviour. The faces in the background are supposed to be the scourgers. The deep shadows and coloring show

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
307
the master’s hand, and the peculiar power which ever made him famous.”
Antonio Allegri da Correggio was born at the town of Corregio, in 1494. His parents were in moderate circumstances and caused him to be educated in the various branches of polite learning, while an uncle who was an artist of some ability gave him his first instructions in painting. He was then placed in the school of Andrea Mantegna, in Mantua, where he made rapid progress, and at taining excellence at an early period, his genius, the le gends which lingered in Parma for a century notwith standing, obtained prompt recognition, and patronage came to his aid.
Correggio painted several religious pictures at Parma in the Church of San Giovanni and in the Cathedral. He painted also at Mantua, to which place he was invited by the Duke, and in the town of Correggio his native place. He died at this latter place in 1533.
In his disposition, Correggio was mild, retiring and modest; yet notwithstanding that he possessed these traits he was not without a certain pride in his heart. It was after looking for the first time on the St. Cecilia of Raphael that he is reported to have exclaimed with exultation, “ And I too am a painter! ”
Correggio’s pictures go to prove that under his seemingly quiet exterior he was a man of the liveliest sensibilities and the keenest perceptions. His pictures, unlike Titian’s in their repose, are full of motion and excitement. Correggio is spoken of as a painter who delighted “in the buoyance of childish glee, the bliss of earthly, the fervor of heavenly love,” whose radiant sphere of art sorrow rarely clouded; but when sorrow did enter, it borrowed from the painter’s own quivering heart the very sharpness of anguish. The same authority tells us of Correggio that he has painted “ the very heart-throbs of humanity.” But it seems as if such a nature, with its self-conscious veil of forced stillness, must have hid a tendency to vehemence-and excess; and so we hear that Correggio’s fore-shorten ing was sometimes violent, and the energy of his actors spasmodic; thus the cruelly smart contemporary criticism was pronounced on his frescoes of the “Assumption of the Virgin,” in which legs and arms in'wild play are chiefly conspicuous from below, that Correggio had prepared for the Parmese “a fricassee of frogs.” In addition, the great modern critic, Mr. Ruskin, has boldly accused Correggio “ both of weakness and meretriciousness,” and there is this to be said of a nature so highly strung as Correggio’s was strung, that it was not a healthily balanced nature.
But if the painter were really inferior in his sense of form and expression to his great predecessors, he was so great in one department that in it he was held worthy, not only to found the school of Parma, but to be classed with the first four painters of Italy.
That chiaro-scuro, or treatment of light and shade in which Leonardo and Andrea Mantegna were no mean proficients, was brought to such perfection by Correggio, that, as Mrs. Jameson has sought to illustrate in technical expressions, “you seem to look through Correggio’sshadows, and to see beyond them the genuine texture of the flesh.” In undulating grace of motion, in melting softness of outline, fixed on a canvas, he surpassed all rivals, including Raphael ; and this widely attractive quality (“ luscious refinement” Mr. Ruskin terms it) in connection with Correggio’s ardent, if undisciplined sensibility, has rendered him one of the most valued of painters; his best paintings being as
highly prized and costly as the easel pictures attributed to Raphael. Sir W. Stirling Maxwell writes that an old Duke of Modena was suspected of having caused Correggio’s “ Notte” to be stolen from a church at Reggio, and that the princes of Este were wont to carry “ The Magdalene Reading” with them on their journeys, while the king of Poland kept it under lock and key in a frame of jewelled silver.
The Sciences.
By the sciences we do mt mean, as many persons suppose, all scientific knowledge, but we mean mathematics, natural philosophy, and the natural sciences. A like interpretation is given to literature, which in its greatest extension includes all that has been written; in the ordinary acceptation it is restricted, and includes the works of taste and sentiment, such as oratory, romance, essay, poetry, and history. An insight into the mutations of science is interesting, and merits attention. Its growth is similar to ' that of the rudimentary plantlet inclosed within a seed. As the seed, by the action of chemical and heat rays of the sun, is nurtured till its expansive force enables the plantlet to divide itself into ascending and descending branches, the former, as its name indicates, comes to the light and gradually extends the small surface until the leaves are counted by hundreds of thousands. The tree advances continually, increase after increase. Strongly resembling this growth is the gradual yet in nowise less perfect development of science. At first the embryo, then the two branches, which may be likened to the two kinds of scientific knowledge, the known and unknown. Then the rapid increase. When a retrospective glance is taken at the ancients, when we see how inferior they were to us in scientific knowledge, we cannot refrain from laughing at their credulity and simplicity. We scout the idea that the earth is a flat surface, that the sun is no larger than it appears to our eyes, that water was the principle of all things, that number was the foundation of the universe. Yet we are constrained to confess that such were the doctrines advanced by the major part of the sages of antiquity, clearly illustrating the embryonic state of scientific education in the early ages of society.
A few among the many nations of old made considerable progress in “ the sciences,” especially those having advantageous positions. Remarkable discoveries in astronomy occurred. We now are at the oldest branch of science; the branch which was first explored by shepherds; the branch which now exercises the wonderful resources of modern savans. The Egyptians were the first people who were inclined to watch the movements of the heavenly bodies (whether their descendants are so industrious, the tongue of history must decide). This however we know, that they had mapped out a considerable portion of the firmament, and that they had made other advances, among which was the division of the year into three hundred and sixty-five days and six hours. The Chaldeans were second to none in their astronomical calculations; like the Egyptians they enjoyed a clear sky, an unbounded horizon; they seem to have cultivated astronomy independently of and even more successfully than the kindred race. Among some of their discoveries, their calculations may be mentioned, eclipses, and the drawing of the zodiac. Astronomy continued to progress, to develop its thousands of leaves, until now it is one of the most
308	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
instructing and entertaining of all sciences. It has been awarded a place in the education of youth at the very pinnacle of our numerous studies. There is no such word as inferiority to be found. Such eminent men as Newton, Tycho Brache, Herschel and Kepler sufficiently prove our assertion.
The natural sciences, comprising Biology, Mineralogy, Geology, etc., were not, as one would suppose, earlier developed than mathematical science, notwithstanding the ubiquitous presence of the subjects, animals, vegetables, minerals, rocks, and earth’s surface, which should naturally cause minds be drawn to their contemplation. A word or two will be enough in regard to these branches. They give one a more liberal idea of the constitution of the universe than literature; they fit a man for solid and persevering labor; they develop his manly qualities far more than literature. Literature pleases and polishes; but science is the instructress. Who does not in this wide and cultivated world, in this the nineteenth century, envy the fame and wisdom of Cuvier, who, from one small bone, say a bone from the hand or foot, could construct the being, in full, with all its parts,? Who does not envy the illustrious name of Humboldt, the botanist and geologist? Who dares disparage his wisdom? An eminent literary person speaks of the classics as contracting our ideas, limiting our views; he says when once under their influence they cannot be resisted, we are unfitted for advancement. This, although overdrawn, corresponds somewhat to that imperceptible and unaccountable reversion which has been steadily yet surely undermining the extensive influence of classic instruction, and hence moderns place the classics in a secondary light.
Eulogium after eulogium has been passed upon math'emat ical science. Author after author recommends it for developing the mind. One goes so far as to say: “ He that gives a portion of his time and talent to the investigation of mathematics will come to all other questions with a decided advantage over his opponents.” When this division of science can call forth from an eminent man such high praise, its study should undoubtedly be fostered. When we come to all other questions advantageously through it, we should be eager to acquire a knowledge of it. In mathematics our attention is rivetted to the solution of some problem, and before we are aware of it we acquire both a habit of study and great mental resources.
A discussion or rather a sketch of the sciences would naturally induce us to consider the errors which men have fallen into in their eager and blind pursuit of knowledge. Some wiseacres, declaiming against science, say that it tends to materialism, and thus begets principles subversive of morality, government and religion. Such an assertion can easily be met with by a simple question. Does science in all her parts, in all her teachings, in all her conclusions, say the'slightest thing derogating from divine institutions? Does she not prove conclusively, in geology, botany, etc., the creation of the universe as written in the Book of Genesis? Listen to the recommendations of Seneca, listen to the truth of his saying: “ Shun no toil to make yourself remarkable by some talent or other.” Do not devote yourself to one branch exclusively; strive to get clear notions of all. Give up no science entirely, for the sciences are but one; let us march onward—ever onward in the noble cause of scientific study.
______________________“ Academia.”
—A photographer requests that his sign—“ Taken from life”—should be his epitaph.
A TraveHer’s Diary.
[The following diary, kept by an old student while on a trip to the mining regions of San Juan, Colorado, has been handed to us for publication. It will be of interest, as in it much that is new to our readers is described.]
Sept. 16. “All aboard!” shouted the conductor of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific, and soon the long train began moving out of the great Lake Shore & Michigan R. R. depot. Evening finds us at Blue Island. We cross the beautiful iron bridge spanning the river; some one cries “ Supper! ” and here we are in Davenport, Iowa. We are not hungry, but to keep up appearances vye go and eat. On, on speeds the iron horse. At 10 we are in Des Moines, fall in with a chap going to Leavenworth, have a good time all night keeping everybody awake, making all the noise we can. At twelve change cars for St. Louis, but as “ we do not change,” we still keep up our heart and our noise.
Sept.. 27th. Breakfast at 6; we are not hungry again, but like oilier good folk we go to the table. Off for Atchison, Kansas. At ten we change cars for Atchison; we now bid farewell to our Leavenworth friend (who, by the way, is deep when. he wants to be). Dinner-time finds us in Atchison; after dinner we come across an old Notre Dame student, William Gavitt, who is ticket agent and operator for the Aichison, Topeka & Santa F4 R. R. Spent the day in seeing Atchison, which we left in the evening for Pueblo, Colorado. We got as far as Topeka, and had to lay over on account of a smash-up. Lay over all night; came acro-s a fellow fresh from the Centennial, a queer customer. We keep warm by burning all the hand-bills we can lay hands on. There are two persons under the bench, who look as if they had been as seedy as tramps can look; our friend “John ” stirs them with a poker. At last to our great relief we are off again, crossing the great plains.
Sept. 28th. Breakfast at ten. See buffaloes on the plains, where we pass the whole night.
Sept. 29.—Cross the Arkansas, and at noon are at Los Anima% Colorado. See in the distance Pike’s Peak, 150 miles off In the afternoon pass through a desert and get to Pueblo about four. A cold dinner and a dead town.
Wish to take the train for Canon City, but forced to lay over at Pueblo all night on account of a stnash-up at Colorado Springs. Meet some ladies and gentlemen going to Canon City and had a pleasant time. Started for Cafion City about five.
Sept. 30th. When we got there we found that the stage had started for Lake City; so, after looking at Canon City, the jail and the springs, we started back for Pueblo. By the way, I forgot to say that Canon City is at the foot of the Greenhorn Mountains, and near the celebrated caflon from which the town takes its name. Started back to Pueblo and staid there all the afternoon, seeing the' city and its sights. At nine in the evening took the train for Le Veta, changed cars at Eucharist. Arrived in Le Veta, nine miles from the mountains, September 31, at five in the morning, in time for breakfast. After breakfast went out to look at the Spanish Peaks. They are twelve miles south of the town, and have an altitude of 10,000 ft.; on the west of them stands Abeyta Peak, at about the same height. Le Veta was started the 4th of July, and has about 200 people. About fifteen years ago two adobe houses were built by one Col. Francisco, who owns nearly all the town; the rest of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
309
houses are of boards. The freighting to Lake City is done from this point, as it is the present terminus of the Denver & Rio Grande R. R.; but when the road is pushed to Ft. Garland this town will not grow any more. The freighting is done by Mexicans, who are so lazy that they can hardly keep up with their ox-teams.
Oct. 1. We are in the stage and off for a long ride to Lake, and the far famed San Juan. Pass through Abeyta-Pass in the Sangre de Christo range. At ten we are on the summit, 11,500 ft. above the sea, and 20 miles from Le Veta. Down we go on the western slope, by the margin of Beaver Creek, to Big Hill Station, where we get dinner. There are a great many prairie dogs here. It is quite comical to see the prairie dog, snake, and owl live in the same house. After dinner we took the road again fpr Ft. Garland; at two we are at the Fort, which is only a frontier supply station.
Now we enter the San Luis Valley, or Park, as they call it, and took a ride to Washington Springs. The Park is nothing more than a desert, for nothing grows on it; it is a bed of alkali and sand; it beats Indiana for sand. Now we get a view of the snow clad mountains on the north. Five o’clock finds us at Washington Springs, the only water between Fort Garland and Del Norte, a distance of 58 miles. Spend the evening looking at the mountains by moonlight.	■
Oct. 2. We leave the Springs and start for Del Norte. The dust is terrible. Spent the day in and around Del Norte. It is situated in the foothills on the banks of the Rio Grande Del Norte river. It contains about 1,000 people. It is a very pretty town, and the people are hospitable and kind.
Oct. 3. Off for Lake. Dine at twelve. Pass through Wagon Wheel Gap. The scenery is grand at this place; the mountains tower hundreds of feet above, us, and the Rio Grande flows silently at their base, on to the sea. The Gap is on’the south bank of the Rio Grande and 31 miles from Del Norte. At one o’clock we reach Antelope Park and Bristol Head Mountain; the scenery is grand in this section. Night finds us at Mrs. Jenison’s Ranch, where we stop.
Oct. 4. Take the stage, and piss up through the park to the forks of the Lake City and Silverton roads, fifty miles from Del Norte. Four miles from the forks we passed “Mirror Lake” and it was a pleasing sight. The lake is about one mile long and a half mile wide. The enchanting beauty of this sheet of water and its surroundings I will not attempt to describe; let it suffice to say that the rich foliage of the many graceful mountain spruces and firs, which in their native beauty grow upon its margin, were as distinctly reflected in its pure and limpid waters as though the shadows were in reality tangible trees. The lake is studded with many pretty little islands, whose mossy banks added beauty to the scenery. The lake was filled with many wild fowls on the look out for fishes, for food. This beautiful sheet of water is at the base of the Sierra Madre Mountains, and about 10,000 ft.' above tidewater. Changed horses at Clear Creek—this is the first water flowing to the Pacific. It is surrounded by grand scenery. We wound, around the mountain and came to the falls of Clear Creek. This cascade of icy cold crystal water leaps over a perpendicular granite wall of more than 100 feet. The volumes of water at Niagara and Minnehaha are greater, but I doubt if they are more grand in their scenery. When near the ceaseless roar of the falls
it defied the sound of our voices, and we were left to stand in mute and rapt admiration, and contemplate the beautiful colors as the sun’s rays penetrated the clouds of white spray always ascending aud descending in a beautiful and gorgeous rainbow.
We crossed what is called the Divide, and at ten we had left the valley of the “Cerogeo” far in the depths. We passed through a dense forest of spruce and pine, and at last began to descend the mountain for nine miles. No pleasant recollections of this particular locality, on account of bad roads and worse water. The freighters have given it the classical name of “ Glum Gullion,” to which I don’t demur; it is quite appropriate. Down the mountain we came, reaching Lake City, 87 miles from Del Norte, at five in the evening. The road for the last 30 miles is simply horrible. Lake City is situated at the junction of Henson Creek and the Gunnison river; it is a pretty location, surrounded by high mountains towering from 3 to 12 thousand feet above the sea. Lake City is but ten years old, and it has grown wonderfully; it contains about 1200 people, with many stores and shops, while there are fine mines near by. Lake City is destined to be the city of San Juan. It boasts of two smelting-mills, two saw-mills, etc. Lake City is on the western slope of the Rocky Mountains. Near at hand are the fine mines of Cottonwood, Burns* Park, aud the celebrated town of Ouray, named after the head chief of the Ute Indians, who once owned this as their hunting grounds. Lake City is destined to become a large city, as the development of the mines is only a question of time.
Game is plentiful in this section; bears, wolves, mountain sheep, deer, rabbits, elk, mountain lions, etc., abound.
A Mine Under the Sea.
The following description of a visit to Bottallack Copper mine, in Engla id, is from a work, entitled “ Rambles beyond Railroads.” In complete mining equipment, with candles stuck by lumps of clay to their felt hats, the travellers have painfully descended by perpendicular ladders and along dripping-wet rock passages, fathoms down into pitchy darkness; the miner who guides them calls a halt, and their exact position with reference to the surface of the “ terraqueous globe ” is thus described:
“ We are now four hundred yards out, under the bottom of the sea! and twenty fathoms, or a hundred and twenty feet below the sea level. Coast trade vessels are sailing over our heads. Two hundred and forty feet beneath us men are at work and there are galleries even below that.” The extraordinary position down the face of the cliff, of the engines and other works on the surface, at Bottallack, is now explained. The mine is not excavated like other mines under the land but under the sea.
' Having communicated these particulars, the raw miner next tells us to keep strict silence and listen. We obey him, sitting speechless and motionless. If the reader could only have beheld us now,’dressed in our copper colored garments, huddled close together in a mere cleft of subterranean rock, with a flame burning on our heads and darkness enveloping our .limbs—he must certainly have imagined, without any violent stretch of fancy, that he was looking down on a conclave of gnomes.
After listening for a few moments, a distant unearthly noise becomes faintly audible—a long, low, mysterious moaning, that never changes—that is felt on the ear as well
310
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as heard by it—a sound that might proceed from some incalculable distance—from some far invisible height—a sound unlike anything that is heard on the upper ground, in the free air of heaven—a sound so sublimely mournful and still, so ghostly and impressive when listened to in the subterranean recesses of the earth, that we continue instinctively to hold our peace as if enchanted by it, and do not think of communicating to each other the astonishment which it has inspired in us both from the first.
At last the miner speaks again and tells us that what we hear is the sound of the surf lashing the rocks a hundred and twenty feet above us, and of the waves that are breaking on the beach beyond. The tide is now at the flow, and the sea is in no extraordinary state of agitation; so the sound is low and distant just at this period. But, when storms are at their height, when the ocean hurls mountains of water on the cliffs, then the noise is terrific; the roaring heard down here in the mine is so inexpressibly fierce and awful that the boldest men at work are afraid to continue their labor—all ascend to the surface to breathe the upper air and stand on the firm earth; dreading, though no catastrophe has ever happened yet, that the sea will break in on them if they remain in the cavern below.
Scientific Notes.
—Except mercury, gallium liquifies at a lower temperature than any other element.
—The amount of oxygen consumed by the common mouse is 24 times greater than that consumed by the frog.
—Heat passes, or is diffused, or is conveyed from one place or point to another in three different ways, termed conduction, convection, and radiation.
—The heart of an adult measures about five inches in length, three and a half inches in its broadest part, and two and a half inches in thickness.
—The diameter of the capillaries varies in the different tissues of the body. Their usual size being about 1-3000 of an inch. The smallest are those of the brain.
—The capacity of the venous system is nearly three times as great as that of the arterial: the veins being both larger and more numerous than the arteries.
—“A knowledge of science obtained by mere reading, though infinitely better than ignorance, is knowledge of a very different kind from that which arises from contact with facts.”—Huxley.
—Besides a great number of mineralogical specimens added to the Cabinet at Notre Dame University, it is in possession of a fine collection of minerals donated some years ago by the Smithsonian Institution.
—We announce the death of David Forbes, who died on the 5th of December, aged 48 years. He was a great traveller, and resided for awhile in Bolivia and Peru, making researches in its mines and geology which he afterwards published.
—We hear so much nowadays about elaborate outfits of scientific apparatus, wherewith this or that college is provided, while so many ingenious devices, with names ending in “graphs,” “scope,” and “meter,” are constantly being invented, that we are half inclined to think that more attention is being paid to the tools than to the work which they are designed to accomplish. Apparatus may be divided into two classes: first, that used for purposes of investigation ; and second, that employed to demonstrate the laws of science or the results of investigations to others. In either case, the simpler the tools the better; for in the one the investigator wishes little to hamper him in his pathway toward the result he searches for, and in the other the idea is to impress principles on the mind, and not to burden it with unnecessary details—Scientific American.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Bret Hart and Mark Twain are said to be writing another play.
—It is reported that the repertory for Mr. Carl Rosa’s next London season of “operas in English” will include Wagner’s “ Meistersinger.”
—Liszt may very likely play the Emperor concerto and the Choral Fantasia of Beethoven, at a benefit concert at Vienna, in aid of the Beethoven monument fund.
—The Saturday Review says that “ the verses of Mr. Aid-rich are of very unequal quality, and for the most part rather clumsy and affected in language, and commonplace in thought.”
—A unique copy of Marlowe’s “ Edward II,” dated 1594, was recently found at the Cassel Library, with other early printed books. This makes the earliest edition of the work on record, as none prior to 1598 was heretofore known to exist.
—The manuscripts in the library of the old Seraglio palace are to be properly classified and catalogued by direction of the sultan. Translations of the more interesting Arabic and Persian works in the collection will also be made.
—The Philadelphia Academy of Fine Arts has purchased, for $25,000, Hans Makart’s picture, “ Caterina Cornaro, Queen of Cyprus, Receiving the Homage of Venice,” which was exhibited in the Austrian department of the Centennial show.
—A journal devoted to the elucidation of the customs, folk lore, and mythology of France is about starling in Paris. It is to be an illustrated semi-monthly, and will bear the peculiar title of “ Melusine,” the name of the serpent in the mythology of central France.
—The western poets of Scotland lately gathered in Glasgow to debate the advisability of holding in that city regular annual meetings, with a view to the formation of a society which should eventually embrace all Scotland. It was decided to hold the first meeting the latter part of this month.
—A valuable collection of books, prints, etc., relating to Dante, Italian history, and literature, has lately been bequeathed to the London University by Dr. Barlow, with a fund, of which the interest is to be perpetually devoted to the delivery of annual courses of lectures on the “ Com-media.”
—Rubinstein’s oratorio, “ Die Macabaer,” has been produced at Munich. The London Times criticises it somewhat severely for monotony of coloring, scarcity of ideas, and unequal workmanship, and says'that it is “an unsuccessful attempt to deify music” by giviug every character a hymn theme.
—The celebrated Pinacothic of the Vatican, which gives a noble proof of the genius of the Popes and of their love for the fine arts, has just .acquired a new treasure. It is a genuine picture of Murillo representing the Martyrdom of Saint Peter Arbues, presented by Pope Pius the IX, to be kept with the masterpieces of Raphael, Domini-chino, and others.
—The monument to Auber is a pyramid in black marble surmounting the tomb, with the simple inscription of name and age on its front, and on its sides the names of the forty-eight principal compositions of the master, beginning with “Actaeon” and finishing with the “Premier Jour de Bonheur,” which was indeed Auber’s last work except the “ Reve d’ Amour,”
—Wagner has been paying a visit to Rome, and in spite of the slightly uncomplimentary remarks which the great German composer has made, from time to time, concerning Italian music, met with a very cordial and graceful reception. The Royal St. Cecilia Society of Rome greeted him a member, and the several most distinguished artists and composers hastened to call upon him and do him honor.
—The critics in the Academy, Examiner, and Athenaeum unite in calling Mr. William Morris’ new poem, “ The Story of Sigurd, theVolsung, and the Fall of the Nieblungs,” the
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.311
best poetical work which he has yet published. They call special attention to the fitness of his strong yet musical style for this old Norse epic, to the vigor of movement in the poem, and to the author’s increased felicity in the use of archaic words.
—A clergyman from Brazil, recently admitted to an audience in the Vatican, presented the Holy Father in the name of the Children of Mary of his diocese with an exquisite tableau. It is a kind of a mosaic, made of a very large collection of butterflies sparkling in the richest and most manifold colors. At the bottom, the name of Pius IX is prominent, also made of a number of butterflies of a dazzling whiteness. The Holy Father admired this beautiful piece of work very much and sent his blessing to its donors.
—At the suggestion of Mr. de Chennevieres, Director of Fine Arts, Mr. Waddington, Minister of Public Instruction, in France, has just purchased a statue of enamelled earthenware, attributed to Lucca della Robina. The group, a little above life size, represents the blessed Virgin holding the Child in her arms. It was found in the town of Capponi, in the neighborhood of Florence, where it has been left forgotten for a long time. The works of Lucca de Robina are now very r.ire, and hence the acquisition of this statue is considered a rare fortune. It is destined for the museum at Sevres.
—Master Richard Wagner shook his head and answered rather sadly, “I am too old for that,” when a correspondent of The Philadelphia Telegraph told him that he should come to America. Salvini’s wife sent him not long ago a basket of flowers, a bed of white blossoms on which were laid five lines of score in the shape of five blades of gracs, with the treble key picked out in violets. The two opening bars of the Rhinedaughter’s song were marked on the lines bv pink blossoms. When the composer goes about viewing Italian sights he takes no other cicerone than his little fair-haired son, Siegfried, who consequently diligently studies Baedeker.
—On his recent visit to Rome the Archbishop of Rheims presented to the Pope a magnificent book-case, made of the most precious wood of the tropical regions, inlaid with metal. This book-case is to hold the volumes containing the various translations of the Bulla Ineff'abilis, proclaiming the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. There are 344 volumes in all, each in a different language or idiom. Besides these translations, the principal documents relative to the proclamation of the dogma are added in each volume. This colossal collection, which involved relations with almost every nation living upon the globe, is due to the ex ertions of the Rev. Sire of the Seminary de Saint Sulpice
—Patrick Donahoe, the Boston publisher, who failed about a year, ago owed nearly §100,000 to depositors in the savings bank which was one of his business enterprises. Donahoe’s paper, the Pilot, was bought by its editor, Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly, in connection with Arbh-bishop Williams. Although in no way legally or morally responsible for the losses suffered bv Mr. Donahoe’s depositors, the new proprietors of the Pilot assumed the debt. Mr. O’Reilly has so managed the finances of the paper that he is now able to declare a first dividend of ten per cent, to the depositors. The course of the new owners of the Pilot is so honorable, and, unfortunately, so unusual, that we notice it here.—New York Sun.
—An interesting discovery has recently been made in the cemetery of St. Ermetes, under Mount Parioli, on the Salarian Way. From time immemorial no one had ever been able to penetrate into these ruins on account of the rubbish thrown over the entrance, which made them disappear not only from sight but from memory also. To Mr. Armellini, a learned archaeologist, we owe this new discovery. There are a large number of grave-stones, with Christian inscriptions and monograms which date from the first part of the third century. Some repairs seem to have been made at a later period. In one of the niches, the Divine Pastor is represented carrying a lamb upon His shoulders, whilst two others are at His feet. On a marble slab is also visible a boat launched into the open sea, and a fisherman casting his net. Below this representation the word “Petrus" is written. Certain inscriptions end with the formulas “In Deo" and “ Gratiam Deipercipitantes."
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from the publisher, Messrs. Lynch, Cole & Meehan, No. 57, Murray St., New York, a copy of the Irish-American Almanac, a neatly printed and well edited annual. It is in size and make up similar to the Scholastic Almanac, issued from this office, but differs from the latter in this that the articles are not selected entirely from those appearing through the year in the well-conducted paper issued by the firm, but are selected from various journals. Among the articles we notice one from the Scholastic. The Almanac is 'Well worth the price asked for it, 25 cts. To Irish-Americans it is specially useful. It contains a number of excellent engravings.
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review opens with a thoughtful article on “ The LiberalisticView of the Public School Question ” in which the lecture of Mr. Francis E. Abbot, delivered in reply to Rt. Rev. Bishop McQuaide, is handled in a masterly manner. Professor Paley’s article on “Pantheistic Theories of the Soul ” is at once scholarly and elegantly written and will undoubtedly be read with pleasure by all who have a liking for philosophy. “The Bismarck of the Eighteenth Century” is a readable account of the suppression of the noble and saintly Society of Jesus in Portugal. “ Fashions and Principles in Poetry,” which, we judge, from the initals, M. F. S.,is from the pen Mrs. M.F. Sullivan, of Chicago, is the most entertaining article in the number. The wri’er, though giving a severe rub here and there, has given us one of the most appreciative reviews of Dr. Joyce’s “ Deirdre.” Bev. Father Hill, S. J., contributes an excellent philosophical article in which he discusses the question “Can the Immateriality, Spirituality, and Immortality of the Soul be Demonstrated ‘i ” Mr. George Dering Wolff furnishes the concluding article, in which he reviews a political pamphlet is-med from Washington during the late presidential cimpainn. The usual book-notices are given at the end of the Review. From a notice to itsreaders we quote the following, at the same time urging our friends to give the Review that support which its merits deserve: On the importance of the object which the Review is designed to accomplish it is not necessary to enlarge; it must be obvious to all thoughtful persons Reviews are now emploied as the most speedy and effective instruments for influencing public opinion. Topics, which if treated of in books would receive but little notice, when discussed in Reviews obtain general attention. Ideas reach the masses from above downwards. They first take hold of powerful, thoughtful minds; from them they receive form and |ex-pression; they then descend to other minds, and thus gravitate down through different classes of society until they permeate the whole mass. This fact of itself constitutes a reason of the strongest kind for the support of the American Catholic Quarterly Review, and evidences the high importance of its mission.
—A merchant wishes to procure 5 weights with which he intends to weigh any number of pounds from 1 to 121. What weights must he choose ?
—Mrs. Jameson thus speaks of the monks: “ But for the monks of the Middle Ages, the light of liberty, and lUer-ature, and science, had been forever extinguished; and for six centuries, there existed for the thoughtful, the gentle, the inquiring, the devout spirit, no peace, no security, no home but the cloister. There, learning trimmed her lamp; there,.contemplation ‘preened her wings’; there, the traditions of art, preserved from age to age by lonely studious men, kept alive, in form and color, the idea of a beauty beyond that of earth—of a might beyond that of the spear and the shield—of a Divine sympathy with suffering humanity. To this we may add another and a stronger claim to our respect and moral sympathies. The protection and the better education given to women in these early communities; the venerable and distinguished rank assigned to them when, as governess of their order, they became in a manner dignitaries of the Church: the introduction of their beautiful and saintly effigies, clothed with all the insignia of sanctity and authority, into the decoration of places of worship and books of devotion—did more, perhaps, for the general cause of I womanhood than all the boasted institutions of chivalry.”

312
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 20, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should tase it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Examination.
The Semi-Annual Examination, a most important college exercise, will take place next week. Earnest preparations have been made in all the classes, in order that the members of them may pass through the test successfully. All of our earnest young men, those who come here for the purpose of storing their minds, deem it their duty to do the best possible at the examination, because that will tell to all, especially to their friends at home, what has been their conduct in regard to their studies. It will tell more truly to the parents of the students in what manner their sons have spent their time, than would anything else.
It is not necessary for us to state that the Examinations will be as thorough as possible, giving to each student the opportunity of displaying his ability and of giving evidence of his progress during the session. But at the same time we would caution all against that childish fear which grown-up young men often display when under examination; and not only when under examination, but which they even display before the day of trial arrives. There is no hecessity for any to indulge in fears. The examinations are not held for the purpose of learning what a young man does not know, but to learn what he does know. Let every student simply do the best he can, in a frank, upright way, without ostentation and pertness, and without fear, and he has done his part. Let him not put on the air of knowing everything, for the contrary will soon be found out. He should not be afraid to tell what he does know, nor should he work himself into such a state of excitement as to cause him to answer wrongly. Again we say, let him do the best he can. . The notes given to him will be assigned faithfully and scrupulously, and should he be so fortunate as to obtain good notes, which we hope and doubt not but that he will, let him be grateful to God who has blessed his labors. And let him take courage from this, and derive a new impetus, a new courage to strive on until he reaches the bright goal which awaits the earnest student.
Literary Entertainments.
Apart from the intellectual culture attained in public dis cussions by members of debating societies, there is a great advantage presented to the debaters in the opportunities they have of avoiding the use of injudicious terms when' warmed up by the discussion, and of keeping their temper when, peradventiire, an opponent may so far forget himself as to use provoking language. To a keen debater, especially if he be a student full of wit, animal spirits and mischief, there is a great temptation, one most difficult to be successfully resisted, when the chance or occasion presents itself, of saying a witty thing, even though he well knows that it will wound the feelings of his opponent,—and if mischief be the predominating quality of the young man, he will say it because he knows it will wound. But in the long run this kind of thing does not pay. One bad effect first resulting from it is, that the debate ceases to be a serious discussion of the subject and degenerates into a mere interchange of personalities which, if allowed to continue, may in the course of time even descend to billingsgate and slang. Though personalities may for a short time amuse an audience it will in a very little while disgust all sensible people. We admit that it is hard to refrain from making a good a hit in order to raise a laugh, and indeed a debater should make as many good hits as possible, but what we would have him guard against is never to make one which would wound an opponent’s feelings. And then again, the most difficult thing after this temptation for a young debater is to accustom himself to keeping his temper when provoked by the attacks of an opponent. This should be the aim of every one, to keep cool. If a man will make it a point never to allow himself to be carried away, he is safe. By encasing himself in his dignity as a man, giving way neither to anger nor personalities, then the more unparliamentary be the language of one’s opponent the more thoroughly will is gain the respect of an enlightened audience. In the society room, as a rule, the temper more easily rises, and personalities are more frequent than when the debate is given in public, where the large audience checks the impulses of youth. Thus, then, as we said above, in addition to the mental culture is the great advantage of public discussions.
Another fault with which young men in societies are troubled is that of not preparing sufficiently for the debates in which they are to take part. No matter from what cause the want of preparation arises—whether from want of time, or from indolence, or from inability to grasp the subject so as to treat it well—the evil is there. This want of preparation, however, is more noticeable in the society room than in the publie debates, and any reference to it here may perhaps be out of place; but still even in the latter case it not unfrequently happens that a debater shows by his manner both of treating the question and from his awkwardness that he has not given the proper amount of study to his subject.
One great fault here at Notre Dame has been the endeavor to crowd a great deal into one evening’s entertainment, thus prolonging the sitting to a late hour, and thus tiring out the audience. The members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association, we are happy to state, are in their coming entertainments resolved to correct this; and in order to do so and yet display the abilities of the different members to advantage, it is their intention to give two en
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.	313
tertainments instead of one. The one entertainment will consist of orations, essays and music; the other of a debate. By this arrangement, more time is given to each debater in which to argue his points, and at neither entertainment will the audience be fatigued.
In conclusion, allow us to say one word with regard to the entertainment to take place, and which is to consist of orations, essays and music. As regards the orations, every one feels how they should be delivered, but as to the essays we are not so sure that every oue feels the importance of reading them well. Reading essays, like life, is a serious thing. Young men should bear this in mind. It is not enough to scratch off some crude thoughts, or put together some loose facts. Many thoughts that are new and fresh to the essayist are old aquaintances of the audience, and when these old aquaintances are presented in a slovenly or shabby dress by the essayist, the effect cannot be pleasing. Great care should therefore be taken in writing the essay. We recently saw it stated that Macaulay, the most brilliant writer of his day, wrote his essays, or whatever else he intended to publish, on widely lined paper. He first wrote without regard to theivording of the phrases and sentences, and then going over his pages a second and third time, perhaps oftener, he moulded and remoulded each sentence and phrase, until he gave it that polish and brilliancy which characterize his writings. A pity it is, we may be allowed to say in passing, that he gave so much attention to polish and so little to truth. Having made this remark to his blame, we make another to his credit, which is this: after bestowing so much pains on his manuscript, it may easily be imagined that the pages must have been a mass of erasures, and it would have been next to impossible for anyone but himself, who had the clue, to get through the inky labyrinth of words erased and restored, and again blotted out to give place to others,— Now mark it well, to his everlasting praise! He never sent his manuscript in that state to the printer. No, Christian friend, he made a clean, legible copy and sent it to the printer. Do you likewise, and printers will bless thee, and not thy eyes!	'
If the essay be for publication, you have nothing more to,do than to send it to the editor; and if well written—as it will be if you follow Lord Macaulay’s plan—and if it be on a suitable subject, you will have the satisfaction of seeing yourself in type, as in a mirror, and you can read your' self over and over, like a vain young man—or old one— studying himself in a looking-glass. But if you intend to read it, your task is but begun. We like music; music, you know, like the members of the College Orchestra give us whenever they play—and yet we say it sincerely, though our reputation as a musician may suffer thereby, we can listen with as much pleasure to a well-read essay as to one of Beethoven’s symphonies—and we think the pleasure is the same in kind. Of course, there is an intellectual pleas ure added, in case the essay be on a subject we are particu-lary interested in; but much of the pleasure consists in the gratification given to the sense of hearing. Consequently, no matter how good the production may be in a literary point of' view, all pleasure is lost when it is badly read. Nay more, the better the essay is, the greater the disappointment. As a consequence, it should be the endeavor of all who are to take part in this coming entertainment, which we expect to take place some time about the first of March, not only to pay earnest attention to the flow of their periods, but that they practice themselves in the reading of them.
Personal.
—Peter Van Mourick, of Detroit, Mich., was a visitor on -the 17th.	.	____ *
—Ralph White (Commercial, of ’76) is in business at Hanover, Ill. -
—P. J. Flanagan (Commercial, of ’76) is now residing in Nashville, Tenn.
—Wm. Gavitt, (Commercial), of ’69, is ticket agent at Atchison, Kansas.
—Henry Hoeber (Commercial, of ’74) is in business with his father in Chicago, Ill.
—L. J. Bush (Commercial, of ’75) is in the office of • Bush & Brand, Chicago, Ill.	.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael, of Mishawaka, dropped in to see us one day this last week. He is always welcome. ~
—George W. Crummey (Commercial), of’75, is a partner in the Crummey Mining Company, Lake City, Colorado.
—Willard D. Smith (Commercial, of ’76) is in the Gen’l Freight Office of the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad, Chicago, Ill.
—J. B. Crummey, (Commercial), of ’75, is Superintendent of the Crummey Mine, in the great San Juan Mining country, Colorado. His address is Lake City, Colorado.
—Mr. E. Kitz, the gentlemanly clerk of the Circle House, Indianapolis, Ind., paid us a flying visit last week. All our readers who may chance to pass through Indianapolis cannot do better than put up at this excellent hotel.
—We learn from the JUeio York Herald that John A. Quinn, of ’65, was married at St. Patrick’s Cathedral to Miss T., daughter of Hugh McGoldrick of that city. Rev. John J. Kean officiated. Though rather late, we wish the .	'
happy couple all joy and happiness.	-
—We learn that Rev. Mr. John Shanahan, of’72, formerly •_ a professor at the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, -• ’■ Watertown, Wis., and at St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati,. • O, was <1 vite I to the priesthood by Rt. Rev. Bishop •’ • / Foley, of Chicago, on the Feast of the Epiphany. Rev. James Coesman, a student of St. Francis’ Seminary, Wis., was ordained at the same time. The ordination was held at the Cathedral, and several priests were in attendance. We congratulate the newly ordained and wish them a long career of usefulness in the sacred ministry.
—From the Elgin Advocate, of December 30, we clip the following notice of the late Gen. W. F. Lynch: “A telegram was received here yesterday from Fort Larned, Kansas, announcing the death of Brigadier General William F. Lynch, which occurred at that place yesterday morning. In 1861 he was attending school at Notre Dame, Indiana, when the rebellion broke out, and was commissioned cap tain by Gov. Morton, of that State, and raised a company from among the students, but owing to their extreme youth, the Govenor declined to accept the company. He then left college, and enlisted as a private in the Twenty-third Illinois, Col. Mulligan commanding; was made sergeantmajor by Mulligan, and after the battle of Lexington, Missouri, was given authority by Gov. Yates, of Illinois, to raise a regiment and soon succeeded in recruiting the Fiftyeighth regiment, which was mustered into service Christmas week, 1861. The regiment was ordered South, and participated in the battles of Forts Donelson and Henry, where it-performed gallant service. It was engaged in the bloody struggle at Shiloh, where General Lynch was wounded in the mouth, aud with the greater portion of the regiment, was taken prisoner. Was a prisoner seven months when he was exchanged and returned home, where he and the members of his regiment received a royal welcome from the citizens of Elgin. Soon afterward he was placed in command of' the post of Cairo, from which he was transferred to Camp Butler, at Springfield, with orders to recruit his regiment. The regiment filled up rapidly, and was again ordered South, and participated in the memorable raid to Meridian, Mississippi; after returning from this expedition was ordered to join General Banks on his disastrous expedition to the Red River country, in Louisiana. During this campaign he was in command of the First Brigade, Third Division, Sixteenth Army Corps, and was assigned to the command of the division on the day he was wounded. From
314
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this wound he never fully recovered, and was mustered out on account of disabilities. At his own request he was restored to the regiment, and took part in the. battle of Nashville. Was again assigned to recruiting duty until the close of the war. In 1865 he joined the Fenians, and was placed in command of the northwestern militaiy department, and was captured on Lake Erie by a United States revenue cutter. S»on after that event he was tendered a commission as second lieutenant in the regular army, but declined, when he was commissioned captain, with the rank of Brevet Colo .el of the Sec >nd Regiment Invali 1 corps, and was soon after placed on the unassinned lis>, and in December, 1870, was retired as Brigadier General. Although he did not graduate at Notre Dame, the honorary degree of A. B. was conferred upon him. He was admitttd to the practice of law'in 1871; was elected to City council in 1872, and served two terms; was a member of the school board in 1873, serving two years, being president of the board one year. His remains will be brought to Elffin for interment, probably on Tuesday next. He went to Kansas in September last for his health, and hopes were entertained that he would be fully restored. His wife joined him a few weeks ago, and was with hitn at the time of his death. He was a sou of the late Timothy Lynch; was in the thirty-eigth year of his age, and leaves a wife and six children and many friends to mourn his death. ■ .	"
Old Students Now Deceased.
We purpose publishing from time to time, notices of students .of Notre Dame who have departed this life. We feel that these notices will afford great pleasure, not only to those of our subscribers who were years ago class mates of those whose sketches we give, by recalling the past, but also by the students now attending class here, as everything connected with Notre Dame must necessarily be of interest to them. These sketches were written by one who was well acquainted with those of whom he writes and though in the majority of cases he is unable to give the date of birth yet he gives a true estimate of their character.
William Richardville, 1846-47.
This young boy, the son of an Indian chief of the Miamis tribe, is the first on the list of our deceased students. He died at Notre Dame on the 28th of March, 1847, in the old Infirmary, where the present students’ office stands. Nat-urallj7 quiet, and rather sickly, he made little progress in study. He was attended in his last sickness—consumption —by Very Rev. E. Sorin, then President of the University. He was fifteen years old at the time of his death. He was the first person buried in the present parish graveyard at Notre Dame. Requiescat in pace.
Rev. Moses Letourneau, 1843-44.
This pious and zealous priest is the fifth on the list of our deceased students. He died A. D. 1851, pastor of Holy Trinity Church, in Detroit, Mich., at the age of 29 years, a victim to his zeal in attending sick calls. He had been one of the first students of Notre Dame. Talented and pious, he was besides very bandy at any work of carpentrjr and drawing, in fact a true architect, like his fatner. Desirous of consecrating’ himself entirely to God, he sought for. admission into the Community, and was gladly received. There be continued to be a model among the religious, as he had been among the students; but his delicate constitution soon gave way, and to his great regret he was obliged to return to his home in Detroit. After sometime he entered the diocesan seminary-and was ordained priest in due time by Rt. Rev. Bishop Lefebvre, of Detroit, who gave him charge of the Holy Trinity Church. Alas! that his fruitful ministry was so very short. He took a severe cold in at tending the sick, and expired on the eve of the Assumption, a reward no doubt of his tender devotion to the Blessed Virgin. His premature death was a great loss to the diocese, but a gain for heaven we hope. Requiescat in pace.
—Something for our Young Mathematicians.—Four numbers, of which each following exceeds the preceding by 2, give, when multiplied together, the product 48,384; hatis the most simple way of finding these numbers, without algebraic forms?
Iioeal Items.
—“Mill” is the great game in the Junior department.
—We give the list of the different boards of examiners this week.
—The examination next week will engross the attention of everybody.
—Bro. Peter has been engaged in retouching the frescoes in the Junior refectory.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh lectured at St. Mary’s Academy on the afternoon of the 17th.
—A large amount of beautiful clear ice has been put away for the summer months.
—The grand funeral procession in the Seniors’ hall was the event of the afternoon of the 17th.
—It seems as though it is never going to quit snowing. We had a severe storm on Monday last.
—There is splendid fishing on the lower lake, but you must cut holes in the ice in order to enjoy the pastime.
—The next musical soiree will take place on the first of February, and not next Thursday as was announced.
—We have not yet learned on what evening the next Literary Entertainment^ of the Philodemics will be given.
—It was found necessary to bring out the snow-plow to clear off the walks on Tuesday, after the great storm of Monday.
—The Juniors are going to put up another table in their hall. This will make four, and will give them plenty of enjoyment.
—We are indebted to Mr. W. J. Onahan for a copy of Wild Edgerton's Weekly Evergreen, which will receive due attention.
—The tablet in the room of the Lemonnier Circulating Library is very neat and tasty, and reflects great credit upon those who got it up.
—The musicians are preparing for the 22d of February, when they intend furnishing plenty of good music at the Exhibition to be given by the Thespians.
—A gentleman from Notre Dame, making a trip to Chicago this past week, was nine hours on the road, and there were six locomotives attached to the train.
—The Juniors are now reading the “ Popular History of the Catholic Church in theUnited States” by John O’Kane Murray, and find it very entertaining as well as instructive.
—The Scholastic Almanac is the title of a handsome, well edited Kalender, in the English language, issued at Notre Dame, Indiana.—Luxemburger Gazette, Dubuque, Iowa.
—We begin this week the publication of short notices of the deceased students of Notre Dame. The notices will, we feel confident, be read with much interest by all our subscribers acquainted with Notre Dame.	'
—The students of the Manual Labor School are progressing rapidly in their trades and studies owing to the paternal care, zeal and energy displayed by their kind Director and the heads of the different shops.
—Prof. Ivers delivered his lecture on the evening of the 18th to a very large audience. Many of those attending the lecture were forced to stand, all the seats being taken. The lecture was very entertaining, and was frequently applauded.	’
—Vespers to-morrow is, as far as the Capitulum, the second Vespers of St. Agnes, page 120 of the Vesperal. From the Capitulum, it is of SS. Vincentius and Anastasios, page 121, with commemorations of St. Agnes, and the Sunday, page 78.
—The 16th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society took place January 15th. Declamations were given by Masters Nicholas, Pleins, Keenan, Frazee Reynolds, Phelan, Congar, Donnelly, Jones, Roos, Peltier . Duffield, and Scanlon.	.
—The Editor of the Ave Maria is the possessor of a true picture of St. Aloysius which was lately brought from Rome by Miss Starr, of St. Mary’s. We think St. Aloysius
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	315

was very different in personal appearance from what he is generally supposed to have been.
—It is the library of St. Joseph’s Catholic Benevolent Society for which Prof. Howard desires donations of books. His friends and the friends of the Society will do a great favor and advance a good cause by contributing their spare volumes to this new and much-needed library.
—The new paper on which the Ave Maria is now printed is of a quality far superior to that heretofore used. The cover paper is also of a fine quality and adds materially to the beauty of the journal. Like the Scholastic paper, it is procured from the Peninsular Paper Co., Ypsilanti, Mich.
—A young gentleman the other morning when getting up and putting on his clothing discovered that a mouse had taken up its quarters in that part of his clothes which covers his shoulder blades. The contortions he went through before he made the discovery were violent as well as ludicrous.
—The Scholastic Almanac,1877.—This is the second is sue of this useful annual, which is filled with useful and interesting reading for Catholics in every portion of the Union. Mr. J. A. Lyons, the compiler, seems to be “ the right man in the right place.” Price 25 cents, and is issued at Notre Dame, Ind.—Catholic Sentinel.	.
—The members of the Academia sat down to an oyster supper on Wednesday, January 17th, which was gotten up in excellent style by Bro. Crispinian. Due justice was done the bivalves by all present. The thanks of the Academia were tendered to Bro. Crispinian and to those who assisted in getting up the excellent table.
—Among the other acknowledgments, the Catholic Visitor announces the receipt of the Scholastic Almanac, and says: “Besides the usual matter incident to almanacs, this contains a great many pages of interesting reading matter, which are really worth more than double the price asked for the book. J. A. Lyons is the publisher.”
—Again we would call the attention of everybody to the fact that we are only too anxious to have all the “ personals” possible. But then everyone sending us such items should remember to sign their names to the paper on which they are written, otherwise we have no guarantee of their truth and must consign them to the waste-basket.
—Prof. Lyons is having some volumes of the University Catalogue bound, but misses from his collection those of *59, ’60, ’G3 and ’66. Any person having duplicate copies of those years will confer a favor by sending them to Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind. He will, in return, send a copy of the Scholastic Almanac for 1877. ‘	.
;—In spite of the good cold weather we have had, there has been very little skating on account of the snow which covers the lakes. The only thing left is to make a good rink, which we understand will be made the coming summer. This of course does not benefit the students of this year, but it will be a guarantee of good skating next year for all who intend returning.
—Last week two more boxes of apparatus, etc., were added to the Cabinet of Physics. Among them is a series of fourteen magnificient Helmholtz Resonators, constructed by the celebrated acoustician Rudolph Koenig, of Paris, and exhibited by him at the Centennial Exposition. There is also a Megascope and collection of scientific transparencies, beautifully colored slides, etc.
—After a tempest comes a calm: so we think, when out on a trip for news. The holidays were to us the tempest of pleasure and of news; now indeed the calm has come, and items are as scarce as can be. The answer “ Every one is preparing for the examination ” is to us a monotonous one. However, we don’t complain, as at is a monotony which is good, for the time is well spent in study.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held its 18th regular meeting Jan 13th. The principal exercise of the evening was the debate. Those that took part in it were A. Widdecombe, R. Hayes, R. P. Mayer and J. P. Hagerty. The debate was conducted in a lively manner, and showed the members had prepared themselves well.-Declamations were delivered by A. Burger, M. Kauffman, A. Widdecombe, 0. Lindberg, and Geo. Cassidy.	’
—We call the attention of all, and for the last time, to this rule of the office, that we must have the name of the writer of everything sent to the Scholastic for publication, even though it be a small item. Unless the name is sent, the communication is put in the waste-basket. We have said this so often that one would suppose it would not occur again; ' but it does, and this last week we were forced to throw any amount of communications into the basket.
—Murphv’s Original Minstrel Troupe was organized on the 16th. T. C. Logan is middleman and plays the kettledrum; Jno. Quinn plays 1st violin; J. P. McHugh, 2d violin; A. K. Schmidt, violin; N. Mooney, violoncello; Carl Otto,cornet; W. Chapoton, flute; F. S. Hastings, bones; L. D. Murphy, tamborine; and E. White, banjo. The vocalists are Messrs. W. T. Ball, H. C. Cassidy, G. Gross, E. Ri-opelle, J. J. Quinn and F. Maas. J. D. McIntyre is the advance agent.	•
—We have received a copy of the Scholastic Almanac, for 1877. It is the neatest and best family Almanac we have seen, and is creditable to the compiler, Mr. J. A. Lyons. The reading matter, which is extensive, is well selected, and most of the articles have been published during the past year in the excellent and well-edited college journal, The Notre Dame Scholastic. Send on your 25 cents to J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind., and get a copy. —Catluolic Messenger.
—We are indebted to Prof. Lyons, the compiler and publisher, for a copy of the Scholastic Almanacc for 1877. Good as was the Almanac for 1876, this one is better. Its calendar, obituary and astronomical department show great care and will be very valuable especiall}' to Catholic readers. Its literary department is worthy of special mention, the selections for the greater part being from that best of college papers, the weekly Scholastic.—St. Joseph's Valley Register.	.
—We would be highly pleased if some who were familiar with Notre Dame ten, twenty or thirty years ago would favor us with their recollections ofthe place, giving us all the in'en stins anecdotes of the students and professors they can. Tne time will come when all those who lived at the College some twenty years syne will have passed away forever, and the traditions of the place will be lost forever unless they be now recorded. We do not want dry histories, but accounts filled with as many anecdotes as possible. Who will favor us with their reminiscences?
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1877, published from the printing office of Notre Dame University, Ind., is not merely a credit in a small way to the publishers, but takes rank as one of the very best annuals of its kind in the country. The only criticism we have to make on it is, that it may savor a little too much of the school in its literary portion; but even this fault, if it be one, has its pleasant side. Professor Lyons, its compiler, has done a difficult thing very cleverly in thus establishing an annua! which has already a national reputation among Catholics.—Boston Pilot.
—Christmas before last was a “ green Christmas,”—no snow on the ground; last Christmas, however, came with the traditional sheet of white overspreading everything. Last year we had much rain during the winter months; this year scarcely any. Saturday, January 18th—one year ago to day—it rained all day; wind blowing from the southwest; no ice on the lakes nor snow on the ground— thermometer 57degrees; thisyear there has been a plentiful supply of snow, with good thick ice so far on the lakes, but owing to the heavy and frequent falls of snow there has been very little skating. Taken altogether, however, the present winter is one of the pleasantest we have had for many years, steady hard freezing, plenty of steam in the College to keep us warm, and but few material changes in the weather.
—No volume which has come to our book-table this year has been perused with more pleasure and profit than the Scholastic Almanac, issued from the Scholastic printing office, Notre Dame. Prof. J. A. Lyons is to be complimented on the rare good taste he has displayed in the compilation of this book. Its predecessor of last year was taken as a model upon which he has built all the modern improvements, and the result is eminently satisfactory. Some one has said it requires more skill to compile a vol
316
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ume than to write it. One thing is certainly necessary— judgment; and that the Professor has evidently displayed. The.literary articles are from that prince of college papers, the Scholastic, and rival in merit the best productions of the year. One poem alone is worth the volume. It is entitled “ Hodie Mihi,—Oras tibi” and compares favorably with Thomas Buchanan Read’s beautiful reverie, which has frequently been called the finest American poem ever written. The essays on Sidney Smith, Cowper, Dante and Pope Celestine are unusually strong and well written. The humorous poems and sketches, such as “ The Cake of the Dismal Tramp.” “ A French Novel,” “ Meeting of the Waiters” and “ The Haunted House,” are from the facile pen of Prof. Stace and are admirable. The Scholastic Almanac is printed on fine tinted paper and is sold at the popular price, 25 cents.—South Bend Herald.
—In no other way can a person get back so large a profit for a very little money, as to expend it in learning what to do, when to do it, and how to do it—in other words, to have his brains help his hands. Here is one way to do this: The small saving or extra production of less than half a cent a day, or 3 cents a week, will now procure a large, beautiful, cheap Journal, for all of 1877, splendidly illustrated, with jover 600 fine original engravings, and over a thousand columns of the very best, plain, practical, trustworthy information about the every day in-door and outdoor work and comfort of every home, in country, village, and city. This information is not prepared bj- mere scribblers, but by a large force of intelligent working men and women, who know what they write about, and they are assisted by many others, who furnish information from their own practice and observation. Such a Journal is the American Agriculturist, so named because started 35 years ago as a rural journal, but since greatly enlarged and improved to suit the daily wants of every man, woman, and child, in city, country, and village—for the farmer and gardener, the merchant and mechanic, the professional man—indeed, all classes. It is packed full of useful information that every one ought to have. Many single hints and suggestions will repay more than a whole year’s cost of the paper. Its original engraved plans for buildings and improvements, with details of cost, etc., and common sense directions, are worth far more than a majority of the cosily works on architecture. Great care is exercised to have every line in the paper reliable. Its constant, persistent, and full exposure of a multitude of humbugs and swindles is alone worth far more than its cost, and has saved to its readers and to the country millions of dollars that would have gone into the hands of sharpers. The Departments for Housekeepers and Children are very useful and entertaining. In short, the American Agriculturist is full of good things, and ought to be in every house in the land. The circulation is so large that the publishers can supply it at little above the cost of the printing paper—or $1.60 a year, sent post-paid; or four copies $5.40. Take our advice and send your subscription for 1877 (Vol. 36) to Orange Judd Company, 245 Broadway, New York. You will find it pay, and pay well
Semi-Annual Examination.
Thursday, Jan. 25,1877.
BOARDS OF EXAMINATION.
CLASSICAL.
Rev. p. J. Golovin, C. S. C., President; Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, C. S. C , Secretary; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C.; Mr. N. Stoffel, C. S. G; Mr. M. Fallize, C. S. C.; Mr. A Kollop, C. S. C.; Mr. P. Johannes, C. S. C.;
—will examine classes numbered 27, 28, 29, 39, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45.
SCIENTIFIC.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., President; Rev. D. Hagerty, C. S. C., Secretary; Mr. A. Kirsch, C. S C.; Mr. Jno. O’Keefe, C. S. C.; Prof. T. E. Howard, and Prof. W. Ivers; —will examine, in Room No 3, classes numbered 46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65.
COMMERCIAL.
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., President; Prof. O. Schnur-
rer, Secretary; Prof. L. G. Tong; Prof. J. A. Lyons; Prof. W. Ivers, and Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C.;
—will examine, in Room No. 13, classes numbered 4, 8,12, 15,17, 20, 23, 25, 26.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
Mr. A. P. Kollop, C. S. C., President; Mr. M. Fallize, C. S. C., Secretary; Mr. P. Johannes, C. S. C.; Mr. M. B. Lauth, 0. S. C.; Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C., and Prof. 0. Schnurrer;
—will examine, in Room No. 6, classes numbered 70, 71, 72, 73, 74,75.
FINE ARTS.
Rev. E. Lilly, C. S. C., President; Bro. Leopold, C. S. 0., Secretary; Bro. Basil, C. S. C.; Bro. Albert, C. S. C.; Bro. Celestine, C. S. C., and Prof. O. Schnurrer;
—will examine classes numbered 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 84.
PREPARATORY SENIOR.
Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C., President; Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., Secretary; Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.; Bro. Francis de Sales, C. S. C.; Bro. Albert, C. S. C.; Bro. Philemon, C. S. C., and Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.;
—will examine, in Room No. 1, classes numbered 16,18, 19,21,22,24.
PREPARATORY JUNIOR.
Mr. Thos. C. Collins, C. S. O., President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Secretary; Mr. J. Rodgers, C. S. C.; Mr. M. B. Lauth, C. S. C.; Bro. Paul, C. S. C.; Bro. Leander, 0. S. C.; Bro. Laurence, 0. S. C., and Mr. Toland;
—will examine, in Room No. 7, classes numbered 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9,10,11,13,14.
BoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Breen, J. Boice, P. Cooney, W. Chapoton, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, W. Fowler, T. Garrity, T. Garso, A. Hertzog, P. Hagan, J. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W.Keily, J. Larkin, G. Laurans.H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, T. McGrath, J. McEuiry, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Proud-homme, J.-Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, O. Rettig, M. Regan, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, T. Summers, F. Schlink, J. Silverthorn, G. Saxinger, P. Tamble, T.Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Abrahams, E. Anderson, A. Bergck, W. Brady, J. Burger, A. J. Burger, J. Bell, J. Boehm, F. E. Carroll, G. Cassidy, H. Canoil, A. B. Congar, F. Ewing, J. English, C. Faxon, F. Fischel, A. Gerlach, L. Garceau, J. Healey, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, J. Johnson, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, Willie Jones, J. Krost, M. Kauffman, O. Lindberg, J. Lumley, F. McGrath, R. Mayer, J. Mungoven, T.Nelson, C. Orsinger, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, C. Roos, A. Sievers, L. Sievers, I. Rose, W. Taulby, T. Wagner, L. Wol£
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Scanlan, R. Pleins, G. Rhodius, W. Cash, W. Coolbaugh, G. Lambin, P. Nelson, W. McDevitt, J. Seeger, Geo. Hadden, G. Lowrey, E. Carqueville, C. Reif, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz, C. Long, F. Carqueville, J. Inderrieden, F. Gaffney, Jos. Inderrieden, A. Rheinboldt, C. Kauffman, A Sehnert.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE WEEK ENDING JAN. 18.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior.—J.’Gray, T. Summers, W. Dodge, W. Turnbull, J. Larkin, J. D. Montgomery, W. Farra, W. McGorrisk, C. Wittenberger, E. Davenport, P. J. O’Leary, W. Williams, F. Keller, J. Braden, G. Saxinger, J. Boice.
Junior.—J. Johnson, O. Lindberg, R. French, A. Keenan, R. Keenan, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll,-C. Johnson, R. Johnson, A Abrahams, T. F. McGrath, W. Taulby, B. D. fieeb, W. Widdecombe, E. Poor, F. Lancaster, J. Reynolds, A Burger, F. Ewing, H. Scott, F. Rheinboldt, J. Healy, T. Wagner, W. Ryan, T. Nelson, J. Boehm, H. Canoll, J. Ingwersen, J. Carrer, L. Garceau, C. McKinnon, I. Rose, W. Davis, J. Scholby, G. Ittenbach, A Sievers, J. Mungoven, L. Sievers.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
317
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Seniors—J. G.Ewing, C. Otto, N. Mooney.
Juniors.—J. Coleman.
Sophomores.—A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, J. McEniry.
Freshmen.—H. Maguire, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, J. C. O’Rourke, A. Burger, P. Schnurrer.
commercial course.
G. Saylor, J. Coleman, E. Vandervannet, T. Gareeau, J. Van-derhoof, J- W. Burke, A. Ames. J. Fitzgerald, J. Krost, J. Kenney, T. Quinn, F. Schlink, G. Fishburne, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, E. Pefferman, J. Patterson, J. Lambin, A. Baca, T. Garrity, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, J. Crost, J. Haggerty, W. Sheehon, W. Brady, G. Cassidy, M. Kauffman, A. Gerlach, G. Sugg, J. Bell, C. Roos, A. Congar, J. Silverthorne.
List of Excellence. .
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING JAN. 18.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—R. French, L. Gareeau, G. Cassidy, J. Ingwersoh, W. Sheehon, J. Knebel, W. Williams, J. Silverthorne ; Grammar—A. Keenan, A. Congar, A. Abrahams. J. Bell, J. Boehm, A. Sievers, J. Mungoven, J. Fitzgerald, T. Gar-ceau ; Arithmetic—G. Cassidy, F. Carroll, F. Phelan, R. French, C. McKinnon, J. Mungoven, G. Gareeau, D. Claffey. M. Williams, J. Gray ; Geography and History—A. Abrahams, J. Fitzgerald, B. Heeb, E. Poor, G. Wolf, A. Burger, F. Rheinboldt. J. Ingwer-son ; Penmanship—T. Quinn, L. Wolf; Algebra—J. Healy, J. Larkin.
.	COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—A. Abrahams, C. Orsinger, B. Heeb, R. Mayer, J. Hagerty, P. Schnurrer, M. Kauffman, F. Rheinboldt, A. Gerlach, J. O’Rourke, J. Krost, R. Golsen, T. Wagner, J. Boehm, J. Ingwerson, A. Burger, F. Vandervannet, J. Mosal, G. Crawford, L. Frazee, M. Cross, J. Fitzgerald, W. Dodge, J. Fishburne, G. Fishburne, W. Ohlman, W. Widdicombe, FfPhelan, A. Congar, C. Roos. C. Faxon, I. Rose, W. Williams.
French—A. Hertzog, K. Scanlan, G. Saxinger.
Piano.—T. Quinn, J. D. Montgomery, E. Sugg, F. E. Carroll, C. Orsinger, R. Mayer, C. Clarke, C. L. Hagan, A. Gerlach, J. Duffield, T. Fischel.
Violin.—W. Taulby, J. Rothert, M. Kauffmann, G. McGor-risk, F. Rheinboldt, A. Sievers, C. Walsh, P. Skahill, T. Mc-Gorrisk.
Cornet.—A. Ames.
Guitar.—A. Ames.
Telegraphy.—J. Proudhomme, M. R. Smith, A. Bergck, F. Ewing, W. Williams, A. Congar.
Drawing—A. Schm’dt, A. Gerlach, J. Mosal, C. Clarke, 0. Lindberg, R. Golsen, P. H. Skahill, G. Ittenbach.
Painting—A. K. Schmidt, W. Fowler.	■

—A musical soiree will be given on the 1st of February.
—The examination in the Musical Department began on the 19th.
—At the close of the examinations the pupils will have an extra lively recreation-day.
—The “ beautiful, beautiful snow ” is lying around in such profusion as to suggest a mammoth sleigh-ride.
—The examination of the Latin, French; and German Classes begins on the 22nd inst. The examination of the English Classes, on the 24th.
—January 9th, Miss E. A. Starr delighted the faculty and pupils by giving them a graphic and highly interesting account of her voyage on “ L’Amerique."
—The fine chromo portrait of the Holy Father, presented by the Editor of the South Bend Tribune to St. Mary’s Academy, is much admired and highly appreciated.
—The composition classes are so enthusiastic over the snow subject that many of the composers have gone into
blank-veree raptures, and the Art pupils are determined to immortalize the snowy landscape by giving us snow scenes in every variety.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and -correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
.Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennet, J. Nunning, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, C. Boyce, J. Richards, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, E. O’Connor. E. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, M. Dalton, E. Pleins, D. and A. Cavenor, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy,’ S. Cash, L. Davenport, M. Smalley, E. Black. M. Usselman. M. Halligan, I. Cooke, 100 par excellence. Misses A. O’Connor, L. Beall, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, M. Daily, P. Gaynor, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, H. Russell, C. Morgan, J. Cronin, H, Hawkins, E. Rodenberger, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, G. Wells, B. Siler, N. Davis, A. Woodin, L. Tighe; K. Burgie, N. Johnson, C. Thaler.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH STUDIES*
Graduating Class.—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, L. Johnson, J. Bennet, L. Beall.
1st Sr. Class.—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, M. Daily, P. Gaynor, A. Harris. AI. O’Connor. L. Kelly, <i. Cooney.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses C. Boyce, H. Russell, C. Morgan, J . Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, S. Moran, AI. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson.	.	’
3d Sr. Class.—Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, C.
Silverthorn, E. Bouton, G. Wells, B. Siler. M. Dalton, N. Davis, ' A. Woodin, E. Pleins, D. and A. Cavenor. K. Kelly, G. Breeze,
1st Prep Class.—Misses L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy,	•
K. Burgie, J. Burgert, S. Cash, E. Davenport, M. Smalley. •	।
2nd Prep. Class.—Misses M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. and A. McGrath, L. Chilton, C. Carroll, H. Hayes, E. Mulligan, F. Fitz. M. Lambin, L. Cox, N. Hackett, M. Cox, A Get.tyi J. Butts, A. Williams, E. Wooten, L. Ellis, M. Robertson, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, A. Morgan, D. Gordon, I. Mann, A. Peak, AI. McFadden, M. Davis.	j
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.	■
2d Sr. Class.—Alary Ewing.
3d Sr. Class.—Nellie AIcGrath.	i
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Ewing, A. Alorgan, L. Walsh, D. Gordon.	’
2d Prep. Class—Misses A. AIcGrath, L. Chilton I. Mann.	,
FRENCH CLASSES.	i
1st Class—Alisses L. Beall, M. and E. Thompson, A. Harris,	*:
B. Wilson, N. AIcGrath.	i
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, P. Gaynor, L. Rodenburger, J.	!
Burgert, G. Silverthorn, A. AIcGrath, J. Bennett, A. Walsh.	j
4th Class—Alisses L. Aloran, J. Cronin J. Stough, AI. Ewing,	i
A. Ewing, D. Hayes, E. Mulligan, A. Getty, A. Wiliams. J. Butts.	j
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Daily, AI Walsh,	|
«AI. O’Connor.	j
FANCY-WORK.	*	s
Misses AI. Faxon, H. Hawkins, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, J.	•
Richards, L. Schwass, C. Corrill, A. Ewing, S. Cash, H. Dryfoos,	■
A. Koch, A. Morgan, D. Gordon. M. Schultheis, N. AIcGrath, E.	।
and AI. Dalton, AI. Lambin, AI. Hungerford, I. Cook, G. Conklin,	J
E. Forrey, K. Burgie, J. Burgie, B. Siler.	j
ART DEPARTAIENT.	’	1
DRAWING.	|
1st Class—Alisses J. Ritchie, AI. and E. Thompson.	s
4th Class—Alisses AI. Smalley, C. Silverthorne and J. Cronin.	|
Promoted to the 4th Class—Misses L. Davenport, A. Williams	]
and A. Getty.	j
5th Class—Aliss AI. Spier.	.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses A. Cullen and L. Kirchner.	1
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Alisses C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Alisses E. Lange, A. Koch, S. Moran, M. O’Connor,	;
D. Cavenor, AI. Schultheis, and J. Richards.	J
ST. MARY’S CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.	.	|
The Examination of Music Classes begins on Friday, the 19th
ult. Standing in class, and progress, will be noted by the Board	<
of Examiners, presided over by the Directresses of Studies and of	;
Alusic. A concert by the higher classes, Feb. 1st, will close the	j
Examination, to which we cordially invite our musical friends.
Examination of Vocal Classes on Thursday, Jan. 25th.
[
318
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
OUR COUNTRY!
What Will Become of It ?
Is a question now agitating the public mind.
The grave issues before Congress; the final settlement of the late Presidential election; the incoming Congress; the new President; the Policy of the next Administration; and future welfare of the country and people, are inattei s of great interest to each and every individual. Such a crisis has not been presented since the Declaration of Independence.
a Truthful History of events, and doings of Congress, will be given with impartiality and fairness in the
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER, a public-spirited paper echoing the wishes of the people, advocating submission to the Laws, good Government, and the Kights of the People to be heard upon all matters that pertain to the country’s welfare.
The Tricky Politicians, always ready to organize trouble, ' but who never participate in danger, will be shown up in their true characters. By subscribing for the Enquirer, you will get a faithful record of events astbey transpire, without Party Coloring and unbiased by Party feelings, as the true merit in a newspaper is its ability and willingness Io give the
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, Chicago, illihois.
NEWS AS IT COMES
and not as it is prepared by party demagogues to mislead the people. Specimen copies free.
TERMS OF SCBSCRIPTIOiV.
FATHICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. MHj’b, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. SHICKEY.
FOR WEEKLY.
Single Copy, one year..............................S3	00
Five Copies “	.........SI 75 each............ 8	75
Ten “	“	.........160 “ ................16	00
.Twenty “	“	..........1 50 “ ...............30	00
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
FOR DAILY.
• Without Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....§12	00
Six Months ........... 6	00
Three Months.......... 3	25
One Month..............1	25
With Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year...§14 00
Six Mon ths.............. 7	00
Three Months............ 3	50
One Month................ 1	50
Most liberal terms to club agents. Send for 'specimen copies and agents’ outfit.
Agents wanted at every post-office.
Address all letters to
FABAN & McLEAN, Publishers,
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
dec 23-1 Ot
Michigan Central Railway.
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles “ Jackson. Ar. Detroit ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ < 25 “	4 00 p.m . 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a in 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 » Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago.	7 00 a.m 0 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30 •*	10 05 a in 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 UO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 *•	5 40 p tn 9 25 ” 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 '•	9 50 p m 12 42 a.a 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.			-	
Lv. South. Bend—8 15 a.m. 7 15 p m.	§9 0G	a.m.	§7 00	p.m
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 23 “	9 07	u	7 07	ii
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 00 “	9 40	l<	7 40	ci
GOING SOUTH.				
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m. 4 20 p.m.	§8 00	a m.	§5 00	p.m
“ Notre Dame—1 07 “	4 56 “	8 32	Cl	5 32	41
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05 “	8 40	• I	5 40	
•Sunday excepted. fDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sunnay only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame-
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera’osilcal Catalogue of 50 pages, w distributed free to all customers, to others on nceii t of 10 cents. It i« profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck ofi’. Ry means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spee’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, si ecific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural Bistory. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.	"
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishmen*. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1 500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of loo illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25	50	100
inbox inbox inbox
100
200
300
Crystals and fragments.....	§ 59 §1 §1 50 | § 1
Students’ size, larger.....|	1 50	3	6 I 5
Amateur's size, 2J4 in. x 114..................I	10
High School or'Acad, size,214x3 J4 in shelf specimens | 25
College size, 314x6 in., shelf specimens...... |	500
8'2
10
25
50
100
8 3
25
50
100
300

Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, IC. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science: Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of .Natural Sd- ■ ences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York. ,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
319
M01TALD,
THE PHOTOGRAPHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
EDWARD BUYSSE,
•	DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
All Kinds of’ Engraving Done.
CALIFORNIA
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SA.TT PRANCISCO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Greeu Bay. Oshkosh. Madison, Milwaukee and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will bny your tickets by this route, and will take no other. ’
T^is popular rou’e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth,well-b lasted and perfect track of steA rails. Westinghouse a.r brakes. Miller’s safety platfonn and coupler0, the celebrated otullmau Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph systen of moving trains, the regularity with which they ruu, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i r iveling.
T*U L.LZVIA.1N PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road	"
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	'
Marvin Hughitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dep , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices _ at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo........4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas find Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10	00 a.m.	3	45 p.m.
Peru accommodation .................. 5	00 p.m.	9	35	a.m.
Night Express........................10	00 p.m.	6	50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIjMCE TABLE.
DEC- 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
3Trams with Through Cars to YEW YORK.
Chicago....................leave
Plymouth,........................ Ft. Wayne,....................... Lima,............................ Forest,.......................... Crestline,.......................arrive
Crestline...................leave
Orrville,.........................
Alliance,.........................
Rochester,........................
Pittsburgh,............... arrive
GOING EAST.
No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.
10 40 P.M.	8.20 A.M.	5.35 p.m.
240 am.	11.25 “	9.00 “
6.55 “	210 p.m.	11.45 “
8 55 “	405 “	1 39 A.M.
1010 “	520 “	250 “
11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “
12.05 P.M.	7.15 pat.	4.30 a.m.
12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “
2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “
4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “
6.22 u	1.20 A AI.	11.06 “
7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	’
F. R.IMTEBS, G. P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 25,1876, trains will leave South Bend at follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55p m. Cleveland 9 45.
11 59 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10; Cleveland 9 45; Buffalo 4 00 am.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40; Cleveland. 7(5; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago
6 30 a m.	.
5 38 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 820pm
405 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 820
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Amves at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
320
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER & MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law,No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G. TONG, [of’651 Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Deal Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
TTTOMAS I?. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York.. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJNNTNG & HOGAN [D J. Bogan, of’74],. Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, DI.
JOBCBiT IP. IMCcHTUGH [of ’72), Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.	'
DODGE <fc "DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections'promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i), Attorney a' Law, Notary PubLc and Commissioner of Dreds. Office. S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <St MILLARD (Jas. E McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
VfTILLIA M J. CL A. KKE (^f '74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No 67 S High St, Columbus. O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at l aw, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN E>. McCORMICK—of’73—At’orney at Law and No.ary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.	•
Weekly Newspapers.
TOHE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, pub ished J. weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.5".
ZEL ZbZEZENT_hJAgent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s30-ly
The Band .^aasn, A. McKay, Prop., . ustilzes, michigant. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
The Scholastic Almanac FOR 1877.
Price 25 cts.t postpaid.
The Scholastic Almanac, will contain, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It will be printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
Contents.
Introduction—Astrological Predictions—Eclipses—Days of Obligation—Fasting Days—Time—Calendars—Festina Lente—Student’s Triumph—Il Ciriegio—What the Church has Done for Civilization—Peanuts—Alanus de Insulis— The Old Church—Have We a Climate—Commencement Ode—A New French Novel—Sunshine Glistens after Rain —Sidney Smith—Leap Year—Batchelor Sketches—Count Von Gutzendorfs Ghost—The Miser—Building Castles— Hodie Mihi; Cras Tibi—Building a Bonfire—The Cake of the Dismal Tramp—Meeting of the Waiters—Plato on the Immortality of the Soul—On the Wide Atlantic—Cowper —Dante and Pope Celestine V—A Model Student—Have we Deponents in English—Geology and the Development Theory—Oration of W. J. Onahan—Haunted House— Answer—Squeamishness—Republic of Plato—Father De Seille.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
“ HAS NO EIVAL WORTHY THE NAME.”
Music.] CHURCH’S [Music.
MUSICAL VISITOR,
AN INDEPENDENT JOURNAL OF MUSIC.
■ $20.00
WORTH OF MUSIC DURING THE YE 4R.
Stories, Sketches, Correspondence, etc., by the best Writers.
Choice of Elegant Volumes of Music:	.
“SONG PREMIUM,” “CLASSIC PRE
MIUM,” “PIANO PREMIUM,” “CENTENNIAL PREMIUM,”
FREE TO EVERY SUBSCRIBER.
Cs?~’J.'lie Music Pages will contain the productions of the most popular living composers.	•
Subscription price including premium, §1.50, postage paid.
.agents wanted.	Address,
JOHN CHURCH & CO., Cincinnati,
Jan. 3-1.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOG-H,APHBR
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH ZBEESTZD, IJSTZDI-A-TSrA..
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to