Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vic turns; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 9, 1878.	Number 28.
•
* To H. J. M., on the occasion of his Religious Profession.
t	----
I	Veni, sequere Jfe.
Praise to the wisdom, true happiness prizing, That seeks in its labors eternal reward!
,	Hail to the hero, life’s pleasures despising,
Who fears not to follow the steps of his Lord!
\	Ages have flown since the counsel was given
To him who in holiness sought the true way, ‘	Wouldst thou ensure thy enjoyment of heaven,
Take up thy cross, Veni, sequere JVe!
Oft since thy boyhood, dear friend, now so lowly,
{	When sitting to ponder, or kneeling to pray,
/	Flooded o’er you the light of the Spirit Most Holy,
Who spoke to thy heart: Veni, sequere life.
A
,	Softly It called thee, that Voice low and tender,
The world and its passions to prudently flee, Lest wild winds and angry, thy vessel might render A rudderless wreck on a pitiless sea.
Nobly responding to God’s invitation, . Thou choosest as gain what the worldly call loss ;
Nature o’erpowering, in glad jubilation
’’	Thou cling’st with fond hope to the wood of the Cross.
Blessed be thy choice during time, swiftly fleeting, Thrice happy thy lot on the last awful day, For sweet beyond measure is Christ’s gentle greeting <	To those who have answered His “ sequere Hfe."
O.
’ Feb. 2,1878. ___________________ ______________
-;	A Monument of Typography.
*	Not far from the Church of Our Lady in Antwerp,
Belgium, so we gather from some foreign exchange, is the
J	so-called Friday market, where on Fridays an auction is
' held of second-hand articles, from the meanest specimen of old clothes, to the finest jewelry and articles of ancient and modern art- Even paintings from the most celebrated masters of the medieval schools have been purchased here. In this market place is the celebrated Plantin. printingoffice, which was purchased in 1875 by the city of Antwerp for the sum of 1,200,000 francs (about $240,000), to serve as a museum for printers, exhibiting specimens of types and prints from the time of the first introduction of the art into Europe. The founder of this institution was Christopher de Plantin, born 1514, in Tours, France, of the noble but impoverished house of Tiercelain. Compelled to earn his subsistence by the work of his hands, he
‘	adopted the common name of Plantin, from the plant of
that name (plantain), and having served his apprenticeship in Caen, as a bookbinder, he established himself in his trade at Antwerp. His wife, Anna Riviere, kept at the same time a small store of linen and other wearing apparel. By the patronage of Scriboneus Grapheus, an influential officer of the town, and through the fame for elegance and durability of his workmanship, his enterprise progressed favorably. A little accident at one time furnished him with a considerable sum of money. It happened during the carnival, while on his way to deliver a jewelbox to one of his customers, that he was followed by a band of masked buffoons and severely wounded by a stab in the back. Fortune would have it that after his recovery he discovered some of the clothes worn by the masks in a bric-a-brac shop at the Friday market, and having learned that they belonged to people of the first families of the town, their relatives were but too eager to purchase his silence by a considerable sum of money, and thus shield the reckless youths from the very severe laws of that period. With this money Plantin purchased a printing-press and published almanacs, primers, and prayer-books, in the year 1855. His first important work was an essay on the education of young ladies, translated from Italian into French, entitled Institution (Pune file de noble maison. Ten years from this date he could purchase the two houses which he had hitherto only on lease, for the carrying on of his printing establishment and bookstore. Encouraged by his unexpected success, he resolved to publish an edition of the Holy Scriptures in four different languages, similar to that published by Cardinal Ximenes in Spain about fifty years previous. King Philip H of Spain granted him 30,000 ducats in gold (an enormous sum at that time) and appointed one of the greatest savants of Spain, the celebrated Father Benedict Arius Montanus, who shortly before had assisted as the Theologian of his Bishop at the Council of Trent, to direct the whole enterprise. Montanus found numerous and able assistants, by whose aid the first volume of the important work was finished the following year. It took fully three years to complete the work, and in 1572 Montanus had the satisfaction of presenting the complete work, in eight heavy folio volumes, to Pope Gregory XIII in the name of his sovereign. As King Philip had furnished the bulk of the expenses, this edition of the Bible is called Btblia Regia (the Royal Bible) and also the Antwerp Polyglot, from the circumstance that the Sacred Text was published in several different languages at the same time. Thus, when opening the first volume, which contains only the Pentateuch (the five Books of Moses), the two pages of the opened book are in their upper half subdivided into four columns, each page having two columns. The first column gives the Hebrew text, the second the official Latin translation (the Vulgate).
434
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The second page (on the right) gives in its outer column the Greek text of the Septuagint, whilst the inner column gives the Latin translation of the same. The lower part of the first (left) page gives the Chaldean translation of On-kelos, rendered into Latin on the opposite part of the second page. To give our readers an idea of the arrangement of this -admirable work, we print a diagram representing the different texts and versions.
Left Page.		Right Page.	
	Vulgate	Latin	Greek
Ancient	or Official	Translation	Text
Hebrew	Latin	of the	of the
Text	Translation.	Septuagint.	Septuagint
Chaldean		Its	
Translation of		Version into	
Onkelos.		Latin.	
In a similar manner the remainder of the Sacred Scriptures were printed. Since only 6,000 copies of the work were printed, and for the reason that a considerable number of them were lost with the ship destined to convey them to Spain, the Antwerp Polyglot became a great rarity.
In gratitude for this magnificently prepared work of art, Plantin was raised by Philip II to the dignity of Royal Architypograph. The civil authorities of Antwerp presented the man whose fame now resounded throughout all Europe with a golden ewer worth 100 ducats, and his printing-office bore the honordble title of Architypo-graphia Plantiniana. He was also given the monopoly of printing for all Spain, the Netherlands, and even for America, all liturgical books, such as missals, breviaries, etc. This monopoly was of course very lucrative, but Plantin took such an honorable pride in the manufacture of these books, that they might serve as patterns even for our own day.
After the lapse of twenty years, the Plantin printing-office had progressed so favorably that in spite of the wars then raging in the Netherlands seventeen printing presses were constantly employed, and Plantin was enabled to found branch houses in Paris, Leyden in Holland, and a warehouse at Frankfort-on-the-Main in Germany. Two years later, in 1578, Plantin purchased the house on the Friday Market. A canal, communicating with the Schelde River, and running close to the house, enabled him to ship his products to all parts of the world. The greatest savants and statesmen of the time considered it an honor to be the guests of this once humble bookbinder. He died in 1589, wealthy, celebrated, and highly honored, true to the last to his noble device: Labors et Constantia. Having no sons, his property fell to his daughters, the eldest of whom married John Mourentorf, who inherited the house in Antwerp. The house in Leyden was bestowed on Plantin’s second daughter, Margaret, married to the philologian Frank van Ravelingen, a contributor to the Polyglot. The Paris house was allotted to his third son-in-law, JEgidius Beys.
The Mourentorfs continued the printing business with the vigor and success of their honored ancestor. Later on they Latinized their name, calling themselves Moretus. In
1696 they were knighted by King Charles II of Spain, with the privilege of continuing their printing-office notwithstanding their noble rank. Several branches of the Moretus family still flourish in Antwerp, and are wealthy and respected. That branch which was last in possession of the Plantiniana, received the right-by a royal edict to assume their ancestor’s name, and to be called Moretus Plantin. The printing-office has been discontinued for a number of years past.
Let us now take a look through the Plantin museum. In the halls and rooms of the first floor we meet with costly furniture and specimens of fine arts, Chinese and Japanese vases, and the magnificent clock presented by Archduke Albert and his consort Isabella as a keepsake in memory of a visit to one of the Mourentorfs. The walls are ornamented with splendid portraits of Plantin, his wife, his posterity, and of such men as have most contributed to the progress and honor of the house. Three and thirty portraits of persons belonging to the Moretus family ornament the library in the second floor. The entire number of paintings, including the portraits, amounts to ninety. From the court-yard we come [into the printing-office, just at the entry of which we see Plantin’s first two presses, then follows the room which was the sanctum of Justus Lipsius when he superintended the printing of his works. This room has been preserved in the same condition as when prepared for this great savant and friend of the Plantin house. This wonderful man of his day at the age of nine years wrote poetry and essays; when twelve years old he became secretary to Cardinal Granvella in Rome, which position he held for two years; he turned Protestant in Germany, and was professor of history for three years at Jena, and for twelve years at Leyden; he then, fully repentant, retraced his steps and returned to the Catholic Church, after which he became professor in Louvain, where he expired in the arms of Father Leonard Lessius, a celebrated Theologian of the Society of Jesus. He bequeathed his silver pen to the shrine of Our Lady of Hal, near Brussels, the same pen that had been the instrument of many glorious works.
In an adjoining hall, a true pattern of the style in vogue at the close of the 16th century, we find the types preserved in boxes which had been used since the beginning of Plantiniana until the opening of the present century. Il is a really important collection in the history of the art of printing.
Numerous cupboards in the upper story are filled with autograph letters of all the savants, artists and celebrated men that had been connected with Plantin and his successors. Here can be seen letters of the most celebrated painters of the Netherland school, of the celebrated geographer Ortelius, of Arius Montanus, Justus Lipsius, and of the great Jesuit Bollandus, besides a complete collection of the plates used for the illustration of the Platin books, in all 2,737 copperplates and about 15,000 wood-cuts, a rich collection of engravings and drawings of the masters of the 16th and 17th centuries, among which are 2,000 proof-sheets. The library numbers 9,000 works, for the most part published before the middle of the last century, besides 203 manuscripts, 60 rare and well-preserved incunabula, and a copy of every work that had been printed here for the space of two hundred and fifty years. With many of these the MS. of the authors is still preserved. The copy of the Polyglot is graced with autograph notes and corrections by Arius Montanus.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	435
J.*
i
Antwerp possesses in its Plantiniana, on the Friday market-place, a real treasure of history, science and art, whose equal perhaps cannot he found in any part of the world.
Napoleon on the Divinity of Christ.
This is an age of doubt and unbelief. Though from the pulpits throughout the land sermon after sermon is preached on passages from the Gospel, yet of all the preachers outside the Church there are few who give full assent to all the doctrines laid down in the Scriptures for our guidance. Indeed in nearly every village in the land there are ministers who deny the existence of hell and the devil, and not a few are they who deny the divinity of Christ. Since, then, such is the state of things, our readers will, we feel confident, be pleased to have us republish the remarkable statement of that man who proved himself among the greatest of earth’s heroes, not only as a warrior, but as a statesman and jurist,—Napoleon Bonaparte. This statement of Napoleon was published in The Lamp, and with this acknowledgment we transfer it to our pages.
One of Napoleon’s generals was one day discussing in his presence the divinity of our Lord. Napoleon remarked: “ I know men, General, and I can tell you that Jesus Christ is not a man. Superficial minds see a resemblance between Christ and the founders of empires, the conquerors and the gods of other religions. The resemblance does not exist; the distance between Christianity and any other religion whatever is infinite.
“ Any one who has a true knowledge of things and experience of men will cut short the question as I do. Who amongst us, General, looking at the worship of different nations, is not.able to say to the different authors of those religions—‘ No, you are neither gods nor the agents of the Deity; no, you have no mission from Heaven. You are formed of the same slime as other mortals; your own lives are so entirely one with all the passions, and all the vices, which are inseparable from humanity, that it has been necessary to deify them with you; your temples and your priests themselves proclaim your origin.’ Abominations> fables' aud rotten wood; are these religions and gods which can be compared with Christianity ? I say no.
“ In Lycurgus, Numa, Confucius, and Mahomet I see law-givers, but nothing which reveals the Deity. They did not themselves raise their pretensions so high. They surpassed others in their times, as I have done in mine. There is nothing about them which announces Divine beings; on the contrary, I see much likeness between them and myself. I can testify to common resemblances, weaknesses, and errors, which bring them near to me, and to human nature.
“It is not so with Christ. Everything in Him amazes me; His mind is beyond me, and His will confounds me, There is no possible term of comparison between Him and anything of this world. He is a Being apart. His birth, His life, His death, the profundity of His doctrine, which reaches the height of difficulty, and which is yet its most admirable solution, the singularity of this mysterious Being, His empire, His course across ages and kingdoms—all is a prodigy, a mystery too deep, too sacred, and which plunges me into reveries from which I can find no escape; a mystery which is here, under my eyes, which I cannot deny, and neither can I explain.
“ Rerel see nothing of man.
“ You speak of Ctesar and of Alexander, of their conquests, and of the enthusiasm which they were able to awaken in the hearts of their soldiers, and thus draw them with them on adventurous expeditions; but this only shows । us the price of the soldier’s affection, the ascendancy of the genius of victory, the natural effect of military discipline, and the result of able commandership. But how many years did the empire of Caesar endure ? How long was the enthusiasm of tile soldiers of Alexander maintained ? Their prestige lasted a day, an hour, the time of their command, and followed the chances of war. If victory had deserted-them, do you doubt whether the enthusiasm would not immediately have ceased ? I ask you, yes or no ? Did the military influence of Ctesar and Alexander end with their life? Was it prolonged beyond the tomb?
“Imagine a man making conquests with a faithful army, devoted to his memory—after his death! Imagine a phantom, who has soldiers without pay, without hopes for this world, and who inspires them to submit to all kinds of privations. Turenne was still warm when his army broke up before Montecuculi; and as to myself—my armies forgot me whilst I still lived, as the Carthagenian army forgot Hannibal. Such is the power of us great men! A battle lost casts us down and carries away our friends. How many a Judas have I seen around me!
“ In short, and this is my last argument, there is not a God in heaven if any man could conceive and execute with full success the gigantic design of seizing upon the supreme worship by usurping the name of God. Jesus is the only one who dared to do this. He is the only one who has said clearly, affirmed imperturbably, Himself of Himself, I am God; which is quite different from the affirmation, 1 am a god. History mentions no other individual who qualified himself with the title of God, in the absolute sense. How, then, should a Jew to whose existence there is more testimony than to that of any of His contemporaries, He, alone, the son of a carpenter, give Himself out as God Himself, for the Self-existent Being, for the Creator of all beings ? He claims every kind of adoration; He builds His worship with His own Hands, not with stones, but with men. And how was it that by a prodigy surpassing all prodigies He willed the love of men—that which it is most difficult in the world to obtain—and immediately succeeded? From this I conclude His Divinity. Alexander, Ctesar, Hannibal, all failed. They conquered the world, but they were not able to obtain a friend. I am perhaps the only person of the present time who has any love for Hannibal, Caesar, or Alexander. It is true we love our children; but how many children are ungrateful! Do your children love you, General ? You love them, but you are not sure of a return.
“ Christ speaks, and from that time generations are His by ties more strict, more intimate than those of blood; by a union more sacred, more imperative than any other could be. All those who sincerely believe in Him feel that superior love, of which time, the great destroyer, can neither exhaust the strength nor limit the duration. I, Napoleon, admire this the more that I have so often thought of it; and it proves to me absolutely the Divinity of Christ.
“I have inspired multitudes to die for me. God forbid that I should form any comparison between the enthusiasm of my soldiers and Christian charity; they are as different as their causes. And then my presence was required; the electricity of my look, my voice; a word from me, then the sacred fire was kindled in all hearts. I certainly possess the secret of that magic power which carries away other
436
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
people’s minds; yet I could never communicate it to others. Not one of my generals ever received it from me, or guessed at it; neither have I the power to eternalize my name and my love in the heart.
“ Now that I am at St. Helena—now that I am alone, nailed to this rock, who fights and conquers empires for me ? What courtries have I in my misfortune ? Does any one think of me ? Does any one in Europe move for me ? Who has remained faithful ? Where are my friends ? Yes, you, two or three, whose fidelity immortalizes you, share my exile.” Here the voice of the Emperor assumed a peculiar tone of melancholy irony and deep sadness. Yes> our existence has shone with all the brilliancy of the diadem and of sovereignty, and yours, General, reflected this splendor, as the dome of Les Invalides reflects the rays of the sun. But reverses have come. By degrees the golden hues are effaced, the floods of misfortune and the outrages to which I am every day subjected carry away the last tints. Only the lead remains, General, and soon I shall be dust.
“ Such is the destiny of great men; of Caesar, and of Alexander; we are forgotten, and the name of a conqueror like that of an emperor is only the subject of a college theme. Our exploits come under the ferule of a pedant, who either praises or insults us. A few moments and this will be my fate; what will happen to myself? Assassinated by the English oligarchy, I die prematurely, and my body will be returned to the earth to become pasture for worms. This is the destiny, now very near, of the great Napoleon. What a gulf between my misery and the eternal reign of Christ, preached, praised, loved, adored, living in the whole universe. Is this to die ? Is it not rather to live ? Such is the death of Christ—such the death of God.”
——— —■■	1	I	'	--
The Mines of Dannemora, Sweden.
TRANSLATED BY A JUNIOR.
Early in the morning the sound of a trumpet roused me from a deep sleep. It was an omnibus-driver, who drove through the streets to wake the “ spring-drinkers,” whom he had to take to the neighboring artificial springs. The rain poured down in torrents, and I wished to go to Dannemora. In a short time a curious-looking “hack” appeared in front of my hotel. It was of a globe form; its color gray as ashes. A young man drove the lively horses, and plagued me during the whole time by his immoderate inquisitiveness. This happened to me many a time while travelling. The Swedish farmers possess a great deal of good-naturedness and readiness, but they can put no limits to their inquisitiveness. Scarcely does one seat himself than every one commences to put all kinds of questions to you; such as: “What is your name?” “Where are you bound for?” “ Where do you hail from?” etc., etc. They were not satisfied with being informed as to my person, but wanted to know all about my things; my valises, trunk, umbrella, cane, cigars and pipe were examined through and through, and questions put to me concerning them. If I took my watch out of my pocket to see what time if was, my neighbor pulled it out of my hand without any ado, examined it on all sides, and asked me if it was of pure gold, or silver? My air-pillow (a rubber pillow used in travelling; when wished to be used one blows it up and it becomes a pillow; when not wanted to be used, the air
is let out and it can be put into the pocket) and cigars especially were examined, as these drew the greatest attention from him, and their perfume was most pleasing to him. The Swedish farmers must by all means talk; they care not whether you answer them or not. I could by no means silence our driver; I tried to persuade him that I could not speak Swedish, but all in vain; he looked me earnestly in the face, but after a few minutes he commenced all over again.
The road from our last station to Dannemora led through a cypress forest, pretty well cleared up, and by two lakes and over small hills. The plain remains so large and broad, that one is almost led to believe that there is no mine far or near; but nevertheless the large village is and remains Dannemora. This celebrated mine differs entirely from what people generally understand by a mine. I myself was greatly astonished at finding no caverns, holes or entrances, but what I found was an immense pit whose walls were perpendicular. I was conducted to the very brink of it, and looked to the bottom. This pit resembles very much a goblet, or more so the crater of an extinct volcano. The greatest depth is 540 feet; at some places it is only 300 and 400. Work was commenced in this pit in the 15th century, and it is being worked to this day. Hillocks, blocks, beams, pillars, and arches remain, like the ruins of a giant’s house; on these the miners crawl about, and appear to one looking down from above as mere mice or ants. They do not wear the German miner’s attire [this traveller seems to have been a German], but the attire of the poorer class in Sweden: coats of very coarse cloth, linen pants, and clumsy shoes. Some few shafts into the greatest depths yet remain, but these are perpendicular. All around the immense pit is built a kind of balcony in which horses are employed to work the wheels which bring up the casks when filled with ore. These casks or -buckets are suspended by hempen or wire ropes; sometimes by chains. Chain-ladders hang from one cleft to another; these the miners climb up and down like cats. Into the deep they must descend in these buckets. From the balcony one is enabled to take a good view of all the things in the depth. It is no small affair to think, of descending the Strassburg Munster, but to descend into this crater is much more tedious and frightful. But withal, there is rot the least danger. There is no possibility of any danger, as all the casks, ropes, beams, etc., etc., are • carefully inspected from time to time. But notwithstanding all this I preferred to survey the pit from the balcony.
How active are those man-ants down in the pit? How they hang on a perpendicular wall and cut away the ore ? Here they are exposed to great danger every day; at the end of 400 years they have dug a hole like to the crater of an extinct volcano,—and yet this deep hole hardly scratches the 30-mile thick crust of the earth. At a quarter to twelve, a. m., all the miners but two or three come up a distance;- these last prepare the explosives for bursting asunder the great blocks of iron ore, which commenced at noon sharp. The explosion takes place, and the sound dies away like thunder; but after a little it is unexpectedly re-echoed from cliff to cliff, and dies away again. During this time lumps of ore, stone, etc., not small ones either, fly about in all directions, and fall down into the depths with a low murmuring tone. The miners are careful, and go out into the road or hide as soon as the lunts are lighted, but being used to dangers, it happens sometimes that some man or other is bruised, squeezed or
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
437
in some way hurt. As they said the miners were coming up, I looked, but at first saw nothing at all; after a couple of minutes, however, I saw ant-like lumps come up along the wall. Each lump was a cask or bucket, on which stood four or five men, holding themselves on the rope with one hand; the cask always turned around and appeared to me like a human screw. Just imagine! with their large, clumsy shoes they stand on the rim of the bucket, and if they come too near the wall, they must gently rebound from it. Only sometimes it happened that several men are frightened by a falling stone, let go their hold, and are mashed to jelly at the bottom.
I saw the miners hold themselves carelessly by the rope; one laughed, another looked up at us, and another wiped the sweat from his forehead. But, thanks be to God, they arrived safe, and the cask was emptied in the next balcony. Four men got off the rim of the bucket, and a fifth one, whom I had not noticed at all, crawled out of it. Their forenoon work was now done. They seated themselves, and bread and butter went all around, and they, as they say, “ pitched into it.” I saw all the other buckets come up in the same way on the right and left, and empty themselves. I pretty soon also had to make the same voyage. They told me that a few weeks before my arrival many English noble ladies had requested to be shown those wild and silent regions, so I felt ashamed and would not back out, for the miners wanted me by all means to see the mines also. I at last condescended to go down.
The foreman gave me two men, with whom I should descend. The casks or buckets, in which one descends into the pit, hang on the ends of wooden structures, and so that they hang entirely free. But to get into one of them is no easy thing for a stranger. One must walk out to the very end of the balcony, and in order to catch hold of the rope one must bend forward over the abyss, and woe to him or her who gets dizzy in that moment. After I had happily caught hold of the rope I was set into the cask, and two men got on top of it. In five minutes we were down in the abyss, and stepped out of it. The heavens covered with grey clouds and the green and grey walls formed the cover, sides and bottom of a giant’s coffin. It was too cold for me to remain long in that place, which is never visited by even one ray of the sun’s light. I took a survey of the pumps and other machinery used to keep the pit clear of water, etc., etc. I also saw the immense dam, built of granite, which is thirty feet higher than the plain from which we descended into the pit, to keep a neighboring lake out of the mine.
In olden times the State used to support the mines of Dannemora. In 1627 Louis de Geer, a Dutchman, Tented them, and afterwards bought them. At present [about 1860-65] they were enlarged and divided among eleven persons, of whom Count de Geer has the greatest share and is considered the richest man in Sweden. The ores are reckoned as the best in Europe, and are all sold to England, where they are worked into the finest steel ware.
Three hundred men are employed in these mines, and the work is so extensive that they consume 120 tons of powder yearly, and obtain 100,000 lbs. of ore. The supply of ore seems to be endless.
The men do not, as in many other mines, work at night, and on that account they have not that leaden complexion which the miner has when he is not allowed to see daylight or the sun.
Scientific Notes.
—The Dutch North-Polar Expedition is preparing to sail in May next. The first and principal stop will be at Spitzbergen, where a place is to be selected for the site of a future meteorological station.
—The Central Pacific Railroad Company set out 300,000 Eucalyptus trees along the line of their road last winter. The trees made a healthy and rapid growth during the summer, and this winter 700,000 more are to be planted along the same road.
—It has been said that Prof. Asa Gray is the only living American who, previous to the late election of Prof. Simon Newcomb, has been made a Foreign Member of the London Royal Society. It is an eror, as the name of Prof. Benj. F. Pierce, of Cambridge, Mass., stands in the list of Foreign Members of the Society.
—Some of the English scientific men are disposed to do with the telephone as they did with the telegraph—claim it as an English invention. Mr. W. H. Preece, C. E., has just delivered a lecture before the Royal Institution, in which he finds that the telephone was “shadowed forth” by Hooke in 1667, and “ practically applied ” by Wheatstone in 1819.
—It has been noted that, in the collection of objects recovered by Dr. Schliemann and now on exhibition at the South Kensington Museum, there are several classes of relics closely resembling articles exhumed from the works of the Mound-Builders. Among these are hand-pounders of a trumpet shape, skin-dressers, hammers, and funnels, of baked clay.	•
—A new species of frog has been discovered in Southwestern Texas. It lives in the fissures and crevices of the limestone rocks of that region. The eggs are hatched in the winter, and the tadpoles live in the shallow pools of rain-water held in hollows in the rock. The adults are very noisy at this season, causing the rocks to ring with their croaking. The frog is referred to the genus Lith-odytes, and named by Prof. Cope L. latans.
—Mr. Herbert H. Smyth, who has been studying the insect-fauna of the Amazon since the beginning of 1874, has lately returned to the United States with a collection of insects including 12,000 species and 100,000 specimens. During 1876 and the early part of 1877, Mr. Smyth was connected with the Brazilian Geological Survey. It is his purpose to return to Brazil, and continue his explorations until he has worked out the problem of the derivation and geographical distribution of the insects of that country.
—A writer in Forest and Stream records the fact that, while cruising in a brig off the coast of Africa, in March, 1837, a quail alighted on the deck of the vessel in an exhausted condition. The brig was at the time 11 degrees north of the Equator, and between 8 degrees and 9 degrees from the coast. The writer stood at the wheel when the bird appeared in view, and, being relieved by the captain, picked up the trembling creature as it lay helpless and panting on the deck. It was recognized by all persons on board as a veritable quail, and was placed in a cage for safe keeping. It was found dead, however, a morning or two after its capture.
—The artificial production of rubies and sapphires in France is regarded as highly successful. The process consists chiefly in heating to redness for twenty days a mixture of plumbic aluminate with silica; the alumina crystallizes out in the form of corundum. The addition of potassic bichromate to the mixture turns the corundum to ruby; of cobalt oxide, to sapphire. The artificial gems meet every test which can be applied to the natural ones, and, though rather small, are large enough to be cut and set as jewels. The recent reduction of oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen to liquids has started the suggestion that in this shape they may prove powerful solvents, in which case a new line of research will be opened that might, perhaps, lead to the manufacture of diamonds.
—A Society has been recently organized in Paris which has for its object a systematic method of exploration and colonization in different parts of the world. Two Councils direct its operations,—the first having charge of the scien
438
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tific, geographical, and exploratory sections; and the second, of affairs relating to agriculture, commerce and industry. The plan of the Society is to send to a promising locality a party containing representatives of various classes and occupations, who are adapted to the investigation and development of a new country. They are provided with a complete equipment, and are expected as soon as possible to become self-supporting, and to form a centre for scientific investigation. The first colony has been established on the coast of Sumatra, and embraces among its members several graduates of the technical and professional schools of Paris.
—A. writer in Nature says that by combining the telephone with the kinesegraph he can produce a talking picture which will move and gesticulate as a man does when he is earnestly engaged in speaking. This he proposes to do by taking instantaneous photographs of the speaker at intervals of a quarter or half a second, and these, after fixing, are to be placed one below another on a strip or ribbon of paper wound from one cylinder to auother. As each picture passes before the eye it is to be lighted up by an electric spark, and the man will thus be presented to us at successive moments, while the recording phonograph speaks the words which the man uttered. It may be years before producing the form, motion, and natural voice of the original. Who dare say now that the time will not come when whole dramas will be produced ad libitum from actual performances, with such fidelity that they cannot be distinguished from the original.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Forty new operas by Italian composers were produced last year, thirty-six of them on the Italian stage.
—Mr. Dudley Buck has made an excellent setting of sev eral of the songs of E. C. Stedman, and they will shortly be published.
—Cincinnati is to have a loan collection of paintings on exhibition during the biennial Musical Festival in the month of May of this year.
—A complete catalogue of engravings and etchings by and after Van Dyck lias been recently published, and is pronounced a model of its kind.
—J. N. A. Benziger, of the firm of Benziger Brothers, Einsiedlen, Cincinnati, St. Louis, and New York, died in the last named city on the 17th of February.
—Messrs. Jansen, McClurg & Co. have in press a novel with the attractive title, “ How She Came into Her Kingdom.” The book -will be published anonymously.
—John Ruskin has, in a letter to a friend, formally declared his a abandonment of the hopeless task of teaching the masses of “ machine-and-devil-ridden” England anything of art.	'
—The Catholic Library at Warsaw, consisting of 50,000 volumes, is to be removed to the Catholic Seminary at St. Petersburg. The collection embraces many works in the Polish language of inestimable value.
—Mme. Marie Roze, the prima donna, it is said, has received an offer from M. Halanzier, director of the Paris Grand Opera, to sing in Ambroise Thomas’ new opera “Francesca da Rimini” during the Exposition.
—In a grove near Huttenheim, a little village on the Rhine, Celtic graves have been discovered and examined. A collar, two foot-rings, a large skeleton, with a skull and an iron sword, have been found there and sent to Karlsruhe.
—In the Bodleian Library, at Oxford, Prof. Neubauer discovered in a recently purchased MS. the Chaldean original text of the Book of Tobias. It is supposed that the discovered text, barring a few variations, is the same that was translated by St. Jerome.	•
—The well-known Austrian General Uchatius has lately discovered a way to prepare bronze castings after their antique and medieval originals with the greatest exactness and a complete reproduction of the ornamentation. This reproduction has hitherto been very difficult.
—The spire of St. Bernard’s Church, at Cohoes, N. Y.,
is to be surmounted by a cross nine feet in length and five feet in width. It will fie composed of 1,500 glass prisms, and in its interior are to be numerous gas-jets, which will be lighted by the agency of an electric battery.
—Old engravings are the present rage in London, and command fabulous prices. A collector of engravings, in selling off his stock recently, found that he received for them as many guineas as he had paid shillings, and another was much astonished when one of his prints, for which he paid only a few shillings, was knocked down for £80, $400.
—The Exhibition of Fine Arts at Madrid, which was opened officially, Jan. 27, by the King of Spain, contains, in the sections of painting, sculpture, and architecture, 511 works. The paintings number 404,—the collection being notable for an almost total absence of portraits. A few examples in each department are said to do credit to the modern Spanish school.	.
—The great hit of the Paris operette season is “ Le Petit Duc,” by Lecocq, Melhac, and Halevy. It was produced at the Renaissance theatre, and after the first week’s run eight-franc stalls were selling at fifty francs, and 25,000 francs’ worth of seats bad been booked in advance. The exclusive right of producing it in England has been bought by Mr. Head, of the London Philharmonic.
—A prettily illustrated and bound little volume is Pottery and Hoio it is Made, by George Ward Nichols (Putnam), on the subject of manufacturing and decorating porcelain and earthenware. The processes and technical terms of the art are explained, recipes for the necessary colors given, and the method of applying them described. An appendix contains a list of books of reference.
—The Castellani Collection is probably lost to this country, as the Metropolitan Museum of Art has been unable to raise the sum demanded for it,—$150,000. It was hoped that the pottery included with it might be secured; but the price for this, $60,000, was found too large to be met by those having the matter in hand. The collection is packed to go to Paris, but its ultimate destination is undetermined.
—The Marquis of Ormond has recently afforded the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts access to a further portion of the valuable archives at Kilkenny Castle. These manuscripts—which are of high importance to English as well as to Irish history—will be examined and reported on by Mr. J. T. Gilbert, F.S.A., in continuation of his previous work in other sections of the same archives already published by the Commission.
—A Stradivarius violin, signed and dated 1709, was sold at the Hotel-Drouot in Paris on Feb. 14. It was put up at $2,000, and knocked down for the large sum of $4,420. During the sale there was a great press of the curious to get a sight of the instrument, and a table was suddenly upset and three or four persons standing on it were overturned amid the general confusion of the crowd. “Do not be alarmed, gentlemen,” exclaimed the auctioneer, “ the violin is safe.”
—A rich collection of Goethe’s, Schiller’s, and Herder’s autographs has been discovered by Herr Preller at Scheuben-grobsdorf among the papers of his deceased father. The manuscripts by Schiller include the “Rauberbad,” the Gotter Griechenlands,” “ Rathsel,” etc., and of the other authors equally interesting papers, including many variants from the established texts. The collection also contains several valuable letters from friends and correspondents of Schiller.
—Near San Zeno, in Nonsbery, Tyrol, a yery interesting ancient Christian grave has been recently discovered. The tomb itself is shaped like a Latin cross is hewn out of stone and completely vaulted. In it is a large stone sarcophagus of ancient Roman style, yet without the least artistic ornament, and devoid of any Christian sign. In it were the remains of a priest, pieces of liturgical dress having been discovered, and relics in a little box of yellow metal found in the sarcophagus.
—Interesting sculptures of Babylonian origin have been recently added to the British Museum. They have been found in the neighborhood of the village of Zira, on the spot where formerly stood the city of Zergul. The most important object is a torso of black basalt extraordinarily large in dimensions, with several inscriptions, among which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	439
are entirely new words and sentences. The name of Kins Hemmurebi is repeatedly found, and this seems to indicate that the objects may date from the XVHth century before Christ. Old bricks and conical pillarsare in this collection.
—There is a movement in Manchester, England, in favor of dramatic reform. Monsignor Capel writes: “As a Catholic, I hold that the theatre is in itself a lawful amusement, but I cannot conceal from myself that though it is lawful, and might produce vast good if properly conducted, yet in these days it has been greatly abused and perverted. Anything which could be done to elevate the tone of the plays, and to purify the surroundings of the play house, would be productive of much good.” The Bishop (Fraser) of Manchester and Prof. Blackie take a similar view.
—In the Gaukirche at Paderborn, a beautiful church in the Roman style of the 11th or 12th century, a piece of art of rare value has been recently discovered by excavation. It is a group carved in sandstone, consisting of twenty-one persons, representing the Crucifixion. The artist has taken the moment when Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea are approaching to take our Saviour’s body from the Cross. The Blessed Virgin is led away by the Apostle St. John from the Cross, and is leaning on two of the holy women. St. Mary Magdalen remains standing near the Cross, with hands folded and eyes uplifted to our crucified Lord. The features, drapery and positions are of masterly workmanship, and the entire group makes a solemn impression. Fortunately, the entire masterpiece is well preserved in spite of the rudeness of the masons. Mortar had been cast in the deepest places of the group, and bricks laid inside. The most exposed parts of the group have been broken off, and used as filling, but it happened that in this way nearly all parts of the image have been preserved. Experts are not yet in harmony about the origin of this work of art. Some think it of the 14th century, others from 1410 to 1450.
Books and Periodicals.
Rat’s New Primary Arithmetic for Young Learners. Van Antwerp, Brags & Co., 131 Walnut St., Cincinnati, O.; 28 Bond St., New York.
Ray’s New Intellectual Arithmetic. Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co., 137 Walnut St., Cincinnati; 28 Bond St., New York.
Ray’s New Practical Arithmetic. A Revised Edition of the Practical Arithmetic by Joseph Ray, M. D., Late Professor in Woodward College. [Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co., 137 Walnut St., Cincinnati; 28 Bond St., New York. "
We know of no series of arithmetics which has enjoyed a popularity equal to that attained by Ray’s series, nor do we know of any series so deserving of popularity. It is so well graded, so clear in its statements, so simple and concise yet at the same time so full and complete in all its parts, that it will ever remain a favorite alike of the teacher and the pupil. The present revised series has been so care-•fully prepared that it is a great improvement on the old editions, used by the tens of thousands of pupils annually for the past thirty years, aud it bids fair to remain in the future as it has been in the past the favorite series in our public schools. Messrs. Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. have issued these books in beautiful style. The paper is first-class, the print is clear, and the binding good and durable. Fischer’s Practical Organist. A collection of Preludes, Interludes, Postludes, and Modulations, adapted to the Wants of Young Organists. Published by J. Fischer &Bro., 226 E. Fourth St., New York. Price, §1.50.
Fischer’s Practical Organist is a handsome volume of selections carefully made from the works of the great masters, Koerner, Kink, Oberhoffer, Ritter, Herzog, and a number of others. We hope that at least one half of those who now play the organ during the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass or during Vespers and Benediction will procure a copy and learn a number of these selections by heart, so as to be able to play something decent instead of disgusting the congregation with music that belongs anywhere but in church. In Europe an organist is required to study for years to fit himself for the important office of organist. These men are able to play from inspiration, and will never descend to commonplace opera melodies or other trifles.
The scarcity of such men in this country has often made it necessary to employ ladies as organists who have perhaps drummed a piano for a year or two. Now we do not wish to quarrel with them, for a poor organist may be better than none at all, at least to accompany the singing. But when it comes to interludes let them either play something suitable and in taste or let them be silent. If they will study the above collection they will learn what is required of them as Catholic organists.
The Church and the Gentile World at the First Promulgation of the Gospel. Considerations on the Catholicity of the Church soon after her Birth. By Rev. Aug. J. Thebaud, 8. J. Vol. I. New York: Peter F. Collier, Publisher, 38 Park Place. 1878. Pp. 500.
This work of the learned Father Thebaud should receive the attentiou of every Catholic scholar. It treats of a subject which, though of interest in all ages, is in our day one of all-absorbing importance. In the past, the Church, having overthrown paganism, was not forced to war against infidelity. Her great foes were heresy and schism; and with these she has combatted until one by one her opponents were vanquished, while others arose in their stead. But with the eighteenth century a new foe arose, not to the Church alone, but to all Christianity. The sects have fought this foe but have been powerless against it. Infidelity has taken from the ranks of Protestantism some of its most stalwart defenders, and to-day, from the pulpits of non-Catholic churches, sermons tainted with unbelief are delivered to congregations of no belief whatever.
Against infidelity the Church founded upon the rock engages in unceasing strife. She has but little need now to fight her ancient foes, or if she does fight them she does so finding them in the ranks of the unbelievers. The old books of controversy against Calvinism, Anglicanism and all the other isms are now become almost useless. The controversial works for the present day must be against the infidel, not the sneering, mocking infidel of the Voltaire stamp, but with the infidel scientist, the followers of Darwinism, of Lecky, and the hosts of others who fight in what they consider the cause of science. Against these the Church must war; not against science itself, but against those followers of science who disregard all revelation and follow theories subversive of religion.
With all these men Father Thebaud’s book does not deal directly, but in an indirect manner. It is the aim of the author to show how quickly the Gospel was spread after its first promulgation, aud how such a thing could not have been possible were the Church of'human and not of Divine institution. This he does in a manner at once forcible and pleasing; forcible inasmuch as his proofs are invulnerable, pleasing in that the style is clear and elegant. In the development of his work, the Rev. author in this volume, treats, after four .introductory chapters, of the origin and growth of Christianity in Palestine, Syria, Chaldea, Cappadocia, Egypt, Nubia, Ethiopia and Arabia. In the volume to follow he will give us an account of the spread of the Church in other countries, and thus develop the grand idea of the book.
We would call the attention particularly of students to works such as this of Father Thebaud. Young men are easily led away by the writings of Gibbon, and others, and while they pretend simply to read the books for the beauty of the style, etc., they drink in the poison that is concealed. Books such as this of Father Thebaud’s will give young men correct knowledge and ideas on questions of the greatest importance to them.
—The educating of a young man to behave well in society is of still greater importance than making him a Solomon in knowledge.—Lard Kames.
—The exportation of forest tree seeds is assuming dimensions in this country. California sends §10,000 worth per year. The principal purchases are made for Germany, Austria, England, and the Colonies in Australia and New Zealand; and at present the demand exceeds the supply. The seeds of the Oregon pine, known also as the yellow fir, are most in demand. The timber of that tree is as good as British oak for ship building, and has been found sound after eighteen years’ use for this purpose. She Touth Sea colonies are planting the California red wood tree extensively.
440	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, AEai’di D, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind^, and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon-the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Parish School Boards.
Weare glad to learn that the mooting of the School-Board question in our columns has not been altogether unproductive of results. It is but a beginning, however, and a comparatively small one; but, as our Rev. correspondent remarks, all great works have resulted from small beginnings. The now great orders of the Society of Jesus and of the Most Holy Redeemer were humble, and on a very small scale, at their inception,—very limited in compaaison to what we now see them—spread throughout the world, and doing great things for the honor and glory of God and the salvation of souls. Their aim, however, was noble, and praiseworthy, and they made rapid progress notwithstanding the opposition and trials they had to meet and surmount.
We have every reason to hope that the grain of mustardseed now sown will one day become a great tree, and be productive of much and excellent fruits where they are so much needed. It is true we have not heard of any official sanction of the measure as yet, for in the backward position in which things have been and are the Chief Pastors of dioceses must be necessarily slow and careful in introducing new measures. But that it meets with their approval in the main we feel confident. Perhaps, under existing circumstances, it were better the new plan should be tested by parochial boards for a time, in order to show the benefits to be derived from it; then, when the measure was resolved upon for general introduction by the Bishops, in their respective dioceses, it would at once command the cooperation of influential men, one of the main points for its development and ultimate success.
The people once stirred up and awakened to the importance of the parochial schools, their co-operation is easily obtained, and with the additional help thus given, and given in a spirit of emulation that cannot be checked by ordinary difficulties, the parochial schools would soon reach
a standard of excellence that would amply reward all who were interested in them.
Our Rev. correspondent, when mentioning the fact that the School-Board question is now agitated in many of our Catholic journals, refers to the German periodical press, which, almost without exception, have taken it up, and in a manner too that plainly shows how much they have the matter at heart. This is encouraging; for the fact of such excellent papers as the Baltimore Volks^itung, the Chicago Wochenblatt, the Luxemburger Gazette of Dubuque, and others taking the matter so earnestly in hand goes to show that we were not in error in supposing the measure was one from which much good could be expected. If all these papers have anything like a proportion to the subscription list of the Votkszeitung—with, we believe, somewhere between 30,000 and 40,000 subscribers—it may reasonably be supposed that their influence in its favor will be very great.
As to the English Catholic papers of the United States, they, with a couple of exceptions, notable among which is the GaiholM Standard of Philadelphia, seem to think either that our present school system (if it may be called a system) is good enough as it is, or that the measure proposed for its improvement does not come up to their ideal.
That something more is needed to bring our parochial schools to a higher status, to give them an extended sphere of usefulness, and to lighten the heavy burden now resting on the shoulders of pastors, is certain; and if a better plan than that suggested in the Scholastic is brought forward we will give it a hearty approval and encourage it as far as lies in our power. The main point is to awaken the interest of the people in the schools; this done,plans however defective will soon be improved and made to answer every purpose, for “ where there is a will there is a way.”
The following is the letter received from our Rev. correspondent to which we referred above:
Editor Notre Dame Scholastic:
“Dear Sir:—It is beyond a doubt that the movement in favor of School Boards for our Parish Schools, as set on foot and agitated by you, has already taken deep root in the minds of many seriously thinking people, Priests as well as laymen. I see that this question is now agitated in many of our Catholic journals; they all agree on the necessity of its being put in practice. I have also heard from pastors of eminent talent who are at the head of flourishing congregations that they will appoint Local Boards for their respective schools, consisting of the Pastor and two of the very best and most talented, as well as experienced, laymen, whose duty it shall be to be present at the semi-annual examination and attend to some minor business of the parish schools. I believe that this plan will have its good effect upon the people generally interested in the welfare of the schools. If these Local Boards are once in good operation, they will no doubt prove a beneficial means for the establishment of good schools, for the laymen of the parish will then naturally feel more interested in this important matter. Let us hope, then, that from Local School Boards we may gradually proceed to Diocesan School Boards. Thus far, this important question has received considerable attention; it will receive more, and as all good things have a poor beginning, so will also this decidedly important matter have a slow and hard beginning However, let us not despair.”
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	441
The Emmet Centenary.
The name of Robert Emmet will ever be one to rouse the feelings of patriotism in the heart of the young man. Highly educated, young, enthusiastic and chivalrous, his is the name to quicken the blood and arouse the feelings of all who have in them the love country, and a love to do or dare. More especially does the record of his short, unfortunate yet hallowed career awaken the enthusiasm of the young Celt, and neither absence from the home of his forefathers nor the thought that he will never return have any effect in lessening his love for the old sod, and his hope that Ireland some day—great, glorious, and free—shall take her stand among the nations of the earth, as Emmet wished her to.
One hundred years have passed since Robert Emmet was born, and his name lives enshrined in the hearts of his countrymen and in the hearts of those of Irish descent, while the name of the judge who condemned him to die is known only in execration as one who carried out the cruel law of the hated Saxon. Though we have no Irish blood in our veins we have always had a sincere love for Ireland, and we hope that the day will come when her hated oppressor shall be driven from her shores, and an Irish Parliament and an Irish king shall legislate for Irish people. God grant that this day may not be far distant.
The Centenary of Robert Emmet was not allowed to pass at Notre Dame without some recognition. In the evening a large crowd assembled in Washington Hall; so large indeed was the concourse of people that some fifty or a hundred were compelled to return home, being unable to obtain admittance to the hall. All the seats were taken, and some of the aisles were crowded.
The decorations in the hall were the same as those of Washington’s Birthday, and looked very well. The music was furnished by the Seniors’ Orchestra, and was the best we have had at any entertainment in a long while. Besides the selections played at the beginning and between the acts, the Orchestra played at different times during the play, thus adding to the display made. We congratulate the young men forming this organization, and we trust that they will at future entertainments take part in adding to the pleasures of the evening. Though there may be many things in which they may improve, yet their contribution to the Entertainment is worthy of great praise.
The oration of Mr. Patrick J. Cooney was one worthy of the occasion, being a calm, dispassionate yet eloquent effort in praise of him whose centenary was that evening celebrated, and in eulogy of the land which gave him birth.
The play of the evening was the historical drama entitled “Robert Emmet,” arranged for male characters only. The parts were taken as follows :
Robert Emmet./..........................P. J- Hagan
Darby O’Gaff........) Sprigs of the ( .....J. Lambin J. O’Dougherty.............................f Emerald Isle (.M. Regan
Emmet (Father to Robert)...................W. Arnold
O’Leary (A retired veteran).............J. Fitzgerald
Sergeant Topfall (A Hinglish Hofficer).....A. Hertzog Dowdall (Friend to Emmet)..................J. Kinney
Kernan (A Traitor) .....................E- Davenport
O’Shaughnessy (Hedge Schoolmaster) ........T. O’Grady Dowsers..........................................°..........H. Nevans
Pete, the Book-Keeper......................C. Nodler
Hagerty.......................... .E. McMahon
Lord Norbury............................L Fitzgerald
Corporal Thomas............................-J- Cooney
First Soldier...........................L Chatterton
Second Soldier.................................A. Keenan
Baron George.........) . . - , f................F. Luther
Baron Daly...........f J udSes )...............J. English
Servant........................................E. Walter
Soldiers, Peasants, etc., etc.
The play was well acted. All the young men entered into the spirit of the play with a will, and gave excellent representations of the various characters. Mr. P. J. Hagan made an excellent Emmet, and was heartily applauded. Messrs. Regan and Lambin kept the audience in roars of laughter whenever they appeared. The dancing scene was the best of the kind ever given at Notre Dame, and we would like to see more of the kind here. Messrs. Hertzog, Arnold, Fitzgerald, O’Grady, Nevans, Nodler, McMahon, Cooney, Kinney, Davenport, and others, played their parts with a spirit which gave great life to the play and which brought down round after round of applause. Indeed if we should judge from the applause given, the play was one of the most successful ever given in Washington Hall. During the play, there were many Irish airs, sentimental and humorous, sung by the performers or played by the Seniors, which were well received.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Corby, who returned the young gentlemen the thanks of the audience. Prof. Edwards is deserving of great praise for the successful manner in which he conducted everything, and the young gentlemen for their attention to his instructions.
Personal.
—	C. Burger (Commercial), of ’74, is teaching in Lancaster, Pa.
—	Mr. and Mrs. Hardenburg, of St. Paul, Minn., visited Notre Dame last week.
—	E. W. Barry, of ’72, is d oing business with his father at Idaho City, Idaho Ter.
—Jacob C. Eisenman (Commercial), of ’72, is doing well in the wholesale grocery business, in Louisville, Ky.
—Mr. Joseph F. Ruhl (Commercial) of ’75, is in the employ of the Baltimore & Ohio Railway Company as telegraph operator at Wheeling, W. Va.
—Mr. Hake, of Grand Rapids, was a welcome visitor last Sunday. Notre Dame has no truer friend than Mr. Hake, and none to whom she extends a more cordial welcome.
—Mr. Thomas H. Grier, of ’75, and wife visited Notre Dame at the beginning of the week. Mr. Grier is doing well at Geneva Lake, Wis., and we trust that happiness will ever remain with him in the wedded life, which he has just begun.
—Eugene Benoist (Commercial), of’67, was married in St. Louis, Mo., at the Church of the Immaculate Conception, on the 20th of February, to Miss Elmira Lee. The young couple have our heartiest congratulations and best wishes for a happy future.
—The friends of Daniel E. Maloney, of *74, will be pleased to see the following from the Elgin (Ill.) Daily News: “Messrs. Henry B. Willis and Daniel E. Maloney have formed a partnership for the transaction of general law business, and will next week open an office in Lynch’s, block, west side. Both gentlemen are too well known to need any introduction by The News. Mr. Willis, as state’s attorney for this county, has conducted his business with such commendable promptness and vigor as to win golden opinions from all whose encouragement is worth having. Mr. Maloney is also well and favorably known throughout the county. Commencing two years and a half ago in the office of Judge Ranstead, after finishing his university education at Notre Dame, he has worked his way steadily, but none the less surely, up towards the success which will without doubt be attained by the firm of Willis & Maloney. Of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
course The News -wishes for them the realization of their fondest hopes.”
Local Items.
—The Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
—Col. Farrer, of Peru, visited Notre Dame last week.
—Next Wednesday, Friday and Saturday are Emberdays.
—The Centennial of Robert Emmet was duly celebrated at Notre Dame.	'
—A new religious society will be formed shortly at the Manual Labor School.	.
—The Class of Moral Philosophy had rec. on the Feast of St Thomas Aquinas, March 7th.
—In the Junior refectory the readers are engaged in reading “ Getting Along in the World.”
—The song of the robin is heard in the land, and every one is wondering when winter will come.
—Eugene’s noze was the object of universal admiration on the 7th, to the philosophers especially.
—Prof. Lyons is having his room refurnished and is temporarily occupying the room opposite his own.
—The Actives and the second nine of the Excelsiors are to play a series of games for the choice of grounds.
—We understand the pupils of the Manual Labor School will have a literary entertainment the week after Easter.
—Hon. Jos. E. McDonald, U. S. Senator from Indiana, has our thanks for a copy of the Congressional Directory.
—Quite a large crowd assembled at the dress rehearsal the night before the Entertainment in honor of Robert Emmet.	.
—A large audience assembled in Washington Hall to witness the Entertainment given in honor of the Emmet Ceutennial.
—Tne high altar in the new church was beautifully adorned for the Forty Hours’ Adoration at the beginning of the week.	•
—There were quite a number of games of baseball to be played last Wednesday, but the ram interfered and they were declared “ off.”
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion to the Blessed Sacrament took place at the beginning of the week. The ceremonies were very impressive.
—Prof. J. F. Edwards received a vote of thanks from the old Columbians for the interest he took in getting up the entertainment for the 4th.
—The distribution of ashes and a Solemn High Mass took place on Ash-Wednesday morning. Everything was carried on with befitting solemnity.
—Eight to seven—such was the score of a game of baseball between the Actives and the second nine of the Excelsiors. The Actives had the eight.
—We have received from Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore St, Baltimore, Md., a handsome photograph of Pope Leo XIII. They are for sale at §1 per dozen.
—To-morrow is Quadragesima Sunday. The Mass.sung is hfissa de Angdis. The Vespers are those of the Common of a Confessor not Bishop, page 50 of the Vesperal.
—There was some splendid playing in the game of ball between the Mutuals and the Actives on the 29 th of Feb. by J. D. McNellis of the last named nine, and J. Mathews of the first.
—Now after all, wasn’t the Emmet Centennial Entertainment one of the most enjoyable at Notre Dame? Fun is what we want at exhibitions, and the music—well it was appreciated.
—The Actives beat the Excelsior 2d nine on the Gth of March by a score of 11 to 3. Good playing was done by A. Bushy, A. Rietz, G. Ittenbach, D. McNellis, R. French, Welty and Hafner.
—To-morrow week is the 17th of March, St. Patrick’s Day. The Feast of St Patrick, according to the Ordo used
at Notre Dame, is transferred to the 20th, the 17th this year being the second Sunday of Lent.
— Some improvements are being made in our printingoffice. A new engine will soon be put up, and then our old Adams and new Campbell will run off Ave Ilarias and Scholastics with lightning rapidity.
-^-We noticed at the dress rehearsal of the play of Robert Emmet the field captain of the Rednecks and quite a number of his gang from Lowell. However, he was “given away ” on the night of the Exhibition.
—The 24th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held February 28th. Mr. L. Eisenmann was elected a member. The parts in the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day were given out by the President.
—The music furnished by the Senior Orchestra at the Entertainment in honor of Robert Emmet has been the theme of admiration among all who attended. There was not noise, there was melody, and that after all is what most people want.
—A meeting of the Eureka B. B. C. was held on the 4th of March, and the following officers were elected: T. O’Hara, Captain; D. Clune, President; F. Byer, Vice-President; C. Brehmer, Secretary; H. McCaffrey, Treasurer; W. Maley and E. Hughson, Censors.
—We hope that when spring comes some one will be charged with the work of beautifying the bank of the upper lake in the neighborhood of the boat-house. Something should be done at that spot, and we hope it will be done this year. A couple of dozen trees would not be bad.
—We understand that quite a number of firs, larches, spruces, arborvitaes, etc., are to be planted on the hill which rises from the lake, the coming spring. These evergreens, planted among the forest trees, will add greatly to the beauty of the scenery, and we hope the planting will be done.
—At a meeting of the Atlantic Baseball Club held Feb. 24th, the following officers were elected: Mr. P. Hurth, C. S. C., Director; W. Boulger, President; A. F. Spangler, Vice-President; P. A. .Donahoe, Treasurer; M. W. Buch-meier, Secretary; J. Ryan and J. Ward, Censors; H. P. Deehan, Captain.
—The Actives beat the 1st Mutuals on the 7th of March by a score of 27 to 15. Some good playing was done by J. Matthews, J. Pennington, J. Baker, and H. Scanlan. Among the Actives the playing was done J. McNellis, F. Clarke, A. Rietz, A. Sievers, and G. Ittenbach. A base hit was made by G. Ittenbach.
—We are under obligation to Rev. John Lang, of Oxford, Ind., for copies of the Daily Fair Bulletin, published by members of his congregation during a fair held in that place for the benefit of the church. The Bulletin is quite an interesting sheet, and shows that our friend’s parishioners are real live, wide-awake people.
—Many parents write to the authorities here whenever their sons do not get “one” for general conduct in their bulletins. They should remember that in order to get one the student must have his name on the roll of honor every week during the month; that is, he must pass muster before all the faculty once a week for four weeks.
—The Columbians, sensible fellows that they are, intend giving plays in which there is plenty of fun on St. Patrick’s Day. We hear that the “ Irish Attorney ” and “ The Irish Lion ” are to be given. It is a great mistake to think that heavy plays are the ones which take the best. What the audience want is fun, and those who give this are the ones to receive the applause.
—At the meeting of the Excelsior B. B. C. held on Wednesday, Feb. 27th, the following officers were elected for this session: Br. Leander, C. S. C., Hon. Director; Br. Paul, C. S. C., Director; W. A. Widdicombe, President; Geo. F. Sugg, Captain; Chas. L. Hagan, Field Director; W. B. Walker, Censor; Robt. E. Keenan, Secretary; M.H. Bannon, Treasurer; Chas. Walsh, Field Captain.
—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Saturday, March 2d. The principal exercise was the debate: Resolved, “ That moral
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
443
force has done more to civilize the world than physical.” Those who spoke on the affirmative were Masters F. Bloom, J. Baker and J. Berteling; on the negative, J. Healy, C. Walsh, and T. F. McGrath. The debate was well prepared.
—The 23d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo patrian Association was held Sunday, March 3d. At this meeting a very interesting debate took place. The principal speakers were Masters K. Scanlan, A. Burger, F. Lang, J. McNellis and R. French. Declamations were delivered by Masters McCarthy, Rietz, Hafner, D. McNellis, Van Mourick and Cannon. Master Cassard delivered a declamation in French. Master A. J. Bushey was elected a member.
—Notwithstanding the fact that the Entertainment in honor of Robert Emmet was not advertised, the crowd on the occasion was immense. Once let it be known that there is to be au entertainment in Washington Hall and nothing will keep the people away. They know that poor exhibitions are never given by Notre Dame boys. The reason that no invitations were sent out was because the affair was an informal one and no very great preparations were made for it. But the visitors were welcome all the same, just as much so as if invited.
—The 26th regular meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday, Feb. 19th. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. Several new members were admitted. The President passed a few observations concerning the necessity of maintaining perfect silence in the sacristy and sanctuary. He also made a few remarks concerning the ceremonies to be observed in serving at Mass and Vespers. It was announced that the regular meetings would hereafter take place on Sundays at 8 a. m. After a few more observations the meeting adjourned.
—Some months ago an organization having for its object the promotion among Catholic youth of feelings of devotion towards the Pope as head of the Catholic Church, was begun, and now numbers 30,000 young folk throughout the United States and Canada. It was formed under the title of the “Pio Nono American Catholic Young Folk,” with the Rev. Thomas Scully of Cambridgeport, Editor of Our Young Folk's Magazine, as spiritual director, and quite recently was formally approved at Rome, the Archbishop of Boston being notified to that effect. When the new Pope was elected it was decided to continue the organization under the same title, and the following dispatch was sent by cable, to which the reply given below was received:
Boston, Mass., U. S. A., Feb. 23,1878.
Leo XIII, Papa, Roma:—Thirty thousand Pio Nono American Catholic Young Folk salute you, “Tu es Petrus,” and beg the Apostolic benediction.	.
Thos. Scully, Priest and Director.
Rome, Feb. 24,1878.
To Rev. Thomas Scully:—The Holy Father is thankful to the Pio Nono American Catholic Young Folk, and most affectionately blesses them.
Mgr. Lasageni, Secretary of State.
—The whole number of Popes from St. Peter to Pius the Ninth inclusive is 262. Of these 82 are venerated as Saints, 33 of whom are martyrs. One hundred and four have been Romans, and 108 natives of Italy; 15 Frenchmen; 9 Greeks; 7 Germans; 5 Asiatics; 3 Africans; 3 Spaniards; 2 Dalmatians; 1 Hebrew; 1 Thracian; 1 Dutchman's 1 Portuguese; 1 Candiot; and 1 Englishman. The name most commonly taken has been John; the 23d and last was a Neapolitan raised to the Chair in 1410. Nine Pontiffs have reigned less than one month, 30 less than one year; and 11 more then twenty years; only 5 have occupied the Pontifical Chair over 23 years; these are St. Peter, who was Supreme Pastor in Antioch for about 7 or 8 years, and 25 years, 2 months, 7 days in Rome; Silvester I, 23 years, 10 months, 27 days; Adrian I, 22 years, 10 months, 17 days; Pius VI, 24 years, 8 months, 14 days; Pius IX, who celebrated his 31st year in the Pontifical Chair June 16,1877, had the longest reign of any former Pope except St. Peter, being Pope for 31 years 7 months, 20 days.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, T. Barrett, M. W. Bannon, J. J. Coleman, J. E. Cooney, P. J. Cooney, P. J. Dougherty, W. L. Dechant, E. Davenport, A Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewins, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, J. Fuerstein, E. Gramling, A Ginz, 8. Gooley, G. Goble, A. Hertzog, F. Hellman, P. Hagan, M. Hogan, J. Houck. J. Hoffman, J. F. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, P. J. Kinney, F. B. Keller, J. Kotz, J. Lambin, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, H. C. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, E. Maley, O. 8. Mitchell, L. Marantette, V. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, J. J. Mc-Eniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, H. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, W. Ohlman, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, J. Rabbitt, E. W. Robinson, J. Rice, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, S.T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, F. J. Walter, F. Williamson, E. Bennett, E. S. White, E. Ward.
Note.—By mistake the name of C. Mueller was omitted from the Roll of Honor, also the name of P. J. Dougherty, for the last two weeks.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Buerger, J. -M. Byrne, C. J. Brinkman, A. J. Bushey, H. E. Canoil, J. F. Carrer, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, G.H. Donnelly, H. J. Fenner, J. A. . Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healy, M. E. Herrick, G. L. It-tenbach, J. A. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, J. D. McNeills, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, H. Newmark, P. P. Nelson, G. J. Orr, F. Pleins, J. L. Perea, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, C. Van Mourick, F. Weisert.
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
O. Farrelly, W. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, C. McGrath, N. Nelson J. Inderrieden. W. Coolbaugh, J. Courtney, A. Hartrath, A. Coghlin, G. M. Lambin, J. A Seeger, J. Courtney, C. Garrick, G. Rhodius, P. Fitzgerald, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, C. Long, H. Kitz, J. Devine, E. Herzog, C. Welty, W. Rbeinhardt, T. Barrett, E. Esmer, T. O’Neill, F. Farrelly, T. McGrath, J. Inderrieden.
Class Honors.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
R. P. Mayer, F. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, A. J. Burger, H. Newmark, C. Brinkman, J. B. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, J. Krost, L. Horne, J. Feuerstein, A. Rietz, H. Gramling, F. Walter, W. Rietz, E. Gramling, I. Chatterton, W. J. McCarthy, W. B. Walker, W. Ohlman, J. Hafner, E. Dempsey, H. Murphy, M. Burns, T. Nelson, F. McGrath, J. Smith, H. W. Nevans, F. Lang, S. Welty, J. D. McNellis, J. Matthews, A. W. Johnson, A Keenan, J. Lemarie, W. A. Widdicombe, R. Keenan, A Bushey, W. O’Brien, R. Price, A Dorion, W. Arnold, G. Sampson, J. Ewing, M. J. McCue, J. Coleman, J. D. Montgomery, T. Barrett, M. Herrick, J. Scanlan, O. Farrelly, T. Fischel,-F. Hellman, O. S. Mitchell, C. K. De Vries, P. McCullough, G. Cassidy, C. Clarke, G. Sugg, J. G. Baker, J. Arentz, J. Guthrie, C. Van Mourick, J. Rogers, F. Ewing, J. Gibbons, A. Sievers, EL Scanlan, J. Carrer, J. Rothert, J. P. McHugh, E. McMahon, B. J. Claggett, O. Rettig, T. Barry, O. J. Hamilton, J. Smith, J. J. Quinn,” J. Shugrue, M. Bannon, E. Arnold, S. T. Spalding, W. J. Murphy, A. Hatt, V. F. McKinnon, J. Fitzgerald, T. Hale, J. Healy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, O. Farrelly, W. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, C. Crennen, J. Boose, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, J. Inderrieden, W. Coolbaugh, C. Crowe, J. Courtney, A. Hartrath, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, C. Garrick, H. Snee, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, T. O’Neill, J. Devine, J. McGrath, J. Crowe, W. Rheinhardt, C. Herzog, E. Herzog, U. Welty, C. Long, E. Esmer, T. Barrett, F. Farrelly, 8. Bushey, F. Berry, P. Fitzgerald.
List of Excellence.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—J. B. Ittenbach, M. Burns, 8. Welty, J. D. McNellis, H. Newmark, I. Chatterton ; French—J. Ifemarie, W. A Widdicombe, W. O’Brien; Elocution---; Music—O. 8. Mitchell, C. K. De Vries, F. Carroll, A. Sievers, J. A. Gibbons, B. J. Claggett, A Hettinger; Drawing—V. McKinnon; Painting—A K. Schmidt.-----------------------•
—We shall never know our real calling or destiny unless we have taught ourselves to consider everything else as moonshine compared to the education of the heart.—Sir Walter Scott.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

—Mr, and Mrs. Hake, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, were here on a visit to their little daughter. Left on Monday morning.
—Mrs. Judge Arrington paid a short visit to St. Mary’s on Saturday. She is an old and tried friend of the institution, and the more so as St. Mary’s is the scene of the conversion and reception into the Church of herself and family.
—The adornments of the altar, and the arrangement of the chapel for the Forty Hours’ Devotion are very beautiful. The Rev. Chaplain gave an interesting explanation of the Eucharistic Dogma, its origin, etc., before Benediction on Sunday evening.
—Lieutenant Hoyt and his bride, from Cheyenne, Dakota Territory, called at St. Mary’s on the 3d inst. The bride was formerly Miss M. Cravens, graduate of ’77. If the good wishes of their friends at St. Mary’s are realized, the Lieutenant and his lady will enjoy every happiness that Heaven holds in store for the most favored of earth’s children.
—Every Thursday evening the pupils of the advanced French classes spend an hour in French conversation in Mother Superior’s study. Some of the young ladies express themseives as finding this the most delightful re-nuion of the week. The conversation is interspersed with reading from the weekly literary journals of Paris, in which the contributions present lively representations of society in the most polished European circles. The reunion has subscribed for one of the choicest Parisian periodicals. Thursday evening affords a rare opportunity for improvement, and for gaining elegance and facility in the use of the French language.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, J. Cooney, A Harris, A Henneberry, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor.
1st Senior Class—Misses H. Russell, C. Boyce, 8. Moran, B. Wilson, L Fisk, M. Ewing, E. Lange.
2d Senior Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. Keenan, 8. Hamilton, A. Woodin, M. Danaher, B. Thompson, L Keena, M. Luce, N. King, M. Maloney, L. Kirchner.
3d Senior Class—Misses M. Brown, J. Burgert, F. Cregier, L. Otto, T. Pleins, A Gordon, J. Winston, A. Cavenor, M. Wagner, A Morgan, E. Shaw, H. Buck, M. Plattenburg, C. Hackett, A Brown, E. Schwass, M. Galen, A Farrell, A. Kirchner, F. King-field, A Ewing.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Hayes, L. Neu, A McGrath, L. Chilton, E. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses E. Miller, E. Thomas, E. Kelly, J. Kingsberry.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, M. Hake, L. French, A Mc-Kinnis, L. Van Namee, L. Wood, F. Sunderland, E. Hackett, M. Lyons.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Butts, N. Lloyd, E. Wooten, M. Cox.
2d Jr. Class—Misses P. Felt, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class in French Conversation—Misses C. Silverthorne, N. McGrath, B. Wilson, N. Keenan, H. Russell.
2d Div.—Misses J. Burgert, A McGrath, M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, J. Cooney.
2d Class—Misses A Geiser, 8. Moran, M. Ewing, N. Galen. - 3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, M. Wagner, M. Birch, M. Brown, A Ewing. E. Mulligan, J. Butts, M. Casey, M. Danaher, F. Kingfleld, E. Shaw, L. Chilton, L. Fox.
4th Class—Misses L. Neu, A Brown, L. Schwass, M. White, J. Winston, E. Foster, L. Wood, A Cavenor, E. Wright, L. Van Namee.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses A Kirchner, A Geiser. •
2d Div.—Misses M. Usselman, 8. Rheinboldt, L. Walsh.
2d Class—Misses L. O’Neill, A Henneberry, K. Barrett, F. Cregier.
3d Class—Misses 8. Hamilton, M. Way, C. Boyce, E. Miller, M. Lambin.
2d Div.—Misses N. King, M. Loeber, A Farrell.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
1st Class—Misses L. Kirchner, A Geiser, C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Misses A Harris, M. Spier,'L. O’Neill, N. Galen, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses F. Kingfleld, M. Usselman, A. Gordon, H. Buck, A. Henneberry.
3d Class—Misses L. New, J. Burgert.
2d Drv.—Misses A. Kirchner, E. Lange, M. Brown, A McGrath, L. Walsh, N. McGrath, A Farrell.
4th Class—Misses P. Gaynor, K. Hackett, A Maloney, N. King.
2d Div.—Misses M. Winston, M. Mullen, M. Way, E. Richardson.
5th Class—Misses J. Winston, K. Reardon, A.'Wooten, F. Cregier, K. Barrett, L. Papin, E. Shaw, M. Wagner, A. Cavenor, M. White, M. Danaher.
2d Div.—Misses L. French, L. Otto, M. Cleary, N. Hackett, M. Plattenburg, C. Boyce, A Ewing.
6th Class—Misses 8. Rheinboldt, L. Schwass, A. Brown, E. Thomas, M. Mulligan, M. Ewing, M. Lambin, A. Peak, M. Casey, L.Fox.
2d Div.—Misses M. Hake, E. Wright, L. Chilton, E. Kelly, E. Mulligan, F. Brazelton.
7th Class—Misses A. McKinnis, J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, S. Hamilton, A. Barnes.
8th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Harp—3d Class—Misses N. Galen, L. Chilton.
Harmony—Misses Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner, A Geiser, C. Silverthorne.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses A Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses D. Gordon, J. Winston, A Brown, L. Otto, K. Hackett, K Reordan.
2d Drv.—Misses 8. Rheinboldt, A.. Geiser, E. Richardson.
4th Class—Misses A Farrell, W. Dudley, M. Casey, C. Silverthorne, A. Wooten, M. Winston.
5th Class—Misses E. Galen, M. Ewing, M. Hake, A. Ewing, A. McGrath, M. Mulligan, M. White, A. Peak, N. McGrath, L. Schwass.
General Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee, L. Miller.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Miss E. Lange.
3d Class—Miss A. Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses M. Plattenburg, H. Buck, S. Hamilton, E. Thomas, A Farrell, J. Burgert.
5th Class—Misses L. Otto, M. Way, E. Miller.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, E. Shaw, B. Thompson, L. Otto, A. Morgan, M. Cleary, M. Danaher, A Thomas, A. Brown, M. Luce, M. Winston, N. McGrath, E. Foster, K. Kloyd, D. Gordon, B. Parrott, K. Hackett, M. Birch, M. Mullen, E. Wright, E. Thomas, E. Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Lambin, N. Hackett, A Ewing, J. Kingsbury, N. Kingfleld, L. Miller, L. Ellis, L. Wood, M. Ivers.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses 8. Moran, N. Davis, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, M. Spier.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds.
3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, N. Davis, M. O’Connor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses L. Neu, A. Brown, L. Schwass, M. Usselman, M. Mullen, - M. Winston, J. Winston, S. Henneberry, M. Luce.
2d Div.—Misses D. Gordon, N. McGrath, A Morgan, B. Thompson, J. Kingsbury, J. Sunderland, F. Sunderland, M. O’Connor, F. Cregier, M. Wagner, K. Lloyd, M. White.
2d Class—Misses B. Parrott, A McGrath, S. Hamilton, A Ewing, L. Ellis, L. Fox, M. Casey, A Farrell, M. Barrett, E. Richardson, E. Shaw, N. Hake.
2d Div.—Misses A Fisk, H. Buck, M. Keenan, E. Wooten, M. Hayes.
s
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	445
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses 3. Cooney, A Henneberry, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, H. Russell, M. Ewing, 8. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. Keenan, M. Casey, 8. Hamilton, N. Davis, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, N.King, W. Dudley, Z. Papin, M. Maloney, C. Riordan, E. Shaw, M. Halligan, L. Otto, M. Brown, H. Buck, T. Pleins, M. Wagner, M. Plattenburg, K. Hackett, A. Brown, E. Walsh, E. Sehwass, B. Anderson, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Earrell, D. Gordon, A Morgan, M. Foster, 3. Winston, A. Cavenor, 8. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, M. Hayes, M. Cleary, B. Parrott, M. Loeber, E. Thomas, J. Barnes, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, 100 par excellence. Misses P. Gaynor, I. Fisk, M. Birch, F. Cregier, A Thomas, J. Burgert, C. Lloyd," M. Winston, L. Neu, E. Miller, M. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Kirchner, F. Kiugfield, E. Mulligan, L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, L. Van Namee, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses L. Chilton, A Geiser, J. Kingsbury, M. McFadden.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere’s
LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME, and arranged for Male Characters only, By A. J. STAGE; and Edited by JOSEPH A. LYONS.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHODIC JOTTmTJAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published, Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS K., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author op “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEEMS :
One Year......................................$ 2 50
Five Years.....................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)..20 00 A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present, and yet to be.	-
Price 25 Cents.
“The Upstart” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahoney, Staley, Dam, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
Every Member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean
Association,
PAST AND PRESENT, hould procure a copy.
Sent post free on receipt of price.
F FOX, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
ST. LOUIS, no.
Chicago, B. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. Thfi is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gcn’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., omiosite am House,
Chicago, Illinois.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES. Union Depo-, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7 30 am	9 00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3 40 pm	9 00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation....................9 20 am	5 00	pm
J. 0. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
446
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. tn., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago Sam.
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 0 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Geirl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’c West l)iv., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
SAMUEL ZEIJkZRFdlS,
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN
AMATEUR TOOLS,
FOR
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning- Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
HandSaws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
Small Engine Castings,	designs for Brace-
SmaH Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Publisher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
decs tr 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, III.
zelatzeltcik: sthziozkzzey,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
. .	'	•	P. SHICKEY.
ON THE RECEIPT OF FIFTY CENTS, we will send, Postage Paid, to any address, a handsome Chromo of
“ His Holiness, Leo XIII,”
from an authentic Portrait loaned the publishers by his Grace, Archbishop Wood. Address,
CHROMO DEPARTMENT,
NATIONAL BUREAU OE ENGRAVING, mch2-2t 512 Pine Street,
0.- & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska,'Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the 'best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.	'
New York Office, .No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TYPEFOUNDERS, CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type foundry in the West. All Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seyen years. "	’ ’	Jan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
447
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, NDIANA,
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holv Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on theplan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. -
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. diary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Way ne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.i, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 “ 3.10 A.M. 4.46 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.30 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 P.M. 3.11 “ 3.50 "
Crestline,	Leave Forest,	 Lima,	 Ft.Wayne,	 Ply mouth,	 Chicago,. Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12.25 a.m. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••
GOl^G 3BA.8T.				
	ho. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 P.M. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M. 2.48 “ 4.25 “	•
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,		 Alliance,	' Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 " 2.30 “ 4.05 " ,6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ ll.Op “ 12.15 “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 pat. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.				
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
'	' ■	r. a. aras, s. r. * i. a,
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, ISTT.					
Northward Trains.		No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1.	' Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.	
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Pera			4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “	12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “	
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City			8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “	
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.		No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.		No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Pera		5.30 P. M. 2.55 “	. 1.50 “		4.10 A. M. 1.50 “ 12.38 “		9.10 A. M. 6.33	“ 5.37	“
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.		12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “		
F. P. Wade,	V. T. JLvlott, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.	Genl Manager, Indianapolis.					
A NEW SYSTEM
OF
German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by PYSTET,
52 Barclay street, new YORK, and 204 Vine street, Cincinnati.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.	.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial. Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Qorby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
'	JVotjje Damb, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ui.	.
JOHN E. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm. W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.	.
WILLIAM J. CL A. BEE (of 74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
'	TAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69,—Attorney at Law,
el 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. 1877.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	i Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “	8 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 85 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35, a m 2 17s “ 4 55 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit.	 “ Jackson	 ‘V Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 •’	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 « 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division..
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p.m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 925 “	715“	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 740 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. JSaturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager. Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of 75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for jtX St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
rpHE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published _L weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of 70.
rjIHE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the _L Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of 74) $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk. rTMHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may bo found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD B. FL V JN W, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for. the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.	.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.	.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “-Collections of Minerals.’’
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the sped es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.	'
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sides were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue-and table of species.
Number of Specimens		25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger	 Amateur’s size, 2*4 in. x IK High School or Acad, size,2£ College size, 3*4x6 in., shell		$ 50 1 50	$1 8	$1 50 6	$ 1 5 10	$ 2 10 25	$ 8 25 50
	x3K in. shelf specimens specimens					25 500	50 100	100 8 00
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
C)K CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name xjU neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkib,
'	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Scie-ences and of the American Museum of natural
. History, Central Part, Mew Fort, -