Kotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 8, 1879.	Number 27.
The Power of Prayer.
0 world, great world, now thou art all my own ;
In the deep silence of my soul I stay
The current of thy life; though the wild day
Surges around me, I am all alone;—
Millions of voices rise, yet my weak tone
Is heard by Him who is the Light, the Way;
All Life, all Truth, the centre of Love’s ray;
Clamor, 0 Earth, the great God hears my moan!
Prayer is the talisman that gives us all;
We conquer God by the force of His love,—
He gives us all; when prostrate we implore—
The Saints must listen; prayers pierce Heaven’s wall;
The humblest soul on earth, when mindful of Christ’s promise, is the greatest conqueror.
Maurice F. Egan in tre “Ave Maria.”
Teachings of Example.
Man is an imitative, a social being. A masterpiece of the great Creator, his soul an image of his Maker, man was endowed with faculties of body and soul which justly and aptly fit him to exercise supreme dominion over creation. Man’s destiny both in this and the future life is, according to principles of reason and revelation, to be in company with other similar rational beings. Moreover, man in his present condition does not occupy an isolated position. As a creature, he is dependent upon, and subservient to the Creator; and individually and socially considered, he has, though metaphysically independent, to lean, both in the moral and physical order, upon the guiding hand of his fellow-man, and cannot without gross injury to God and to himself sever the ties that bind him. Indeed, conscience proclaims, and reason suggests and prompts, that though there is, according to revealed principles and authority, no distinction of persons, with God, there were, however, and still exist, men destined by Providence to fill, in a social point of view, superior positions, and also to enlighten, like beacon lights, man’s dreary journey through life. As truth, however, is not always sought after, nor abided by, it happened that certain men, endowed with superior talents, and adorned profusely with many gifts of body and soul, strayed from virtue’s path, and sought the gratification of vice and crime, thereby becoming, as it were, the curse and disgrace of their race. There are strange, but at the same time wise instincts in human nature, which tend to determine a person to perform actions observed in other individuals. Upon the principle, so evident to an observing mind, example seems in its diverse effects to rest. History teaches that men have at all times imitated either virtue or vice—followed good or bad prin
ciples, copied both degrading and virtuous lives. They can therefore be said to have copied these diverse examples or patterns, for an example is nothing else than a copy or pattern set up for our imitation. There are two spheres of truth, two fields of action, where man in the capacity of a free agent can exercise thought or action. These are, the spheres of the intellect and those of the will. A few considerations upon example, as exhibited in its influence upon the former, will hence be submitted to the reader.
What individuals as well as nations, both in the past and present, have achieved and are achieving in purely intellectual productions is, no doubt, due in great measure to the force of example. In no pursuits is this truth more apparent—than in those of literature, art and science. In proof of this, one need but go back to those ancient times when men first began to pursue knowledge, and to register the results of their patient and laborious investigations in books, realize the art ideal on canvas or in verse, or observe the course of the stars and sun and moon as those ancient Egyptian astronomers were wont to do. The Iliad of Homer is said to be a masterpiece of epic genius—the embodiment of Greek spirit, religious valor, mythology, the pride and glory of its people. But was it the production of one day ? Does it occupy an isolated position in epic poetry? No: even Homer followed the example of his literary predecessors, and though their names may be shrouded in historic obscurity, and their productions be lost to us, there is, nevertheles, no doubt that Homer but perfected, remodelled, and clothed in his own superior garb of brilliancy and thought what he from literary models, and travel, and study had gathered. He sang of Troy, Priam and the many struggles that Grecian valor underwent under Troy’s walls. But when his song was ended, Virgil repeats the re-echoing strains and follows the Trojan zEneas into Sicily’s and Italy’s shores. In Latin verse and song, he tells zEaeas’s story. Who would deny that the Iliad and zEneid resemble each other in more than merely accidental features; and that Virgil, to a greater extent, followed the example of the Grecian bard ? Who denies that even Milton has more than once in serious thought and imitative mood pondered over the works of the epic bards, ere he penned his “ Paradise Lost”?
Science, in its history and development, shows no less an exemplification of the point at issue. In the department of geotics, nothing can equal the progress made in geology and in chemistry. Who does not now laugh at those petty theories advanced by ancient philosophers concerning the nature of matter and force, and the formation of bodies ? What crude opinions, what vague and indemonstrable hypotheses were not those formed about the nature of the stars,
R S
422	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
their relative distances, the revolution of the celestial bodies, and the nature of the sun and course of its light ? It must indeed be admitted that astronomy, from the time when Chaldean and Egyptian shepherds first for medtheir opinion about the sun and the thousands of twinkling stars that grace heaven’s canopy at night to the day of Father Secchi—has made immense progress. -But how could such splendid results be achieved ? How was it done ? It was the work of centuries. From the ancient shepherd astronomers, the thread of astronomical history begins. The Egyptians, Chinese, Greeks, and Arabians successively and successfully promoted its progress. Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler and Newton stand out in bold relief as investigators. Like bright beacon lights, they will for many centuries illuminate the way of their followers. Hence the unbroken chain of example given and followed, lead to such grand results.
There appears however in modern times, a scientific man of novel, startling theories clothed in the garb of originality, and at the same time with his mind stored with zoblogical and biological acquirements. On a sudden he appears and proclaims to the world the truths of evolution as exemplified in the living animal species. In bold defiance of the belief of mankind in the immediate creation of man by God, he reasons thus: “What contradicts my biological principles and the logical result deduced from them, cannot be admitted. But the immediate creation of man by God, contradicts those principles and results. Therefore man was not immediately and directly created by God.” The man that reasons thus, and claims arboreal ancestors and quadruped progenitors, is Darwin, the author of the “ Origin of Species.” To demonstrate, however, the hypotheses that man is but the apex, the crowning and most perfect animal species; that gradually through ages past, the perfection of species took place, a “missing link” is needed, that will in all probability never be found. But has Prof. Darwin been influenced by the scientific researches of his predecessors ? His theory is a novel one. No biologist had ever before publicly advanced such an opinion on the origin of man. We would therefore find the motive by which such a theory was advanced not coming from a scientific model but from an antichristian one. No doubt the main spring was the relentless hatred towards Christianity. The man is no Christian: what can you expect of the philosopher ? Like the old pagan philosopher Porphyry, he hates the true Church, and against infallible dogmas he directs the venomous poison. Christianity abhors the name and works of Porphyry, and can the name of Darwin deserve a better fate ?	■
At the same time with scientific investigation and invention, art and art productions have been flourishing. They kept pace with purely literary works. Nothing could be proved more agreeable to reason than this historical fact; for it is but natural that men, finding matter in crude and gross forms, should polish, embellish and perfect it exteriorly, so as to present, as it were, a living picture. Hence arose the art of technics, whose history and that of its subordinate branches gives ample illustration of what example has done in the achievements of such grand results. Guttenberg’s printing apparatus was certainly but a miniature pattern of the modern printing-press. Many an example was given and followed, many a plan invented and rejected, and many superior minds engaged in mechanical investigations since men first began to express thought by signs cut, with a hard stone or other material into the bark of trees, up to th? present time, when more books, monthly magazines, ■
weeklies, and general reading come from the press in one day than centuries of yore could produce.
But the progress exhibited in the fine arts, especially in music, is no less wonderful than immense. Through an unbroken chain of artists, through the links of example has art flourished, and as time rolled on unfolded grander ideals, more brilliant realizations, more artistic execution. What, for instance, can eclipse the progress music has made, though encumbered with so many prejudices? Unlike her sister arts, she in the present century seems to approach fast to a point of almost impossible perfection in the realms of vocal and instrumental music. What art can show such a galaxy of brilliant genius! Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Wagner, what sentiments of the good, the beautiful and true do not your names suggest! The fair muse of song must indeed claim you as her devoted sons.
When there is question of individual productions, whether of literature, art or science, it must be borne in mind that they are, as it were, but outgrowths of natural life. Homer, Hesiod, Thucydides, and Demosthenes represent Greece in her poetry, history, and oratory. Virgil, Cicero, Juvenal, Tacitus, Horace, and their fellow-laborers have concentrated in themselves Rome’s literary efforts; Dante, Petrarch and Tasso are Italy’s; Schiller and Goethe Germany’s literary sous; Chaucer, Milton and Shakespeare reign supreme in English verse. Thus every nation, although showing but few signs of intellectual life, can boast of its national literature and national writers. As individuals are influenced by example, and generation moulded after their predecessors’ manners, character and life, so nations when mingled or dispersed partake of the character of their larger element. Notice the Romans and Sabines, and finally the Latins. Although, at the beginning, of different government; character and manners, in the course of time they could scarcely be identified from their conquerors the Romans. To what do the ages of Pericles, and of Augustus, so fruitful in great men in every walk of life, owe this high degree of splendor? To example, stimulation and peace. Warlike nations are ignorant nations. Sp irta and Athens illustrate this. The former’s youth were trained to warfare; those of the latter to personal industry; and, as a consequence, which time brought about, Athens, not Sparta, became the metropolis of Grecian literature, art and science. Hence generations mould generations by example, even as the father moulds the character, manners, and mode of life of the son. Where peace and art-loving rulers join hands, a nation becomes glorious in its intellectual productions, respected by its neighbors, and a lasting exemplification of what example effects, when in favorable circumstances, for its force, though acting slowly, acts surely, and time will show its effect.	'
But what secret spring, what motives could have induced men to follow example? This imitative tendency is inherent and natural to man, and not only are these inclinations observed in one individual, but are comnon to all. Everyone is conscious of possessing such faculties. Universal consent corroborates their truth; history testifies to their results, and reason can demonstrate their existence. In childhood, in maturer years, even in old age, man is an imitative creature. As the infant imitates the lisping words of a fond mother, so does man when divested of childhood’s restraints copy the example of those with whom he comes in contact. The life, character, development, both moral and intellectual, take the mould of surrounding examples. Any historic page would reveal this truth. “ Show me your company and I wik teU yoy vybb you are,” says the proverb,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
423
And again: Verba docent, exempla autem tralwnt. Words enlighten the mind, but example moves the will to action. In vain is doctrine or precept, if you yourself do not believe in the truth taught, nor fulfil the precepts given. Not by words alone, but by example, is Christianity promulgated; and this is exactly the spirit of its Founder. His words are: “As I have done, so do you also.” Christ, though, above the law, was its most faithful observer. In His Person, precept and fulfilment were but one act; they were identified. The history of eighteen centuries is but a continued exemplification of example and power upon the Christian hero. Like to their Divine Model they lived, suffered, and died for the sake of those divine principles that divine Faith engrafted into their souls. The like spectacle the world had never before beheld, nor will the future reveal the like scenes. Since Christian martyrs reddened the sands of the arena with their heart’s blood, or had their bleeding limbs scattered, up to the present moment, when Catholicity stands free and untrammelled, example has done the work, for as Christ has done, so did His faithful followers.
It should be the only ambition of every student, whether he pursues literature, art or science, to follow the example of those men that in these separate branches have defended, sought and loved truth rather than traverse the ways of falsehood. Let them be guided by the lessons of the past. What has become of those deists, pantheists, polytheists, and atheists that in past times have raised their infamous doctrine against Heaven Itself? True men, true philosophers detest their memory and rej ect their doctrine. Truth is one. What God has revealed, no literary, no scientific researches can contradict. God is the Author of both revelation and reason, and upon His veracity we can say that natural and supernatural truth cannot intersect. In vain, therefore, shall scientists and modern philosophers labor to subvert what God has established. What fell to the lot of irreligious infidelity in past times, we can with moral certainty predict for its present and future abettors.
M. L.
‘I
1
Xenophon.
Among the many great and noble men of Athens who have become celebrated by their exploits or power of intellect, Xenophon stands conspicuous both as a good general, a philosopher, and a historian of no small merit. He was the son of Gryllus, and was born at Ercheia, a borough of the tribe of JEgeis, B. C. 445. His parents were among the most respectable families in Athens.
To speak of Xenophon’s boyhood and his steps to manhood would be too tedious, and only a Plutarch, a Dionysius, or other contemporary writer could do so satisfactorily. Suffice it to say, that, judging from his manhood, which generally gives a clue to the training received in "youth, we can easily perceive that Xenophon’s was above the ordinary. Moreover, we read that, while a youth, Socrates, struck with the comeliness of his person, determined to admit him among the number of his pupils. It may safely be inferred that if he had not been well trained, and virtuous, he would not have merited such an honor from the philosopher, who was himself a lover of virtue and of everything good. In the school of Socrates he received those instructions and precepts which afterwards so eminently distinguished him at the head of an army, in liter-^fy solitude, as th? prudent father of a fa inily, 4,t the
school of Socrates he was undoubtedly both one of the best . and most respectable of those who attended the lectures of that distinguished philosopher. And the philosophy which he had learned from him, he employed, not to furnish him with means of display, as was customary at that period, but to qualify himself for discharging his duties relating both to public and private life.
Xenophon accompanied Sicrates to the Peloponnesian war, and fought courageously in defence of his country. At the battle of Delium, in the early part of the same war, Socrates, according to some accounts, saved the life of his cherished pupil. In another battle, also fought in Beeotia, but of which history does not appear to leave any trace, Xenophon would seem to have been made prisoner by the enemy; for Philostratus informs us that he attended the instructions of Prodicus of Coos while a prisoner in Boeotia.
How- his time was employed during the period which preceded his serving in the army of Cyrus is not ascertained ; it is more than probable, however, that he was engaged during the interval in several campaigns, since the skill and experience displayed in conducting the famous retreat of the Ten Thousand presuppose a familiar acquaintance with the art of war. At the age of forty-three or forty-four years he was invited by Proxenus, the Boeotian, one of his intimate friends, to accompany Cyrus the Younger in an expedition against his brother Artaxerxes, King of Persia, but he refused to comply without previously consulting his venerable master and inquiring into the propriety of such a measure. Socrates strongly opposed it, and observed that it might rouse the resentment of his countrymen, as Sparta had made an alliance with the Persian monarch; however, before he proceeded further, he advised him to consult the oracle of Apollo. Xenophon paid due deference to the injunctions of Socrates, but as he was ambitious of glory, and eager to engage in a distant expedition, he hastened with precipitation to Sardis, where he was introduced to the young prince and treated with great attention. The prince promised, if he would enter his service, to send him home in safety after his expedition against the Peridians should have terminated. Xenophon, being under the impression that the intended expedition had no other end than this, consented to take part in it, but he was deceived; for of all the Greeks who accompanied Cyrus, Clearchus alone knew the object of the undertaking.
In the army of Cyrus, Xenophon showed that he was a true disciple of Socrates, and that he had been educated in the warlike city of Athens. After the decisive battle of Cunaxa, which showed the unfruitfulness of the expedition, and the fall of young Cyrus, the prudence of Xenophon and the vigor of his mind were called into action. The ten thousand Greeks who had followed the standard of an ambitious prince were now at a distance of 600 leagues from their native home, in a strange country, surrounded on every side by a victorious enemy,—without money, provisions, and, still worse, without a leader. Xenophon was selected from among the officers to superintend the retreat of his countrymen, and though he was often opposed by malevolent and envious men, yet his persuasive eloquence and his activity convinced the Greeks that no general could extricate them from every difficulty better than himself. He rose superior to danger, and though under continual alarms from the sudden attacks of the Persians, he was enabled to cross rapid rivers, penetrate through vast deserts, and gain the tops of mountains, till he could rest secure for a while and refresh his tired troops. This cele
424	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
brated retreat, perhaps the most remarkable instance in the annals of war of an enterprise conducted against prodigious obstacles with perfect coolness, valor and success, and alone sufficient to give to its commander an immortal name, was at last happily effected.
The Greeks returned home—after a march of 1155 para-sangs, which was performed in two hundred and fifteen days—after an absence of fifteen months. The whole, perhaps, might now be forgotten, or at least but obscurely known, if the great philosopher who planned it had not employed his pen in describing the dangers which he escaped and the difficulties which he surmounted.
After conducting the retreat of the 10,000, Xenophon sought new honors in following the fortunes of Agesilaus in Asia. Here he again bravely fought, aiding in the conquest of the Asiatic provinces. His fame, however, as was generally the case with every man of note at that time, did not escape the aspersions of jealousy, and he was banished by his countrymen from Athens because he had accompanied Cyrus against his brother. Being now without a home, he retired to Scillus, a small town of the Lacedaemonians in the neighborhood of Olympia. In this solitary retreat he devoted his time to literary pursuits; and as he had acquired riches in his Asiatic expeditions, he began to adorn and beautify by the hand of art, for his pleasure and enjoyment, the country which surrounded Scillus. He built a magnificent temple to Diana, in imitation of that at Ephesus, and spent a part of his time in rural employments, or in hunting in the woods and mountains. His peaceful occupations, however, were soon disturbed; a war arose between the Lacedaemonians and Elis. The sanctity of the philosopher’s retirement in the delightful retreats of Scillus was disregarded, and Xenophon, driven by the Elians from his favorite spot, where he had composed and written for the information of posterity and the honor of his country, retired to the city of Cori nth. In this place he died in the 90th year of his age, 349 years before the Christian era.
The works of Xenophon are numerous. He wrote an account of the expedition of Cyrus, called the Anabasis, and as he had no inconsiderable share in the enterprise his descriptions must be authentic, as he was himself an eyewitness. Many, however, have accused him of partiality. He appears too fond of ext filing the virtues of his favorite, Cyrus, and while he describes with contempt the imprudent operations of the Persians, he does not neglect to show that he was a native of Greece. His Cyropaedia, divided into eight books, has given rise to much criticism, and while some warmly maintain that it is a faithful account of the life and the actions of Cyrus the Great, and declare it supported by the authority of Scripture, others as vehemently deny its authenticity. According to the opinions of Plato and Cicero, the Cyropaedia of Xenophon was a moral romance, and these venerable philosophers assert that the historian did not so much write what Cyrus had been, as what every true, good and virtuous monarch ought to be. His Hellenics were written as a continuation of the history of Thucydides, and in his Memorabilia of Socrates and in his “ Apology ” he has shown himself, as Valerius Maximus observes, a perfect master of the philosophy of that great man, and he has explained his doctrines and moral precepts with all the success of persuasive eloquence and conscious integrity. These are the most famous of his compositions, besides which there are other small tracts, his Eulogium given on Agesilaus, his
(Economics, on the duties of a domestic life, the dialogue entitled Hiero, in which he happily describes and compares the misery which attended the tyrant, with the felicity of a virtuous prince; a treatise on Hunting, the Symposium of the philosophers on the government of Athens and Sparta, a treatise on the Revenues of Attica, etc.
As a writer, Xenophon deserves much praise for the simplicity and elegance of his diction. As a historical writer, he is much below Thucydides. His works, however, have been in all ages justly admired, and they have induced Quintilian to say that the Graces dictated his language, and that the goddess of persuasion dwelt upon his lips. His sentiments as to religion and the divinity were the same as those of the venerable Socrates. He supported the immortality of the soul with all the fervor of a Christian, and exhorted his friends to cultivate those virtues which ensure the happiness of mankind.
He has been quoted as an instance of tenderness and of resignation on Providence. While offering a sacrifice, he was informed that Gryllus, his eldest son, had been killed at the battle of Mantinea. Upon this he tore from his head the garland usually worn by the person sacrificing, but when he was told that his son had died like a Greek, and given a mortal wound to the enemy’s general, he replaced the wreath on his head, and continued the sacrifice, exclaiming that the pleasure he derived from the valor of his son was greater than the grief which his death occasioned. On the whole, he demands much praise both for his skill in military tactics, as a historian possessing a pleasing style and correct in his details, and a philosopher worthy to be the follower of Socrates.	J. J. S.
The Shepherd Boy and the Scullion.
Taken from the German.
It was on a bright morning in May, at the commencement of the seventeenth century, that a poor shepherd boy by the name of Peter drove his flocks to the pasture fields for the last time. Although only entering upon his twelfth year, this boy’s mind had for several days been employed in planning great things. Having reached the pasture, he knelt down and devoutly recited his “Ave Maria" recommending himself to the care of the Mother of God, the “Help of Christians”; then casting a glance over the herds that were entrusted to his care, and from them at his ever faithful watch-dog, he wiped the tears from his eyes, commanded the dog to watch the herd faithfully, which now he committed to the care of another poor boy, and set out on his long and painful journey. The direction taken by the lad was the road to Florence, the capital of Tuscany, in Italy; for in that place, about a year before, a playmate and faithful friend of his had obtained a situation as scullion in the great palace of Cardinal Sachiti.
Peter, the herd’s boy, and his friend Thomas, the scullion, were both natives of Cortona, and albeit the latter had now greatly the advantage, his friend aimed at higher things. Having heard one day of the fame of the Academy of Painters in Florence, Peter from that moment entertained such an unconquerable desire of becoming a painter that he could never banish the thought from his mind.
After many hardships, Peter succeeded in reaching Florence. Long did he wander up and down the streets of the great city, until at length he stood before the palace of the benevolent Cardinal. A strong, tempting odor greeted tl^e

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
425
hungry boy as he passed the kitchen; but, hungry as he was, he deemed it more prudent not to enter until the noonday repast was ended, when he would probably have a better opportunity of seeing his friend, the scullion. Long did he wait—so long that he had well nigh lost all patience,—but at last Thomas appeared.
“For Heaven’s sake! Are you Peter, or are you not?” exclaimed the scullion, as he saw one so much resembling the friend whom he supposed miles away, in Cortona.
“ In truth I am Peter,” replied the open-hearted youth. “ You must indeed fare well here, Thomas, your countenance is so cheerful and ruddy. You surely are well fed! ”
“ That is true,” rejoined Thomas; “the Cardinal is so kind-hearted that he would not allow any of his servants to want for anything. But what is the object of your coming to Florence ? ”	,
“I wish to become a painter,” responded the shepherdboy.
“You—a painter!... a painter!” asked Thomas, thunderstruck at the preposterous idea of his friend; “ far better were it for you to look about for a situation like mine; at any rate, as a scullion you would never run the risk of starving,” he added, in a tone of expostulation.
“Do you always get enough to eat?” inquired Peter.
“ To be sure I do! and even more than I can eat,” said Thomas. '
“ That being the case, I think I can find means to satisfy my hunger; now, if you divide your dinner with me, I think both of us will have enough,” said Peter.
“An excellent idea! The Madonna must surely have inspired you with this thought,” said Thomas, exultingly; “ with all my heart and in all brotherly love will I give you enough to satisfy the cravings of hunger.”
“ Hearty thanks to you, Thomas! ” cried Peter, joyfully. “ Truly the Madonna and St. Peter, my patron and guardian, have looked down upon me compassionately. And as I have tasted neither food nor drink to-day, we will be able to begin our plan this very evening.”
“ Be it so! come right away with me,” said the scullion, cordially and benevolently.
Without any more ado, he led his friend to the top of the palace, where they entered one of the mansard rooms, in which Thomas had his quarters; here was also a fine, large bed. Said he: “ Peter, look here! the half of this bed shall be yours. Seat yourself now, and rest awhile; I shall soon return with food for you. Adieu! ”
Thomas before long returned with the remnants of a costly banquet. Peter raised his eyes towards heaven, thanking God, the benefactor and helper of the poor. He forgot all his former toils and hardships as he “ pitched into ” the bounteous meal before him, Thomas standing by, i and watching the gratification of his friend with undis-! sembled joy. “ I am lord and master of all this,” he said, > encouragingly; “ of what is left I am at full liberty to dis- • pose as I think fit. These remnants are distributed . among the poor. As you are a member of the fraternity, why should you not also have a share of them ? ”	■
“ If I only had work! ” said Peter, emptying the last bowl. “I should like to copy a painting of some saint! ”;
“But,”interrupted Thomas, suddenly, “do you possess the money wherewith to purchase paper, paint, and other necessaries ? ”
“Money!—Not one cent! As I commenced my tour towards this place, I regarded you, in the capacity of scullion to so large a palace as this, as possessing coin in abundance, and that you surely would not let a friend and
countryman of yours go without some,” responded Peter.
Thomas smiled. “As regards food, I can supply you abundantly: but as for money,! am as poor as you are now; my apprenticeship is not yet near its end; there are for me yet in store three long years, aud after that I will receive wages.”	.
This was not just as Peter had wished it; still it was his firm resolution to become a painter, and the words of his friend moved him not in the least from the purpose on which he had fixed his mind so long.
“ The Madonna will surely help me, as she never forsakes one who has a good work for his object. Under her protection I have placed my hopes,” said he. In fact, the very next morning he found the first means of commencing the great object he had in view. The walls of the room given him by Thomas were white as snow; he managed to collect a great many pieces of charcoal. Thomas helped him also. Work was now begun. The walls were ornamented with what Thomas styled “scribbling,” but, as sole critic, he always lavished praise on Peter and encouraged him.
Thomas being one day presented with some money, he immediately gave it to Peter, and thus the first paper, paint and brush were obtained. Peter nearly .became ecstatic over it. When morning dawned, Peter rose, said his prayers devoutly, went from place to place, aud from church to church, wherever any paintings were to be seen, and after spending the whole day in this manner,-and nearly starved at night, he turned his steps homeward, partook of his rations, said his prayers devoutly, and retired. This routine continued for a period of about two years, during which Peter found excellent opportunities of progressing in his art. During the two years, he had filled all the walls of his room with paintings, each one surpassing the other, till at length his host never cared to eat even the most delicate victuals with him, but was busied in admiring his guest’s paintings. As he had filled the walls only with charcoal sketches, Peter easily obliterated his first attempts, and thus had again the blank walls for further progress. He now undertook real, genuine paintings.
But aflairs soon took a new and unexpected turn. The Cardinal proposed a change in the construction of his palace. For this purpose he and the architect went through the building, even to the garret. They examined one room after the other, until the Cardinal came to his scullion’s room. On entering, he and the architect were amazed at the sight of the numerous and gorgeous paintings with which the ceiling and walls were decorated. The Cardinal knew not how it was, as he had never visited this part of his residence before. He called for the scullion, whom he now judged to be a superior person on account of the progress and diligence displayed in the mural paintings.
Thomas feared that he was to give an account of these “scribblings,” as he still called his friend’s pictures, and the summons frightened him not a little. Tremblingly he entered the Cardinal’s apartment, but almost lost all presence of mind when his master said: “Thomas, I can no longer keep you in my service as a scullion.”
The poor boy, not understanding what the words implied, and thinking himself and his friend deprived of all, cast himself at the Cardinal’s feet, saying: “Alas! your Eminence, what will become of poor Peter if I be discharged?” The Cardinal was amazed as much, if not more, at the words of Thomas, as the latter was terrified by those of the Cardinal. And then Sachiti discovered that it was not his scullion, but the scullion’s friend,
426	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
who had been living in his palace for the past few years, who had performed these great works. The Cardinal laughed heartily, and forgave his large-hearted servant; he ordered him to send the maestro to his cabinet as soon as he should come again to the palace. But when evening came, Peter, although during the whole term of his residence there he was never known to have missed a single night, did not appear.
One day after another passed; a week; two weeks passed away, before Peter appeared again. The Cardinal had sent trusty messengers all over Florence, whose duty it was to search in every place and corner of the city for Peter, but he was nowhere to be found. Where could he have been tarrying all this while ? The Cardinal at last received information of Peter as being with monks in a monas'ery, several hours’ distance from Florence, who had given him permission to copy one of the paintings of the world-renowned Raphael in their chapel. The Cardinal had him forthwith brought to his residence, where he received him kindly, and then presently placed him under an excellent teacher in Rome.
Peter, in thanksgiving to the Blessed Virgin, who had ever been his guide in all his prosperity, trials and hardships, now, having risen to the rank of maestro, set about the work of decorating the “ Casa di Loreto ” by his widely renowned Birth of Christ.
Fifty years later, there lived two aged men together in one of the grandest palatial residences in Florence. The one enjoyed the reputation of being “the greatest of painters”; the other, “the truest of friends." The two grey-heads were Petro da Cortona, or as he styled it, Ber-ettini, and Thomas, the scullion. Pietro was born in 1596; he was a painter and an architect; he studied under Andrea Commodi and Baccio Ciappi, in Rome. Pope Alexander VII raised him to the order of “Knight of the Golden Spur,” recognition of the decoration of the Colonnade in the Church Bella Pace. In 1669 he died and was buried in the Church of St. Luke, in Rome. This church’s altar was decorated by him in honor of St. Martina. The true merits of this altar consist in the beautiful coloring of the alternating colors present, which neither before nor afterward conld be surpassed.	P. F. S.
Scientific Notes.
—A phenomenon causing much anxiety among the inhabitants of the shores of the Amazon is the continued decrease of that generally colossal river. . It appears that navigation above Manaos has become an impossibility. The cause of the continued decrease of the quantity of water is entirely unknown at present, and it is most desirable that men of science should thoroughly investigate the matter.
—Mr. Scott, of the Meteorological Office, lectured recently at the London Institution on “ Storms.” Our knowledge of the rate of the movement of storms was still but small. Some have been known to travel at the rate of sixty miles an hour; and this, too, was known—that the rate of movement had no necessary connection with violence. For example, the violent West India hurricanes move at from ten, fifteen, or twenty miles an hour at the greatest, as regards the distance storms travelled, the longest recorded was in August, 1873; it was traced for nearly a fortnight.
—The Boston Journal of Chemistry in an editorial says of Mr. Lockyer’s new theory: “ The most that can be conceded is, that the conclusions he has reached, and which are said to be ‘ the result of a hundred thousand spectro
scopic observations, which have taken six months to summarize,’ favor the supposition that the so-called elements are compound; that is, no other theory yet propounded accounts so well for the facts in the case as this does. But it is a theorjr, after all, and nothing but a theory; and it must be subjected to the same ordeal that all theories have to endure. It is perfectly satisfactory to its author, as new theories always are, but it must now run the gauntlet of scientific men with whom it is not a pet child, and who will show it no mercy if it cannot stand the tests they apply to it."
—A reporting machine at the Paris Exposition, known as “ La machine Stenographique Michela,” the latter being the name of its inventor, attracted much attention. The claims made respecting it are, that after a fortnight’s practice, any person can take down in shorthand characters a speech however rapidly delivered. It is a small instrument, piano-like in form, with twenty-two keys, white and black, and the stenographic characters are small and impressed on slips of paper. Signor Michela claims to have classified all the sounds which the human organs of speech are capable of producing, and to have so constructed his machine that it shall report with unerring fidelity whatever is said in German, French, Italian, Spanish and English. The machine is highly ingenious, and seems to have stood several practical tests satisfactorily.
—In his lecture on Claude Bernard, M. Paul Bert narrated a singular stratagem which was invented by Bernard during the last Franco-German war, and might be utilized without difficulty, under similar circumstances. It was proposed to revictual Paris, which was strictly blockaded by German forces. A large number of cattle had been collected, waiting for an opportunity to cross the German lines. But a difficulty was to silence these animals, as their cries would attract the attention of the enemy. Claud Bernard proposed to practice upon them the section of the nerve which enables them to emit their usual cries. The operation is so easy that it could be executed in a few seconds by an ordinary butcher. None of the animals appeared to suffer in any way by the mutilation which had made them mute. But the military movement proved a failure, and for other causes the revictualing could not take place.
—Herr Crudner points out that when rivers by erosive action carry along sand and detritus, they deposit them at their mouths; but the deposits could not of themselves, under the most favorable conditions, reach above the §ur? face of the river and form deltas. Only those deposits are known as deltas which rise above the water-suface and add to the dry land by their growth. Now, as they are formed under water, but afterwards project above it, they must owe their exposure to a change of level, an upheaval. Hence the fundamental cause of delta formations is gradual rise of the flat ground at the river’s mouth. Of the 66 known deltas, 16 belong to coasts regarding which no observations of the kind referred to are forthcoming, and of the remaining 60 there are, in point of fact, 47 on coasts that are known to be in a condition of secular elevation. The deltas of two rives (the Rhine and the Nile) belong to coasts which, in comparative recent times, were in course of elevation; but now a sinking is manifest, in consequence of which the deltas are slowly disappearing.
—On January 30th, Mr. Bennet, auctioneer, commenced the sale at his auction-rooms, Dublin, of the library (10,000 volumes) of Mr. Adolphus Cooke (whose will was disputed in the famops case of Longford and Purdon). One of the books for sale was the famous “ Mexican Antiquities,” by Lord Kingsborough. Lord Kingsborough was the eldest son of the Earl of Kingston, and was born in 1795. In the early part of the present century he travelled in Mexico, and conceived the idea of devoting his life to the publication of a work on the antiquities of that country. The result was nine magnificent volumes, published at prices of £225 10s., and replete with illustrations unique in their splendor, their costliness, and their truth to nature. Prescott, the great historian of Mexico, wrote of this work that it was a “ munificent undertaking, which no Government probably would, and few individuals could have executed, which entitled its author to the lasting gratitude of every friend of science.” Lord Kingsborough spent on his work a sum variously stated at from £32,000 to £60,000, and in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	427
the end his life. When his resources were exhausted he was arrested in Dublin at the suit of the paper-maker and confined in the Marshalsea, where he contracted a malig-nent fever, and died in a few weeks. Had the unhappy victim to science lived a few months longer'he would have inherited the title of Earl of Kingston, and an income of £40,000, a year.
Art, Music and Literature.	.
—Miss Hadie Heller, with the co-operation of Mrs. Stephen Fiske, is preparing a life of the late Robert Heller for publication by Carleton.
—The French Government have granted 20 000 francs towards the expenses of producing M. Saint-Saens’ opera, “Etienne Marcel,” at the Lyons Opera-House.
—We learn with regret that Mr. Maurice Egaen, one of the most delightful writers of sonnets in this country, has severed his connection with McGee's Illustrated Weeldy.
—Mr. Alphonse Daudet is at work on a new novel, which will be called “Les Rois en Exil.” The late King of Hanover and other dethroned monarchs will figure in it.
—Wyatt Eaton has been obliged to resign his place as teacher of drawing at the Cooper Union Art School. His place has been taken by S. A. Douglas Voik, of Chicago, a son of the well-known sculptor.
—The Leipsic correspondent of the Philadelphia Bulletin says: “A bit of news, that will also cause some surprise among your readers, is going the rounds in this city, to the effect that Richard Wagner has become hopelessly insane.”
—Richard Wagner has shown sympathy with the movement which aims to restore the pure style of church music in the Catholic Church service by editing a “ Stabat Mater” of Palestrina for two choruses and providing it with expression marks. It has been published by C. F. Kahnt in Leipsic.	*
—Among the contributions to the New York WaterColor Society’s collection was one that appeared in the catalogue as “Color Glow—a Rectilinear Spectrum,” by G. Cumming. It has been removed from the walls at the instance of George L. Frankenstein, on the ground that it was a plagiarism of, or rather infringement upon, his brother’s copyrighted invention of “ Magic Reciprocals.”
—The College of Music of Cincinnati, Ohio, has formed a new department to be placed under the direction of Geo. E. Whiting, the distinguished organist. This department is for instruction in church music and organ practice. The college will also hold a summer term for the benefit of teachers who can take advantage of their vacation to avail themselves of the superior instruction afforded by the institution in every branch of musical education.
—The Baltimore Loan Exhibition at the Peabody Institute will open on the 4th of March. Miss Durfee has sent on 100 pictures by New York artists, which, considering the near approach of the exhibitions of the Society of American Artists and the National Academy, make an excellent representation. Seventy-five per cent, of the receipts of the Exhibition are to be devoted to purchasing pictures, those of American artists being preferred.
—The thirty pictures which William H. Vanderbilt purchased and ordered on his late trip abroad, and which he has been lately exhibiting to his guests, are said to cost him on an average $8,000 each. He paid this amount for Erskine Nicol’s “ Rent Day,” which he bought recently from F. O. Day, of St. Louis. For Meissonier’s “ The Or-dinande,” which he bought in Paris, and which came from the Crabbe collection of Brussels, he gave $25 000. His large Detaille’s “ The Ambulance Corps” cost him $8,000; his five figure Palmaroli of two girls fishing, $4 000; and a “Florent Willems,” from the Universal Exhibition, double that amount.
—A remarkable exhibition illustrative of the history of printing and wood engraving is to open next month at Ulm. The progamme put forth by the committee includes not only Incunnabula (specimens from all the known early presses); examples of the German, French, English, and Italian schools in the sixteenth century; examples of the
same in the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth; printers’ and publishers’ marks; specimens of wood engraving from the year 1500 down to the present time; and early colored wood engravings; but also enumerates all the most recent inventions and applications of chemical and mechanical science.
—Bibliophiles in this country have probably illustrated no book more frequently than Irving’s “ Life of Washington.” A remarkable example of the extent to which they have carried their collections of portraits and autographs was afforded in the copy of this work which belonged to the Menzies Library. Mr. J. W. Bouton has now on exhibition at his bookstore a new work of this character, which, in some respects, is the most remarkable edition of Irving’s “Washington” that has ever been put together; in certain particulars it surpasses the Menzies. Orisinaily it was a large paper copy of the Putnam print of 1855 ’59 comprising five quarto volumes, of which only 110 copies were printed. It was a presentation copy, and bears the autograph of Irving. The collector, at an expense of several thousand dollars, has enriched it, after many vears of searching, with nearly 1,400 extra illustrations, 120 autograph letters, and 130 portraits of Washington, many of the prints being of contemporary execution and early impressions on Indian paper. The work thus extended comprises eleven volumes, which include one volume made up exclusively of portraits. Special title-pages have been printed for each volume, and each page contains an emblematical vignette on India paper. The autograph letters pertain for the most part to the period, and are from the most important civil and military personages of the age of Washington. Three of the letters are Washington’s own, three are John Hancock’s, and three each are Gen. Wayne’s and Lafayette’s, while their are two each from Benedict Arnold. Israel Putnam, Gen. Gates, and Gen. Gage. Single letters are given from William Penn, Gen. Braddock, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine, Thomas Jefferson, Gens. Clinton, Burgoyne, Steuben, and Harry Lee, John Paul Jones, Daniel Boone, Patrick Henry, and many other eminent men. The binding of the work is a remarkable feature of it. R. W. Smith, of this city, has been engaged upon it for three mouths past. It is in full gros-graiued, dark green Levant morocco, elaborately tooled on the back, sides, and inside, and is lined with panels of crimson morocco bearing the owner’s monogram in the centre. Eich volume has a chamois-lined case. The work will remain on exhibition at Mr. B mton’s until to-morrow, when it will go to its owner in San Francisco. An interesting incident was its transfer from the binder’s bands to Mr. Bouton’s, ready for shipping, at a late hour on Friday, the eve of Washington’s Birthday.—Hew York Tribune.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received the Young Scientist for March. It is quite an interesting magazine for the young. Price, 50 cts. per year. Address, Industrial Publication Company, 176 Broadway, N. Y.
—The first number of The Meteorologist, a monthly journal devoted to the science of meteorology, has been received. It is readable and instructive, and will occupy a place in public favor shared by none other. Price, 50 cts. per year. Address, J. M. L. Stump, Greensburgh, Pa.
—The following are the contents of the March number of The Harp, the excellent magazine published by Gallies & Callahan, Montreal: I, Our National Anniversary; II, St. Patrick's Hymn before Tarah (Poetry); III, Ecclesiastical Exemption; IV, Irish Catholic Moralry; V, Proverbs of St. Patrick; VI, The Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin; VII, An Old Slander and a Brilliant Answer; VIII, Ireland’s Patron Saint; IX, Peter Crisp’s Spectacles; X, The Shadow of a Cloud (Poetry); XI, A Gleam of Sunlight (Poetry); XII.Toe Wild Geese; or, the Rapparees of Barnesmore; XIII, St. Patrick’s Three Wishes; XIV, Chit Chat; XV. Why We Wear the Green; XVI, NedRusheen; or. Who Fired the First Shot? XVII, Children’s Corner; XVIII, Facetiae; XIX, Music—“The Knights of St. Patrick”; XX, Notable Anniversaries in March.
428
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Marell 8, 1870.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Bad Literature.
We fear that there is among some people in this country a notion that since this land is a free land a person may read whatever is published. They make the word liberty take in a great deal; hence literature of a very offensive description is freely published and just as freely read.
That this idea of what freedom really is, is very erroneous, is easy of demonstration to all whose reasoning powers have not been vitiated by education or by passion. It is not true that under any government, monarchical or republican, the subjects or citizens are allowed to do as they please; for the admission of this principle would be the ruin of all governments. Subjects and citizens may do only those things allowed by law. They must act according to the law, and it is the law which secures them their liberty, or the enjoyment of their rights. Were there no such thing as evil in the world, then the phrase “ Do and think, read and write as you please” would be intelligible; but there is evil in the world, and social order requires that laws be instituted to regulate our actions, mental and physical.
To the uncultivated and unthinking, the enactment of laws regulating their literary diet may seem tyrannical. They may aver that what they read concerns no one but themselves; that the harm or good done is to themselves, and to no one else. Even if this were true, it would not be a justification of bad literature, or give them the right to injure themselves. No one ought to commit suicide, no matter how much it may suit his taste; and in order to prevent him from perpetrating such a deed, the law takes such steps as may suit the case. A man endeavoring to take his own life forgets, if he ever knew, that he is a member of society, not living for himself alone, but bound by social laws, and obliged, by taking proper care of himself, to contribute to the general welfare of society.	.
People do not complain when inspection laws are passed
to secure their food against adulteration or poison. When they behold the legal inspector seize a can of water and chalk labelled milk, and empty its vile contents into the street, they pronounce the action just. How careful they are about their food! How soon they will cease patronizing a firm suspected of deceit in this matter!
Should there be no solicitude for the food that nourishes the mind and heart ? It is a great mistake to suppose that the mind of man needs no solid nourishment, or that it is immaterial upon what it is fed. The mental faculties are formed and developed by what is read. This is so evident to all that it would be folly to attempt its demonstration. A man becomes a mathematician, a physician, a lawyer, a botanist, or an orator, by studious application to works treating of these sciences. Is a man going to become a Christian, or a good citizen, by constantly perusing works subversive of all morality ? Most assuredly not. We should, then, be as careful of our mental food as of our corporeal, and even mo’re so, since the soul is superior to the body.
Hence, then, we can see why, even in this free land, the civil law prohibits the sale of books and periodicals that are manifestly obscene, or injurious to public morality. It would be a good thing were the law made even wider in its application; but this would be a difficult task,since the State cannot constitute itself judge of all literature or morality, for that would be assuming unwarrantable powers; but it does and must take cognizance of literary productions which true Christianity condemns as evidently tending to social dissolution. None but the vicious will object to this.
But if the law cannot constitute itself judge of all literature and morality, the heads of families can and ought to do so. They can tell, or ought to be able to tell, what is good to put into the hands of their children. If the so-called boys’ papers, filled with trashy stories,—nay, even stories injurious to morality,—can evade the law, or do not come within the scope of the law, this is no reason why parents should allow their children to read them. If they are not openly opposed to morality and public honesty, nevertheless their reading, in the end, leads to vice. If they cannot be suppressed by law they can be suppressed in the family, and a good, healthy literature substituted in their stead. This is the work of parents, a work of great responsibility, and one they should attend to faithfully and strictly.
Is Poverty an Evil?
The leaders of the socialistic movement in America, as well as in Europe, have started out with the avowed purpose of doing away with all the evils which afflict humanity. Were they able to do this they might be worthy of a hearing,—nay, could they do away with even a few of them they might and ought to be listened to were it not that for the destruction of evil there is an institution of divine origin—the Catholic Church. Whatever there is of evil here, the Church will combat and endeavor to overcome. But the socialists and so-called labor reformers seem not to understand what is really an evil. According to them, if labor itself be not an evil, at least the condition in which most laboring men live, that of poverty, is an evil, and they consider it a duty to put all men on an equal footing, and thus do away with poverty.
Is poverty, in itself, an evil ? We think not. If it be an evil, why is it that so many holy men like the seraphic
i
i i
1
i
*
THE ifOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
429
Saint Francis, the Apostle of Borne, the great founder of the J esuits, and so many others, have given up their inheritances, their ambition, their rank, and have followed the precepts of evangelical poverty preached to the crowds who followed the foster-Son of the carpenter of Nazareth ? Why have even kings given up their thrones and abandoned wealth to lead a life during which they have nothing they could call their own ? Was it that they acted a foolish part? It cannot be, since they found more true enjoyment in the life they voluntarily chose than they did whilst living amid riches. It cannot be, then, that poverty was to them an evil, since it proved a source of happiness. These men were .contented, and with contentment came happiness. Indeed, it is not unfrequently the case that we find more real happiness in the hovel than we do in the palatial residences of the rich.
There is therefore no evil in poverty. The evil is in man himself. If he looks to his destiny, he sees that he can accomplish it without wealth as well as with it. The great trouble is that men too frequently forget what their destiny is. They seem to think that all that they were created for was to accumulate riches, or to enjoy pleasure, or to make a great name. They seem to forget that man’s destiny does not lie in these,—that he was made for a greater and a supernatural end. They forget that it is man’s province to seek something beyond this life. Were they to remember this, then would all their reasonings crumble away.
The leaders in the socialistic movement seem to be ignorant of one great fact. Mankind is so constituted that it is impossible for all to be satisfied. When we speak of rich men and poor men, we make use of very indefinite terms. No man in New York is considered rich, we believe, unless he is possessed of at least three or four hundred thousand dollars. It would, then, if we take this standard, be very hard for all men to become rich. Of course the leaders in the movement would scout the idea that they expect all to possess such an amount. What then do they want? They wish that labor should be equally shared by all, and that no one should be very poor; that all should by their own labor earn the necessaries and comforts of life. But this can never be done. There would be no doing away with poverty—at least with what is called the evil of poverty—with some, for the evil does not arise from the consideration that I have enough to supply me, or what will give me the necessaries and comforts of life, but from the consideration that my neighbor has more than I have, and yet such will always be the case. It is in this very fact that all the supposed evil lies.
Would it not be better for the laboring man to content himself, knowing that he has sufficient wherewith to live, and strive to work out in a manful way the end which his Creator has destined for him ? Though his walk in life may not be strewed with roses, he may enjoy more real pleasure than he who possesses millions.
—« I say, Jack, which would you rather that a lion tore you to pieces or a tiger ? ” “ Why, you goose, of course, I’d rather a lion tore a tiger to pieces.”
—There was something of a “ set back ” administered to the young man on an excursion boat, who, in making his way through the crowd, ventured to remark that “ hoops take up a great deal of room.” “ Not so much as whiskey,” replied a pert young miss in the assemblage.
Personal.
—Very Rev. President Corby was in Chicago last Monday.
—C. M. Proctor, of ’75, was visiting Notre Dame last Wednesday.
—John P. Matthews (Commercial), of ’77, is in business at Kenosha, Wis.
—Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, Ind., was at the College last week.
—Quite a number of old students of Notre Dame have settled in Colorado.
—H. Murphy (Commercial), of ’78, is doing well in Muskegon, Michigan. .
—John Staley (Commercial), of’72, is in the furniture business in St. Louis, Mo.
—Rev. Julius Frfire has been quite sick for some time. He is now in the College Infirmary. .
—Rev. Fathers Cooney, O’Mahoney and Robinson are giving a mission at^Albany, New York.
—John Fitzgerald (Commercial), we have been told, is in the newspaper business somewhere in Illinois;
—We are told that Bro. Bonaventure is to take the place of the late Bro. Valerian as gardener at the College.
—John Retz (Commercial), of ’75, visited Notre Dame last week. He is engaged in farming near Serena, Hl.
—Rev. C. Kelly, the Prefect of Discipline, has been suffering from a severe cold. He has now happily recovered.
—Mr. Moses Livingston and daughter, of South Bend, and Mr. Goldsmith and daughter, of Aurora, were among our visitors last week.
—Win. H. Ohlman (Commercial), of’77, took one of the principal parts in a literary entertainment given in honor of Washington’s Birthday at the St. Louis University.
—Thos. A. Dailey, of ’74, intends to .locate in Colorado. In company with Robert Staley, of’74, and Mr. Frank Murphy he called on us last week. Mr. Staley will also go to Colorado.	’
—The travelling agent of the Aw Maria writing from Boston, Mass., speaks in high terms of his reception by out' old friends Rev. R. L. Walsh, of the Church of the Holy Redeemer, East Boston, and Mr. James Collins and family, of South Boston.
—Fred, the commissioner of the St. Joe Farm, after a service of eight years, has retired from the business. He has been faithful to the trust, and now retires with the good will of all with whom he had dealings. The students have become familiarized with him, for regularly every day he has driven his wagon loaded with milk and meat to the College. We understand that he intends going into business in Kansas.
Iiocal Items.
—This is bad weather for sore throats.
—The Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
1——The fasting-table started at the beginning of Lent
—March came in like a lamb. Will it go out like a lion ?
—There are some good hand-ball players amongst the Minims.
—Every student should during Lent fast at least from idleness.
—After the 17th, the Thespians will hold regular weekly meetings.
—The readers in the refectories this year are all excellent ones.
—The competitions the coming week will be in the Collegiate Course.
//'—Some people have been cutting holes in the ice on the lakes, and fishing.
—The class-room opposite the Commercial room is being put in fine repair.
430
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

—We have had any amount of snow this winter,—almost too much, the boys say.
—The members of the Boat Club are patiently waiting for the ice on the lakes to melt away.
—The Rev. Director of Studies will visit classes the coming week. Be prepared to meet him.
—The Band and Orchestra, under their energetic and accomplished leader, have rehearsals regularly.
—Last Wednesday was the first day of rec. in a long time on which there was not a snow or a rain-storm. .
/ —In the Senior refectory the readers are engaged on the historical romance entitled “ Sir Thomas More.”
—The Class of Calisthenics, in the Junior Department, Jhas begun. Two-thirds of the students belong to it.
—Last Tuesday was “Robert Emmett’s ” birthday, which was duly celebrated in many parts of the United States.
—A great thaw began on Tuesday and continued on Wednesday. Whether all the snow will go or not, we cannot tell.	.
—The number of tramps coming to the College is very large—almost too large. They are becoming a great nuisance.
, —A course of instructions has been begun on “ The Com-•’ mandments of God.” We believe they are to be preached by the same person.
—If you were only to hear the members of the Elocution Class recite, you would say that very few of them seem to, have sore throats.
—Would it not be good if some champion games of handball were played during these cold days, since it seems to be the favorite game?
—The Vespers to-morrow are those of the Second Sunday in Lent, page 82 of the Vesperal. In the morning, the Missa Parvulorum will be sung.
. —The Philodemics held a meeting on the 4th, and, after ''ballotting for some time, found that they were unable to elect a Vice-President, and adjourned.
—A. B. O’N., of Memramcook, New Brunswick, will please accept thanks for his article, with the understanding that another will be just as thankfully received.
—“ This is the winter- of my discontent,” said our friend John the other day, as he came down quite unexpectedly on a pretty solid piece of ice whilst turning a corner.
l
—Rev. Father Zahm Is the happy possessor of a very^ments on some Wednesday afternoon, and they will find
fine real Irish shamrock, which he brought with him from the “Old Sod” on his return from his late European tour.
—The games of alley-ball played by members of the Junior Department are all according to the most approved rules. There are a number of good players in the department.	-
—There are two fine canaries in Room No. 4, and when there is any singing done at the meetings of Societies they invariably join in,—sometimes to the distraction of the human singers.
—The 17lh regular meeting of the Sodality of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday evening, March 2d. The usual instruction was given, and servers for Sunday appointed.
—We would again ask our friends at Notre Dame to send to the printing-office all back numbers of the Ace Maria for this year. There is a great demand for these numbers, and a return of them would be a great favor. .
i —A spelling-bee took place recently in the First Junior J Reading Class. It was a very spirited effort, and those who participated in it gave unmistakable signs of improvement. Hereafter, these contests will take place regularly every month.
.	—The name of M. H. Bannon should have appeared on
the Roll of Honor for the week ending Saturday, March 1st, and that of W. A. Lentner for both that and tire preceding week.
—The Philodemics intend giving a grand literary Entertainment on the Moore Centennial this spring. This is but right. We hope that they will more than exceed the expectations of their friends. Let them display all their talent,—they have plenty of it.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Saturday, March 1st. Masters Hartratb, Jas. Courney, Tourtillotte and Garrity delivered declamations. Masters Rea, Hierb, Maltes and Schmuckle were elected members.
—The 26th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Saturday, March 1st. E. Murphy, F. Phillips, F. Grever, F. Pleins, F. Weisert, E. Fogarty and J. Osher delivered declamations. Essays were read by W. Jones and R. Williams.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception the ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. N. Stoffel. Papers were read by Masters J. A. Gibbons, J. Kurz and W. J. McCarthy. The Society possesses a very inefficient Corresponding Secretary.
—We wish that that the Corresponding Secretaries of the different societies would send in the reports of the meetings p4f Societies the morning after they are held. This will insure the publication of the reports, and save us a great deal of trouble. Let all be prompt and attend to their duties.
—The Juniors on Wednesday last having procured a “scale’’somewhere around, brought it into their play-hall, where they weighed themselves. It was found that the 'heaviest Junior weighed 202 pounds and the lightest 72.
Who says there are not some stout boys among the Juniors ?
—In the Junior department, A. S. Rock, of Lincoln, Illinois, received the best Bulletin for the month of Feb-ni£ry; R. J. Semmes, of Canton, Miss., 2d best; and G. A. Schnull, of Indianapolis, Ind., 3d best. In the Senior Department, the best Bulletin was that of Mr. M. J. McCue.
—The reports of the Columbian Society are not handed in to us regularly. This, we should suppose, would be a sufficient excuse for not publishing them. The member of the Society who wrote us a complaining letter would do well to interview the Corresponding Secretary on the question.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh gave an eloquent lecture on “Voltaire ” in Phelan Hall on the 6th. In the lecture he spoke pf Voltaire as a man, as a writer, and as a leader of public opinion. His eff >rt was a worthy one, and was listened to with rapt attention by a large audience of students and professors.
—Those who imagine that the boys do not enjoy themselves during these cold, disagreeable recreation days, should just step into the play-halls of the different depart-
that the boys are just as lively and as happy as if they were rolling around on the Campus.
—The 8th regular meeting of the St. Edward Literary Club was held Wednesday, March 5th. Questions were answered by C. Maley—“ What were the Military Orders ? ” and-E. Hughson—“Who was Eutychius?” Essays were read by James Fenner and P. Donohoe, and declamations were delivered by A. Spangler and W. Healy.
—We have been-told that some of the members of the Senior department complain that most of our items have reference to the Junior department. If the Seniors showed Ihe same enterprise in sending in items that the Juniors do, there would be no cause for complaint. Items from all the departments are thankfully received.
—The members of the Orchestra, under the leadership of Rev. E. Lilly, are: 1st Violin, B. Leopold, T. Simms, P. Schnurrer, J. Smith, W. B. McGorrisk; 2d Violin, F. W. Bloom, A. Rietz, K. Scanlan, J. Gibbons; Viola, J. A. Burger; Bass, E. Lilly; Flute and Piccolo, J. English, R; P. Mayer; Clarionett, M. P. Fallize; French Horns, B. Basil, M. Lauth; Cornet, L. Evers; Trombone, J. Fr^re.
—Prof. J. A. Lyons, the compiler, has favored us with a copy of the Wotre Dame Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879. The work is a model of literary and mechanical elegance, and, we think, even surpasses the famous edition of ’78. It contains, aside from the usual matter pertaining to an almanac, a large number of interesting and instructive articles. The Almanac can be obtained of J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame; price, 25 cents.—South Bend Herald.
—We are indebted to Prof. J. A. Lyons for copies of the Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1879. The work is even superior to the issue for 1878, which we had supposed was little less than the attainment of perfection. Besides a

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	431
world of useful information about the days, weeks, months, seasons and pretty much everything pertaining to the heavens and the earth; it contains a large number of selected and original articles of interest and worth. Its price is 25 cents; address Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.—St. Joseph Valley Register.
" Boll of Honor.
(The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaci tion to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arantz, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. F. Buchanan, Thos. Barrett, A. B. Congar, G. P. Cassidy, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, J. M. Carroll, C. B. Cones, D. Donohue, J. Downey, L. J. Evers, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, J. C. Herrman, T. J. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, T. Hale, R. E. Keenan, F. Keller, Wm. Kreig, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy, C. F. Mueller, R. P. Mayer, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien, 8. 8. Perley, L. N. Proctor, Geo. Palmer, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, 8. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, J. Simms, T. Summers, Geo. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, A. Scheiber, E. Schifferle, P. Shea, J. S. Smith, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, W. Wilson, J. J. Kotz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. Becker, J. C. Brinkman, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, T. F. Clarke, J. Cable, F. Campeau, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, R. L. French, M. L. Foote, O. J. Farrelly, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, L. H. Garceau, J. Haney, J. B. Inder-rieden, L. D. Kies, G. C. Knight, A. B. Mergentheim, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. L. Mug, R. E, McCarthy, H. C. McDonald, W. A. McDevitt, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, G. A. Orr, F. T. Pleins, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, A. K. Schoby, R. J. Semmes, R. T. Williams, F. Zeis, A. 8. Rock, A. F. Zahm, W. A. Lentner, M. J. Burns.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
. G. J. Rhodius, J. J. Gordon, J. M. Courtney, A. M. Coghlin, W. A. Coghlin, C. L. Garrick, J. A. Crowe, C. M. Crowe, H. W. Bachmann, A. Hierb, W. Rea, F. P. Brady, N. Nelson, A. Hart-rath, J. 8. McGrath, P. 8. Fitzgerald, G. Tourtillotte, H. A. Kitz, C. J. Welty, C. M. Long, F. K. Parsons, E. A. Howard, Thos. McGrath, E. 8. Chirhart, J. Chaves, J. H. Garrity, W. V. O’Malley, F. I. Garrity, F. B. Farrelly, L. J. Young, P. Campau, I. C. Williams, C. J. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. Kurz, E. Murphy, J. Seeger, A. Zahm, J. Scanlan, M. Wolf, R. French, E. Pieken brock, J. Boose, H. Niles, J. Kennedy, C. Rietz, F. Glade, J. Gibbons, E. S. Walter, G. Schnull, A. Caren, P. Perley, E. Sugg, J. Devitt, G. Knight, A. Manning, C. Van Mourick, W. McDevitt, J. Schoby, R. Semmes, L. Garceau, J. • McCarthy, W. Connolly, R. Keenan, R. O’Brien, M. T. Burns, R. Anderson, B. J. Claggett, W. McGee, J. J. McErlain, P. Shea, M. H. Bannon, J. Harrison, J. Downey, J. Kotz, F. Bell, E. Schifferle, Geo. Palmer, J. Spalding.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Geo. Tourtillotte, W. Coghlin, N. Nelson, H. Snee, C. Crowe, W. Rea, C. McGrath, A. Hartrath, A. Cognlin, J. McGrath, C. Garrick, P. Fitzgerald, J. M. Courtney, H. Bachmann, F. Mattes, A. Hierb, G. Rhodius, H. Kitz, C. Long, F. Parsons, J. S. Inder-rieden, T. McGrath, I. Williams, J. Garrity, A. Van Mourick, A. Campau, A. Rheinboldt, P. Campau, E. Howard, W. O’Malley, J. Chaves, F. Garrity, F. Farrelly, L. Young.
List of Excellence. ।
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.	_
Reading and Orthography—F. Glade, J. Kennedy, J. Devitt, J. Mug, R. Williams, R. Semmes, W. D. Cannon; Grammar— E. 3. Walter, J. Scanlan, H. Fenner, F. Scheid, C. Van Mourick,
C. F. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. Brinkman, J. Kennedy, M. L. Foote, G. Knight, L. Kies, M. Reilly, A. Scheiber; Arithmetic—A. B. Mergentheim, M. Foote, M. Herrick, H. Guynn, Geo. Knight, G. Castenado, F. Bell; Geography—M. Foote, C. Van Mourick, A. Manning, E. Sugg, J. Boose, J. Scanlan, H. Devitt, G. Knight, J. Devitt; Penmanship—S. Terry, J. Nelson, G. Schnull; Algebra—M. McEniry, J. Lumley, J. G. Brady, A. Rock; Latin—P. Larkin, J. Gibbons, K. Scanlan, M. McEniry, J. Kurz, F. Wall, A. Caren, P. Crowley, M. J. Burns; Greek-.

—Very Rev. Father General opened the holy season of Lent at St. Mary’s on Ash-Wednesday with the usual ceremonies.
—On Washington’s Birthday the pupils were dispensed from class, but owing to the recent death of Miss Hopkins no Entertain ment was given. Several relatives and friends visited the pupils.
—At the weekly Academic reunion, Miss Mary Brown read “First Glimpse of Heaven,” by Father F. W. Faber; Miss Ella Mulligan, in French, “L’Ecolier,” par M. De-bordes Valmore; Miss Adella Geiser, in German, “ Rudolph von Hapsburg,” von Jerrer; Miss Annie Cavenor, “The Angel’s Bidding,” by Adelaide Procter.
—On Sunday, the 23d of Feb., after Mass, the Devotion of the Forty Hours commenced. Rev. Father Shr-rtis preached on the meaning of the devotion, and invited all to join in this great act of reparation to God for all the crimes committed in the world during these days. He spoke also on the spirit of the holy season upon which the Church is entering.	_
_ —“Music as a Language” was the subject of the 5th Lecture before the St. Cecilia Society. Its power of awakening echoes of thought; its painting of scenes by association of tones expressed by the voice when describing the emotion felt at the view of nature’s grand pictures; the cause of its universality as a language; how composers used music’s power of speech where that of words fail, were subjects treated at length. Also the immense labor of the old masters who wrote, not books but music—grand types of character who only find their peers in Homer, Dante, Shaks-peare, Michael Angelo, or a Milton. One work of Beethoven was carefully analyzed—to show that such a mind could produce “The Pastoral Symphony,” so truthful, so full of simplicity, and yet containing so much,—a work in which none of the accessories of art appear, self-suporting throughout. The pupils always find the hour too short, and show they are learning to love music for music’s sake.
. —Among the visitors during the past weeks were Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland, Ohio; Mrs. Hodley, Niles; Mr. R. Parker, Three Rivers, Mich.; Mrs. Becker, Canton, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Goldsmith, Aurora, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Retz, Serena, Ill.; Miss Carver, Miss Frost, Chicago; Miss Ritter, Union Mill; Mrs. Van Namee; Elkhart; Mrs. and Miss Livingston, Mrs. and Miss Rnss, Mrs. Creed, South Bend; Mrs. Wray, Trenton, N. J.; Mr. and Mrs. Foote. South Bend; Mr. Price, Mr. J. M. Luce, Master Luce, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Ada Watson, Denver, Col.; Mrs. Fisk, South Bend; Mrs. Danaher; Mr. James E. Danaher, Ludington, Mich.; Mr. G. Cochrane; Prof. Edwards; Mr. J. Crane, York, Nebraska; Mrs. C. Gall,Indianapolis, Ind.; Miss Cavenor, Miss Harris, Chicago; Mrs. L. E. Bassett, Miss M. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; Mr. M. Leyden, Chicago; Mr. D. O’Connor, Chicago; Mr. Chirhart; Mrs. A. D. Tourtillotte, Toledo; Rev. Father Roche, Fort Wayne; Mr. M. O’Brien, Alpena, Mich.; Mrs. Cleary, Chicago; Mrs. Claffey.
A Card.
Evanston, Wyo., Feb. 26,1879.
To the Editor of The Notre Dame Scholastic: Dear Sir:—Please allow me the use of your paper to extend the thanks of my family to the Mother Superior,
432	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sisters and pupils of St. Mary’s Academy for their attentions and kindness to my sister Carrie during her illness, and their sympathies extended to us after her death. Also for the kindness and attention shown my mother and myself during our stay there.
Very respectfully,
Jno. B. Hopkins.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONOBABLT MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Hope Russell, Sarah Moran.
1st Sb. Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Sarah Hambleton, Anna Maloney, Zod Papin, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Woodin, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Sb. Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, lorantha Semmes, Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Annie Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Adella Gordon, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Angela Ewing, Alice Farrell, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Plattenburg, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Elizabeth Walsh.
3d Sb. Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Alicia Donelan, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Anna McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Annie Jones, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Louisa Neu, Martha Wagner, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Usselman, Josephine Mitchell.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Mary Feehan, Marie Dallas, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Della McKerlie, Ollie Williams, Julia Barnes, Anna Hermann, Linda Fox, Caroline Gall, Minna Loeber.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lilly Lancaster, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts, Laura French, Annie Orr, Johanna Baroux.
2d Div.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Ellen Kinzie, Ida Torrence, Sarah Purdy, Bridget Kelly.
Junior Pbep.—Misses Mary Lyons, Maud Casey, Marie McN. Garrity, Sophie Papin, Matilda Kildaire, Sabina Semmes, Annie Leydon.
1st Jr.—Misses Elise Lavoie, Julia Cleary, Mary Paquette, Elizabeth Consadine, Mary Chirhart, Elise Papin, Amelia Morris, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel.
3d Jb.—Miss Alice Esmer.
Latin—Miss lorantha Semmes.
EBENCH.
1st Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Annie McGrath.
2d Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Aurelia Mulhall, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses lorantha Semmes, Zod Papin, Grace Glasser, Ella Mulligan.	’
2d Div.—Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Birch, 100; Mary Casey, Lucie Chilton, Emma Shaw, Ida Fisk, Martha Wagner.
3d Class—Misses Annie Cavenor, 100; Annie Cortright, Laura French, Louisa Neu, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Julia Butts.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Ollie Williams, Annie Ryan, Della McKerlie, Sophie Papin, Mary Hake, Annie Orr, Ada Clarke.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Annie Hermann, Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselmann.
. 2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Caroline Gall, Adella Gordon, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Walsh.
3d, Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Louisa Kelly, Charlotte Van Namee, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Claffey.	-
4th Class—Misses Alice Donelan, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Mabel Hamilton, Adelaide Bisby, Anna Woodin, Martha Zimmerman, Mary Chirhart.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC. -
Gbaduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell; Emma Lange, Alice Farrell.
2d Div.— Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mui-hall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Emma Gerrish, Ann Leydon. Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrence, Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Alice Earner, Angela Watson.	.
Hasp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Obgan—Miss A Hermann.
Brown, Mary Campbell, Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Elizabeth and Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Mary Sullivan, Zoe Papin, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Annie Jones, Della McKerlie, Mary Mulligan, lorantha Semmes, Ina Capelie, Mary Plattenburg, Mary Hake, Laura French, Ella Cavanagh, M. Wagner.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONOBABLT MENTIONED IN THE
2d Class—Misses Mary Campbell, Teresa Killelea, Ellena Thomas, Marie Dallas.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Sullivan, Laura French, Anna Cortright, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Campbell, Angela Ewing, Sophie Papin, Julia Butts, Sarah Purdy, lorantha Semmes, Minna Loeber, Ellen Mulligan, Maud Casey.
CRATON.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton, Marie Plattenburg.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss Emma Lange.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel, Caroline Gall, Lucie Chilton, Ina Capelle, Catharine Danaher, Bridget Kelly, Anna Herrman, Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Bisby, Mary Hake, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Mary Fitzgerald, Josephine Mitchell, Nellie Kinzie, Martha Wagner.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Laura French, Catharine Claffey, Catharine Campbell, Maud Casey, Sophie Papin, Ella Mulligan, Mary McFadden, Agnes McKinnis, Jane McGrath, Ellen Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, Mary Lyons, Annie Orr, Julia Wells, Margaret Cleghorn, Marie McN. Garrity, Elise Dallas, Ada Clarke, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Jessie Pam-pel, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Alice Esmer, Isabella Scott, Isabella Hackett, Sabina Semmes, Rose Kildaire, Lilly Lancaster, Minnie Fisk, Elise Lavoie, Mary Feehan.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy, Alice Donelan, Della McKerlie, Adelaide Bisby, Elizabeth Schwass, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Div.—Misses Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Marie Plattenburg, Minna Loeber, Ollie Williams, Mary Casey, Agnes Joyce, Annie Cavenor, Grace Glasser.
PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Ina Capelle, Mary Brown, Mary Birch, Mary Plattenburg, Annie Jones, Emma Lange, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen Keenan, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea, Catharine Lloyd, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Schwass, Alice Farrell, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Alicia Donelan.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
, 2d Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Catharine Ward, Mary Casey, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Julia Barnes, Catharine Wells, Mary English, Ollie Williams, Mary Campbell, Della McKerlie, Teresa Zahm, Caroline Gall, Annie Hermann, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Teresa Killelea, Ellen Galen, Mary Brown, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Annie Cavenor, loran-tha Semmes, Catharine Ward, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Agnes Joyce, Josephine Mitchell, Mary Fitzgerald, Annie Hermann, Teresa Zahm, Bridget Kelly, Mabel Hamilton, par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Sehwass, Emma Shaw, Grace Glasser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Harriet Buck, Mary Ussel-man, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Jones, Ellena Thomas, Martha Wagner, Louisa Neu, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Mary English, Adelaide Bisby, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Mary Hake, Ida Torrence, Ellen Kinzie, Mary Campbell, Sarah Purdy, Ellen Cavanagh, Pauline Hills.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Lilly Lancaster, Maud Casey, Elise Lavoie, Matilda Kildaire, Annie Leyden, Angela Watson, Julia Cleary, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett, Elise Papin, Elizabeth Consadine, Isabella Scott, Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Ellen Mulligan, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Mary Feehan, Agnes McKinnis, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Ellen Hackett, Sophie Papin, Ada Clarke, Jane McGrath.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOUBN-AL
(20 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLT FATHER, PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEOXHI, And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Some of the best Catholic writers at home and abroad contributors to the pages of the Ave Maria, among whom may be mentioned Rev. Fathers Lambing and Adams, and others of the Rev. and Rt. Rev. Clergy ; Henri Lasserre, Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Aubrev de Vere, the Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” Kathleen O’Meara (“Grace Ramsay”), John O’Kane Murray, Maurice F. Egan, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Eliza Allen Starr, the Misses Howe', “ Marie,’ ’the Author of “ Ty-borne,” and others.
TEHMS:
One Year (postage free).........................$ 2 50
Two Years........................................ 4	50
Six Months....................................... 1	30
Five Years.......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and upward, at the rate of §2 each, with 1 free
• Copy to the one getting up the Club), §20.
Yearly Postage to Europe, 4s. 6d., or $1.04 per copy. Single Subscription and postage to Europe. 12 shillings per annum.
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MABIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842.
Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to '
Very Eev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
13?" NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
F^~ The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
F^~ In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.	'
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssi cal Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music,!. 0; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR, St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. Q., Indiana,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhut. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weeklv Newspapers.
rpHE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, pub ished weekly at Colnmbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A.YE MARIA, a Catholic Jouma1 devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
S 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Bnfihlo, 4 am.
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
O 1 £ pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 a m; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6am.	'
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a tn.
4 50 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Haff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gewl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAIN E. Gen’l Supt.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mlch-X igan. Tree Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found st the Matteson.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Book Binders.
EDWARD FLA^NN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Qt* CAEEING CARDS-no two alike, with name 2j«J neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
Qp' CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons,	-
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going North..		STATIONS	Going	South.
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p. m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ l.t.7 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abbive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Malkerson, - - -- - - P>ymowh, - -- - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - -- - - - Peru, - - - -- - Bunker Hill, - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton,- - - -- - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - -- - - -Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - -• -	. Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 « 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
BROWN Zt HABVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHELE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 s. m-9.00 “ - - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - • - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55a.m.
THOM AS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
WANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of *741, At-Jj torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Hl.	-
JOHN F. McHUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE Ac DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61)
Attorney st Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ye at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in. Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
W LLI AM J. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Room,, 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St., Colnmbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law
527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN T>. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attomey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DANIEL B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney
at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Micidgan.... ’ sepl4-ly
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
E^Berths $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depor, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.	*
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3 40 pm 12 30 pm Springfield and St. Lows Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7 30 am	9 00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................3 40 pm	9 00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm	9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation................. .9	20	am	5 00 pm
J, C. McMullin, Cep, Manager, J. Charlton, (Sep,	Agt,
f
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	435
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦MaU	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	♦Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m	19 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 25 “	11 10 “	6 35 “	7 40 “	1 15 “
“ Niles ....	10 45 “	12 15 p.m	8 12 “	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	12 33 p.m	1 40 “	10 00 “	10 26“	2 17 “
“ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		3 45 “ 6 48 “	4 05 “ 6 30 “	♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m	12 50 a.m 3 35 “	4 45 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	8 40 “ 4 45 p.m	9 50 p.m	6 20 pm
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 13 p.m	2 38 “	4 30 a.m	2 53 “	12 35 a m
V‘ Niles		3 05 “	4 07 “	6 30 “	4 24 “	2 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 30 “	5 20 “	7 55 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and Son tlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “ 715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
^Saturday and Sunday excepted. H. B. Ledyard,
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Henry 0. Wentworth,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAT AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free, port, and.all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.	•
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. - For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.	. .
W. H. Stennett,	_ Marvin' Hughitt,
Gen, Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago. _
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
’	TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOI1NG WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaU.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 P.M.	9.00 A .M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A-M.
Rochester. ...		12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	255 “	745 “
Alliance,			3.10 “	1250 p.m.	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,			4.50 “	226 “	713 “	
Mansfield				7.00 “	4.40 “	920 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	... .Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p .M.	
Forest.					9.25 “	7.35 “	1125 “	
Lima,..			10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,			1.20 P.M.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmouth.’			3.50 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,/..		7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	I	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,		9.10 P.M. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 Aar. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 “ 11.30 “ 1.30 A.M.	••*••• •
Ft". Wayne,	.’...				
Lima,					
Forest,				233 “ 4.05 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				
				
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11-15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 par. 3.30 “
Orrville,..'					
Alliance,					
Rochester,					
Pittsburgh,	Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R, MYERS, G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS, NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and. LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf LuPorte, Indiana, .
436
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. GOLSEN.	D. R. MULLINS.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NIT IVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. E. Cor. LaSalle Monroe Sts.
Henry Styles, Manager.	Cliicaao.
f22-ly	.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, AND JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A IVIAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control theirSleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth, between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for TwoDollars and Fifty Cents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points, Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. You getan entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents ; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business or this line warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana" at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed byithis line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCHiCAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan SouthernandPittsburg, Ft.Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
AtPEOBIA, withP„P.& J.:P.,L. &D.; L B. & W.;
III. Midland: and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R.R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern B. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
AtDESMOINES, withD.M. & Ft.DodgeR. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R. ' At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) AtCoLUMBUS Junction, with Burlington, Cedar
Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C.,B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison. Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rda.
PALACE CABS are ran through to PEOBIA, BBS MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVLNWORTHs	„	_	_	..
. Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Bonte,’’ are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address, A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN.
'	'	Gen’l^Superintendent.	•	■ Gen’l Tkt. and Pass'grAgt.,
* •-	•	.. (ihicagoZDl.