? Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper vloturns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
L ■=	■= :	=	' ....—■
f Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 17, 1880.	Number 32.
An Eventide.
/	BY MAURICE F. EGAN.
$ —
The tender Mother as she sat among
The home-made toys that scattered on the floor, Showed that a young Child played within her door, *	Took up her weary Son, and softly sung
The low, sad psalms that dreary days had wrung
From Israel in exile,—now, no more She sang triumphant, for her heart was sore, ►	For on the time the sword its shadow flung.
1	She could not gaze upon His golden hair
Or in her hand His dimpled fingers hold,—
Or feel His Heart beat next her Mother-heart, Without forecasting that His forehead fair
.	Should bear the thorns, and His soft Flesh grow cold,
,	As fiercest pangs through palm and side should dart.
I,
'V I	Father Ryan’s Poems.
I	____
i
i To-day there drifted into my hands like a storm-tossed : * bird, heedless of its shelter, a generous little volume of poems, bearing the imprint of Jno. L. Rapier & Co., Mobile. The title of the volume—Father Ryan’s Poems—is I, j	characteristic alike of the poetry and the author’s per-
? '	sonality. Seldom have I spent a wild wet evening more
j pleasantly than with this volume, or, perhaps, more accurately m personal converse with the author—for his per-H v sonality pervades every page.
Involuntarily the reader is borne along on the rhythmical crests of song-waves, rising and falling like the illusive ripples, and anon rolling with crashing force against the I •	breakers ycleped public opinion. But the poet’s aim is only
to sing the sweet songs that come to him from the shores of the “ mystic,” which his sad soul loves so well. He con-►	ceals the teacher and the shepherd in the minstrel and the
patriot. What is it, the reader asks himself, that has *-	made the name of this poet-priest so famous, so hon-
‘	ored and so loved throughout all this sunny Southern
land? He has over-stepped the barriers of prejudice, I and built for himself a shrine in a million generous hearts, With the badge of his humble and holy profession ever before his name, and the aroma of an intense religious zeal diffused through all his labor, fame has sought him and i:	made him her favorite child. Not altogether provincial,
either, as fame in this diffuse Republic of ours is apt to be, but a great, generous, wide-reaching, international fame, whose spontaneity is such fickle unreliable prophecy of its permanency. He dreads oblivion, as all poets of this over
wrought school are prone to do, and shrinking from it sings,
Only a few more years! weary years! Only a few more tears! bitter tears! And. then, and then—like other men— I shall cease to wander—cease to weep, I go—and death shall veil my face! The feet of years shall fast efface My very name and every trace I leave on earth, for the stern years tread, Tread out the names of the gone and dead, Only a few for an hour, shall weep. Ah, me! the grave is dark and deep.”
James G. Clark, or Perceival might have written that, but I doubt if either of them could have done it so well; nor does Father Ryan in the least resemble either. Florescence of words was theirs, but he has plunged deeper than their depth into the stream of mysticism, which emanated during the last century from French and German lore, inundating all Europe, and even washing old Boston bay with its yeasty foam.
Occasionally the sombre -wing of his dark Pegasus brushes the Empyrean where Longfellow once soared; but, startled at his temerity, sweeps gracefully away in the unreal blue.
Can you not trace the flight of his master above such lines as these ?
“ How often have I found poems In the crimson of the coals, When the swaying flames of the fire-light Unrolled such golden scrolls.”
And again, where he sings—
“ And slow and soft—and soft and slow From darkling earth and darkened sky, Wide wings of Gloom waved to and fro And spectral shadows flitted by. And then methought upon the sward I saw—or was it starlight’s play, Or Angels come to watch and guard The valley, till the dawn of day?”
Even the melody and sensuous luxuriance of Buchanan Read can be traced in these lines
“ One idle day A mile or so of sun-lit waves off shore In a breezeless bay,— We listless lay
Our boat a “dream of rest” on the still sea.” (The publisher is, I presume, responsible for the punctuation.)
But it is not of these minor touches of culture, whence emanate reproduction of thought, that I would speak. Soothing and delightful, as they often are, they never yet made a poet famous or added one leaf to his laurels. It is rather of the controlling power and motive whic
496
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sink accidental peculiarities beneath their vaster weight, and of these latter there are three—a profound Idealism, which gleans in the vale of the Mystic; a sorrowful and tender Reverence, which affectionately places every good gift “ at the feet of the Holy ” ; and, lastly, a genuine Irish Patriotism, which clings pathetically, and perhaps mistakenly, but with unapproachable fervor, to the local ideal of a country and a forsaken cause. All these sentiments are bound and woven together by the matchless charm of the author’s mesmeric personality. Not a stanza or verse in the whole two hundred and sixty pages lacks human interest. If poetry should be written to please, thenlthis is poetry; if poetry should lift the weary soul from beneath life’s burden, then this is genuine poetry; if poetry and song should teach the growing generation a faithful love of their shrines and the land of their birth, then Father Ryan is a poet, and the world has made no mistake in singing his praises and his songs.
“When marble wears away And monuments are dust, The songs that gna^d our soldier’s clay Will still fulfil their trust.
But oh 1 if in song or speech, In major or minor key, My voice could over the ages reach
I would whisper the name of Lee.
But sudden their came a cloud, Out rung a nation’s knell, Our cause was wrapped in its winding shroud —All fell—when the grand Lee fell.
From his men, with scarce a word, Silence! when great hearts part!— But we know he sheathed his stainless sword In the wound of a broken heart!”—
In poetry such as this there can be no doubt that the sentiment is over-wrought. The Reverend author would not himself undertake to defend the position he assumes. It is needless to point out the fact that all did not fall “when the great Lee fell.” A reunited nation wasjust beginning to learn the folly of sectionalism and the beauty and strength of union. The cause for which brave soldiers contended with matchless valor on a thousand bloody fields, through four long years, was dead and buried beyond any purpose or hope of resurrection, long before the great Lee fell. Lee knew it, and the knowledge caused him no pain, for his patriotism was broad enough to include every section of this vast Republic.
And if it were true that “ all fell when the great Lee fell,” then.the “ all ” must be the exponent of a bad cause, for Truth never fell with the frail life of any man. The death of a great man may delay the cause of Truth, but cannot destroy it, as the Reverend author knows. In a poem entitled “ Reunited,” written at a later date, I judge, he discovers the fact that all did not fall when the great Lee fell; for he speaks in beautiful eulogy of the union between North and South which Charity effected. It refers to the aid rendered the yellow-fever sufferers, and is one of the smoothest pieces of verse in the book.
The longest poem in the volume is a Tennysonian Idyl, entitled “Their Story Runneth Thus.” The author has made a mistake, I fear, in presenting himself so conspicuously as the hero of this pathetic little love story. The language and sentiment are exquisitely pure and sweet, but Merlin is too positively the author—“the youthful Christ,” of whom the heorine speaks, and Ullainee is the Ethel of his boyhood dreams. Aside from this, even the
most casual reader must feel the tender beauty of the poem as he reads. Ecstatic human affection is exalted into pure love of God; ‘and sorrow, refined of its crude earthiness, affectionately caresses its burden before laying it down at the Master’s feet.	'
“Christmas Chaunts” are prettily conceived and admirably written; and so are the fugitive pieces, written in Rome and elsewhere throughout Europe.
Nearly all the poems, collected here for the first time, have already become familiar through the magazinesand newspapers, and will be hailed again by admirers as old friends, lean add no more consistent praise than to express the honest pleasure the book has afforded me, and assert my belief that no better volume of poetry has appeared within the last year, perhaps not within the generation.
Thos. A. Dailey.
A Glance at the Present Condition of Europe.
The inhabitants of all the Russias were little better than barbarians prior to the days of Peter the Great, a man who made extraordinary efforts to raise the nation of which he was the head to a level with the rest of Europe, and who during his reign contributed in no small degree to the increasement and consolidation of its power and influence. To this great prince the present power of Russia as an empire is principally due; but it is not to him we may look for what is known as its despotism, which is after all a remnant of olden times and of semi-barbarous or savage days. Russia, notwithstanding her great strides with the rest of Europe in the way of power and influence, has neglected one grand point, namely, the social and individual condition of her subjects. In opposition to all laws that pirtain to man as a reasonable and social-being, she still continues to exercise a most depostic power towards her subjects; to treat them in a manner more becoming the barbarians of the South Sea islands than the government of the largest, if not the most powerful, empire in the world. It is true that Russia has in some particular instances ameliorated the sad state of some of her serfs, but this was drawn from her not for love, or any other humane motive, but because it became a condition sine qua non to the furthering of her interests in other quarters. And what is the result of all this ? To-day discontentment has affected the majority of her subjects; Nihilists and other secret societies are devouring to the core whatever of humanity she possesses; peace and assurance of hfe or property is no where to be found; even the Czar himself, together with his household, is liable to be blown up at any moment, as it is now stated on good authority that the principles of Nihilism are creeping in among his own body guard.
But apart from the deplorable political state of the country, the morality of the people is at a very low ebb; and this is the case all the way from royalty itselt to the poorest serf, consequently there is nothing that tends to make society pure, or to elevate it to a standard calculated to bring about happiness and prosperity.
After the manner of other European powers, that would fain have the whole world under their sway, Russia is now seeking domination in Asia, and gathering together her armed hosts to assert her pretended rights in those quarters. This will make things rather unpleasant for Eng-

?i
jlS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
497
land who, too, spends time and money and men in converting the inhabitants of India, and in bringing them to a knowledge of the true God and of English sovereignty; so that by all appearances, if affairs in those quarters are not settled soon, a crisis will be reached that will likely involve, or bring these great powers—and perhaps all Europe —to a war that will sweep thousands off the face of the earth, and give a job to geographers to draw a new map of the continent.
It is certain that proud and perfidious England has had her day; her star is on the wane, and the time is near at hand when she must let go her tyrannical grasp, in which she has so long held many of her poor and afflicted subjects, and assume a different role in the great drama of life from that which she has been practising for more than three centuries. People are commencing to open their eyes to the manner in which her subjects in Ireland are treated. Every day the world sees more and more of her perfidy—more and more of her underhand, oppressive and almost inhuman way of acting towards those creatures whom either a hard fate or a sad misfortune has compelled to submit to her iron grasp, her shot and shell. The overwhelming defeat of the Tory party at the late elections in the green Isle gives reason to believe that the people are becoming fully alive to the vital struggle that is now going on between the rich and tyrannical landlord party and the farming portion of the people, who have to strain every nerve in order to put themselves in the way of a proper subsistence, and thereby prevent for the future, at least to some extent, the awful cry of famine that may now be heard throughout the length and breadth of that once glorious, free and independent nation. Hence it is to be hoped that the next Parliament will make the much-needed laws in reference to the land measure in Ireland— laws that will guarantee the people their standing and rights as good and devoted subjects, as a people that have long suffered the most direful kind of oppression for God and fatherland.
America, too, cannot easily forget England’s actions towards her. England has done what she could in order to fetter and enslave us; but it is good her designs have been thwarted; and to day America stands as an example, as a model to the whole world of gallantness, industry, genius, and enterprising skill. What a change! In place of not being considered worthy to manufacture a horseshoe a little more than a hundred years ago she is now one of the first countries in the world,—certainly the most enterprising, and perhaps the most powerful.
United Germany has been, for some years past, wondering at herself and the victory she has gained over one of the great powers of Europe, and is at present fully alive to her present condition and the general warlike preparations which she sees being made on all sides by her sister king doms, bv empires and republics, such as they are. But by her utter contempt for the moral and religious training of the heart and mind of her worthy subjects she has inflicted on her own worthy self an evil that will cling to her like wax. and for which at present there seems to be no remedy, as it has taken too deep root amongst the infidel and social portion of her people. Hence we see in this powerful, but -unhappy country no respect for the rights of the individual, as is manifest in the exile and banishment of those very men whose whole lives are devoted to the moral and religious training of the masses, and to whose efforts in this respect the Government, unless entirely blinded by
error and bigotry, cannot help seeing the laying of the corner-stone, as it were, of the nation’s prosperity.
Italy the land of Popes, has not gained much by her recent change of sovereigns,—her oppression and the spread of her authority over the peninsula. The truth is, she is at present in what may be called a deplorable condition. Her exchequer is almost empty; her Government is almost bankrupt Her people are dissatisfied; they ask bread, and they receive a stone; they ask what they were accustomed to have in by-gone days, and the bayonet is pointed at them as the sign of victory and their right to submit to the laws they were instrumental in framing. But more than this, she has forfeited her title to what shall be ever the distinguishing mark of a country noble and good— virtue and morality. Italy has sunk immensely in this respect since the time Garibaldi and the Carbonari element first made their appearance and proclaimed to the world what they would do for the social prosperity of the country. But the secret societies have not yet given up their wild schemes, and who knows but ere long the flag of revolution will again be unfurled, and Italy steeped once more into all the horrors of civil war, contention and strife.
France, that land of the Charlemagnes and Louises is at the present engaged in a contest that is a scandal to civilization—she is making war upon a handful of good, loyal, and faithful citizens,—men whose whole heart and soul is in the moral and social improvement of the masses, and in the training of the rising generation to the practice of their religion and to the observance of God’s laws as Christians, and those of the State, as loyal and true citizens. It is, indeed, hard to think of France acting in this manner. It is hard to think of a country called “ Catholic ” and “ Eldest Daughter of the Church,” turning her back on religion, and striving to proscribe an Order to which Christianity owes a debt of gratitude, which it cau never pay. Has France then ceased to be Christian? and'has she become no better than China and Corea, in banishing from her shores the faithful sons of Loyola? But France is no more the France of yore; a spirit of indifferentism, and materialism now pervades her, and renders her, as far as religion and morals are concerned, the most disgusting country on the face of God’s earth. For her infidelity, she has been lately punished by God; but, notwithstanding all this, she is bound not to stop until she becomes another Germany, and until the Cross becomes humbled and lowered in the dust. If there is any saving of France from becoming a most godless nation it is the religions orders; and it is to be hoped that this black republicanism shall soon become weak, linger and die, and France again assume her true position as a nation, and as a loyal daughter of the Catholic Church.	.
The Jesuits are now pretty well known throughout the world; they have for the past century, and upwards, exhibited themselves as men of the truest type, and it is at present to be hoped that the masses of the people in France will not consent to an expulsion, most disgraceful in its nature, and most ruinous to the well-being of the country.
The world, as I said before, owes the Jesuits a heavy debt; but it is at least encouraging that this debt is being acknowledged in our day, and what they are doing for the furtherance of science, art, etc., gratefully appreciated by all right-thinking men. In the march of civilization, both to the East and to the West, they have undoubtedly formed the advance guard, as the history of our own country abundantly substantiates. And in regard to this, an
498
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
able American non-Catholic journal thus speaks: “ When skepticism smiles on seeing worldly shepherds in their folds fattening on so many thousand a year, it drops its cap to the black-gown, who does not own the clothes on his back, or the shoes on his feet; who goes from torrid to frigid zone with a serene countenance, at the command of his superior; who knows no self-will or indulgence.” The whole human race constitute his brothers and sisters; the world, and the conversion of souls, is the harvest-field in which he loves to work, no matter at what price. But it is certain that the time is not far distant when the rights of men will be acknowledged, when the lawful demands of a people will be hearkened to, and when petty notions and sectional jealousies will cease, and the true spirit of Christian civilization pervade the hearts of all God’s creatures.
F. D.
The Mystic Syllable.
The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Sligo has been very favorably impressed during his American tour, and has remarked with especial pleasure on the capacity of the youth in our colleges to appreciate solid instruction, the enthusiasm with which he found it received sometimes breaking out into cheers even before the conclusion of the sentence. The following report of a short address made by him at the supper table in the refectory of one of our Western universities will serve to illustrate what he means :
My dear young friends: I am glad to find myself surrounded this evening with such an array of bright intelligent faces, which convince me that you must all have rec— (cheers)—that you must all have reconciled yourselves to a life which has its trials and privations, though not without its pleasures also—the life of an earnest, faithful student. I could give you rec—(applause, and cries ot “ Do! do!”)—recollections of my own youthful career, which might prove to you that as a man grows old there is nothing that he regrets so much as the loss of so many chances of rec—(sensation, and subdued murmurs of approbation) —of rectifying the numerous mistakes into which we are all liable to fall; and none of these mistakes is more fatal than that which would make youth a time of pleasure. Our first duty, therefore, is to ask for req—(cheers, and shouts of “We will! we will!”)—for requisite grace from heaven to improve the valuable days of youth. Fidelity to this grace, attention, industry, sobriety and true worth cannot fail to secure rec—(tremendous cheering)—recompense. And even in this life, these virtues will obtain that much desired rec—(renewed cheers)—recognition in society, which establishes a man in his sphere of usefulness. I have always made a practice of giving rec—(wild and tumultuous excitement, which was quite incomprehensible to the Rt. Rev. guest of the evening) —of giving recreants in the ranks of virtue to understand that their mad career, once begun, can only end in a total wreck. (Cheers from the Minims, rebuked by frowns from the elder boys.) But since we are all more or less remiss, let us make good resolutions for the future, and when we see tomorrow’s sun arise, let us all take rec—(enthusiastic applause)—take rectitude for our motto, and begin a new life—a life of earnest toil and sacrifice. For sooner or later—perhaps to-morrow—will come a day of reck— (here the excitement was so intense, and at the same time so unaccountable, that the Bishop nearly broke I down, However, wiping his perspiring brows, he gath
ered strength, and continued, with some severity)—a day of reckoning, when we shall have to account for the last farthing. These dictates of common prudence are not rec —(cries of “No! no!”)—not recondite; but lie, as it were, within the reach of all. You would all like to have a good rec—(shouts of “ That’s so! ” “ You’re right 1 ” “ we would! ” etc)—a good record to leave behind you at the close of the scholastic year, which is the best pledge of similar success in the future walks of life, and then into whatever social circle you may crave admission, be assured that the authorities of this university will bear me out in giving you rec—(here the applause became absolutely frantic and maniacal, and the Rt. Rev. orator sat down quite overcome, and vainly endeavoring to pronounce the last syllables of the word “recommendations.” “If,” said he afterwards to a friend, “ they receive a few didactic remarks on the value of time with such frenzied expressions of delight, what would they have done had I addressed them on a really sensational subject ? ” What indeed!
CONCIE QUENCHELL.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The collection of Chinese works in the British Museum includes 20,000 volumes.
—John McCullough, it is announced, goes to London, in 1881, under the management oi Her Majesty’s Maple-son.
—Ex-Empress Eugenie has presented the crown she once wore to the Church of Notre Dame des Victoires, of Paris.
—Tennyson’s new play will probably be produced by Henry Irving in London during the coming fashionable season.
—One of the probable stars next season will be Jeffreys Lewis, who contemplaies running in opposition to Genevieve Ward in “Forget-Me-Not.”
—There are 40 000 American books in the British Museum, which has thus, tn a measure, become the chief de-positry of American literature.
—We suggest that everybody drop the discussion of the Gem puzzle, and try to find out why bass-viol players are always fat.—Bridgeport Standard.
—Some person has invented a new game called the “Fifteen Block puzzle,” and it is funny the newspapers don’t say something about it.—Norristown Herald.
—Sir Charles Gavan Duffy is writing a work on “ The Troubles in Ireland,” comprising a history of the men and times from 1841 to 1848. The work will be brought out in Melbourne, Australia.
—The discovery has been made in the Traves Library of a French poem entitled “ Sainte-Nouna et son Fils Saint-Deny ” composed by Richard Coeur de Lion during his captivity in Tirol.
—The following is a correct statement of the Irish relief funds from purely professional sources: Benefits, $11,087,88; donations, $3 406: St. Patrick’s Day matinees, $4,681,25; grand total, $19,455,14.
—It is reported that an unpublished comedy by George Sand entitled “ Mlle, de la Quintinie,” is in the hands of the Director of one of the Pans theatres, and is shortly to be produced. It would have been brought out long ago, but that the censorship under the Ministry of M. Jules Simon forbade it.
—Miss Hosmer the American sculptress, who claims to have discovered the theory of perpetual motion, and is confident that within a few weeks she will be able to solve the problem, leaves R^me shortly for the purpose of working at the invention, of which electricity is said to be the primary agent.
—An important and interesting discovery has been made
:THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	499
by Father Manirano, 0. S. B., who lately found in the Abbey of Subiaco a number of rare MSS., among which are numerous works of St. Thomas Aquinas, consisting of ' biographies of the saints and Lenten sermons, together \5	with many Questiones Desputata.
|	. —It may be taken as a canon in the art of libretto writ-
5	ing that the interest must be as much as possible centered
in the principal female character. From “Il Barbiere” to “La Sonnambula,” and from “Faust” to “Carmen,” it , may be seen that in all strikingly successful operas the ' prima donna plays a prominent part.
—The “ Chinese Encyclopaedia ” has just been published / ' to meet a long-felt want in the Flowery Kingdom. It deals |	with every subject, and treats of every clime. In point of
|	completeness it may be said to rival the labors of literary
'	men in any age. It comprises 5,020 volumes, which can
t	be had for $7,500, and is authoritatively said to be very
cheap at that price.
. —Chief among treasures of art is the Breviary cherished /	in the palace of	the doges at Venice	as a venerable pearl
*	of great price.	Placed under glass,	it is opened at one
S	page, and every	day the leaf is turned, so that if the art
/	student has one hundred and ten	weeks to spare for
Venice, he may hope in that time to make himself acquainted with all the miniatures.
—Mr. Cousin, conservator of the Carnavalet Library, has presented that institution with a rare book entitled the “Commentaries of William ot Paris on the Epistles and Gospels of the Year ” (1465). It is bound in swine leather. » A chain about 8 inches long, by which it was fastened to the reading stand, according to the custom of the times, is 5 still an appendage of the book. The fastening ot books was a precaution against theft.
—A Madrid musician, off nded by a fellow pianist, challenged him to play the piano with him until either of them should be compelled by fatigue to desist. The duel lasted foriy-eight hours without either antagonist resting • or taking the slightest nourishment. One of ihem played, - among other pieces, the " Niserere,’1 from “Trovatore," over 150 times, and was beginning it again, when he fell . dead from exhaustion. The other Is on the verge of lunacy.
,	—There is talk of constructing a crystal palace in the
park of St. Cloud, near Paris. The ruins of the old palace would be removed, and on its site would arise a hand. some structure surmounted by a costly dome and contain’ ing conservatories, a gigantic aquarium, a panorama, museums of science and art, and a theatre. Model farms would also be established in the immediate neighborhood, and there would be pigeon-shooting and other pleasure ' * grounds.
—At the last meeting of the Academie des Inscriptions, at Paris, M. Leon de Rosny stated that a bronze statue, the head surrounded by a solar aureola, had been found in an y Indian burial-ground at Trujillo, in Peru. The inscription on it is, in M. de Rosny’s opinion, undoubtedly Chinese, but of an archaic character, and may signify “ He who ' governs the Kingdom.” If this be authentic, it would point to intercourse between China and the ancient Peru-1 t vian Empire.
—Once upon a time the greatest of the bards of Lesbos, weary of the “Tetrachord,” threw aside the old-fashioned instrument, and exclaimed: “I will use no longer my in-p strument with its four tones; I will sing my new hymns upon a seven-stringed lyre I ” This conduct caused great >- scandal among the purists of those days, and when they heard the divine songs chanted in unknown accents, they exiled their bard. Are not all ages alike when they sit in T judgment on genius?—Zant de Ferranti.
—The death was recently announced in Paris of the Polish composer, Albert Sowinski, who 40 years ago disputed popularity with Liszt, Thalberg, and Chopin; ‘ 1 also of M. Lemoigne Montigny, lessee of the Gymnase Theatre and brother of the dramatist Gustave Lemoigne. f He was himself originally both an actor and a dramatist, but in 1844 he became lessee of the Gymnase, where he brought out some of the best pieces of Augier, Dumas and ' Sardou, and he kept his theatre for 36 years up to a high standard.—Catholic Union.
Scientific Notes.
—Kafurstan, which no European has yet succeeded in exploring, appears after all to be only about 150 miles in length by about fifty or sixty in breadth.
—The average life of a paper wheel under trucks of locomotive engines ranges from 300,000 to 1,641,880 miles, and under dining and palace cars, from 794,000 to 878,336 miles.
—The Algerian paper Akhbor announces the formation of an Algerian Company for cultivation of the Sahara. The means proposed are the systematic boring of artesian wells in carefully selected spots.
—There are 60.000 locomotives in the United States, and each contains 2,800 different pieces, requiring renewal every ten or twelve years. This conveys a notion of the industries which railroads foster.
—The Lisbon correspondent of the Daily Nenes states that the Portuguese travellers, Ivens and Capello, have explored and studied a vast area in Africa, and obtained important data for constructing a map of the Province of Angola.
—A new museum has been opened at Paris, which contains all the artistic furniture belonging to the Kings of France from the time of Louis XIII up to the present day, and which was accumulated in that unique building known as the “ Garde-Meuble.”
—Mr. Pierre Lorillard, of New York, proposes to bear the expense of an expedition to explore the antiquities of Central America, and proposes to do it under the patronage ot the French Government, and with its assistance, giving everything of archaeological importance that he may find and be able to remove to fill a museum at Paris, which, will be called the Musee Lorillard.
—The simplest and surest test for oleomargarine is to heat the substance in a small toy frying-pan. Butter will gradually get brown and smell pleasantly, even when beginning to burn black. Oleomargarine will never get brown, but will directly, if the heating continues, change from clear yellow fat to black, and emit all the while an odor familiar to those who live near a fat factory.
—J. F. Everhart has in his possession what may be called a hieroglyphical stone, taken from a mound built by the Mound-builders at Brush Creek, Muskingum County, O. Its dimensions are: Length, 12J^ inches; width, 12X inches; thickness, four inches. The material is red sandstone. The hieroglyphics are in two parallel columns, and the owner is anxious to have them deciphered.
—A small crater is stated to have appeared near Paterno, on the west side of Etna; and the other craters are again issuing a saltish-oily fluid, which has formed a small lake, and is injuring the neighboring fields. Numerous slight shocks of earthquake have also been felt to the northnortheast and soutti-southwest of Etna; jets of steam have issued from the new craters, and steam, mixed with ashes, from the central one.
—At the Hotel Drouot, in Paris, there was sold by auction two weeks ago, an interesting piece of archaeology in the shape of a mummy, which proves to be that of a Prince of Ihe ill-fated Imperial family of Montezuma. The body, encased in a large crystal box, was purchased for 2,375 francs by the South Kensington Museum. The Montezuma in question is supposed to be the unde of the illustrious cacique of that name.
—The largest land animal which is known to have existed on the Globe, has been described by Prof. Marsh. Its name is Atlantosaurus immanis. The thigh-bone of the monster is over eight feet long, with a thickness at the larger end of twenty-five inches. A comparison of this bone with the femur of a crocodile would indicate that the fossil saurian, if of similar proportions, had a total length of 115 feet. That the reptile was at least 100 feet long when alive, is probable. The other bones of the animal, which have been found, are proportionately gigantic.
—The German Admiralty intends to publish a work on the scientific voyage round the world made by the German corvet Gazelle during the years 1874 to 1876. The work
500	THE NOTRE DAME gCHOtASllb.
will be divided into three parts. Part I will contain a short description of the origin of the expedition, its objects, and a general account of the voyage. The second part will be devoted to the deep-sea measurements, the meteorological and magnetical observations. Part III will treat of the marine fauna and flora. The total cost of the work is estimated at 60,000 marks ($15,000), for which the Admiralty will apply to the Federal Council.
—The occultation of Mars by the moon occurred under favorable circumstances March 17:h. The threatening clouds that half-obscured the sky during the day disappeared just before sunset, leaving the atmosphere exquisitely clear. The red planet disappeared behind the moon’s dark edge at about 6:35 p. m., and reappeared from behind the bright edge a few minutes before 8. The moon was so nearly overhead, that those who watched the occultation had to go either out of doors or upon the roof, and it required much skill and patience to direct any unmounted glass at the moon. The phenomenon was well seen witn the naked eye. The moou was not quite half-full, and the fiery star, in approaching the unillumi-nated portion, seemed almost to be shining between the horns of the crescent. To the unassisted eye the disappearance seemed to occupy three or four seconds. The telescope showed part of the disk of Mars for several seconds longer. Whether any practical result has been achieved from the observations of the occultation cannot be told until reports are received from the large observatories
Exchanges.
—The Paper World: a Journal of Information, Discussion and Recital as to Paper, is the name of a new publication, conducted by Clark W. Bryan, and published monthly at Holyoke, Mass. We decidedly like the appearance and make up of the Paper World, and to our mind it has before it a useful field ot action.
—We are pleased to see that our valuable contemporary The Western Home Journal, Detroit, Mich., has with the previous issue increased in size, and, we believe, in strength and importance as a Catholic newspaper. It is now the largest Catholic journal in the West, and it is but right that it should receive a liberal support fron all English-speaking Catholics throughout the length and breadth of Michigan. The editor, Mr. Savage, is by all accounts a thorough gentleman; and as to his paper, we have always found it both readable and newsy, and, more than all, exhibiting a true Catholic spirit. The Home Journal certainly deserves a large circulation.
—Donahoe's Magazine for April is fully up to its usual high standard. Its contents are interesting and varied. They are as follows: I, Rt. Rev. W. H. Elder, D. D; II, Is Catholicity spreading in the United States? Ill, Linguistic Curiosities of America. T. O'N. Russell; IV, Some Religious Aspects of New England; V, Thomas Addis Emmet and Mr. Pinkney; VI, High treason: A Tale of the Jesuits of the 17th Century; VII, Splendid Address of Cardinal Newman; VIII, St. Joseph, Foster Father of Our Saviour; IX, German Ballads on the Sufferings of Ireland; X, Tne Bar Life of O’Connell; XI, Church Property. Habitual Drunkards; XII, Cardinal Manning and the Workingmen; XIII, Hush, My Darlings, do not Weep (Music); XIV, The Irish Catholic Colonization Association; XV, L >ugh Derg and its Pilgrimages; XVI, Irish and English Freemasons and their Foreign Brothers; XVII, An Englishman on the State of Ireland; XVIII, America’s appeal to Ireland; XIX, The Apparitions at Knock, County Mayo, Ireland; XX, Sequence on Easter Day; XXI Thoughts on St. Patrick’s Morn; XXII, Useful Knowledge; XXIII, The Humorist; XXIV, Our Young Folks: Struggle with a Bear; XXV, Game of Forfeits; XXVI, A Trying Time; XXVII, Irish Language Department; XXVIII, A talk with Our Readers; XXIX, Obituary of Priests, Sisters, Laymen and Women; XXX, Events of the Month; XXXI, Notices of recent Publications.
—The Cdtic Monthly for April is before us, and a very good number it is. It contains articles of sterling worth to readers, and by all appearance is an excellent magazine, and should no doubt meet with a generous support
from American Catholics. Its first article—“The Great Irish Question”—written by the editor, James Halligan, is a plain and impartial statement of the status of Ireland at the present time and cannot fail to prove interesting to the readers of this magazine. Two very interesting articles are, “How Famines are Manufactured in Ireland” and “ Dramatic Critics Criticised.” “ Seventy Years Ago,” “ Irish Celebrities,” “ Concerts and Whimsicalities,” “ Stage Anomalies,” “ A Chapter of Irish History,” “ A Neglected Ii ishman—Henry Brooke,” are all worthy of the high reputation of the Celtic Monthly, and, as far as our knowledge goes, show that tney have been prepared with care. “Ulick Grace; or, a Tale of the Tithes,” by John Locke, is an interesting story, and is in perfect keeping with the known ability of Mr. Locke as a writer. Tne poetry, too, of this magazine is good; and so taken all in all, the Celtic Monthly for April may be regarded as an excellent number, presenting to its readers articles and other literary matter of a scholarly and substantial nature. Tne subscription to the Celtic Monthly is $3 per annum, payable half-yearly or yearly in advance. James Haltigan, Ed., 37 Nassau Si., N. Y.
—Church's Musical Visitor for April published by J. Church & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, is as usual very interesting. Its articles are always highly instructive and entertaining. No one can read “Farmer Beer’s Opinion” without really enjoying it. But the leading article, “ Why Germany is Great in Music, and why America should become so,” (part second) is an excellent production. It shows that America has the means and the genius to outshine any European nation, not only in music, but in all things else. Says Tyndall, the great lecturer: “In America there is willingness on the part of individuals to devote their fortunes, in the matter of education, to the service of the commonwealth, which is probably without a parallel elsewhere, and this willingness requires but a wise direction to. enable you effectually to wipe away the reproaches of Europe.” “ Music in London ” tells us something about what is being done in this respect on the other side of the Atlantic. This number gives the pro-giamme and soloists of the Musical Festival ot Cincinnati to be held next month. Among the lisl we see the names of Campanini as tenor, and of Mr. J. F. Rudolpnsen for baritone. We heard Mr. Rudolphseu not long ago, and we doubt whether he has his equal in America. The situation of Mr. Thomas with regard to Cincinnati and its Musical College, is thoroughly explained. We agree perfectly with the writer, and say with him “that more care should have been taken to find a better course before letting Mr. Thomas g The “ Correspondence” is spicy, and well worth careful perusal. A few new pieces of music accompany each number of this publication, and consequently the music alone which appears in the numbers ot the Visitor throughout the year is well worth tne subscription price, $1,50 per annum.
—The editorials in the last number of The College Courier are crisp and scholarly productions, and being more remarkable for common sense and a practical turn than for verbiage or empty logic, they will undoubtedly be read with both pleasure and profit. Apart from matters of a purely local interest, an editorial, a column and a half in length, deprecates the evil of ill-ventilaied public buildings, lecture-halls, churches, etc. The article is enlivened by practical illustrations that bring the subject home with great force to the mind of the reader. Tne writer aptly says that “ man is the only animal ihat sets a trap for himself. We never feel more like challenging man’s right to stand at the acme of creation than when we attend a meeting in some hall or church where oxygen is strictly forbidden to enter. When a pig gets fast under a gate, we very likely kick the pig for being a fool, though the gate is man’s device; but who ought to be kicked when men get caught in their own device, when they crowd together in a close audience room [or any other room] and infuse malignant poison into their bodies under the pretense of getting intellectual moral food ? Let infidels no longer hoot ai Noah for staying in an ark with only one window, but let them turn the entire force of their sarcasm on tnose who manage the ventilation of halls and churches. .. . Why are people so fastidious about what they eat and drink and wear, while they breathe the foul effluvia from other folks’
jr
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	601
f bodies without a murmur ? ” This, and much more so aptly to the point, that we would like to quote the entire . article, is what the editor of the Courier says on the much-abused subject of ventilation, a subject that is glibly talked / of and tritely written upon by many, but which few at-. | tempt to reduce to practice. We remember that when the' j new University building was erecting here last year, many •. were surprised at the elaborate and very expensive system * of ventilation introduced in the plan of the building, and fully carried out in its construction, but if it be successful when completed, as we have no doubt it will, it cannot fail to prove one of the most praiseworthy features in the build;
X. ing. The writer in the Courier speaks of tbe reluctance /	of the janitors to lower the windows and admit fresh air
I	into some of the public buildings in which he found him-
self squeezed in a crowd, but this thing of lowering win-j, dows is at once a barbarous and a dangerous expedient. It 5 • is the prolific cause of colds, and colds, as is well known, are a prolific cause of consumption. All public buildings, ly, sleeping apartments, etc., should be properly ventilated, and without a draught of fresh air striking the occupants, j otherwise they will be slowly but surely poisoned. Another s.	excellent article in the present issue of the Courier is that
'	on college oratory, and the necessity of making the college
a training-school for the duties of professional life. We congratulate ourselves that at few educational institutions is this carried more fully into practice than at Notre Dame. “ The Mission of the Novel,” by F. J. R., descants in an able way upon a subject that is very properly beginning to attract the attention of thinking men. It is a pity that novel-writers do not take such a view of what should be their mission, but is not, as is outlined by the writer in the | Courier. Let us hope that a change for the better may occur in the near future. “ Art,” by D. M. 8., concludes the literary department of this, one of the best numbers of The College Courier that we have seen. With some excellence as a composition, the article on “Art ” is inferior to the others, the subject being overdrawn in places. No-r' where on earth, that we know of, can even an approximate image of Dante’s “ Inferno ” be found—not even at Memphis or Jacksonville during the recent pestilential visit— the purely imaginary similitude in the Courier's “Art”
« article to the contrary notwithstanding.
College Gossip.
—Chamberlain, the late political dictator in Maine, is President of Bowdoin College.—University Press.
—It is said of Senator Blaine that during his four years 4 at Washington College he never missed an exercise.
—Five-sixths of the Seniors at Princeton who have handed in their probable occupation are to study law.
—The Christian Brothers are about to build a novitiate college on the farm of Admiral Ammen, near Washington,
7 D. C.
—Prof, in Physics.—“ Can you think of any reason why a locomotive does not last longer T ” Pale Freshie—“ I suppose it would last longer if it didn’t smoke so much.”
—The Yale Seniors have decided that no crew shall be sent to Sdtonstall this spring. The class boat has been sold for $70, and the money handed over to the class day committee.—Harvard Echo.
*	—The private voluntary donations to schools and col-,
leges in Japan during the past five years reach nearly '	$9,000,000. Upwards of 700,000 acres of land have also
been donated tor educational purposes.
»	—The Roman correspondent. of the London Daily
Chronicle records a rumor to the effect that a Cardinal’s hat is about to be conferred on Mgr. Kirby, Rector of the Irish College at Rome. He adds that it is considered certain that Pope Leo desires to have an Irish Prelate in the Sacred College.
,	—The Columbia papers are determined to thoroughly air
themselves on co-education there, and are consequently strengthening their position by importing a series of articles from Ann Arbor. The articles are the result of the author’s own observations in regard to the practical operation of the bi-sexual system of education.—Amherst Student.
—Sophomore recitation in Greek: Prof.: “Please pronounce your ‘ sigma ’ more sharply, Mr. ——. Where did you get that hideous pronunciation ? ” Sentimental Soph.: “ Hum 1 Ah—Professor, it is a relic of the past.” Prof.: “Then please regard it.with more veneration, and don’t bring it forth from its mouldy grave upon every occasion. —College Mercury.
—The heirs of Stephen Girard have been beaten again in litigation to get a part of the fund which he left for Girard College. He bequeathed $2,000,000 outright, and set half as much more aside for the same purpose, if needed; but the 2,000,000 proved sufficient for the maintenance of the college, and the rest was applied by the city of Philadelphia to certain public purposes.
—At Harvard evening service has been dispensed with, and it is difficult to get a quorum of students present, owing to the alleged prevalence of asthma and other diseases. At the Worcester Free Institute, on the other hand, “ all students must attend evening prayers at five minutes before six. A careful record of absence and tardiness is kept, and all students are expected to be punctual.”—TranscripA.
—Some of these fine mornings the students will wake up and find the University but a pile of smouldering ruins. Fires are becoming altogether too frequent for the good of the building. The latest happened in Cynic Hall, but with little damage. The. building is anything but fireproof, and it might be a wise precautionary measure to place a few fire extinguishers in the various halls.—Th» Volante.
—The College Presidential canvass has been exciting no little interest both within and without the colleges. So far, fourteen colleges have held a ballot. The leading candidates are—Blaine, with 949 votes; Bayard, 621; Sherman, 603; Grant, 602 (allowance being made for an error of fifty in the printing of Grant’s vote at Williams). Most prominent among the other candidates are Hancock, Conkling, Hendricks, Edmunds, Washburne, and Garfield.
—The text-books in Philosophy now in use in the Col-legio Romano are either Zigliara, San Severino, or Libera-tore. In other schools the choice is limited to Zigliara or San Severino- The work of Tongiorgi is laid aside. By a circular signed by Cardinal de Luca, Prefect of Studies, it is ordered that no student can take out simultaneously degrees in Canon Law and Theology, and that no student can be inscribed on the books of two Colleges at the same time. F. Hyacinth Frati (born 1841) has succeeded Cardinal Zigliara as Regent of the College at the Minerva.
—On the death of the elder Pugin, a memorial of him was established in the form of a travelling studentship in Architecture, to be competed for by young men of from eighteen to twenty-five years of age, the purpose being the study of those English Cathedrals which .the great Gothic architect admired so devoutly. The studentship has been every year the object of a very wide and keen competition, a fact which adds to the honors of the winner, who is in this instance Mr. Leonard Stokes, one of the sons of Mr. Nasmyth Stokes, her Majesty’s Inspector of Schools.—Catholic Times, Liverpool, Eng.
—New York has one college to 320,000 inhabitants; Massachusetts, with her seven, one to 230,000; Connecticut, with her three, one to 200,000; Rhode Island, one to 260,-000; Pennsylvania, with twenty-nine, one to 135 000 Illinois, with thirty one, to 100,000; Tennessee, with twentyseven, one to 95,000; Indiana and Missouri, each with twenty-three, one to 90,000; Ohio, with thirty-seven, one to 800,000; and Iowa, with twenty-one, one to 70,000. Thewhole number of colleges in all the States is about 425, or about one to a little more than 100,000.—Ex. And yet, with all our colleges, free-schools, etc., the moral status of the bulk of the people of this free and enlightened republic seems to bo getting worse every decade. There have been more defalcations in high places and in low places, more divorces, in every grade of life, more embezzlements, more frauds, of all kinds, perpetrated in the last ten years than in the twenty years preceding them. There is a good deal of education, but is it of the right sort ? As the twig is bent so will the tree be inclined, is, we believe, an undoubted axiom.
502	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Uame, A_pril 17, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support oi the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.	'
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in ciass and by their general good conduct.	’
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Tostpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
It * subscriber fails to receive the Soholastio regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the othce of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Tbe following, clipped from the columns of the Boston Transcript, contains so much that is good and common sense-like that we have complied with the request of a friend to reproduce it in the Scholastic. No one will admit the necessity of making a great iuss ovei small things. Neither can there be found any reason why so many now, adays give way to an impulse oi passion for what in reality is but of small moment: hence “the best administrative officers are those who make their authority felt with as few words as possible, and never display it unnecessarily. Men who are competent to command—‘born leaders’ as they are called—have no occasion to exact obedience from subordinates, lor no one ever thinks of disobeying them; while those who do not possess the faculty, only display their weakness in their efforts to appear important and impressive. The story is told of a man who had a laige number of pigs in a pen near his house, and made it his practice to go out every evening and “stir them up” witn a club, to the great annoyance ot the pigs and the disturbance of the neighbors. One oi these remonstrated with him one morning, asking why he treated his pigs in such a cruel manner. ‘Because,’ he answered, ' I want them to know 1 am boss' There are too many men in every community Whose idea oi executive ability is exactly on a par with this. They bluster and splurge and “stir things up” generally, convinced that such foolish parade of authority will convince those unfortunate enough to be under them that they are “ boss,” whereas, the fact is that it serves to convince all concerned that they are tools. And the time comes at length when those who are over them find it out, and they are dropped. The quiet way is the best, after all I”
The inclination for wrong-doing, when an opportunity presents itself, without making any sufficient effort to resist in the moment of temptation, manifestly reveals that weakness of our nature which is by no means the brightest side of human life. Scarcely does a day pass by without giving us some such examples.
How many times have we not seen young men—noble, generous and brave,—led by the false idea of wounded honor or reputation, but in reality nothing more than a lurking self-love, or pride, to have recourse to means the most horrible, the most unlawful and the most unnatural— duelling or suicide—to retrieve, as they foolishly imagine, in the most effectual way their apparently injured character. Nor are there examples wanting of men, otherwise generous and kind-hearted, whose character was hitherto irreproachable, whose rank in life should make them shrink at the thought of exposing themselves, their families and friends to ignomy, whose personal attainments were to be admired, yet, for a paltry sum by yielding to the wily suggestions of the tempter, became a prey to that demon, the basest of all—avarice.
An incident occurred a few weeks ago that brought vividly before our mind the saying of Paschal, namely, that warriors are great men; that men of profound learning are great; but that the man who is able to subdue himself is the greatest of all. Strikingly illustrative of this was a fact recently witnessed in the criminal court of a large city in one of our neighboring States. Convicted of embezzlement—of theft,—sentenced to a dungeon cell was a man who won an enviable distinction in the late campaign, one who would not quail in the presence of the glistening steel of a daring foe, or the approach of the thundering warhorse; yet, overcome by sordid avarice, he who with honor led a batallion of sturdy intrepid American young men to the charge of death, betrayed his trust, became a thief, and now within the narrow precincts of a convict’s cell he lies, divested of everything most dear. What a thought! what a lesson for our youth! How careful should they cherish that which is dearer to them than life! How painful to have the finger of scorn pointed, saying, behold the man that did so and so, or perpetrated such a crime. Imagine that you see an honorable relation veiling his face lest he should acknowledge such a one even as an acquaintance.
All aspiring young men should take this well to heart, and bear in mind that bravery does not consist in brilliant feats of arms, neither in being renowned for learning, but rather in controlling self when assailed by temptation, when no foe is nigh; such a victory is more praiseworthy and admirable than the storming of a city. Well did the author of the Imitation say: “ Such a one is conqueror of himself and lord of the world.”
There can be no doubt but that an honest man is the wisest man, for by his policy he pleases heaven, secures himself, and benefits those with whom he has transactions. He is the best musician, for his tongue, thoughts, and actions constitute a just harmony; he is the best grammarian, for he commits no solecisms in morality; he is the richest man, for the good conscience which he always posessses, is the choicest treasure; he is the strong, est man, for true honesty can never be conquered with threats or promises. He is a true friend, a charitable enemy, a loyal subject, a good husband, a tender father, and a kind
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	503
master. He is never deceived, except it be in too charitably judging of others. He may be unjustly accused of some crime through malice or ignorance, but he pardons his accuser, nor ■will he recriminate, however truly he may, being content with the present attestation of conscience and the future proof of time.
What is bad he condemns, as well in himself as in others; what he condemns he loathes to hear; what he dislikes hearing, he will not speak of, nor even think of. He speaketh ill of nobody; not of the good for equity’s sake, nor of the bad for charity’s sake. But when he hears any one denounced, he remembers what is commendable in him; and if he knows nothing favorable of him, he pities him, for he reckons it his own shame to discover his brother’s infirmity. He may receive an injury, but he will not revenge it; he may repent a promise, but he will not break it, although he may lose much by its performance.
He is in the world, and yet lives without the world; he is counted below the world, and yet is above it. What he bestows upon others redounds to his own profit. He would rather sufier much evil than commit any, for he deems no evil small, because the least is against truth and goodness. He espouses virtue without enquiring into her portion, and he loves honesty without interest; as his life is innocent and profitable, so is his death easy and comfortable. No harm can reach him, no fear dismay him, no flattery deceive him, no pleasure entice him, no condition afflict him, and no enemy hurt him.
He is the gift of God, the treasure of the commonwealth, the joy of the poor, the love of the good, the flower of Paradise, and the poison of the arch-enemy.
The Deity is his father, Religion his mother, Truth his friend, Chastity his companion, Justice his practice, Honor his reward, Sincerity his spouse. His children are complacency, good humor, love and confidence. His brethren and kinsfolk are angels and good men. His diet is temperance, his apparel decency, his trade peacemaking, his study forgiveness, his patrimony eternal felicity. He is as firm as a rock, as bold as a lion, as mild as a lamb, as wise as a serpent, as harmless as a dove, as constant as a turtle, and as rare as a phoenix.
We find the following item among the exchange notes in the last issue of our esteemed contemporary The Cornell Review. “ An ablb pilot is at the helm of the Notre Dame Scholastic. We receive no exchange that manifests moi e careful editing. It presents articles of solid worth to readers. “Art, Music and Literature ” items are selected with discretion. The exchange editor, while displaying confidence, independence, and skill, never acts the blackguard, but is always a thorough gentleman. “ The Roll of Honor,” however, containing the names of those whose conduct has been satisfactory for the preceding week, seems strangely out ot place in a college paper. The'feeling of insubordination must be rampant to render such a list necessary. The Roman Catholic spirit breathes out on every page. As we look at the picture of its turreted building, we listen to hear its bell call the students to some sombre, depressing religious service, where holy water is sprinkled, the images of saints and the Blessed Virgin are invoked, and the priest in his robes performs the miracle of transub-stantiation. But let this pass. We shall not treat here of religion or the mystery of life.” Our exchange editor will, no doubt, duly appreciate the delicate compliment
paid him by the scholarly and gentlemanly exchange editor of The Cornell Review. As to the Roll of Honor, we can assure our friend that it is one of the most valuable, and one of the best paying features of the Scholastic,— appreciated by the editors on account of the interest students take in the paper when their names appear on the roll, and appreciated by the students for the mark of high merit which the publication of their names in it implies. We can assure him, also, that at no college with which we . are acquainted, is there such universally good deportment on all occasions as at Notre Dame. This may be, and no doubt is, in a great measure due to the publication of the Roll of Honor and List of Excellence, for the coveted honor of having one’s name appear in either of these lists is so highly appreciated by the great majority of the students as to do away, to a great extent, with the stern measures to ensure good discipline resorted to in other educational institutions. What the deportment of students would be here without the Roll of Honor and List of Excellence it is hard to determine, but what we know is, that they conduce materially to gentlemanly conduct and a habit of study, and this without severe constraint. It is said that about fourteen years ago, the great Archbishop Spalding, when leaving Notre Dame after a prolonged visit, remarked to a bystander that at no institution he had ever visited, with an equal number of young men (there were then, it is said, about 450 students here) did he witness such good conduct and gentlemanly bearing among the students. Such a compliment, and from such a learned Prelate, who had visited many educational institutions both in this country and in Europe, was certainly a high one, and one of which Notre Dame’s boys may well feel proud. As to the concluding sentences of the Review's paragraph, those who are acquainted with the beautiful and imposing ceremonies of the Catholic ritual know well that there is nothing cold or depressing in them; and at no place on the American continent, perhaps, are they carried out with greater splendor than at Notre Dame. So much is this the case, that visitors, who have witnessed the ceremonies connected with the solemn church services here, often come a long distance to see them again. The images of saints and the Blessed Virgin are to be seen in the College Church (one of the most beautiful structures, and one of the richest in art of any in America), but not to be invoked as if they could see or hear; no,—Catholics entertain no such belief, but to serve as objects to recall to the mind of the beholder the virtues and the power in heaven of the holy personages they represent, pretty much in the same way as the picture of a deceased mother recalls to the mind of a fond son the kindness of that mother while in life. We have been told by one who heard the remark that a Protestant clergyman when visiting the Church at Notre Dame stopped in enthusiasm before one of Gregori’s pictures of the Way of the Cross and said to the friend who accompanied him, “This picture furnishes a meditation in itself,” or words to that effect.
—It was Charles II. who gave Dryden the hint for writing his poem of the “ Medal.” One day, as the King was walking in the hall and talking with Dryden, he said: “ If I were a poet, and I am sure I am poor enough for one, I would write a poem on such a subject in the following manner.” The King then stated the plan of the poem. Dryden took the hint, and when the poem was finished he presented it to his Majesty, who made him a present of a hundred broad pieces for it.
604
THE EOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
Personal.
—Celestine Villeneuve, ’75, is practising law in San Antonio, Texas.
—James A. Brown, ’76, is Co. Treasurer of Cameron Co., Texas, and lives in Brownsville, his old home.
—Eugene F. Arnold (Law), ’77, sailed for Europe last week. The Scholastic wishes Mr. Arnold a pleasant and prosperous voyage.
—In the absence of Rev. A. Louage, now in France, Rev. M. P. Fallize, C. S. C., fulfils the duty of Novice-Master at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Notre Dame, Ind.
—James Hagerty, (Commercial) ’77, has been visiting his Alma Mater during the past week. Mr. Hagerty, we are pleased to hear, is doing business with his lather in St. Louis, Missouri.
—W. P. Breen, Class of’76, is practising Jaw in his native city, Fort Wayne. We are pleased to hear that Mr. Bieen is doing well, and that by all accounts he will shortly be at the head of his profession.
—The following have been among the visitors at Notre Dame during the past week: Miss Reynolds, Cassopolis, Mich; Mrs. Morrisson, Jackson, Mich; Mrs. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind; Mr. Hennock, Laporte, Ind.
—B. Stanislaus, C. S. C., the gentlemanly foreman of the Scholastc office, has been for the past six weeks in Washington, attending to business connected with the University. We do not know what time he will be back at his post, but we hope it will be soon.
—T. A Dailey, Class ot ’74, is Professor in Goliad College, Texas. We are pleased to hear that Air. Dailey is doing well, and that he does not forget to “put together a few items for the Scholastic,’’ whenever an opportunity presents itself. From a letter recently received trom him, we learn that he has the Alumni (Society) poem at Hillsdale College, Alich., to be read at the Commencement exercises in June, at which time Mr. Dailey expects to visit Notre Dame, and remain, we hope, until the close of the Commencement exercises here. We are sure that all here will be pleased to see Mr Dailey, as he has ever proved himself a true son of old Notre Dame.
Obituary.
—Died,' Alarch the 19th, 1880, the Feast of St. Joseph, at Notre Dame, Ind., fortified by the Sacraments of our Holy Church, Airs. Anne Egan, aged 87 years, a native of New-park, Cashel, Co. Tipperary, Ireland.
Requiescat in pace.
Local Items.
—No more snow—no more winter.
—Competitions next week will be in the Collegiate Course.
—No more wild ducks on the lakes—all killed, or all fled?
i^Who will have the best Bulletin for the-month of April?
—The little boat is well patronized during the recreation hours.
—Prof. Lyons did not go to Chicago on last Wedesday— reason---.
—Tae recreation after supper seems to be most enjoyed by the boys.
—A large number of books have been- lately added to the libraries.
—The piazza in front of the College extension is being rapidly put up.
—The various baseball clubs are being organized at the rate of two forty.
—There were some good games of baseball played on Wednesday last.
—Classes are being visited now by the Director of Studies. Look out, boys!
—The gardeners are at present preparing for the planting of flowers, vegetables, etc., etc.
—Look out for the Philopatrians’ Exhibition. Something good may surely be expected.
—We were shown the other day a beautiful pair of mocking-birds, lately brought from the South.
—Our friend John says spring comes but once a year. What a pity it did not come twice and satisfy him.
—Things are commencing to look green around here; hence there must be a lot of greenies on the premises.
—Air. Condon, the gentlemanly barber from South Bend, commits all the barbarities around here on Wednesdays.
—Be ready for the Philopatrian Exhibition. Prof. Lyons is their efficient President; hence all will be well.
—The weather has been quite summer-like during the past few days, but very likely will be winter-like before long.
—Some needed improvements are being made on the grounds between the Portiuncvla Chapel and the Presbytery.
—Now that the good weather is at hand the students enjoy themselves to their hearts’ content on recreation days.
—The Philopatrians’ Entertainment on next Saturday evening will be commemorative of the birth of William Shakespeare.
—All the old students who come to visit Notre Dame express themselves highly pleased with the appearance of the new College, and things in general.
—Prof. Ackerman is doing some fine work in the Senior refectory. On account, however, of the lowness of the ceiling the effect is not what it otherwise would be.
—The carpentry work of the College extension is nearly completed; it seems to be well done, and, as we before remarked, reflects much credit on the “boss” carpenter.
—April has so far proved itself a very peculiar month; inside ot one week we have had summer, winter, and spring weather. How does our weather prophet explain this?
—The Botanists have been lately scouring the woods for wild flowers. They seem as if they had flowers on the brain. Poor things! how exquisite a taste they have for game.
—The Apprentices are by all appearances as gentlemanly and as well-behaved young men as may be found anywhere. It is really gratifying to be able to speak thus of them.
—T. W. Simms of the Law Class, entertained the First Book-Keeping Class last Saturday by a well considered and ably delivered lecture on the subject of “ Husband and Wife,” from a legal standpoint.
—Our friend John says he won’t say any more about the “amiable” horticulturist; he made a mistake last weekin writing “bear” for “bare.” There are so many “ bears ” around, John sometimes gets mixed up.
—The Minims are the liveliest crowd of boys around. It is really amusing to stand on any recreation day and witness the many games in which they are engaged. Life, mirth, and joyfulness are their principal constituents.
—There are some good voices among the boys at the ‘ Manual Labor School. So, at least, we were inelined to judge, on listening to a number of them singing the “Old Home aint wat it used to was,”^tc., on last Sunday evening.
—The boats have been removed from their winter quarters at last, and now are undergoing repairs. In a short time.we may expect to see the “ crews ” practicing for the race which is to come off during Commencement week.
—Our. horticulturist is about to start for St. Joe’s Farm, and will very likely indulge there in making the trees bare, oh! we forget, bear we should have said-----we do not want to frighten the folks out there, but we would, however, advise them to have a few teams ready for some particular purpose.
I
T#E KOTRE DAM& SCHOLASTIC.	60S
r
v
—The 28lh regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Society took place April 9th. Essays were read by M. T. Burns and N. Weny. Masters F. Klein and Hellebusche were elected members. Public readers for this week: W. J. McCarthy, E. Orrick, J. Weitzel, W. Thompson, L. Keen.
—Friend John being asked a few days ago what he thought of artificial diamonds, said: “ Well, to tell you the truth, I don’t believe much in anything artificial; and yet the world is full of it, man is full of it, and ”—he was waxing grandiloquent; but, on looking at the physiognomies of his auditors, cut it short.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held April 11th. Masters J. Guthrie gave a very instructive account of “Corpus Chr.sti,” and G. Rhodius explained the meaning of the different colors of the vestments worn by priests at Mass.
—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association took place April 31. Masters Ruppe, Johnson and Wilder were elected members. Declamations were delivered by N. Nelson, F. Becker, A. Coyne, E. Chorican, H. Foote, E. Fletcher, J. Kelly, F. McPhillips, Litmer, A. Rhorback, W. Start and O. Farrelly.
—The weather prophet has at last handed in his report—and what a report! why, he knows about as much of weather, winds, storms, or rain, as a five-year-old duck. Here is his report: “ southwest wind rules—rain in May— northern lights in June—shooting stars and meteors in July.” We wish one of those stars inclined to shoot would shoot him, and so rid the world of one false prophet.
—Our horticulturist thinks that he who was so desirous of knowing what was going to be done with the trunks of the trees after the limbs were all cut off, should procure a copy of Darwing’s horticulture, and spend an hour or so each day in its carelul perusal. But our jriend John does not want to study horticulture, or any other culture; in fact, he is culture its< If, and, therefore, the kind advice of the man with the spirit of George in him is respectfully declined.
—The Band had no better rehearsal this year than on last Wednesday. Just to give an idea in what trim the Band is, we would say that the leader gave out a new piece—“Royal Standard”—and one that is pronounced rather difficult. It was only played twice, but it was played the second time as if an ordinary band had practiced and rehearsed it half a dozen times. Keep on practicing, boys, and you need not be ashamed to appear in public at Commencement.
—The handsomest piece of furniture around Notre Dame is unquestionably the beautiful organ manufactured by Clough & Warren, Detroit, Mich., that adorns the room of Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau at the Professed House. The organ in question is in reality a beauty; and for sweetness and power is unrivalled. Clough & Warren certainly deserve a liberal patronage, as by all accounts they are trustworthy and thorough gentlemen, and sell their goods, which are of the very best kind, at .reasonable prices.
—“Good-Night, Gentle-Folks,” is the title of a new quartette, by Will L. Thompson, author of the famous quartette “Come Where the Lilies Bloom.” Concert and Minstrel troupes pronunce it the most beautiful piece of music ever put on their programmes. It never fails to receive a hearty encore. Tne demand is such that it is scarcely possible to keep it in print. Music dealers write that they never knew a quartette to sell so fast. We advise lovers of music to send the price, 50 cents, to the publishers, and receive a copy by return mail. Published by W.L. Thompson & Co., East Liverpool, Ohio.
—It has come to be a proverb, almost, that art-work from St. Mary’s Academy is as near perfection as it is possible to attain. Some choice specimens of painting on plates now on exhibition in Wneelock’s show window, are no exception to the rule. One of these is a large plate, on which is painted in oil, a winter scene, in the foreground are large trees, rugged and leafless, wood-choppers and figures carrying bundles of fagots. In the distance is a house, aud there are other accessories to make the pic
ture perfect, and it is as highly executed as if done on canvass. Another plate has for its subject “The Arab’s Prayer.” There are the rolling sands ot the desert, meeting the dreary sky in the far distance, while in front is . the Arab dismounted from his camel, which stands obedi-j ently by, while he repeats his prayer. An Easter Cross, ’ wreathed in beautiful and appropriate flowers for the subject, also attracts much attention. There were other and smaller specimens in the exhibition, which we learn will be added to shortly. We nope all lovers of art will call and inspect them.—South-Bend Tribune
—“Preludes.” This is the modest title under which Maurice F. Egan has cast upon the waters of the literary world a neat volume of pretty poems and sweet sonnets. No thought of sordid gain actuated the poet in thus throwing upon this prosy world the pets of his poetic fancy; on the contrary, he was impelled to do so by one of the highest and holiest motives that could illumine the poet's soul. His little work is the heart-cffering of his genius towards re-erecting the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, which was destroyed by fire last year. A motive like this could emanate only from a soul unsullied by sordid ambition, and this generous action at once places the golden stamp of genius upon the poetic fancies of Mr. Egan. This book costs only one dollar, and can be had through Flood of San Francisco, or from the publishers. P. F. Cunningham & Son, Philadelphia. Ot the poems themselves it is needless to speak, as all readers of Catholic literature must nave read many of Mr. Egan’s poems in the magazines and newspapers during Ine past ten years. Suffice it to say, that they have been received with great favor tnrough-out the Atlantic States, and we hope that many copies will find their way into the homes of our readers, who will thus combine the pleasure of doing good with the pastime of perusing poetry that will please and purify all who have a love for story told in song.—Catholic Sentinel.
—A game of baseball was played on Sunday, April 11th, between the Juanita and Star ot the East, the score resulting as follows:
JUANITA.	R.	o.
G Sugg, l?t b		1	3
G. Pike, 2d b		1	4
W. Arnold, 1. f		2	4
A. J. Burger, c		3	3
H. Deehan, s. s		2	3
C. Hagan, d		3	2
F. Wall, r. f.		3	2
F Smith, c. f		2	9,
M. Burns, 3d b		0	4
		
Total		17	27
STAR OF THE EAST. R. O.
C. Karans, 2d b....
F. DeVOtO, 1st b...
J. P. Kinney, s. s.....
B. Claggett, c. f. W. McGorrisk, I. f.... R. Campbell, 3d b.... J. Smith, r. f....
F. Bloom, p........
A. Lent, c.........
1 1 0 0 0 0 0
1 1
3
2 4
3
3 3
4
2 3
Total............... 4	27
Umpire—D. Donohue. Scorers—Jones and Bell. Time of game—2^ hours.
innings:
The Juanita baseball club was organized some lime ago, the following being the officers and players: Officers— Bro. Marcellinus, Director; A. J. Burger, President; Geo. Sugg, Sec.; W. McGorrisk, Treasurer; W. Ar old, Captain. Players—G. Sugg, 1st b.; G. Pike, 2d b.; W. Arnold, 1. f.; A- J. Burger, c.; H. Deehan, s. s.; C. Hagan, p.; F. Wall, r. f.; F. Smith, c. f.; and M. Burns, 3d b.
— The following is a list of the works lately presented to the College Library by Col. W. Anderson, of Circleville, Ohio. Many of the volumes, as will be observed, are as valuable as they rare. The College authorities fully appreciate the valuable contribution made by the. Col., and beg him to accept for the same their most grateful acknowledgement: Sainte Bible de Vence, en Latin eten Frangaie, with Literary, Critical and Historical notes, Prefaces and Dissertations, jjrawn from the most reliable sources, complete in 27 volumes.; Berger, Bictionnaire de Theeiogie, com
506
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
plete in 8 vols.; Histoire Generate de TEglise, complete in 13 vols.; (Euvres Completes de Chateaubriand, 5 vols.; (Euvres de Fenelon, 3 vois.; Bossuet's Sermons, Panegyriqueset Orai-sons Funebres, 1 vols.; Bossuet's Histoire des Vanationes des Eghses Protestantes, 4 vols.; (Euvres de Massillon, 8 vols.; (Euvres de Sainte Therese 2 vols.; (Euvres de Bourdaloue, 1 vols.; Rodriguez's, Perfection, Chretienne La Confession par M l'Abbe GiUois; Discussion Amicale sur I'Eglise An-glicane, 2 vUs.; Hi-tirrie Generale de I'Espagne. traduite de I Espagnol de Ferras, 10 vols.: Abrege de VHistone de France—Daniel, 8. J., 12 vols.; Observations, sur IHistoire de France, l'Abbe de Mably, 3 vols.; Histoire des Chevaliers Hospitaliers deMalthe—l'Abbe deVertol, 5 vols.; Histoire des Beoulutions de I' Empire des Arabes, 5 vols.; Moeurs et Usages des Tures, leur religion, leur gouverement civil, Mili-taire el Politique-, 2 vols.; Histoire des Insects, 2 vols.; Traite de la Peinture par Levnardo da Vinci; Memoires de Sully, 3 vols.; Vie et Memoires du General Dumounez, Berville et Barriere, 4 vols.; Vie du Cardinal Cheverus; Memoires de 8. A. Antoine—Philippe; d'Orleans; Vie de Louis—Marie Grignon de Montfort; Proces des Ministres de Clearies X; Oraisons funebres de Bossuet; Les characteres de la Bruyere; Le Bon jardmier,—“The Adventures of Talemachus,” 2 vols.; “ Revolutions oi Field Batteries, or Artillery,”—Mayor Robert Anderson; “Speeches and Writings of Hon. Tnomas F. Marshall,” edited by W. L. Larre; “Locke’s Essay on Human Understanding” ; “Rowlett’s Tables oi Discount or Interest” ; “The Wonder of the Heavens,” a popular view of Astronomy—Duncan Brad-lord; “A Practical, Theoretical and historical Dictionary of Commerce,”—McCulloch; “Patent Offiice Report,” 1865. 3 vols.; “Kentucky Geological Survey,’ 2 vols,; “U. S. Coast Survey,” 3 vols.; Geological Survey of Ohio ” ; “Report ol Progress in 1869 and 1870 ” 2 vol.; “Palaeontology,” 4 vols.; “Maps oi Geological Survey of Ohio,” 2 vols.; with a number of other valuable publications.
RoH of Honor.
[The names of those students "who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, R. Anderson, R. Adams, J. Berteling, J. Brice, F. Brennan, M. T. Burns, F. Bell, F. Brown, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahue, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, A. Dobson, M. English, E. Fogarty, G. Harris, C. L. Hagan, W. Hamilton, 8. Henoch, J. Kinney, R. E. Keenan, F. Kinsella, J. Ktnz, P. B Larkin, E. Lynch, F. Lynch, J. B. McGrath, M. J. MeEniry, P. McCormick, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, A Meyer, E. Murphy, E. Molitor, L. Mathers, C. Moore, f. A Mattingly, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, G. Nester, L J. Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, B. H. Pollock, L. M Proctor, W. Ryan, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, J. Smith, F. Smith, L. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, H. Wathen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. T. Brown, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, T. P. Byrne, A. A. Bodine, M. J. Burns, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, F. L. Carter, A. A Caren. L. W. Coghlin, J. D. Coleman, H. F. Devitt, T. F. Devitt, G. W. De Haven, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, O. J. Farrelly, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, H. G. Guynn, E. F. Gall, M. E. Herrick, A J. Hmtze, J. A. Hermann, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, R. Le Bourgeois. J. A. Larkin, S Livingston, F. McPhiilips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, F. P. Morrison, A. 8. Manning. P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, C. F. Perry, F. B. Phillips. A P. Perley, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts,C. F. Rietz, J. F. Rettig, G. J. Rnodius, J. Ruppe, C. F. Rose, A. S. Rock, A. N. Ruhrback, J. K. Schobey. E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, C. Schneider, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Wilder, N. T. Weny.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. M. Courtney, J. I. Smith, D. G. Taylor, J. 8. Courtney, G. P. Van Mourick, J. J. Henry, C. E. Droste, H. P. Dunn, E. A. Howard, C. C. Echlin, G. E. Tourtillotte, H. C. Snee, H. A Kitz, J. A Campau, W. H. Hanavin, G. C. Knight. G. Woodson, E. O’Donnell, A. A. Molander, A F. Schmiickle, J. A. Kelly, J. H. Dweuaer, W. V. O’Malley, J. E. Chaves, J. R. Bender, E C. Campau, E. H. Bourdon, H. J- Ackerman, H. Metz, C. Metz, L. J. Toung, C. Zoung, W* Ayers, E. L. Oatman.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. 8. Smith, R. Lanham, T. Kavanagh, C. Whalen, L. Stitzel, P. Shea, J. Solon, F. Smi'h, W. Ryan, J. Osher, G. Pike, P. McCormick, W. McGorrisk, F. Kinsella, G. Harris, M. Falvey, J. Dempsey, F. Bell, F. Brennan, R. Adams, B. Casey,M. English, A. Lent, J. Smith, C. Tinley, J. McCarthy, R. Fleming, R. Semmes, C. Rieiz, P. Joyce, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, F. Phillips.
List of ExeeHence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes oi the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—C. Karins R. Lanham, F. McPhiilips, G. Khodius, J. M. Boose, P. Fletcher, M. Herrick, J. Davis, J. Coleman, F. Kleine, N. Weney, W. Cleary, E. Conyne; Grammer—N. Weney, R. Fleming, G. Pike, C. B. Van Dusen, M. B. Falvey; Arithmetic—M. Falvey, R. Fleming; Geography—J. Solon. R. Fleming, R. Le Burgeors, G. Foster, O. Farrelly, R. Simms; United States History—J. Solon, R. Fleming, J. Gibbons; Business Penmanship—E. Fogarty, L. Stitzel, F. Philips, J. H. Delaney; Book-Keeping—(reports will be published next week); Christian Doctrine—(from last week) P. Nelson.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular meeting of St. Agnes’s Literary Society the reading was a story from the Ave Maria. Reader: Miss C. Lancaster.
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude's German Literary Society the reading was a continuation of “ Schiller.” Reader: Miss Gall.
—At the regular meeting of St. Catherine’s Literary Society the reading was “Inpressions of Spain,” Lady Herbert. Readers: Misses Gall and Claffey.
—On the eve of Good Shepherd’s-Sunday the same lady who donated the above named gift, presented a fine picture of “ Tne Good Shepherd,” nicely framed, to the Visitors’ Dining-Room.
—A bolt of excellent carpet was presented to the Infirmary Chapel by Mrs. E. Killelea, oi Ottawa, Ill. An alb ot rare design and woikmanship has also been presented to the Sanctuary of the Infirmary.
—Visitors: Rev. M. T. Moll, Elkhart; Rev. S. Deming, Avilla; Miss Reynolds (Graduate Class '76), Cassopolis, Mich.; Mrs. Gilbert, Miss.O. Tong, South Bi nd, J. B. Tuttle, Grand Rapids, Mich.;' Mrs. Morrisson, Jackson, Mich.; Mr. Hamilton, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. Maloney, Indianopolis, Ind.
—A valuable gift was presented to the Academy Library by Miss Hemenway, “ American Scenery,” from a London Publishing House. The work is edited by N. P. Willis, and is in two volumes, consisting of excellent engravings of the most celebrated points oi'~American scenery, with descriptions by the compiler.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior Department the reading was “The Story of Echo,” from the Rose Bud by Rose M. McCloskey; "Joi dees Chritiens ala Resumeetion du Sauveur," Mgr. Letournea, by Celestine Lemontey; Zujnedenheet," Mellar, by Mary Reutlinger; and “The Singing Lesson,” Jean Ingelow, by Agnes Dillon.
—At the regular meeting ol St. Angela’s Literary Society the reading was account of Mrs. Sigourney, from Hart’s American Literature, and some other selections. Reader: Miss Simms. Reward for the best synopsis of the reading, etc., of the last meeting, had been offered. The Misses
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	507

Zahm and Wall presented the two best, but by acclamation it was accorded to the former.
—At the regular Academic Bennion St. Mary's Chimes, Volume m, Number III, was read. Editors: the Misses Smith and Clafiev of the Second Senior Class, and the Misses Gall and Dillon of the Third Senior Class. Contents: Editorial—Ceremonies of Holy Week; Gift to the Library; Illness of our Reverend Chaplain; The Transferred Feast; Tarantism in the House; Degredation of Graduation; The Model Society, A Charming Gift to the - Altar in Salt Lake; The Illness of a Beloved Schoolmate; An offering to the Altar; Natural History; Favorable Promises; Farewell to Very Rev. Father Champeau, (fn m the French); A Bewildering Consideration; Solution of a Mystery; In the Sweet-Bye-and-Bye; Sweetmeats in the First Preparatory Class; Feast-Day Gift of flowers; A. Poor Marketer; Phonic Short-hand, as interpreted by a Tyro; Departuresand Visits; The New Alb; This Celebrated Instutution; Making their Debut; The Habit of the Caricaturing; Advice in Ryhme; Thorough Cultivation the only safety for our Youth.
—The exquisite hand-wrought lace altar ruffle, sent from the Sisters’ Infirmary to adorn the new altar of the Academy at Salt Lake, was duly received. We quote from ■St. Mary'8 Chimes of the 11th inst.: “We hear that the recipients are delighted with it, and all the more so, because it is the handiwork of a little invalid who is dear to everyone who knows her. Her name we need not mention; it is in the heart of all. The design of the ruffle is original, and is Gothic in style. It is wrought in white silk floss, and bordered with one hundred and two white silk tassels. In the pattern, five hundred and thirtyeight stars, and ninety-four ferns were wrought. We doubt, if any flowers bore a sweeter fragrance, than was imparted to the perception of angels on Easter morning, by those ferns, if devotedness and piety are the measure of sweetness; nor did fairest tapers show a truer luster, than those delicately embroidered stars, if suffering and patience are capable of imparting a supernatural brightness to such a labor of love. God bless the slender hands which wrought it, and the loving, cheerful heart which designed this sweet gift to the dear distant recipients.”
RoH of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Dillon, Keenan. 1st Class —Misses Buck, Gordon. 2d Div.—Misses Usselman. Neu, Sullivan. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Campbell, Rosing, Farrell, Killelea. 2d Div.—Misses Haekley, McMahon. 3d Class— Misses McGrath, Semmes, Wells, Callinan, Salomon, Gall, Reinhard, Bruser, Maloney. 2d Div.—Misses C. Hackett, Julius, Donnelly, Woodin, H. Hackett, Bischoff, English, A. Ewing, Horner. 4th Class—Misses Davis, Crummey, Price, Cavenor, C. Campbell, Palmer. 2d Div.—Misses Otto, Garrity, Fox, French, Leydon, Mitchell, Van Namee, Wurzburg. 5th Class—Misses Purdy, O’Connor, C. Wathen, Regensburg, Claf-fey, Loeber, Keys, Brown, Danaher, Casey, A. Dillon, Gavan. 2d Div.—Misses Orr, Dessaint, Cronin, Harrison, Gibbons, Hutchinson, Wells, Legnard, Lancaster, Hammond, Paddock, Feehan, Simms, S. Wathen, Reutlinger, Wall, Populorum. K. Lancaster, Moxon, Lloyd, Tallman, E. Populorum, Fitzgerald. 6th Class—Misses Fishburne. Rasche, Fleming, Barlow, Duncan, Greenebaum, De Lapp, Baroux, McFadden, Murphy, Nete-ler, E. Ryan, K Ryan, Papin, Carter, Chirbart, Knighton, 2d Div.—Misses Ginz, Swayze, G. Taylor, Watson, Zimmerman, Clarke, Ward, Edelen, Taylor, Cox, Lemontey, Moll, Wright, Wilkins. 7th Class—Misses Reynolds, Engel, Halloran, McCormick, Smith, McCoy, McCloskey, I. Hackettt. 8th Class— Misses, Cleghorn, Butts, Fisk, B. Garrity, Heeney. 9th Class —Misses M. Baroux, M. Fitzgerald. 10th Class—Misses P. Ew-ng, T. Ewing Strong.	.
Harp—1st Class—Misses Galen. 2d. Div.—Misses Semmes, Dillon. 3d Div.—Miss Bruser.
Organ—Misses C. and S. Wathen.	_
Exercises and Scales—Misses Galen, Gordon, Buck, Sullivan, Usselman, Neu, Kirchner, Campbell, Farrell, Killelea, Haekley, McMahon, Semmes, Gall, Wells, Paddock, Saloman Julius, H. Hackett, Bischoff, English, Davis, Price. Wurzburg, Gavan, Rasche, Greenbaum, Regensburg, Knighton, McCormick.
Harmony—Misses Galen, Dillon, Keenan. 2d. Class—Miese Gordon, Buck. 3d. Class—Misses Neu, Usselman,
General Theoretical Classes.
Elements op Thorough Base—Misses Sullivan, Farrell, McMahon, M. Campbel], E. McGrath, Kirchner, Gall, A. Ewing, Semmes.
Theoretical Classes—Misses Cavenor, Wells, English, L Hackett, H. Hackett, Horner, Feehan, Lancaster, Ciaffey, French. Julius, Palmer, Reinhard, Haekley. Donnelly, Saloman, Bischoff, Danaher, Fox, Taylor, G. Taylor, Tailman, Rvan, C. Campbell, De Lapp, Orr, Fox, Fh ming, Hutchinson. Halloran, Harrison, Populorum, Cronin, Barlow, Leonard, Moll, Keys, Reynolds, Engel Brown, McCoy, McCormick, Wright, Thompson, L. Wells, Edelen, Chirbart.
• vocal department.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner, Gordon, 2d Class —Misses Usselman, Hackett. 3d Class—Misses Bruser, Rosing, Reinhard, Buck, Farrell, O'Connor, Ca’Iinan, Julius, Saloman, Sullivan, A. Ewing. 4th Class—Misses Otto, I. Semmes, Wells, Haekley, E. Hackett, Mitchell, French, Purdy, Davis. 5th Class—Misses McMahon, Moxon, Simms, Edelen,. Paddock, Greenebaum. Brown, Regensburg, C. Wathen, Hallinan, Thompson, McCoy, Rasche.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Papin, Loeber, Wall, Callinan. 3d Class —Misses Feehan, Horner, Baroux, Hammond. Crummey. Barlow.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses French, Otto, Winston. 3n Class—Misses Butts, Thompson, Casey, Fox, Lancaster, C. Lancaster, J.-Wells.
China Painting.
Misses I. Semmes, Zahm, A. Ewing. Dessaint.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class— Misses Killelea, I. Semmes, Dessaint,Zahm. C. Campbell, Dillon, A. Ewing, Gavan. 3d Class—Misses English, Sullivan.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses C. Hackett, A. Rvan, Fitzgerald, Quinn, Tallman, Hal oran, Simms, Donnelly, Edelen, Murphy, Rasche, Walsh, Bischoff, Bruser, O’Conner.
Junior Department—Misses Duncan, Reutlinger, Carter, E. Populorum, Knighton, Gibbons, Lemontey, Legnard, A. Dillon, Harrison, Considine, Paquette, Roiinson, Moll. Clarke, P. Ewing, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, Haney, McCloskey, Ciaffey, M. Baroux Hutchison.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses 8. Wathen, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith, Donn-lly, C. Wathen, Murphy, Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, Strawn, Crummey, Davis, Simms, Regensburg, Wall, Legnard, Duncan. Ginz. Casey, Halloran, Reinhard, Salomon. Horner, Pa mer, Wurzhurg, Paddock. Hucheson, Gibbons. Greenebaum, Hammond, E. Populorum, Papin, Waid, Chirbart, McCloskey, Crieg, Cox, Wilkins, E. Papin, Keys, Swa\ ze.
Plain Sewing and Dress-Making—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Wall, Sullivan. Lancasti-r, Winston, A. Ewing, Creig.
General Mending—1st Class—Misses Usselman, Gordon, Killelea, Hackett, Silverthorne, Cavenor, Ward, Ryan, Rosing, Kirchner, Loeb«r, Danaher, Dillon, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, Taylor, Zahm, English, Winston, McMahon, Lloyd. 2d Class—Misses Hacklev, Mitchell, Reinhard, A. Ewing, Otto, Donnelly, Gall, Wells, Bruser. 3d Class—Misses C. Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, O’Connor, Callinan, Keena, Thompson, Cox, McFadden, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon, A. Dillon, Julius, Baroux, De Lapp.
Tablet of Honor.
TOR POLITENESS, NEATNE'S, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, A. Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Dan-her, Semmes, Dillon, Neu, Ussleman, Mitchell, Otto, Winston, Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Fitzgerald, De Lapp, Gall, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser. McMahon, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Baroux, Gavan, Regensburg, Hammond, Saloman, Rasche, Thompson. Halloran, Wright, Wurzburg, Keena, Purdy, Swayze, Edelen, McCormick, Paddock, Kreig, McCoy, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Keenan, Woodin, Maloney, Hambleton, Rosing, Buck, Kirchner, Loeber, Donnelly. O’Connor, Julius, Palmer, Haekley, Dessaint, Davis, Orr, Greenebaum, Homer, Reinhard, Cleghorn, Leydon, Wall, Tallman, Moxon, Brown, McFadden.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ciaffey, A. Dillon. C. Campbell, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Casey, Crummev, Fishburne, McCloskey, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Chirbart, Gmz, Paquett, Hucheson, Considine, Jaeger,
508
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Knighton, Strawn, M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroni, Chaves, par excellent Misses Feehan, Fox, French, Butts, Populorum, Lemon-tey,E. Hackett, Papin, McN. Garrity, J. Welle, Watson, Joseph, Moll, G Taylor, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Carter, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, Clarke, Harrison, E. Papin, I. Hackett, Campau.
BOYS AND GIRLS
Should ask their parents to buy for them, every week, the new Catholic picture and story paper—
It is full of Stories, Sketches, and Pictures in which boys and girls take delight. It has no’es on Games and Amusements. There something in every Number which will please every member of the family.	.
D can be ordered from any News Dealer. If there is any difficulty in procuring it, send a line to the publisher, P. V. HICKEY, New York.
Subscription, $3 per Year; S1.50, Six Months ; §1, Four Months.
Single Copies.....6 Cents.
Address
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC AMERICAN, 11 Barclay St., New York, N. Y.
Three Great Cities of the West
Hotels.
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
THE MATTERSON HOUSE, Comer of Was bash avc and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicag mav be found at the Matt* rson
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
Oiwr. PROCTOR [..f ’75J, Civ 1 ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
|^“ NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course' for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Ita ian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
KT In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music cr in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St, Muy’s Academy, Notre Dame P, O., Indiana.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Eeclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY. CHICAGO and 8T. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne* braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CABS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and Information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to ‘
Jambs Charlton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent.
Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago
W. C. Van Hobnb,	J. c. McMullan,
Gen’l Superintendent	Gen’l Manager.
41-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	509
f
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in INlifor the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, Ac., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. EDWARDS,
Notbb Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, nyAT.^H IN Watches, Clocks, -A.2srx> JEWELRY.
AU Kinds ot Engraving Pone.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.

I.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST !
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City. Marengo. Rrooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatiu, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset: Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. ThroughcarsarealsornnbetweenMllwau-kee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, In one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of tnis line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKINGSALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.	.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the L.S. AM. S-, andP., Ft. W. AC. R.Rds.
At Washington Heights, with P-, C. A St.
At La Salle, with III. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with p. p. & J.; P.D. 4E.; L B.A W.; III. Mid.; and T.P. * W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C.M. 4 St. P. R. R.
At WestLiberty, withtheB., C.R.4 N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. 4 F. D. R. R.
At Council Blufps. with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. 4 Mo. R- R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction,with B.,c. R. 4 N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central lowaR-R.; W., St. L. 4 Pac., and C. B. 4 Q. R. Rds. ■
At Keokuk, with Tol.. Peo. 4 War.: Wab^ St. Louis 4 Pac., and St. L., Keo. 4 N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka 4 Santa Fe;
Atch. 4 Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Lea venworth, with Kan. Pao, and Kan. Cent. R. Rds. __
At Kansas CITY, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
PVLLMAX PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA, DES MOINES, COVNCII. BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH. '
Tickets via this Une, known as the “Great Rock Island Route,’’ are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
Nor information not obtainable at your borne ticket oflee, address, -
Gsa’l SuperiatandaaA
E. ST. JOHN, Gsn’l Tkt. and Pms’^f Art, m
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. I
'	if
(MAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY -was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the ’ usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of’ pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the
United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at 4 Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Univeesitt affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbe Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalougbs, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBV, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana*