Votre Dame Scholastic.
Bisoe quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NO THE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 22, 1878.
Number 43.
Sonnet.
IN SICKNESS.
As in the meadows, or ’mid flowery ways
Of forest, flows a softly laughing stream,
Onward and onward in a golden dream, Trilling the livelong day its song of praise, And glancing joyous thro’ the summer haze.
But suddenly when fades th’ Autumnal gleam,
It steals o’er few that darkly saddened seem, Silent and dead thro’ long, long winter days. Ah, thus my life, ’mid joys and pleasures bright, Has happily all the years of childhood passed, But now the Angel, once the fatal blight
Of Israel, flutters in the dreary blast,— He breathes upon me—the eternal night
Of Death descends upon my soul at last.
E. J. M.
William Cullen Bryant.
But a few days since the sad intelligence of the death of William Cullen Bryant, one of America’s most eminent poets, flashed over the electric wire from one extremity of the continent to the other, and caused a pang of sorrow in all literary circles. Mr. Bryant was born in Cunnington, Massachusetts, on the 3d day of November, 1797, and had consequently at the time of his death passed his 81st year. At the remarkably early age of thirteen his genius began to display itself, when he published a poem,“ The Embargo,” written in rhyming pentameter. This, his first known attempt at composition, was a political satire, and had a large and ready sale. The young genius attended school at Williams College, and was noted for his zealous attachment to the classics and literature in general. After finishing his education, in 1812, he began the practice of the law in Great Barrington, and was shortly afterwards married in the same place. He wrote the celebrated Thanatopsis, which first appeared in the North American Review in 1816, when but nineteen years of age. Of course every one was astonished at the almost marvellous genius displayed by one so young in the art of poetry. This poem spread his fame through the whole world. Like all his works, it is charcterized by pure, graceful, but vigorous diction, purity of expression, delicate fancy, and profound as well as religious philosophy. In this work we may see that as an observer and admirer of nature’s charms Mr. Bryant stands almost alone.
Even while engaged in the practice of law, Mr. Bryant found time to attend to his favorite art, and at that time wrote his well-known poems “ To a Water Fowl,” “Inscription for an Entrance to a Wood,” and many others equally worthy of the writer’s talents. In 1821 he read.before one
of the societies of Harvard College his longest poem, “ The Ages,” which was a general survey of the life and experience of man.
In 1825 Mr. Bryant moved to New York, having given up the profession of the law; he had certainly proved most successful in the practice of that profession, hut literature was his decided penchant and he wisely determined to entirely give his powers to an occupation so much more congenial to his taste. In company with other gentlemen he established The New York Review, and afterwards The Athe-nceum, and in the latter many of his finest poems were first published. As early as 1826 he attched himself to the editorial staff of The New York Evening Post and has ever since identified himself with its interests. At the same time, in conjunction with Messrs. Verplanck and Sands, he began the publication of “ The Talisman," an annual. He made two or three trips to Europe and gave the public the full benefit of his observations in his “Letters of a Traveller in Europe and America.”
Mr. Bryant wrote much before he published anything in book form, but in 1842 he brought out “The Fountain and other Poems ” and in ’44 “ The White-footed Deer and. other Poems.” They met with a most hearty and well merited reception, and were almost universally read. Washington Irving, the literary genius of America, was at that time in London, and on receiving a copy of the works he at once had them published in that great city, and so cordial a reception did the poems receive that the edition was several times reissued. In spite of the fact that Bryant is in all his writings thoroughly American the people of England appreciated his merit, and gave his poems a high place in the classical literature of the language.
Mr. Bryant inaugurated a new era in American poetry; up to his time everything was imitated, but he was entirely original, the first true American poet. As the singer of nature’s beauties he stands firsthand the Thanatopsis and his other poems drew from the North American Review the following just criticism: “Others before him have sung the beauties of nature, and the greatness of God; but no one ever observed external things more closely, or transferred his impressions to paper in more vivid colors. A violet becomes, in his hands, a gem fit to be placed in an imperial diadem; a mountain leads his eyes to the canopy above it. On the whole, .we may pronounce the book before us the best volume of American poetry that has as yet appeared. The publication of such a book is an important event in our literature. We have been too much in the habit of looking abroad for examples and models: and our poets, generally, have had the usual fortune of imitaters,—their copies have fallen short of the originals.” We must regret one thing, that is that a man of Mr. Bryant’s giant intellect has neglected to place
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in the library of American literature one grand and immortal work which would shine most brilliantly among the literary gems of time, perhaps even longer than our nation will endure. He had the power, but he confined himself to the production of scattered though certainly beautiful little poems.”
As a journalist, Mr. Bryant was one of the most successful of American editors, and has shown himself to be a master of prose. Space forbidding a more extended review of the merits of Mr. Bryant’s works, we may best sum up all by a criticism from America’s greatest literary man, Washington Irving: “Bryant’s writings transport us into the depths of the solemn primeval forest, to the shores of the lonely lake—the banks of the wild nameless stream, or the brow of the rocky upland rising like a promontory from amidst a wide ocean of foliage; while they shed around us the glories of a climate fierce in its extreme, but splendid in all its vicissitudes.” From this we may see what a magic power Mr. Bryant had in describing nature, and this power displays itself in all his works.
A few days ago, an immense crowd assembled to assist at the unveiling of a statue to Mazzini. From this circumstance ,we know their principles and opinions. Mr. Bryant was unhappily one of the orators of the day, a thing by no means honorable to him, and during the ceremonies he was injured, and, as a result, died a few days after, and on last Friday his mortal remains were taken from All Souls Church, New York city, to Roslyn, Long Island, and laid by the side of his wife. A large concourse followed the cortege to the grave with expressions of sorrow for the deceased poet, and paid their tributes of honor to his memory. Measures are being taken to erect a lifesize statue of Bryant in Central Park, and this is certainly proper, although unnecessary, as the memory of William Cullen Bryant will always remain fresh and green in the hearts of those of whom he was,—the American people.
A. J. H.
•	A Fable.
FREELY TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN. ■
The first species of literature introduced into the mind of the young student of every civilized country is generally fables. The application of these charming stories, wherein dumb animals are presented to us capable of reason and language, dates from time immemorial. Who has not heard of Alsop ? and who does not know that the fame of this ancient poet redounds even in modern times upon Lafontaine, the charming writer who made his countrymen acquainted with the sober truths first taught by the Greek philosopher ? And in English, how many are the poets who have reproduced Alsop ? Most of Alsop’s fables have been rendered into German by the poet Gellert, who lived about the time of Frederic the Great; but not satisfied with the translation and versification of the old Alsopian fables, Gellert has almost equalled, to a certain extent, the Greek philosopher by many original fables of his own. The poetry of this German classic is at once beautiful and simple, as the following specimen will show:
Phylax, der so manche Naeht Haus und Hof getreu bewacht, Und oft ganzen Diebes banden Durch sein Bellen wiederstanden. Phylax, dem Lips Tullian, Per doch gut zu stehlen wusste,
Seiber zweimal weichen musste Diesem kam ein Fieber an.
Such is the first stanza of our fable, which we will translate, if not literally, at least according to its meaning, in English prose, leaving it to men of more than our modest capacities to render it in English verse.
“Phylax” was a model watch-dog. Undismayed, he routed whole bands of thieves and tramps, and even Lips Tullian, the greatest robber of his time, had twice to yield (his coat-tails) to the intrepidity of our worthy friend. Now this jewel of a dog fell suddenly ill. Before following up the order of stanzas laid out by the German poet, we should remark here, however, that Master Phylax, though excellent in every other respect, had one dark spot in his character: he was very covetous and greedy. Living in abundance himself, for such a noble animal could by no means be a poor man’s dog, he had no pity for the necessities of his fellow-dogs. What he could not devour himself he would bury deep in the ground, and woe to the unlucky cur whom he caught unearthing his hidden treasures; only precipitate flight could save such an aggressor. Neither the most imploring looks of his poor fellow-creatures, nor their miserable appearance, nay not even the most bewitching smiles and tail-wagging of a canine beauty, having a large family of promising puppies to support, could move his callous heart. Phylax was, and remained, a miser to the backbone. Yet there is among animals none more forgiving than a dog, although sometimes he keeps a thing in long remembrance, and takes his chance for dire vengeance. But even Phylax had many friends:
Kaum erscholl die schlimme Post, Ais von ihrer Mittagskost Alle Freunde und Bekannten Phylax zu busuchen rannten. .
Thus you see his friends left even their mittagskost, which means their dinner, untouched, to visit their sick companion.
Alle Nachbarn gaben Rath Krummholzoel und Mithisdrat Musste sich der Hund bequemen ■ Wider Willen einzunehmen.
All his neighbors tried their skill in doctoring and drugging our poor canine friend, but this onlymade him worse.
Pantalon sein bester Freund, Leckt ihm an dem heissen Munde.
Pantalon, his best friend, licking his fever-heated snout, said: “Oh, my dear Phylax, has it come to this?” “Yes,” replied the sufferer; “I think I must go at last. Had I not taken medicine I would be all right; but you may be sure that the many medicines will be the cause of my death,” but,
Konnt ich nur so gliieklich sein, Und die schonen Schinkenbein Die ich mir versharren miissen For dem Tode noch geniessen; Ach das macht mich kummervoll, Dass ich diesen Schatz vcrgessen, Nicht vor meinem Ende fressen Auch nicht mit mir nehmen soil.
“Ah! if I could only have the pleasure of enjoying the savory ham-bones which I had hidden before my sickness ! Ah! this grieves me to the heart, that I must lose these treasures; that I can neither eat them before I die nor take them with me to the other world. Pantalon, piy friend, you will find one buried near the garden
►
.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
gate, and another near the woodpile. (The greedy miser revealed only a part of his treasures.) But, Pantalon, I beg you not to eat a morsel of these treasures.”
Pantalon faithfully fulfilled his commijssion, and Phylax, . with the death-rattle already in his throat, drew a long, long farewell breath, inhaling the odor of his treasures. “But,” said he, “Pantalon, this is not all; you shall have
]	the remainder when I die.”
“ Ja du sollst.” Hier starb der Hund.
;	“Yes, you shall,” said the dog, and, with a dying gasp,
• he was no more.
Our readers will excuse us quoting the final stanza of the German poet:
Der Geizhals bleibt im Tod noch karg -Zwei Blicke wirft er auf den Sarg, Und tausend wirft er mit Entsetzen, Nach den mit Angst bewahrten Sehatzen.	•
Oh schwere Last the Eitelkeit
Um schlecht zu ieben schwer zu sterben, Bucht man sich Schatze zu erwerben, Verdient ein solehes Gluck wohl Neid ?
The miser remains greedy up to the hour of his death. A few glances bestowed on his coffin, and a thousand horrors—his eyes are fixed in death upon his treasures, so anxiously hoarded up. Oh! height of folly! inorder to close a wretched life with a painful death, treasures are coveted and piled up! Does such a lot deserve our envy ?
।	Yet the poet very properly describes only the miser’s
4	temporal misery. Phylax, the dog, had no immortal soul
*	to lose; but the miser, as not unfrequently happens, when
death knocks at his door, will first think of his money,
1	and having' not yet settled his mind on the disposal of his
I	goods, will find himself in the presence of Him who has
i	told us that those who act like Dives will be his compan-
L	ions in the next world: I was hungry and you did not
give me to eat; thirsty, and you did not give Me to drink, neither did you give Me covering when I was naked. Away 4	from Me, you accursed, into everlasting fire, since what you
refused to the least of these My brethren you have refused to Me.
1	Let those inclined to be miserly ponder well this
truth, that their fate, if they change not, in the next world may be the same as that of so many misers who have been snatched away from this life without having a moment’s time to think of their Creator and Judge, whose anger they have incurred during their lifetime by neglecting that for which riches had been given them, namely deeds of mercy f and charity.	 H. S.
Supplementary Addenda by Way of Appendix.
BY BETSCHER BOTTHOLME D’OLLAIRE.
In my last paper I spoke of the possibility that Aries was originally a Hydraulic Ram. I will now give my reasons in support of this hypothesis.
1.	As far as the configuration of the component stars is concerned, the constellation looks about as much like a hydraulic ram as any other kind of ram. In fact, more so.
2.	The opposite equinoctial sign is the Balance, the representative of statical force. By analogy, we might expect the representative of dynamic force at a corresponding point of the zodiac.
*	3. As Aquarius appears to be pouring out the entire
celestial supply of water, without regard to expense, it is
evidently necessary that some apparatus should be provided, to elevate it again to its pristine altitude. So, after the fishes have done swimming in it, what could be more eminently proper than to set a hydraulic ram to work, especially as the ensuing month, April, is a severe drain on the supernal standpipe ?
But plausible as these reasons appear, they are by no means conclusive, owing to the close relationship which subsists between the hydraulic and the zoologic ram. How remarkably close this is may be judged by the experiment of the late Mr. Smith of Deanston, as quoted by Rankine in a footnote to his chapter on Methods of Water Supply, p. 704, as follows:
“ The late Mr. Smith of Deanston rammed and puddled each successive layer of a reservoir embankment by erecting a rail-fence along each side of it, and driving a flock of sheep several times backwards and forwards along it.”
It is scarcely necessary for us to inform our readers that the late Mr. Smith of Deanston is defunct. But let us triumphantly ask, if that flock of sheep did not consist essentially of hydraulic rams, what in the name of Archimedes did it consist of?
While I am on the subject of text-books, it would not perhaps be out of place to animadvert on the utterly idiotic character of some of the questions propounded for the exercise of the student. For instance in Smith’s Mechanics, p. 130, example 8, we read as follows: '
“A ladder rests against a vertical wall, to which it is inclined at an angle of 45°: the coefficients of friction of the wall and of the horizontal plane being respectively % and % and the centre of gravity of the ladder being at its middle round. A man whose weight is half the weight of the ladder ascends it. Find to what height he will go before the ladder begins to slide.”
If the coefficient of common-sense in the “ man whose weight is half the weight of the ladder” were given, the question would admit of easy solution, as if said coefficient were greater than zero, he would not ascend the ladder at all under the given circumstances. But this view never seems to have struck Prof. Augustus W. Smith, LL. D., who is evidently no relative of the late Mr. Smith of Deanston.
Some of our own Indiana luminaries are abont as bad. In the “ Questions for the Examination of Teachers in the State of Indiana. Prepared by the State Board of Education. February, 1878,” we find the following brilliant interrogations :
“ Thirty men can dig a ditch in 20 days; how many more men must be employed to finish it in 4 days?”
The style of finish required is not stated, although it would obviously make considerable difference whether it were to be rammed and puddled, or laid in hydraulic cement, or bound in Russia leather and gilded. Again, the examinee is required to
“ State two ways in which the value of a fraction may be increased.”
The latitude for reply which this inquiry affords is painfully wide and indefinite. So also is that of a subsequent grammatical question:
“ Write the possessive case of the following: Dulce of IFeZ-lington, Henry the Eighth, somebody else —”
Now suppose we really can’t think of anybody else?
—During the autumn gales the volume of nature is full of' fly-leaves.
676	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Look Upon this Picture and. then Upon this.
The Baltimore Sun has a correspondent in London, whose communications are not only very interesting, but they are very instructive, far surpassing the usual correspondence from abroad which so teems in American papers. Between want of intelligence and want of honesty, a large portion of foreign correspondence with which the American people are regaled is made up of temporary stuff, or is fabricated for partisan uses.
Mr. “ Mont,” whoever he may be, has great advantages; that is, he has access to means of information which are inaccessible to inferior scribes; and he has powers of discrimination and of description which command the attention and confidence of intelligent readers.
This gentleman recently attended two meetings in London, at which figured many most eminent Englishmen. At the one the chief lions of literature were assembled; at the other, some Catholic clergymen and lay gentlemen of the Catholic faith. The one group made profession of free thought, and therein, “ in that literary galaxy,” are found Lord Houghton, W. E. Gladstone, Prof. Tyndall, Prof. Fawcett, Robert Browning, Canon Farrar, Rob. Lowe, Prof. Huxley, etc., and among these distinguished men, “the character of Herbert Spencer stands out in bold relief.” Now, Mr. Herbert Spencer carries out “free thought” and the free expression thereof to the outer limits. He has the secret of making the whole world happy, at least as happy as himself. No Church dogma shall stand in the way of this consummation so devoutly desired. Let us take a look at him.
“That sad face of his looks as if he were saying constantly to himself: ‘ No God ? What lies beneath these first principles themselves ? From what regions come they ? What is the unseen foundation on which the superstructure rests?’ That same sad face answers: ‘The unknowable,’ and whispers: ‘ Some essential verity must be looked for.’ A sad man, typical of queer phantasmata and fallacies; of contradictions of Kant, of speculations of Sir Wm. Hamilton, of German metaphysical puzzles and ‘ incoherent heterogeneity. ’ Yet how pre-eminently interesting is his sadness and that blank which says, ‘No God ?’ Interesting because painful; painful because erroneous.”
Why, really, this is not so promising as modern science and philosophy would lead us to suppose.
Let us pass over to the other assembly, where there is another group of men not unknown to fame. There are Cardinal Manning and John Henry Newman, who is a thinker, too, according to “ Mont,” who says, “ No man in Europe is a stronger thinker out of theology than Dr. Newman. His mind is strictly logical; his heart perfectly pure, and his faith equal to the moving of mountains.” Thus all the thinkers are not on the one side of Herbert Spencer and his friends.
In this goodly company at the Cardinal’s are the Duke of Norfolk, the hereditary Marshal of England, whose “modest, moral character, shines a worthy example for more pretentious and less noble men.” ... “Heis conversing with the Marquis of Bute and Lord Ripon, and neither sadness nor sorrow are on their faces, but ready are their hearts and hands to relieve pain and woe.” It is clear that they are not less happy than the lions of the galaxy of Freethinkers.
Now we will let the correspondent present the chief fig-• ure of this group to the reader, and let him decide for himself with which party he would prefer to take his destiny,
or bis hopes for happiness, either in this world or the world to come.
“CABDINAL MANNING.
“ This is his reception day. The entire of the Bishops of the Roman Catholic Church in England are at this reception. The majority of the patrician Catholic families of England are at this reception. It is an interesting gathering. What a legion of brain! What a roll of blue blood! The vast saloons are thronged. There is an animation and guileless affability which impresses us forcibly after leaving the iceberg formality around the literary lions named above. In this great group the figure of the Cardinal stands out like a painting of a priest of the medieval times. There are few men in this day who have so firmly and fairly grasped the entire counsel of God as manifested by the Incarnation of His Son, and few men who have so tenaciously held the single place on the Rock of Peter as Cardinal Manning. For this reason his clear and luminous style of preaching, guiding and protecting, under the agency of God, in every walk of moral life, pointing to that kingdom of which ‘ there shall be no end.’ For this reason we see the Jew and Gentile in eager silence within the reach of his voice every Sunday in this great world of London.	.
“The whole mien and appearance of this great divine gave me the impression of an earnest man of high moral feeling, purity of purpose and intensely religious sentiment. Of clear intellect and marvellous mental reacb, yet as simple as a child, he is a joyous courtier, a ripe scholar, and a Cardinal pre-eminently. He is a tall, thin man, worn by much fasting and many vigils. His head is large, his forehead broad, prominent, hard and dry looking. His face is long and angular, a perfect type of the ascetic monk physiognomy. His complexion is a dull and dry sallow, his eyes of that luminous, changing color that at one moment is a deep grey, and the next a dark brown, Yet how little of sadness is there about this man who knows there is a God! ”—Catholic Mirror.
Acknowledgments.
In answer to invitations to the Commencement exercises here this June, the Catholic press have unanimously answered very kindly. We would be pleased to have representatives of all of them here. Besides these acknowledgments, we have been handed the following letters of regret, which we think will be of interest to our reader’s.
Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell, of Cincinnati, writes:
“ Excuse me for not having earlier replied to your kind letter of the 4th inst. You see by the Telegraph how constantly I am occupied. I wrote that I hoped, if his Lordship of Vincennes would arrive in time, to tear myself away and accompany him to Notre Dame for the Commencements. But it seems I cannot have this twofold satisfaction. But I wish you a good time, and a present and future prosperous one.
“ With kind regards to all at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, “Yours truly,
“4« J. B. Puecbll, Abp. Cin.”
Most Rev. Archbishop Henni, of Milwaukee, says:
“I thank you for your kind invitation to attend your Commencement exercises, to be held on the 21st June. Bnt with regret I must state that my weakness of health does not permit me to attend. I am forbidden by my physician to travel; indeed, I am scarcely able to attend my appointments for the administration of holy Confirmation in this city and neighborhood. You will therefore excuse me.
“Please to inform also the good Mother Superior of the Sisters of the Holy Cross of my reasons for not complying with her kind request.
“Believe me, Rev. and dear Father,
“Yours, truly and devotedly,
“4« John M. Henni, Abp. of Milwaukee.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	677
Rt. Rev. Bishop Foley, of Chicago, writes:
“I beg to return my thanks for your cordial invitation to Notre Dame. Our institutions hold their distributions in the same week, er. caritas domi incipit. I regret very much I cannot assist at your Commencement.
“ Very faithfully,
“ Thomas Foley, Bp. Ad. Chicago.”
The letter of Rt. Rev. Bishop Ryan, of St. Louis, says :
“I regret that my Confirmation engagements will not permit me to accept your kind invitation to the Annual Commencement on the 26th inst. I shall not be able to attend some of our home exhibitions this year from the same cause. I hope, however, to have soon an opportunity of seeing your splendid institution at Notre Dame.
“ Very faithfully yours in Xto,
“4< P. J. Ryan, Coad. B’p.”
Rt. Rev. Monsignore Seton, of Jersey City, N. J., will be here, and writes:
“ Many thanks for your kind invitation to be at the Exhibition on June 26th. You may expect me, and I anticipate a great treat. Please give my regards to Rev. Father Hudson and Rev. Father Cooney, whom I met recently.
“Yours truly,
“4* Robert Seton, D. D.”
. The venerable Father Kundig, V. G., of Milwaukee, says:
“ I gratefully acknowledge the receipt of your invitation to the Annual Commencement exercises of your flourishing institution. Gladly would I accept the invitation, for I love Notre Dame as I ever did ; but I am not yet free from the relicts of my late sickness, which leave me no choice. It will take six weeks more before my full health be restored again.
“Respectfully, etc.,
“ Mart. Kundig, V. G.”
Besides these there are a great many more letters received from gentlemen who will be here during Commencement week.
The “Tabula Bembina” of the Museum of Turin.
A beautiful bronze plate, inlaid with exquisitely fine silver carvings representing pagan deities, was discovered some two hundred years ago in the city of Rome, and passed into the possession of Cardinal Bembi, whence its name, the Tabula Bembina. After the waste of much erudition it was supposed that this plate had been made in the days of Moses, revealing, as some said, the secrets of the magnetic needle, or as others maintained, the mysteries of Isis, and still others, the original twelve Commandments given by Moses. Upon closer examination, however, it was found, that this plate expresses the twelve signs of the zodiac, represented by the twelve great deities of the Egyptians, showing forth the planetary Cabiri standing in their respective signs, and it also appeared that the constellation that took place in A. D. 54, at the birth of the Emperor Trajan, is likewise engraved upon this so-called Isis-tablet, together with the names of Trajan, his wife Plautina, and his daughter Sabina.
A fac-simile of the “ Tabula Bembina ” with all its astrological signs and representations, including those having reference to Mercury (the Phoenix) together with the full explanation of their astronomical signification may be found in Professor Seyffarth’s Astronomia AEgyptiaca, Tabula VIII. Leipzig, 1833.	8. P.
Scientific Notes.
—Dr. W. G. Farlow, of Cambridge; Prof. D. C. Eaton, of Yale; and Dr. C. L. Anderson, of California, are jointly publishing a work on the Algaae of North America, consisting of the plants themselves, properly put up and labelled. The second fasciculus has lately appeared.
—Capt. Bttrtin is so confident that the region of Midian in Egypt is rich enough in mineral wealth to repay capitalists for investigating and working the deserted mines, that it is his intention to solicit leave of the Khedive to form a company in England to take the matter in hand.
—It is announced that Mr. Bassam has found at Nineveh, imbedded in a wall of the palace of Assur Bani-Palo, a round clay cylinder, divided into ten compartments, and containing nearly one thousand three hundred lines of fine inscription. What the inscription means has yet to be determined.
—The reptile-house at the Jardin des Plantes has been enriched with a specimen of a serpent of a size rarely seen in Europe. It is the python molorus, measuring seventeen feet in length, and about twenty inches in circumference, and weighing 76 pounds. It is a donation from Dr. Ploem, Director of the sanitary establishment of Sindanglaya, in the island of Java, and was sent through M. Gamier, French Consul at Batavia.
—The Smithsonian Institution is preparing for exhibition in the National Museum a series of plaster casts of American reptiles, carefully colored from nature. In order that the series may be complete, it solicits contributions of specimens of turtles and terrapins, of serpents, with the exception of the poisonous kinds, of salamanders, water-lizards or ground-puppies, and the various species of frogs. The largest procurable representatives of each species are desired.
—M. Reznier has communicated to the French Academy of Sciences a description of a new electric lamp with incandescence acting in free air. A thin rod of carbon pressed laterally by an elastic contact and pushed in the direction of its axis against a fixed contact becomes incandescent, and burns when traversed by a pretty strong current. As the end of the rod is consumed the pressure urges it forward through the elastic slides to the' point of fixed contact, where the combustion takes place.
—Speaking of the uses of pain, The Lancet observes that generally it may be set down as an axiom that the chief and most obvious service of pain to humanity is as a deterrent and warning sensation to ward off danger. Pain, however, has a secondary and educational value as regards the mind and temper, and some sorts of pain may be specially designed for this purpose. In this view, also, pain has a practical interest, because the development of mind is a process governed by natural laws of which science is perfectly competent to take heed.
—The nitrate of lead is now recommended in the medical journals as scarcely second to any substance, in point of cheapness and efficacy, as. a deodorizer. To prepare it for use it is simply necessary to take, for ordinary purposes, half a drachm of the nitrate, dissolve it in a pint or more of boiling water, dissolve about two drachms of common salt in a pail of water, pour the two solutions together, and allow the sediment to settle. To purify and sweeten a fetid atmosphere immediately, dip a cloth in the liquid and hang it up in the apartment.
—Arrangements have been made for testing the utmost powers of carrier-pigeons, by a flight of 760 miles, from Rome to Brussels, on June 22. There are more than 600 birds entered for the race, but it is not expected that over half a dozen will succeed in making the journey, as on the last test-race for great distances, only about 1 per cent, of the birds arrived at their destination. The line of the projected race crosses Mount St. Gothard, and it is supposed that the successful birds will take the direct course, which must carry them over the peak, at 10,000 feet above the sea-level.
—The electric light continues to grow in favor. Arrangements are making to illuminate the British House of Lords by it. An English scientist has been lecturing
678
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
before the Society of Arts on the subject and demonstrates that the electric costs from a half to a twelfth as much as the gas light. He does not consider the two in direct competition yet, but regards the electric light as peculiarly fitted to do just what gas is incapable of. At the’ Paris Exposition great attention is being paid to illumination, and the electric light is being experimented upon and tested in various ways.
—An examination of the phonograph record under the microscope has recently been made in England, and the results have been described in JYature: “Long E (or ay), on the screen, looked like two Indian clubs with the handles together. The same general resemblance is observed in E short, except that, as in A short, the volume of sound being less, the intensity was less, or (what is the measure of intensity) the path of the needle-point was shorter, and it seldom entirely cleared the foil, the consequence being a continuous groove of irregular, but normally irregular, width. “ I long and I short are much alike in general form, as also are 0 long and 0 short, the coupling of the pairs of the latter being the most striking feature. U long and U short best show the difference in shape produced by less intensities, the short being drawn out, and more acicular. 01 is very interesting. The dipthong consists of short O and short I, and the very molds which characterize their sounds are to be observed. OW presents a composite character, but its derivation has not yet been made out.”
—On the railroad connecting Reveil and Marly-le-Roi, France, it is said that the experiment of running the locomotives by means of superheated water has given very satisfactory results. The water was introduced at a temperature of one hundred and eighty degrees centigrade.
—Up to this time Dr. Richardson and others have failed to make the microphone available for diagnostic purposes, in auscultation of the lungs and heart to the extent anticipated. The stethoscope as yet serves the purpose fully as well. But it is thought that the obstacles to the expected use of the microphone in detecting irregularities in the working of the animal mechanism will soon be removed.
—Mr. F. Peppard is the inventer of a curious contrivance for awakening a sleeper at a given hour. The apparatus is to be affixed to an ordinary clock; it is so arranged that when the hour-hand of the clock touches a button, an electric circuit is completed; the minute-hand passes over the button without effect. There are a series of holes for the different hours, into any one of which the button can be. pushed, according to the time selected for awakening. The completion of the electric circuit may ring a bell, or sound any other of the numerous ordinary methods of alarm. But this contrivance has a yet more • effective method for arousing a deaf man or any sleeper who is willing beforehand to prepare himself for a shock. A bracelet is provided which can be put on the wrist at the time of retiring; to this, flexible wires are attached, and the electric discharge will pass through it at the appointed hour. A man who could lie down to pleasant dreams with such an apparatus fastened to his wrist, would naturally need the violence of an electric shock to awaken him.
Art, Music and Literature.
—M. Villemesant has put forth the sixth volume of his “Memoires d’un Journaliste,” containing an account of travel and imprisonment during his checkered career.
—Sir James Stephen, Q. C., is at work upon a second edition of his “ General View of the Criminal Law of England,” which will be published in the course of the year.
—M. C. Hippian, who has already written instructive books on public education in the United States and other countries, has now issued “L’lnstruction Publique en Russie.”
—The latest about William Tell is a labored historical book by K. L. Muller to prove the reality of-the entire tradition of Tell and the liberation of the three forest cantons of Switzerland.
—-Karl Blind contributes an essay to the June number of
The University Magazine on “ Vjera Sassulftch and Constitutional Aspirations in Russia,” containing many details of the trial hitherto unknown abroad.
—A London firm are to issue Shakspeare’s “ King John,” together with “The Troublesome Reign of King John, as . acted by the Queen’s Players c. 1589,” edited with notes jnd introductions, by Rev. F. G. Fleay.
—Mr. A.M. Sullivan, M. P., is about to print in Mayfair a new chapter of his work on “ New Ireland,” called out by the murder of Lord Leitrim and the reopening of the question of landlord and tenant in Ireland.
—The volume of “ West-Point Tic-Tacs ” which Homer, Lee .& Co., have in press will contain the largest poem yet produced by Bret Harte. It relates the love-life of “ Cadet Grey,” and is enlivened by three stirring bugle-songs.
—Lord Macaulay said that in his experience of men proficient in oriental tongues, he had never found one who could deny that a single shelf of a good European library was worth the whole native literature of India and Arabia.
—It is not a little funny that Wheaton’s great treatise, “The Elements of International Law,” has just appeared in Chinese and has been again reprinted in London, while there is not a copy of this American book to be bought in America.
—A work entitled “The Dramatic List,” by Mr. G.E. Pascoe, is being prepared for publication in London. It will give biographical sketches of prominent living actors and actresses, with critical comments on their talent, extracted from the current press.
—The death is announced of Dr. Heinrich Leo, Professor at the University of Halle, Germany. He had reached the advanced age of seventy-nine years, and for more than half a century had been professor of history at the royal University of Halle.
—A Goethe society has been founded at Vienna, after the pattern of the English Shakspeare societies. Its object is to found a Goethe library, and to issue editions of Goethe’s chief works at a price sufficiently low to place them within the reach of all classes.
—“The Suppliant of the Holy Ghost” is the title of a very novel devotional work published by Messrs. Burns & Oates. It is a paraphrase of the Veni Sande Spiritus, printed from a manuscript of the seventeenth century. It contains many beautiful prayerful reflections.
—A volume entitled “Characteristics of Leigh Hunt” has been brought out in London by an anonymous author, who in early youth was a correspondent of the essayist. Its object is to present to readers unfamiliar with Leigh Hunt some examples of his writing which best reveal his distinctive traits.
—The original manuscripts of Schiller and Goethe’s correspondence were successively refused at the price of 4,000 thslers by the royal libraries at Berlin and at Munich. They were finally bought by Cotta, the publisher, to save them from being broken up or going abroad, though they have been published before.
—The Home Ministry in Paris is to publish a volume of fac similes, containing Papal Bulls, diplomas, charters, and autographs from the seventh to the eighteenth century, under the title of “Musee des Archives Departementales.” The documents are drawn from the various provincial archives in France, and they consist of all sorts of documents.
—Prof. Justin Winsor has an article on “A Choice of Cyclopaedias ” in the June Literary World. His conclusion is that “Almost any fair book of reference, thoroughly understood, and used with a frequency that gives facility of consultation, and a knowledge of what to expect from it, is every way better than the best, slightly comprehended, and rarely used. There is a general lack of acquaintance, among most people, with *books of reference. More buy (hem than use them, at least intelligently.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic Publication Society Co-, 9 Barclay St. New York, has sent us The Young Girl's Month of July, by the author of Golden Sands. It is a neat and worthy little
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
679
publication, and had the author given us the month of August it would make a most excellent work for young girls during the vacation months. As it is, it will accomplish much good.
—“ German Socialism” is the title of the leading article in the July Catholic World. The two recent attempts on the life of the German Emperor have set all the world speculating about Socialism in Germany. This gives a peculiar value and timeliness to the profound and exhaustive article in The Catholic World. “English Statesmen in Undress” are personal reminiscences, told in an excellent manner, of Lord Derby, Mr. Gladstone, and John Bright. The style of article always attracts attention, and the present paper is one of the best of its kind. “ The Newspaper Press of New York” is spicy and caustic, and tells some home truths that will be appreciated by everybody except by those of whom they are told. “ The Tractarian Movement in the Church of England,” by Mgr. Capel, treats in a calm and kindly manner of the present attitude of that movement towards the Catholic Church. “Pantheism versus Atheism” is lively a yet deep review of Professor Stuart Blackie’s Natural History of Atheism. The Scotch professor gets some rather hard knocks. “ The Principle of Beatitude in Human Nature” holds out much hope to humanity, whose tendency in these days is towards nothingness or despair. The “ Relations of Judaism to Christianity ” is an interesting historical sketch, and the “ Hermitages in the Pyrenee Orientales ” is one of those quaint, breezy bits of half-modern, half-mediteval picture-painting for which The Catholic World is justly famed. “ Helen Lee,” “ Conrad and Walburga,” and “ My Friend Mr. Price” form the unusually good stock of fiction. In poetry there is “ Created Wisdom,” by Aubrey de Vere, and another canto of Dante’s Purgatorio, translated by Dr. T. W. Parsons.

—A boy called to see General Vance. He modestly communicated his wishes to the doorkeeper. “ Have you a card sir ? ” he gruffly growled. “ Cards,” said the boy, thoughtfully, mechanically running his hand in the rear pockets of his coat, “ No, sir, I don’t carry ’em.” “ Where are you from?” inquired the doorkeeper. “North Carolina,” was the prompt answer. “Well, how do you do in North Carolina when people go a visiting ? ” “ Why they ride up to a fellow’s fence and holler to him to tie his dog, and they gets down and goes in,” was the laconic reply.
—Chatham Island, lying off the east coast of New Zealand, in the South Pacific Ocean, is peculiarly situated, as it is one of the few habitable points of the globe where the day of the week changes. It is just on the line of demarcation between dates. There high twelve on Sunday, or Sunday noon, ceases, and instantly Monday meridian begins. Sunday comes into a man’s house on the east side, and becomes Monday by the time it passes out of the western door. A man sits down to his noon-day dinner on Sunday and it is Monday noon before he finishes it. There Saturday is Sunday and Sunday is Monday, and Monday becomes suddenly transferred into Tuesday.
—How many apples did Adam and Eve eat? Some say Eve 8 and Adam 2—a total of 10 only. Now we figure the thing out far differently. Eve 8 and Adam 8 also. Total 16.—Boston Journal. We think the above figures are entirely wrong. If Eve 8 and Adam 82, certainly the total will be 90. Scientific men, however, on the strength of the theory that the antediluvians were a race of giants, reason something like this: Eve 81 and Adam 82—total, 163,— Gloucester Advertiser. Wrong again; what could be clearer than, if Eve 81 and Adam 312, the total was 893?—Laiorence American. If Eve 811st and Adam 812, would not the total be 1,623 ?—Boston Journal. I believe the following to be the true solution: Eve 814 Adam, Adam 8124 Eve—total, 8,938 —Veritas. Still another calculation is as follows: If Eve 814 Adam, Adam 81242 oblige Eve—total, 82,967. We think this, however, not to be a sufficient quantity, for, though we admit that Eve 814 Adam, Adam if he 8081242 keep Eve company—total, 8,082,056.—New York Nail. All wrong. Eve, when she 81812 many, and probably felt sorry for it, but her companion in order to relieve her grief, 812. Therefore, Adam, if he 81814240fy Eve’s depressed spirits. Hence both ate 81,896,864.—Rosston, in Quincy Whig.
—At all times, in this wintry life, the presence of those we love is like a gleam of sunshine through the clouds, lighting up one particular spot amid the shadows, and giving warmth, and lustre, and loveliness to all beneath the ray. That passing gleam still seems brighter than the full sunshine.
—A barrister, noted for his absence of mind, was once witnessing the representation of Macbeth; and on the witch’s replying to the Thane’s inquiry, that they were " doing a deed without a name,” catching the sound of the words, he started up, exclaiming, to the astonishment of the audience: “ A deed without a name! Why. it’s void; it’s not worth sixpence.”
—“ Can you cure my eyes?” said a man to Dr. Brown. “ Yes,” said the doctor, “ if you will follow my prescription.” “ O certainly, doctor,” said the patient, “I will do anything to have my eyes cured. What is your remedy, doctor ? ” “ You must steal a horse,” said the doctor, very soberly. “ Steal a horse, doctor,” said the patient in amazement, “ how will that cure my eyes ? ” “ You will be sent to State prison for five years, where you could not get whiskey, and during your incarceration your eyes would get well,” said the doctor. The patient looked somewhat credulous, but he did not adopt the doctor’s remedy.
—The idea that American people are not a musical people is erroneous. The love of music is universal among the people—the great drawback has been the want of a larger number of sincere and thoroughly-trained musical instructors. Superficial, hasty and inartistic tuition perverts the musical taste, and blunts the aspirations of thousands. These effects, acting upon the masses, prevent the natural establishment of a high standard of musical culture. The power and the ability for creating permanently, in this country, indigenous music, equal to the best of any other country, is not wanting; it lacks systematization, the controlling influence of universally accepted authority—excellent teachers are excellently sustained. The genius of Americans for music is receiving general recognition in. Europe. Kullak, the head of the leading Conservatory of Music in Berlin, gives high praise to the superior musical talent, vocal and instrumental, which the United States is sending Germany. Among the ablest scholars of the Conservatories of Europe, Americans are prominent. On the lyric stage, and as instrumentalists, America possesses stars of the first magnitude, and a greater interest in music than ever before is developing the taste and fixing the culture of the entire people.—American Art Journal.
—The following very homely but singularly instructive lesson is by St. Philip Neri: A lady presented herself to him one day, accusing herself of being given to slander. “Do you frequently fall into this fault?” inquired the Saint. “Yes, Father, very often,” replied the penitent. “ My child,” said the Saint, “ your fault is great, but the mercy of God is still greater; for your penance, do as follows : Go to the nearest market, purchase a chicken just killed and still covered with feathers; you will then walk to a certain distance, plucking the bird as you go along; your walk finished, you will return tome.” Great was the astonishment of the lady at receiving so strange a penance; but silencing all human reasoning, she replied, “I will obey, Father.” Accordingly she repaired to the market, bought the fowl and set out on her journey, plucking it as she went along, as she had been ordered. In a short time she returned, anxious to tell of her exactness in accomplishing her penance, and desirous to receive some explanation of one so singular. “ Ah! ” said the Saint, “ you have been very faithful to the first part of my orders^ now do the second part, and you will be cured. Retrace your steps; pass through all the places you have already traversed, and gather up one by one all the feathers you have scattered.” “But, Father,” exclaimed the poor woman,.“that is impossible. I cast the feathers carelessly on every side; the wind carried them in different directions; how can I now recover them ? ” “Well, my child,” replied the Saint, “so it is with your words of slander; like the feathers which the wind has scattered, they have been wafted in many directions; call them back now if you can. Go, and sin no more.” History does not tell if the lady was converted; but it is probable. It required a Saint to give the lesson; one should be a fool not to profit by it.
680
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 22, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than atjthe commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Exercise and Study.
All admit that exercise of the body is necessary for the promotion of health. Physiology and anatomy alike teach this. They show that the human body, a most noble machine, is made to be active—to be exercised, in order to a proper development, and that the different circumstances of life necessitate this exercise or activity. The structure of a machine often suggests to us the use for which it is intended, and in like manner the structure of the human body shows us that it is intended not to be inactive or unemployed, but rather to be used in functions adapted to its peculiar physical structure.
Labor may be considered the chief source whence the body obtains what it most requires. By it the whole body is roused into action, each part or member has its own work to do, and the consequence is health, vitality and strength. Prudence, however, is necessary in this, as in all else, and hence we must do everything with due regard to the laws of our nature, so that exercise may be the more profitable to us in the promotion of health and the bringing upon us what may very well be termed a blessing. If we but look around us it will be evident that there is nothing so conducive to health, strength and vitality as bodily labor of some kind. Those who take proper exercise are seldom ailing or sick; the appearance of health is depicted on their countenance; their heart is light and gay, because they suffer neither from mental excitement nor bodily ailment; whereas, on the other hand, if we look at those who cultivate the mind to the detriment of the body, as is the case with some students, who are either not allowed to. take the proper exercise for the promotion of health, or at least for its preservation, or have not the good sense to take it when left to their choice, we shall see them pale, haggard and worn; the look of decline and premature death upon their face is evidently the sad result of want of proper and
sufficient bodily exercise. We wonder how it is that those having charge of youth do not look to this. It is true that in almost all our educational institutions the proper means have been taken to secure healthy exercise, and plenty of it, to the students placed in their charge; but this good judgment is not universal, and there are places where young men must study from day in to day out without any other exercise than a short walk after dinner and supper, if they wish. This is not right, it is not even just, and for our part we don’t see how it is that such great mistakes are made.
If we turn our eyes and look at the humble laborer returning from his hard day’s work we shall see the verification of these assertions. As he returns to his cottage, his work for the present is accomplished; he feels this; he feels that although his body is tired his mind is at ease, and besides this he is blessed with health, energy and strength. His night’s rest, unlike that of many of the rich, whose sleep is interrupted by unpleasant dreams, by the foreshadowing of disastrous events, the result of a mind occupied with grave thoughts of the future, is undisturbed. The laboring class, including farmers, etc., is the healthiest class of people of the present day, and, in addition, are sober, industrious, and generally God-fearing men. They are not shifted about by every breeze. They labor hard, and the result of it is health, and in a measure contentment, therefore happiness, in as far as it may be obtained in this land of pilgrimage.
In various other occupations some only of the powers of the body are called into action, and these too perhaps overtasked while the others lie dormant, or are in a feeble state from inaction. For example, the business of an accountant brings his brain only into activity, while the muscular system remains for the most part inactive. Sedentary occupations generally involve but a few of the bodily powers, and for this reason they are Injurious to health if the person thus employed does not take in some way a sufficient amount of out-door exercise. There are, indeed, means left to most people for avoiding any serious injury to the health of body and mind, for but few persons are so constantly employed as not to be able to take the recreation which their system requires some time or other during the day. They are able at least to take a ride on horseback or in a carriage, to walk for an hour or more, play ball, row a boat, or engage themselves in some other healthy and refreshing pastime. To the student especially, exercise is of vital importance; he has to spend the greater part of the day, and perhaps a short portion of the night, in hard study, sitting at his desk or in the class-room, thus exercising nothing but his mind. His mental powers, therefore, become developed, if not overtaxed, while the bodily ones are becoming enfeebled for want of sufficient exercise.
In speaking of the influence of exercise, one of our American reviews says: “ We cannot stretch out an arm or a foot, or walk, or run, or leap without freshening the lifecurrents of the system, sending new flashes of electric warmth along the nerves and muscles, and scattering a cloud of those blue and black devils that buzz around the ears of sedentary students, stayers at home, and women imprisoned in nurseries and amid their household cares.”
Next to reasonable exercise is sleep, which may be said to be the recuperator of the brain and nervous system, and therefore to those who are engaged in business pursuits, and mental labor, which for the most part overtax
♦
F
$
I t
t-i.
'J
I
)
I
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	681
the brain and nervous system, an abundance of that sweet sleep of which Shakspeare so admirably speaks, is necessary:
“Sleep knits up the ravelled slave of care, The death of each day’s life, sore labor’s bath, Balm of hurt minds, great Nature’s second course, Chief nourisher in life’s feast.”
Those, then, who would be healthy must have a sufficient amount of exercise and a sufficient amount of sleep; upon these health in a great measure depends, and if men were only sensible enough to adopt the proper means to the end, there would not be so much misery in this world. What more satisfaction can a man have, what more comfort, what more genuine and solid contentment than the consciousness of being well both in mind and body, and of having given due attention to both!
Man is so constituted that unless he keeps his whole being in order his life is miserable; he cannot cultivate the mind to the detriment of the body, nor the body to the detriment of the soul; both must receive their due attention ; otherwise sad consequences may be expected. Let all, then, know that if they wish to be men—if they wish to be what they should be, the exercise of both the body and mind is indispensable.
It is mainly owing to the regularity of their life here— plenty of exercise, wholesome food in abundance, and a sufficiency of sleep, that the students at Notre Dame enjoy such excellent health. The case is different at many other colleges, both as regards food and regular hours for sleep, especially in those where the students have their lodgings outside the college walls. The evening hours spent here in study are amply compensated for by a sufficiency of sleep, whereas in the opposite case the student is free to keep late hours or indulge in dissipation and excitement still more taxing to his nervous system and bodily and mental health. The result is that in the one case the young man reaches the years of manhood with a sound frame and clear intellect, while the other lacks bodily energy sufficient to balance his mental powers and give them free and vigorous action. Sana mens in sano corpore should be the student’s maxim, and where nature’s laws are tampered with, especially in youth, a debilitated constitution jn after life is sure to be the result.
The Musical Soiree.
The musical examination of the more advanced pupils as in former years took the shape of a soiree, which was held on the evening of the 16th, in the large parlor of the College. Besides the officers of the house, there were present Very Rev. Father Granger, Provincial C. S. C., Mr. Keenan, of Ontario, Canada, and a number of teachers, together with all the musical students. The evening was balmy and pleasant, and as the doors and windows were open a refreshing breeze added much to the enjoyment of tae entertainment. The first piece was a trio for brass instruments by Messrs. L. Evers, J.P. McHugh and J. J. Houck, all veteran band members, and their playing gave evidence that they had succeeded in subduing their noisy instruments and made them fit to be heard with pleasure indoors and in the most refined company. Perfect time, purity of intonation, and, above all, that expression which prove the performer to have not only grasped the true spirit of his own part but also the proper relation it bears towards the other parts in the composition, served to make
the first number one of the most enjoyable of the evening. Next came a violin solo by Mr. J. P. McHugh, which, although not the one marked on the programme (it having been substituted on account of some misunderstanding regarding the accompaniment) was, with a single exception, the best number of the evening. The composition was of a popular character, the variations brilliant and easily understood, the arrangement giving ample opportunity to show the great variety of expression of which the violin is capable, and which Mr. McHugh brought out with a perfection not usually reached by amateurs, carried away the audience, and the applause which followed would have been taken for an encore had not the large number of pieces on the programme precluded the possibility of repetition. Mr. F. Carroll next played Gottschalk’s famous “ Last Hope,” and this was the exception referred to above. We have never heard it played so well by an amateur, and seldom by professional musicians. To appreciate such a performance, some degree of musical training is necessary on the part of the audience, and this accounts for the small share of attention which piano pieces usually receive from young and thoughtless hearers. A violin solo by Master A. Sievers came next, and this also showed great improvement since we last heard him, especially in expression, in which on account of his youth he cannot rival his senior companions. Old Boreas played him a trick by turning his pages without regard to the rules of the composition, now turning to the finale, as if he wished it were over, and then again with his usual fickleness turning for a da capo, all of which mishaps did not make the young performer lose his place or even ruffle his temper much, for which he deserves credit, although it marred the general effect on the audience. Next in order came Master Cochrane, whose playing also showed great application and a cultivated taste. But as it would tire the reader too much to speak of each piece separately, let it suffice to say that Messrs. Fischel and Montgomery, who followed with piano pieces, acquitted themselves to the satisfaction of all present. Mr. Rothert on the violin did very well, although on account of his first appearance in public he was a little nervous. Mr. English in a flute solo played some passages very well; wavering however in time, somewhat, and altogether showing that it was also his first appearance before an audience as a musician. This nervousness may have also been caused by the regular failure of a high F, which he attributed to the fact of having to draw too much of the slide in his flute to make it accord with the piano. Better luck next time.
On account of the lateness of the hour four pieces were omitted. Before concluding we must say a word in praise of the piano accompaniments, played by Messrs. F. Carroll, T. Fischel and J. A. Burger, which added not a little to the brilliant success of the young soloists.
Personal.
—Mr. Thomas Keenan, of Lindsay, Ontario, spent the past week with us.
—Henry Shephard, (Commercial) of ’74, is here waiting for the Commencement
—Mr. and Mrs. Chas. J. Dodge are visiting Notre Dame. Mr. Dodge is the orator of the Alumni.
—Daniel E. Maloney, of ’74, and Nathan J. Mooney, of ’77, were among the visitors of last week.
—Rev. Father Hellhake, of Columbia City, Ind., has
682
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
been spending a few days with us. He preached here on the Feast of Corpus Christi.
—Mrs. and Miss Jones, of Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Pleins, of Dubuque, Iowa; and Mrs. Clarke, of Chicago, visited Notre Dame last week.
—Dr. C. J. Lundy is Assistant Surgeon in the Eye and Ear Department of St. Mary’s Hospital, Detroit, Michigan. Thanks to him for a copy of the First Annual Report of the institution.	.
—Chas. E. Freese, of ’74, paid Notre Dame a short visit last week. He is in business in Chicago, and will, we understand, be married on Monday next. We wish him success and happiness.
—We are glad to learn that Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh, will be able to spare time enough from his pastoral and literary labors to visit Notre Dame during Commencement Week.
—Of Wm. Hoynes, of ’69, the Chicago Daily Telegraph, of the 13th of June, says: “ Mr. Wm. Hoynes, for a number of years a journalist, but latterly a member of the legal fraternity, starts to-day for a trip to the Pacific coast. As a writer Mr. Hoynes won a most excellent reputation, but his clear-headed reasoning powers, his close and untiring habits of study, his classical education and his remarkable gifts as an orator qualify him more peculiarly for the legal profession—in which he has already won distinction and success.”
—In noticing the canditates for nominations, the Columbus Sunday Herald thus speaks of William J. Clarke, of ’74: “W. J. Clarke will be a candidate for the office of Prosecuting Attorney, to be voted for at the primary election to be held June 22,1878. The above plain, matter-of-fact announcement is the text upon which we desire to make a few disinterested suggestions to the Democracy. Mr. Clarke was born and raised in Franklin county, and consequently is not unknown to our people. He has always been an active worker in the Democratic ranks, having several times canvassed the county during the late important contest. Mr. Clarke is a young attorney, active, energetic and able. He is a gentleman of pure personal character. Indeed, we believe it is not saying too much to assert that his moral standing is unexceptional. He is strictly honest, sober and industrious, and would make a Prosecuting Attorney in whom the people could place implicit confidence.”	'
Local Items.
—The last musical soiree of the year took place on the 16th.
—We hope that our young vocalists will come out in force during Commencement Week.
—Only one more number of the Scholastic will be published before the 15th of August.
—Arrangements have been made for the reception of visitors during the Commencement Week.
—Mr. Bonney will be ou hand in front of the College, where all wanting photographs will find him.
—All the class-rooms have been converted into bedrooms for the use of visitors during Commencement Week.
—The Nimrods took their last excursion last week, and enjoyed themselves greatly along the banks of the St. Joe River.
—The hot weather during the past week succeeded in making the yard look somewhat dull. It was too hot for baseball.
—The boat-race will take place at 4 o’clock on Tuesday afternoon. Both crews are in splendid condition, and a fine race is expected.
—To-morrow the Vespers are of the Nativity of St. John the Baptist, page 158 of the Vesperal. The Mass sung will be Hissa Parvulorum.
—The Choral Union, under the direction of Prof. Zott, will give a number of solos, duetts and choruses during Commencement Week.
—Quite a number of fine arches were erected for the
procession on the Feast of Corpus Christi. The rain prevented their being used.
—The Band boys held their annual picnic last Wednesday in Johnson’s Woods. They enjoyed themselves during the whole afternoon.
—The next number of the Scholastic will contain a list of the names of those who will have received degrees, honors, prizes, medals, etc.
—Examinations were held during the past week. The general average of each student will appear in the next number of the Scholastic.
—Arrangements have been made for special trains on Wednesday of Commencement Week. Trains will leave for Chicago on both the Michigan Central and the Lake Shore roads at 4.50 p. m.
—Thanks to Rev. P. W. Condon for an invitation to the 6th Annual Commencement exercises of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart; Watertown, Wis. We are sorry we cannot attend.
—On the 16th the members of the Minim Department made up an excursion to the St. Joe Farm, where they had a very enjoyable time. Those in charge of the farm received them in royal style.
—Mr. Bonney has on hand a large number of photographs of societies, classes, etc., which he will have for sale during Commencement Week. Everyone should see him and make their purchases in time.
—The latest addition to our list of exchanges is the Chicago Saturday Evening Herald, a model society paper. All the art, musical, literary, dramatic and social news of the great city is faithfully given in its columns.
—There were two very fine repositories built for the procession on the Feast of Corpus Christi, one at the Novitiate and the other on the road leading from St. Mary’s to the church. The rain, however, played havoc with them.
—On Friday, June 21st, the Feast of St. Aloysius, the ex-Minims now in the Junior Department called upon their -former teacher in the Minim Department and reatfan address full of feeling and wishing many returns of the Feast.
—Everyone should understand that no encores will be allowed at the examination of the Elocution Class next Monday evening. Indeed those students who attend are requested to abstain from all applause, no matter who may declaim.
—Last Thursday was the Feast of Corpus Christi, and, as in former years, the ceremonies were grand and imposing. The procession in the church was very fine. It was intended to have a procession around the lakes, but a heavy rain prevented it.
—Everyone, no matter whom, who has any books belonging to the Lemonnier Circulating Library should return them to the Librarian. It is at this time of the year that books are lost, and all honest people should see that a loss to the Library is not through their fault.
—As we wish to furnish the reporters of the Chicago dailies and other journals with all the information they desire, we will have our reporters out. We trust that they will be as efficient as last year, and that they will not miss the name of a single one coming from a distance to Notre Dame.
—By mistake a long account of the St. Cecilian Entertainment which appeared in the South Bend Tribune was credited to the South Bend Register. We are sorry that the mistake occurred, and trust that we may never do this again. The Tribune is an excellent paper, and after the trouble the proprietors took to get a good report we regret that the proper acknowledgment was not made.
—At the last soiree there were again a few unruly ones who have no love for music themselves and who think because they came for enjoyment they must amuse themselves in their own way, regardless of the annoyance they give those who come to hear the music. We advise them to stay away in future if they wish to avoid the disgrace of hearing their names called out publicly with a request to leave the room.
—The third game for the championship was played on Monday last (the 17th) by the Mutual and Excelsior nine.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
683
The game was a closely contested one. One of the best fly catches of the season was made by G-. Ittenbach, right-fielder of the Mutual nine. The game being won by the Excelsior nine they were declared the champions of the Junior department. The score is as follows:
Excelsior.
b. o.
MUTUAL.
B. O.
“Figaro 1’ (Mozart)...........................Orchestra
Poem of the Alumni..........................H. V. Hayes
“Ave Maria” (Mendelssohn)...................Choral	Union
Oration of the Alumni......................Chas J. Dodge
> “Othello” (Rossini)..........................Orchestra
I Prologue..................................A. K. Schmidt
Donnelly, c............
Burns, 3d b............
Walker, 1. f...........
Bannon, s. s...........
Sugg, 1st b............
Rietz, r. f............
Widdieombe, 2d b.......
McNellis, c. f.........
Cox, p.................
Walsh, s. s...
Byrne, p.......
Burger, c.....
Clarke, 3d b... Baker, c. f..... Crawford, 1. f.. Hagan,2d b..., Rutledge, 1st b Ittenbach, r. f.
0
3
1
4 4
1
3
3
2
5
2
5
3
1
5
2
1
3
Total
29 27
Total.................21	27
INNINGS:
Umpire—V. McKinnon.
Scorers—Messrs. Jones and Scanlan.
Commencement Week.
The following is the order of exercises for Commencement Week, beginning Monday, June 24th:
Society-Day, Monday, 9 a. m. Music...............................................Band
Archconfraternity of the B. V. M............'..T. F. O’Grady
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society................A.	Hertzog
Duett on Violins...........G. Walters and Jos. P. McHugh
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association....W. A. Widdieombe Thespian Association....................E. F. Arnold
Violin Solo......................................A. Sievers
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society............K.	Scanlan
Columbian Literary and Debating Club...................J.	Fitzgerald
Piano Solo.................................F. C. Carroll
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception,
	J.	A. Burger Sodality of the Holy Angels......................W.	McDevitt
Music.............................................  Band
Monday, 4 p. m. Music...............................................Band
Latin Address................................J. G. Ewing
Piano Solo.............................................G.	Cochrane
Address................................................J.	Coleman
Greek Address...............................J. P. McHugh
Violin Solo....................................J.	Rothert
Address.......................................J. McEniry
Violin Solo...................................J. A. Burger
Address.....................................W. L. Dechant
Violin Solo.................................A. K. Schmidt
Law Address...................................J. J. Quinn
Commercial Address........................P.	J. Dougherty
Music...............................................Band
Monday, 7 p. m.
Examination of the Elocution Class.
Tuesday, June 25.
6 a. m.................................Solemn	High Mass
7.30 “ ......................................Breakfast
9.30 “ ......................Annual	Meeting of the Alumni
2 p. m.................................  Alumni	Banquet
4 “ ...........................................Regatta
6 “ ...........................................Supper
Tuesday, 7 p. m. PABT FIRST.	•
Opening March...................................Band
‘ PABT SECOND.
KING HENRY IV.
A Tragedy in Five Acts. Abridged from Shakspeare.
King Henry IV...............................Jas. J. Quinn
Henry, Prince of Wales....................Jos. P. McHugh
Harry Percy (Hotspur) ..................August	K. Schmidt
Sir John Falstaff.......................Eugene	F. Arnold
Sir Richard Vernon..........................J. P. Quinn
Sir Walter Blunt.......................William	H. Arnold
Earl of Worcester.........................J. B. Berteling
Earl of Westmoreland.....................P.	J. Dougherty
Earl of Northumberland.................. .E. C. Davenport
Earl of Douglas.............................Geo. E. Sugg
Bardolph....................................T. E. Nelson
Prince John...............................
Poins.................................Frank	W. Cavanaugh
Gadshill....................................J. M. Byrne
Quickly...................................E. J. Dempsey
Roby............................................E. Maley
Francis......................................... O. McKone
Sheriff.....................................H. Murphy
Courtiers, Travellers, Lords, Soldiers, etc.
Epilogue....................................J. P. McHugh-
Solo and Chorus.............................Choral Union
DO YOU KNOW ME NOW ? A Fabce in Two Acts.
Characters:
.....................Jas.	J. Quinn 	John	R. Lambin ...........................John P. Quinn ...........................	Joseph	P. McHugh (William H. Arnold ..........................1	...P. J. Dougherty
.......................... Band
Nogo Dumps............ Septimus Sei well Jolly Jabez Sniggins........ Samuel Waitwell.......
Clerks................
March for Retiring.....
Wednesday, 8 a. m. Grand March.....................................Band
“ Semiramis” (Rossini)..................  .Orchestra
Valedictory.............................John G. Ewing
Duett.................P. J. Dougherty and E. J. McMahon
Oration............Rt.	Rev. J. Lancasteb Spalding, D.D
Music....................................Choral	Union
Distribution op Prizes, Honors, Medals, Diplomas, and Coneerring of Degrees.
Music.........................................Orchestra
Music—' Home, Sweet Home ”.......................Band
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Congar, R. I. Chatterton, W. L. Dechant, E. J. Dempsey, A. E. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, P. J. Dougherty, J. G. Ewing, L. Eisenman, J. J. Fitzgerald, T. J. Fischel, G. A. Goble, A. J. Hertzog, P. Hagan, J. J. Houck, M. Hogan, J. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. Hettinger, F. Hellman, F. Keller, J. Kinney, J. R. Lambin, F. C. Luther, A. A. Lent, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, H. Maguire, E. Maley, C. F. Mueller, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. J. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. McKone, E. J. McMahon, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn J. P. Quinn, M. Routledge, J. H. Rothert, J. Rabbitt, J. J. Shugrue, J. S. Smith, J. 8. Sheridan, P. H. Vogel, F. W. Williams, G. 8. Walters, F. J. Walter.
684-	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	1
.	1
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arantz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Buerger, J. M. Byrne, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Bushy, C. O. Burket, H. E. Canoil, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, J. S. Cassard, T. Cavanaugh, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, L. H. Garceau, H. A. Gramling,* M. E. Herrick, A. H. Hatt, G. L. Ittenhach, J. B. Ittenhach, R. Keenan, J. Lumley, J. Lemarie, J. Larkin, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, F. T. McGrath, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, G. Orr, J. F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, E. J. Pennington, K W. Reynolds, W. Rietz, A. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. K. Schobey, G. F. Sugg, A. W. Sievers, G. M. Scanlan, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, W. A. Widdicomhe, F. E. Weisert.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, F. Berry, J. Boose, T. Barrett, J. Chaves, R. Costello, W. and A. Coghlin, J. and Jas. Courtney, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, J. Devine, M. Devine, O. Farrelly, F. Farrelly, P. Fitzgerald, F. Gaffney, C. Garrick, A. Hartrath, J. Inderrieden, Jno. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, G. Lambin, C. Long, W. McDevitt, C. McGrath, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, N. Nelson, T. O’Neill, F. Parsons, G. Rhodius, W. Rheinhardt, J. Seeger, H. Snee, C. Welty, L. Young.
♦ H. A. Gramling was omitted last week through mistake.
—The visitors during the week were: Miss Fanny Boyce, Miss Cora George, Miss Drummond, South Bend; Mrs. Gerhart, Mrs. Westervelt, South Bend; Mrs. Pleins, Dubuque, Iowa; Miss Butts, Frankfort; Miss C. Millice, Warsaw, Ind.; Miss Elliott, South Bend; Mr. Keenan, Lindsay, Canada; Mrs. Bibber, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Van Loom; Mr. J. Crowley, Cairo, Ill.
—Sunday evening the Chapel of Loreto was filled by the whole Sodality of the Children of Mary to witness the reception of the following candidates into the Society: Misses Luce, Keena, Hayes, O’Riordan, Pleins, Reising, Hackett, Danaher, Cleary, Walsh, Sullivan and Wilson. Bev. Father Shortis gave them a short exhortation on their privileges, duties and Christian conduct after leaving school.
—On the 16th the Catholic pupils were examined in Christian Doctrine. The prompt, clear understanding and thorough knowledge of the subject shown by their replies to difficult questions, proved appreciation of the foundation of all education, and gave satisfaction to the examiners. Rev. Father Shortis, Very Rev. Father Corby and Father Walsh, and Mr. Keenan of Canada, were among the visitors present
—Examination of music classes commenced on the 11th and closed on the 15th. Two hours every day were devoted to the different grades, beginning with the lower classes. A marked improvement in position, fingering and time was noticed from the 8th to the 5th grade; precision, careful accentuation and legato touch, up to the 4th; greater brilliancy of fingering, better phrasing and smoothness of manner were the general features of the next. So far the examination was entirely instrumental. We give below the programme of the 2d and 3d classes, to which is added that of the private Vocal Classes, which took the form of an Entertainment To the credit of the pupils is mentioned that most of the accompaniments to the vocal numbers were played at sight by those of a higher grade.
PROGRAMME :
“Finale de Lucrezia Borgia” -	-	-	- (Goria)
Miss Spier.
Song—“ Batti, Battij”	----- (Mozart)
Miss A. Kirchner.
“Sonata” in C. Minor (Allegro, Adagio, Allegro Molto)......................................(Mozart)
Miss Ellen Galen.
“La Polka de la Reine”—Caprice (Op. 95)	-	- (Raff)
Miss Elizabeth O’Neill.
Song—"Deep in My Heart”	... (Centimeri)
Miss Reising.
“ Reveil du Lion ”...................- (Kontski)
Miss Amelia Harris.
Song—“Ave Maria”........................(F. Schubert)-
Miss Mary Dsselman.
“Polka de Concert”.........................(Bendel)
Miss Keenan. -
Song—“La Zingarella” .... (Campani) Miss Adella Gordon.
Song—“Star of the Morn” -	-	-	- (Torrey)
Miss Genevieve Winston. '
“Mbise”—Transcription -	-	(Rossini—S..Smith)
Miss Adella Gordon.
Vocal Duet—“Happy Swallows” ... (Kucken) Misses Delia and Annie Cavenor.
“Alice”—Romance	-	-	-	-	- - (J, Ascher)
Miss Leota Buck.
Harp Solo...................................(Bosio)
Miss Ellen Galen.
“Rondo Capriccio”	-	-	-	. (Mendelssohn)
Miss Delia Cavenor.
“AveMaria”...........................(R. Franz)
Miss Agnes Brown.
“Recollections of Home” ----- (Mills) Miss Mary Usselmau.	'
Song—“Sailor Boy”	- .-	-	.	. (Peters)
Miss Lola Otto.
“Murmuring Zephyrs” .... (Harmiston) Miss Frances Kingfield.
Song—“ Good Night, My Child ” -	.	-	- (Abt)
Miss Adelaide Geiser.
“Il Trovatore” -	-	-	-	- (Wollenhaupt)
Miss Anastasia Henneberry.
Song—“Fliege Vbglein”	.... (Kucken)
Miss Sophia Rheinboldt
“ Last Smile ”........................(Wollenhaupt)
Miss Louisa Neu.
Song—“Le Beau Danube Bleu”	-	- (B.Wekerlin)
Miss Clara Silverthorn.
“ Third Meditation ”....................(A. Jaell)
Miss Whiteside.
Song—“ Captive Knight ” (Harp)	-	-	- (Brown)
Miss Delia Cavenor.
“ Lucia di Lammermoor ” -	... (Donizetti)
Miss Julia Burgert.
Song—“ On Song’s Bright Pinions ”	- (Mendelssohn)
Miss Mary Winston.
“ Kathleen Mavourneen ” -	-	-	- (Crouch)
Miss Catharine O’Riordan.
“ Il Puritani ”—Fantasie	-	-	- (Sydney Smith)
Miss Mary Brown.	■
“Esmeralda”—Waltz Song	.... (Levy)
Miss Julia Burgert.
“Norma”—Fantasie..........................(Leybach)
Miss Adelaide Kirchner.'.
“ Aria’’from “ Rinaldo ”	-	-	- J- (Handel)
-	Miss Hackett..
“The Bridge” ------ (Lindsay) Miss Matilda Whiteside.
Song—“ Swallow ”-----	(Pinsuiti)
Miss Ellen Galen.
Polka de Concert........................  (Wallace)
Miss Alice Farrell.
“I Cannot Sing the Old Songs” -	- (Centimeri)
Miss White.
Vocal Duett—“Tuscan Girls Crowning the Sea” (Glover) Misses Mary and Angela Ewing.
Song—" Good Night—Farewell ”	-	. (Kucken)
Miss Alice Farrell.
“ Airs Ecossais ”.........................(S.	Smith)
Miss Emma Lange.
Song—“Tara’sHalls”......................(T. Moore)
Elizabeth Keenan.
Vocal Duett—“Harp in the Air”	-	.	. (Wallace)
Misses Mary and Annie McGrath.
“ La Parisienne” ------ (Herz) Miss Caroline Ortmeyer.
Song—“ The Gypsey Girl’s Carol ”... (Ehrlich) Miss Henrietta Hearsey. .
“ Polka de Bravura ”.....................(Ketterer)
-	Miss Annie McGrath.
“Where is Heaven?” .... (Felix Marti)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
685
Miss Mary Mulligan.
‘ Marche des Vivandiers ”...	- (Wehli)
Miss Elizabeth Walsh.
Waltz Song.................................(Mey)
Miss Imogene Richardson.
“ Marche aux Flambeaux ”	-	-	-	- (S. Clark)
Miss Marir McGrath.
The examination closed on the 15th.
The following is the programme of the Twenty-Third Annual Commencement:
Tuesday, June 25, 3 o’clock p. m.
“ Mignon ”—Fantasie de Concert - (Ambroise Thomas) Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
Essay—“ One Life to Live—One Aim to Life,”
Miss Anastasia Henneberry
Essay—"Gratitude—The Homage due our Heavenly Father ”	... Miss Mary Cooney
Chorus—“Deck we the Path way” -	(R. Schumann)
Vocal Class—Accompanied by Miss Wilson.
Essay—“The Privileges of the Christian Woman,”
- • -	-	-	- Miss Elizabeth O’Niell
Essay—“ The Imperial Power of Genius ” ...............................Miss	Pauline Gaynor “ Rondo Brilliante” in E Flat -	-	(C. M. Von Weber)
Miss Adelaide Geiser.
Essay—“The Graduate’s Recompense to her Parents for Advantages Received - Miss Mary O’Connor
Essay—“ The Light of Science ”	- Miss Amelia Harris
“ Third Ballad.” (Opus 47.)	-	-	- (Chopin)
Miss Clara Silverthorn.
“ Swiss Song	(Eckert)
Miss E. Kirchner—Accompanied by Miss Silverthorn.
Essay—“The Christian Home-Circle the Stepping-Stone to Heaven ”	Miss Minerva Spier
Song—"Adelaide”	.... (Beethoven)
Miss Delia Cavenor—Accompanied by Miss Foote.
Essai—“ La Religion, le Soleil de la Vie—La Science son Etoile ”...	. Miss Mary McGrath
“ Faschingsschwank aus Wien ” - (Robert Schumann) Miss Thecla Pleins.
German Essay—“Liebe des Vaterlandes,” Miss A. Kirchner
“La Campanella”.........................(FranzLiszt)
Miss Bridget Wilson.
Grand Chorus—“ The Marv’lous Work ”	- (Haydn)
By Pupils of Private Vocal Class—Accompanied by Miss Thecla Pleins.
N. B.—Drawings and Paintings exhibited in St Luke’s Studio. Ornamental Needlework, Laces, Point and Brussels, and Plain Sewing, on Exhibition in the Needlework Department.
Wednesday, June 26,11 o'clock a. m. Grand Entrance of the Pupils.
Schiller’s Fest-March -	-	-	(Meyerbeer—Wolf)
Pianos: Misses Bridget Wilson, Minerva Spier, Thecla Pleins, Elizabeth O’Neill, Amelia Harris, Adele Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner.
Harps: Misses Delia Cavenor and Ellen Galen.
Chorus—“Thanks be to God”—Elijah - (Mendelssohn) Vocal Class—Accompanied by Miss Silverthorn.
Distribution of PkemiuxMS—Junior Department.
“ Canoni a Tre Voci” ----- (Garcia) Misses Cavenor, E. and A. Kirchner—Accompanied by Miss Adele Geiser.
Distribution of Premiums—Intermediate Dep’t.
Aria—“ Ombra leggiria ”—Dinorah	- . (Meyerbeer)
Miss O’Connor—Accompanied by Miss Wilson.
Distribution of Premiums—Senior Department.
“Arietta Valse”—Romeo	-	-	- . - (Gounod)
Miss Foote—Accompanied by Miss Kirchner.
“ Illustrations du Prophete ”—two Pianos,	(Meyerbeer)
(“Priere “Hymne Triomphale ’’—“Marche du Sacre.”) Misses Bridget Wilson and Thecla Pleins.
“ Harp that once through Tara’s Halls ”	- (T- Moore)
Miss Delia Cavenor—Accompanied on the Harp by Miss O’Connor.
Vocal Exercises by the Musical Minims.
Grand Chorus—“The Lord is Great”—Creation, (Haydn) Trio—Misses Foote, Cavenor and Kirchner.
Chorus—By Pupils of Private Vocal Class—Accompanied by Miss Pleins.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic Department.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Conservatory of Music, and Prize Ct.ass-Mfdat.s-Distribution of Crowns and Honors—In the Senior, Intermediate and Junior Departments.
Coronation Chorus -	- Arranged for the Occasion
General Class—Accompanied by Miss Adele Geiser.
Valedictory -	Miss Bay Reynolds
Closing Remarks.
“ Overture to Sylvana ”—For Retiring—(C.1M. Von Weber)
Pianos: Misses Silverthorn, E. Keenan, A. Gordon, L.
Buck, A. Geiser, L. Neu, M. Usselman, F. Kingfield. Harps: Misses Ellen Galen and Delia Cavenor.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOURNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.) -
Published Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLT FATHER PIUS IX, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO HU, And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Marta may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
Five Years..........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each).....20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MAMA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
A NEW SYSTEM OF German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FE. PUSTET, 52 Barclay Street, KEWYORK, and 204 We Street, CilCDniATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
686
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Msiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren ana Sherman street's, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 30 a.m
A. 3f. SMITH, A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rnphrst^r			12.53 A.M.	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
AUiA.nr.Rj_				3.10 “	12.50 P.M.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,	-				4.45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
’Wancfipld 			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	... Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Vnrest			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,				10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,				1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmont.b			3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,.L-.		7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
GOING EAST.
-		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicano			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,			2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Kt. Wayne,					6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
"Lima,.					8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest 			 				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	1L45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		....Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,					12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,...............		2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,				4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester. 					6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pm.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pumsujt Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. KYEBS, G. P. & T. A.
University of Notre Dame,
IISrDTJLISrjL.
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also he taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 36, 18 7 7.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Pera and Mich. City Ex.	1 No. 3. [Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo	 Ar. Pera		4.35 P. M 7.10 “ 8.10 “	.	12.25 P. M. 2.42 “ . 3.50 “	7.25 A. M. 9.52 “ 10.47 “
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City .. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.10 A. M. 10.00 P. M. 11.24 “ 1.50 “	8.05 P. M. 8.50 “ 10.25 “ 12.38 A. sr.	5.37 A. M.
Lv. Pera	 “ Kokomo	 “ Indianapolis....	1.27 P. M. 2.55 “ 5.30 “	12.33 A. M. 1.50 “ 4.10 “	6.33 A. M. 9.10	“
V. T. Madott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 am, Mail.over Main Line,arrives at Toledo,5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50and 4 pm. Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Geirl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'687
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER <fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
X Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
WANNING «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], At-JD torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN I?. McHU Gil [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OTWnCILE T. CTTYNIBETt-LATIV (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & AILLTLA-BD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.	'
\ U1LIjIA NY J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Bui]ding, No. 67 S. High' St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
O1MC. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering. '
ARTHU Ft J. STACIE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. Sonth Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
The c vrnoLic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
Tf£ UI A. V -tn MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, 52.5<>.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.	.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
mllE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-1 igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Gnests of the House.
THE MATT ESO N" HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD n. 'F’LYIiNlN', Plain and Fancy Book-binder. Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZleJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0p^ CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Lit) Almanac for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Michigan Central Railway
Time TaLle—Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.ro 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jackson Express.		
					
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	tEvening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 •“ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 pm 9 40 “ 12 25 am 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Soutli Bend ^Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, Sonth Bend, Ind.	
SCIENTIFIC AND MEDICAL BOOKS,
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, seUing or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 16 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, baroness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.	•
Catalogue of Shells, giving 2,500 species, 3 ct. stamp. Printed on heavy —aper, on one side accompanied with Genus List, 10 ct. in 1 ct. stamps.	-
Cata'ogue of Birds’ Eggs and Taxidermists’ Materials, 3 cts.
Catalogue of Books—32 pp.—5 cts.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections giveDana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	10O inbox
$ 50	$1	$1 50
1 50	3	6
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger.....
Amateur's size, 2)4 in. x 1)4, High School or Acad. size,2)4x3]4 in.shelf specimens College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens........
10O	200	300
$ 1	$ 2	$ s
5	10	25
10	25	50
25	50	10O
500|	ieo	3 fO
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D„
1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Sciences and of the American Museum of natural
• History, Central Park, Hew York.

688	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lessons in Music.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South Bend, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka and the ser-rounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. 0. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rev. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, will be a sufficient guarantee:
Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.	-
From my own experience and that of others, I know him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music and trainer of a choir.
Ever since he ceased his connection with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oaklet, S. J.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City.nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
H0, TH WHO COME
To the Commencement!
AT THE
STUDENTS’ OFFICE, Mo. 54, Washington St., South Bend, can be found the best stock of Cigars, Tobaccos, Snuffs, Pipes, etc., to be found in Northern Indiana. Remember the place, Blum’s Old Stand.
E. & E. T. Ivins.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross. -
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.	'
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ina.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. * Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the 'Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALA.CE DRAWING-ROOM CAR?
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, • cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOG-BAPHEPu, Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BEISTJD, USTDIJATTJA.
i