Notre Dame Scholastic.
I>isoe quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morlrurus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 31, 1880.
Number 21.
The House of God.
PROM DANTE.
Oft have I seen at some cathedral door A laborer, pausing in the dust and heat, Lay down his burden, and’with reverent feet Enter, and cross himself, and on the floor
Kneel to repeat his Pater noster o’er ;
Ear off the noises of the world retreat;
The loud vociferations of the street
Become an undistinguishable roar.
So, as I enter here from day to day,
And leave my burden at this minster gate, Kneeling in prayer, and not ashamed to pray, The tumult of the time disconsolate
To inarticulate murmurs dies away, While the eternal ages watch and wait.
How strange the sculptures that adorn these towers I This crowd of statues, in whose folded sleeves Birds build their nests; while canopied with leaves Parvis and portal bloom like trellised bowers,
And the vast minster seems a cross of flowers!
But fiends and dragons on the gargoyled eaves Watch the dead Christ between the living thieves, And, underneath, the traitor Judas lowers I
Ah! from what agonies of heart and brain, What exultations trampling on despair, What tenderness, what tears, what, hate of wrong, What passionate outcry of a soul in pain, Uprose this poem of the earth and air, This mediaeval miracle of song!
—Longfellow's Translation.
The Religious Military Orders.
Those institutions, so ■well known as the Religious Military Orders of Jerusalem, and which played so important a part in the protracted conflict between the Christian armies and the Musselman hordes, sprang up simultaneously, or rather originated, from the Crusades. The Hos-pitalleis, or Knights of St. John, better known as the Knights of Malta, take their name from a hospital founded at Jerusalem by some merchants from Amalfi, in the Kingdom of Naples, who made their livelihood by trading in the Levant. They obtained from the Saracen caliph permission to build a house for the purpose of accommodating pilgrims visiting the Holy Land, and ultimately they founded a church in honor of St. John the Baptist. In the course of time, their benevolent project extended further; the house they converted into a hospital, and in addition to the care and attendance upon the sick and pilgrims, they bound themselves by vow to afford
all possible aid and protection to Christians in the Holy Land. Thus did the Hospitallers, without ceasing to be a religious body, become at the same time a permanent standing army of sacred soldiery. The services which they rendered to the Crusaders, to the Latin Kings of Jerusalem, and to Christendom at large, are incalculable. At the taking of Jerusalem, the hospital proved a happy refuge for the fatigued and wounded soldiers. Under Baldwin, the brother of Godfrey de Bouillon, they assumed a military aspect, and adopted the rule of St. Augustine, binding themselves by the usual monastic vows of obedience, poverty and chastity, to which they added that of defending the pilgrims at the peril of their lives against the attacks of the unbelievers. Their costume consisted of the uniform common to the knights of that time, viz.—a black robe and mantle, with white cross of eight points. They wore the cross appended to the left shoulder, and bore a shield of a red color. In 1112 the Order received the confirmation of Pope Paschal II, and in 1118 it was definitely organized in a general Chapter held under the second Grand Master, Raymond of Puy. Then it was, that the members were divided into three classes, namely, knights, chaplains and servitors.
There were guarding the Holy Sepulchre at the same time’ a number of Canons, to whom Baldwin likewise granted the use of arms, that they might better’ protect themselves. Hugh de Paganis, a nobleman of Champagne, and Godfrey of Saint Omer with seven other knights, were the founders of the second order, known as the knights of the Holy Sepulchre. These men met at the Holy Shrine, resolving to devote themslves to the defence of the true Faith against the Saracens, and presented themselves to the Patriarch, in whose presence, together with the vows of poverty, chastity and obedience, they vowed to sacrifice even their lives in defence of the religion and the honor of Jesua Christ. Their object, as may be perceived, was similar to that of the Hospitallers, except that they did not assume any obligation of caring for the sick. The king gave them a site on the east of the Temple, whence they derive the name of Templars, or Knights of the Temple, a name which has since become no less celebrated for its military exploits than for its tragic end. Their rule was that of St. Augustine; their dress, of a white mantle with red Maltese cross, symbols of purity and martyrdom. The foundation of this order dates from 1118, although it was only in the Council of Troyes that they received from the hand of St. Bernard the special rule which was binding upon them until the time of the suppression.
To understand what we mean by the Temple, it may be well to note that when Omer, the Saracen chief, first took Jerusalem from the Christians (636) he made sure of the precise spot whereon the Temple of Solomon stood, he there erected a Mohammedan mosque. The shell
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
"was of a stately octagonal form, finely decorated in mosaic style; the walls, both inside and out, were incrusted with rich marbles; the roof was covered with lead. At the retaking of Jerusalem, Godfrey de Bouillon had this building converted into a Christian church, hence it was called the Temple.
The third order, known as the Teutonic Knights, sprang up during the third Crusade. The reverses and misfortunes which beset the Crusaders under Frederick, urged some nobles from the cities of Bremen and Lubeck to devote themselves to the care of the sick and wounded Germans. Under the walls of Saint Jean d’Acre was founded the Teutonic Hospital of the Blessed Virgin of Jerusalem, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of those devoted soldiers who had bravely fought their way through the rugged mountain passes, suffering from the fatigue brought on by the march under a scorching sun, and oppressed by the frequent attacks of the skirmishers occupying the narrow mountain passes; and atone time against the opposition of Isaac-Angelo, Emperor of Greece, who, notwithstanding his assurances of protection, made all the opposition that could be expected from a declared enemy. (The Greek Emperors were treacherous, and always a stumbling block in the way of the Crusaders). Besides this, they had also to brave the false promises of the infidel Sultan of Icomium.
The object of this Order was more general than the two former ones, as they practised both the charity of the Hospitallers and the military dicipline of the Templars. It was approved by Pope Celestine III. Nobody could be admitted who was not of German origin, and of noble extraction. Their uniform was a white mantle, with a black cross on the left shoulder. In recompense for their valor before Damietta, John de Brienne authorized their Grand Master to assume in addition in the black, the gold cross of Jerusalem. Space does not permit us to enter into their history; suffice it to say that in 1226 they took a vow to wage incessant war against the Russian infidels. In 1525, Albert of Brandenburg, one of the grand masters, having become an apostate, secularized their possessions; the order, however, lingered until 1809.
The most renowned of all the orders of the Middle Ages (which numbered perhaps thirty), were the two former. During the space of 87 years, from 1100 to 1187, the Hospitallers took an active part in that stormy epoch. After the battle of Tiberias, they were obliged to withdraw to Saint Jean d’Acre, then again to Cyprus, next to Rhodes, and finally to Malta, which was bestowed upon them by Charles V. In 1798, in his Egyptian expedition, Bonaporte occupied the island of Malta, and, while there, put an end to the existence of that most renowned Order, known successively as Hospitallers, Knights of Saint Jean d’Acre, Knights of Rhodes, and Knights of Malta.
The Knights of Malta were a formidable barrier against the great army of Mussulman. The defence of Malta would in itself be sufficient to immortalize their name. A few hundred soldiers, with a few knights, kept at bay for several weeks the whole infidel army; nor did they effect an entrance, till they had sacrificed eight thousand of their bravest warriors. Fort St. Eime was taken only by walking over the dead bodies of these valiant few. More awful still became the struggle against the principal forts. Never was there manifested more desperate courage on the one hand, nor more undaunted intrepidity on the other.) The Grand Master, the noble La Valette, was a host
in himself, disregarding every wound that was inflicted on his person. When his nephew, whom he tenderly loved, was killed, he contented himself by saying,“ To-morrow we shall have time to weep for his loss; let us now avenge his death.” Being told that Mustapha had sworn to put all the knights to the sword, and preserve the Grand Master alone, to be brought before the Sultan, La Valette coolly replied: “ I will prevent him from doing that. . . . rather than suffer myself to be taken prisoner, I would put on the dress of a common soldier, and fight until a glorious death should unite me with my brethren.”	•
Forced to quit Jerusalem, the Templars, together with the Hospitallers, withdrew to St. Jean d’ Acre (1187), again removed to Cyprus, and finally to Paris. This body acquired a well-merited reputation for their extraordinary devotedness to the cause of Christendom, by the incessant war they waged upon the infidels. They even accumulated enormous riches, but wealth was their ruin. Opulence and power generated among them a spirit of arrogance and independence, which exasperated both the ecclesiastical and civil authorities. They became proud, intemperate, insolent, until it was revealed that crimes—which they afterwards confessed—were perpetrated among them. Well might the world be astounded to hear seventy-two knights confessing to crimes imputed to them, “ the horrible impiety of denying Jesus Christ, of spitting and trampling on the august sign of salvation; the worship of obscene idols, the practice of the most shameful disorders, and that the assent to all these infamous usages was made a necessary condition for the admission of a candidate.”
Such were the charges, such the evidence substantiated against a religious order instituted for the defence of the Faith, and hitherto looked upon as the great bulwark of Christianity. The evidence against it is conclusive, as the authentic documents, the testimony of dignitaries from all parts of the world,—still existing—show. Even the confession of the Grand Master, corroborated by more than six hundred knights from all parts of the world, goes far to substantiate the belief of their culpability. The Pope was thunderstruck at the unqualified avowal made by seventy-two knights examined before a full Consistory. Then it was that he authorized that great trial which lasted four successive years, making all Europe one vast court of enquiry. The Order was abolished by Pope Clement V—not, however, by condemnation or sentence, but by way of provision, as the charges were against individuals, not the Order. The property of the Order was transferred to the Knights of St. John, who had lately conquered the island of Rhodes, and adopted that name.
There is, perhaps, no page in history which has caused more warm discussion than the suppression of the Templars.
The Council of Vienne acted towards the knights themselves with kindness mingled with severity. The Pope reserved to himself the sentence of the highest dignitaries; the remainder were to be dealt with by the authority and wisdom of Provincial Councils. They who showed signs of repentance, were to receive an honorable maintenance, but the incorrigible were to be punished rigorously.
Without consulting Pope or Council, Philip had already begun the work of punishment. In 1310 and 1311 the whole world was astounded at the burning of fifty-nine Templars at Paris. Four of the leaders recanted their first admission, and died proclaiming their innocence.
The Templars had flourished for a period of a hundred

r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
321
and ninety-four years. Their fall awakened an echo which still resounds through the domain of history, though shrouded in a mist of impenetrable mystery. Bossuet has said that “ the Templars denied at the stake what they confessed on the rack.”
The antithesis is more pointed than true, for it is undeniable that all the confessions were not wrung from them by torture. The splendor and renown of the Templars, their sufferings and final catastrophe, are still a subject of deep interest, though a space of over five centuries has since rolled by.
The power of misfortune is so great, even when deserved, that it must ever win our sympathy, and to this the Templars owe many defenders. Compassion must of a necessity bear with it a certain glory at once jealous and unde-finable. The guilt or innocence of the Templars remains a problem in history; but the difference between the conduct of Philip and Clement, in this long and painful trial, is sufficiently plain to clear the memory of the Sovereign Pontiff from any shadow of reproach. As Pope, he suppressed a religious order whose existence was in fact aimless, since ' the loss of Palestine: whereas its continuance was a source of serious evil in the Church. That the Order of Templars had become hurtful to the Church, is in history, a fact beyond doubt. This, then, is the capital point of the whole case. Clement V suppressed the Order; Philip the Fair burnt the Templars. We leave it to posterity to give each one the credit of his works.	P. J. M.
•EKKTBewTOsmr
Amusements.
From the remotest ages to the 'present time we find that all nations, both cultured and uncivilized, have bestowed upon this subject an attention and devotion which has in many instances approached enthusiasm. They have always recognized the necessity of the mind’s having sufficient rest and diversion from its everyday pursuits by some amusement, and therefore have they endeavored to es. tablish such games as would be not only participated in with delight but also awaited with real avidity. People generally are prone to search for something that is pleasant, and it was the realization of this act that led Tarquinius Priscus, in the early ages of Rome, to institute the games of the circus, thereby ingratiating himself in the favor of the citizens at large. And here we may say that it is invariably the case that the more we please those with whom we are associated, the firmer will they become our friends, and it hold us the higher in their esteem.
These games inaugurated by Tarquinius were continued to be celebrated after him, and observed with much more grandeur. Later, their growth warranted the building of the monstrous amphitheatre, the only relic left to show the grandeur of ancient Rome, with the exception of the stupendous sewers which were constructed also by order of the same Tarquinius. But the grand amphitheatre was defiled, and the purpose for which it was built abused; for during the persecution of the Christians, the Roman emperors caused many of the faithful to be thrown into the arena, to be torn in pieces by wild beasts, for the entertainment of the populace. Here the amusements ceased to edify: the public taste became vitiated, and the desire increased with a base tendency, in proportion to the horrifying scenes, with which it was fed. Amusements should always tend to elevate; and to arrange them so as to effect
this result can truly be called an art No amusement is commendable which does not tend to strengthen the body or ennoble the mind. For this reason only should they be encouraged. Considerable attention is now bestowed upon theatrical performances to make them as pure and elevating as possible, and the manner in which they are brought out at the present day may be called truly artistical. One can now, if he chooses, visit a theatre and feel not only that he has learned a lesson in morality, but also feel its beneficial effects upon himself. And so with a great many other amusements, that can be carried on so as to benefit the physical condition of the body and also lead the mind on an elevation.
Among other amusements we find one that has, of late, caused such a tremendous enthusiasm among our people, that I cannot help but make note of it—this is pedestrian-ism—although I cannot vouch for its orthodoxy among those I have called commendable amusements. Surely it does not fulfil the first requirement, viz., the strengthening of the body, for such frequent over-exertions which the walkers are obliged to endure, would rather, in my opinion, tend to weaken it, and as to the ennoblement of the mind, I cannot see where it comes in; on the contrary, it seems to me that it lowers him to the very nature of a beast, and I cannot believe that the primary object of man was to run races and leave the horses, the rightful participants, if indeed they were created for such a purpose, to be the spectators, as it were. And so there are many others of which we could speak separately, which should be avoided, for the same reason too, that they are of no benefit to ourselves nor to anyone else and are therefore, to say the least, an entire loss of our precious time. Besides this, amusements should never be allowed to become to one a passion, so much so that the mind is constantly enveloped in thoughts of it, to the entire loss of any serious thought and the time that should be occupied in study.
I would not banish amusements at all, but let them be of a truly benefitting nature, engaged in at the proper time and without that injurious excess which renders a benefit, by its abuse, an injury.	James Norfleet.
The Age of Chivalry.
The age of chivalry was the dawn of that period of history, in which the pagan customs of Europe, gradually, but surely, succumbed to the civilizing influence of Christianity. The spirit of chivalry was that of justice, manifested in the defense of the oppressed, and the protection of the innocent and helpless.
But who were they that oppressed the helpless and outraged the innocent, that defense should be called for ? It was the half-civilized, half-Christianized inhabitants of a country but lately conquered to the faith, and who had not yet comprehended the principles which Christianity inculcates.
The dispositions of the newly Christianized races, their distaste for literature, science, and art, and their fondness for war and plunder, did not disappear on the instant of their conversion. Quite the contrary. It was the work of the Sovereign Pontiffs to refine and subdue these fierce dispositions, and whoever is conversant with history well knows that the task was one of herculean proportions. Furthermore, not only were there injustice and evil at home, but abroad there was an enemy which was powerful, restless and indefatigable.
322
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Ottoman Empire aimed at the total subjugation of Europe, the complete destruction of the Christian name. Deeds of gross violence from these invaders were of everyday occurrence. It is to be wondered at that the selfsacrificing spirit of Christianity should institute an order so beneficial as that of knight errantry, and which gave to history such heroes as Rodriguez Diaz of Biver ?
Had there been no wrongs to redress, there would have been no call for the knight errant. Now let us see how the spirit of chivalry combatted the foe which Christianity found in the heart of Europe. In the “ Truce of God,” one of many similar institutions originating at this historical period, we find a fair embodiment of her method of procedure. The petty lords of Europe were engaged in constant warfare, and the unsubdued ferocity of these chieftains was almost irresponsible, so arrogant were their claims. To check these semi-barbarians, the Truce of God made the days of the week sacred to the Crucifixion of our Lord, days of peace; that is to say, all warlike demonstrations were suspended from the afternoon of Wednesday till the morning of the following Monday.
We can see how naturally in a country like La belle France such an institution should suggest a wider and more aggressive system of protection. Her sister, Spain, however, realized this system in the institution of chivalry. Wrongs existed. As children of one common Father, who is God, an injury to one was felt by all. Christendom recognized this truth. What was the result? We see a St. John of Matha, a St. Peter Nolasco, a St. Raymond Pennafort, not to mention the great St. Vincent de Paul, giving, not money and patrimony alone, but exchanging places, even with galley-slaves, in order to restore them to their families.
From these instances, taken from the times, we see the nature of the age. Restrictions upon vice, restrictions upon passions, were the objects for which wise heads and loving hearts labored.
Not to crush the human spirit, but to restrain its evil inclinations, to ennoble, refine, and sanctify its glorious capabilities, this was the beneficent work to which the Church has applied herself.
The office of Pepin in subduing the insolent pretentions of the Lombard Astolphus, was a fair preface to the glorious chapter which closed in the crowning of Godfrey de Bouillon, King of Jerusalem. The age of chivalry was merged in that of the crusades. It was the grand prerogative of these crusades to check, by an insuperable barrier, the impending advance of the Turks upon the fair domain of Europe.
The ambition of these dangerous enemies to all purity and truth was never cooled until even the age of the holy wars had passed. When we reflect that with the Turkish triumph, immorality, and the destruction of sanctity of the Christian home was inevitable, then, and not till then, can we realize the immense debt of gratitude which humanity owes to the principle of the age of chivalry, in averting this calamity from the nations of Europe. Heaven grant that the debasing foe which that principle destroyed at the Battle of Lepanto, shall never raise its hydra head on the soil of our fair America.	E. Clements.
—Riches, though they may reward virtues, yet they cannot cause them; he is much nobler who deserves a benefit than he who bestows one.
Art, Musio and Literature.
—Thomas Landseer, A. R. A, the engraver, elder brother of the late Sir Edwin Landseer, is dead.
—Mrs. Kate Chase Sprague is assisting E. S. Hamlin in the preparation of a biography of her father.
—A man who heard his son banging away at a piano, said, “There’s music in the heir.”—Whitehall Times.
—Richard Sullivan, a well-known writer and journalist, and brother of T. D. Sullivan, editor of the Dublin Nation, died in San Francisco, Cal., on the 17th inst.
—One of the most popular men of genius in London is Gustave Dore, whose time is now largely devoted to the preparation of an illustrated edition of Shakspeare.
—Carlyle’s handwriting has many impatient crosses and flourishes, but his manuscript is patiently punctuated and paragraphed, and not a comma or letter is missing in the copy.	.
—Wieniawski, the famous violinist, who is seriously ill in Moscow, has had the financial aid and sympathy of his fellow-artist, Nicolas Rubienstein. The American public, who have enjoyed the exquisite entertainments of both of these gentlemen will also feel a sympathy for the artist’s misfortune.	-
—The real name, of Frank Leslie, the well-known New York publisher, is Henry Carter. His son, who it is said was also named Henry, having after his marriage assumed the name of Frank Leslie, Jr., having published a pictorial paper under that name, his father has brought suit against him for using the name in a business way.
—There is not the slightest foundation in fact for the rumors of Edwin Booth’s ill health, which have been drifting about in the papers of late. The same sort of story— equally without foundation—had been set afloat at intervals for years past, but Mr. B. will not fall ill to please the friends who are so anxious.—Chicago Saturday Evening Herald.
—The Holy Father has lately named a committee, composed of Cardinal Pitra, Librarian, and Mgr. Capecelatro, Vice-Librarian of the Holy Roman Church; with the two Custodians, Rev. Martinucci and the learned Jesuit Father Bollig, as also Commendatore De Rossi, the celebrated archaeologist, who are to draw up and publish the several catalogues of the Vatican Library. His Holiness has further directed the arrangement of a room of the Vatican Archives for the convenience of such students, duly provided with permission, as may desire to consult the precious documents contained in said Archives—Roman Cor. N. Y. Freeman's Journal.
—An interesting book may shortly be expected to appear in Paris, namely, “An Account of the Expedition to the Zambezi River,” undertaken by some of the Jesuit missionaries, who are laboring for the conversion of the Africans. Although—perhaps, because these Fathers were helped forward by Sir Bartie Frere—the natives were at first unfavorably disposed towards them, their perseverance and their usefulness in teaching various trades to the savages have effected a change, and the volume which is just announced will contain the expression of an expectation based on the progress already made, that the work of conversion may effectually prosper.
—The Etcher is the title of a new English monthly periodical whose object, as statgd in the prospectus, is “ the hope of supplying the wide-spread and rapidly increasing demand which exists at the present time, for the etched works of artists.” “ Although known as one of the earliest forms of engraving,” says the editor, “and used by many of the old masters of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, the art of etching was for two centuries almost forgotten. About fortyyears ago it was introduced into England by the well-known artists who formed the Etching Club; since that time a great advance has been made, and etchings by modern artists are now as popular as the works of Rembrandt, and are eagerly sought after by all those who have a true appreciation and knowledge of the art, both in this country and abroad.” The editor of The Etcher is Mr. H. M. Cundall, of the South Kensington Museum.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
323
A-
—The valuable majolica ware recently sold for $8,000 at the Papal castle of Gandolfo, near Albano, by permission of the Pope, has been confiscated by the Italian Government, on the ground that all the property allowed the Popes in the various papal palaces was inalienable under the law.—American Art Journal. Yes, the law of might over right. The Italian Government, notwithstanding its church and convent robberies and sequestrations for years past, is a bankrupt government, and grabs all it can. The property of the Popes is the gift of the Catholic people throughout the world, through the Peter’s Pence, and we fail to know when the donors made this so-called Italian Government their trustees? Some of the black-livered scoundrels now composing this Italian Government, and the hangers-on of the Garibaldi tribe, ate bread fiom the hands oi the Pope in Italy’s palmy days, when Rome was a centre of prosperity, of literary culture, of art, and of science.
—The following report of a concert which we read some time ago, showing the ridiculous consequences that may occur irom a man’s working out of his sphere, may be interesting to our musical friends: “The musical critic of one of the New York papers having been compelled to leave town suddenly, on the eve of a concert by the Philharmonic Society, a confrere on the sporting department of the journal kindly volunteered to take his place for the evening. His work, whatever his shortcomings in an artistic sense, certainly lacked nothing in originality, and -we commend his style to some of the Doncaster critics. Hear him: “ Time was called exactly at eight o’clock and about fifty bugles, fifes and fiddles entered tor the contest. The fiddles won the toss, and took the inside with chandeliers right in their eyes. The umpire, with a small club, acted as starter. Just before the start he stood'upon a cheese box, with a small lunch counter before him, and shook his stick at the entries to keep them down. The contestants first socked it to Landliche Hoehzeit, by Goldsmark, Op. 26. They got off nearly even, one of the sorrel fiddles gently leading. The man with the French horn tried to call them back, but they settled down to a sogging gait, with the big roan fiddle bringing up the rear. At the first quarter the little black whistle broke badly, and went into the air, but the fiddles on the left kept well together, and struck up a rattling gait. At the half-pole the man with the straight horn showed signs of latigue. There was a bobtailed flute which wrestled sadly witn the sorrel bugle at the half mile, but he was wind-broken and wheezed. The galoot with the big fat bugle kept calling ‘ whoa ’ all the time, but he seemed to keep up with the rest until the end of the race. They all came under the string in good order, but the judge on the cheese box seemed to reserve his opinion. He seemed tired, and the contestants went out to find their bottle holders, and get ready for the Beethoven handicap. It was a nice exhibition, but a little tiresome to the ob servers. All bets are off.”
Scientific Notes.
—The Medical and Surgical Reporter tells of two cases of partial deatness from boxing children’s ears.
—Prof. Calladon, of Geneva, has substituted cardboard for rubber in the audiphone invented by Mr. Rhodes.
—It may interest those who are discussing the distance from an electric generator at which light can be maintained that a circuit nearly 3.3 miles is in successful operation in London. Recently, M. Berly, the engineer of the Sociele Generale d’Electricite that has instituted the Thames embankment system of illumination, lighted the Victoria station of the Metropolitan District railway from the Charing Cross station. The path taken by the wires is 1.65 miles, making, of course, the w’hole circuit, 3.3 miles.
—The Cologne Gazette states that, although unfinished, the towers of the, Cologne Cathedral are even now the highest buildings in the world, measuring 157 and 160 metres respectfully in attitude, as compared with the Nicolai Tower in Hamburg, measuring 144.20; St. Peter’s at Rome, which measures 143; the Munster at Strasburg, 142; the Pyramid of Cheops, 137; St. Stephen’s Cathe
dral at Vienna, 135.20; the Cathedral of Antwerp, 123,40; the Duomo of Florence, 119; and St. Paul’s in London, which measures 111.30 metres.
—The Benedictine Order is making preparations for celebrating in the year 1880, the fourteen hundreth anniversary of the birth of their founder, St. Benedict. Art and science are lending their aid to honor him, whose sons were for centuries almost the only ones who cultivated either. In Monte Cassino, the old tower and crypt of the original monastery are nearly restored and completed, the work having been begun two years ago. Frescoes are painted by monks of the Order. New editions of valuable, some of them ornamental, works, by Benedictine authors, are also prepared for the occasion.
—According to The Journal of the Franklin Institute, Mr. E. Commelin has discovered a new industrial application of hydrogen. He places retorts or tubes of metal or refractory earthenware in the arch of furnaces or generators in hot-air apparatus or elsewhere, where the are exposed to a red heat. They are filled with charcoal, coke, or cinders, and a small jet of vapor is introduced, which pro duces, by decomposition and recomposition, hydrogen, carbonic oxide and carbonic acid gas. The apparatus is thus raised to a white heat and steam is obtained without expense. Each tube which contains 25 kilos (55 pounds) of coke yields, in 10 hours, 100.
—A new use for electricity has been found inJParis, in the invention by Mr. M. Eeioy of a bridle to be placed in the mouths of restive horses, to which is attached a wire passing through each rein to the driver, who can at any time the horse becomes unmanageable attach the end in. his hands to a small electro-magnet placed in the vehicle. By this and a small crank attached to the electro magnet an induced current is brought in contact with the horse, which so astonishes him that he stops instantly, and by a little friendly talking is made to obey at command. The current is not strong enough to cause any injury but enough to startle him, and makes him look to man for protection. This apparatus has also been used with favorable results upon vicious horses when about to be shod, making them very docile and easy to handle.—Rem. Respatch Ukiah, Gal. a
—The first winter after the erection of a telegraph line on the coast of Antrim, Ireland, numbers of starlings migrating from Scotland were found dead or wounded on the roadside, they having, evidently, in their flight in the dusky morning struck against the wires. Strange to sayj during the following and succeeding winters, hardly a death occurred among the starlings on their arrival. The inference drawn from all this by a writer in Nature is that “the birds were deeply impressed and understood the cause of the fatal accidents among their fellow-travellers, that previous year, and hence carefully avoided the telegraph wires; not only so, but the young birds must also have acquired this knowledge and perpetuated it,—a knowledge which they could not have acquired by experience or even by instinct, unless the instinct was really inherited memory derived from the parents whose brains were first impressed by it.”
—A. correspondent of Nature says: “Theorists admit that the generation of hail seems always to depend on some very sudden introduction of an extremely cold current of air into the bosom of a quiescent, nearly saturated mass. Now, bearing in mind the above-mentioned facts, does it not seem probable, or at least possible, that hailstorms may be caused by a current of wind which has been forced over snow-covered mountains, and thus rendered extremely cold, descending into the warm plains beneath, and forcing the hot and saturated air resting thereon into the higher regions of the atmosphere, where the moisture would become congealed into a cloud of ice particles, the condition required for the beautiful theory of the formation of hailstones of Prof. Osborne Reynolds ? This would account for the great frequency of hailstorms in Southern France, which country is subject to the influence of both the Alps and the Pyrenees. The above conditions, viz.: snow-covered mountains and warm plains, could only occur in this country in winter and spring, and it is found that the greatest proportion of our hailstorms are experienced in these seasons.”
324
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
—The College Message, published monthly at St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo., is a well-edited college paper. Tne essays and editorials display ability, and aie on interesting subjects. “The Lesson oi Two Lives,” and “ Wrecks,” in the last number, are interesting. The exchange department is ably conducted.
—The Tutor, an eight-page paper published semi-monthly by Dr. R. C. Beer at 210 N. Fremont Street, Baltimore, Md., comes to us with a request to exchange. We cheerfully comply. 'Ihe Tutor has reached the sixth number of the second volume. Among the contributed articles, Wicker-sheimer’s New Method of Preserving Bodies,” by Prof. Otto Lugger, and “ The Lungs as they Concern Educators,” by T. W. Mills, M. D., are worthy of a careful perusal. We acknowledge ourselves indebted to The Tutor for several miscellaneous items of interest.
—Mr. McMaster, of the New York Freeman's Journal, who has established a reputation for the reliability of his European news, is after the Herald and Times of that city, with a sharp stick, for a scurvy trick of theirs. They deserve a scathing. The Herald having received from Mr. McMaster a proof-sheet of matter containing important news, published the item as a “Special to the New York Herald," without giving the Freeman even a shadow ot credit; the Times gave the the same matter, from a similar proof-sheet, without credit of any kind. The Old Satanic, now The Flunkey, hasn’t forgotten its old-time tricks, and there is not much confidence placed in it by anybody. In fact, so bad is the reputation of the Herald, or The Flunkey, that if it wishes to assist a person or a cause, it can do so most effectually by opposing him or it. Having crawled to the English landlords (probably because, Beunett Jr. is hobnobbing with the English gentry,) it endeavored in every possible way to throw obloquy on the Irish land movement. A Herald reporter who had the impudence to thrust himself in upon the Parnel 1 reception committee was saved from merited rebuke by a self-possessed remark from Mr. Parnell himself. He advised the indignant gentlemen not to visit their wrath on the reporter; for the Herald, by opposing, had best served and given strength to the land movement. That is the way the New York Flunkey is looked upon. When the editor oi the Freeman has hereafter something of importance to communicate to The Flunkey, he will no doubt send it under strong guard or legal protection. “There be land rats and waler rats,” and land “sharks” as well as water sharks, and Mr. McMaster is now no doubt convinced, if a shadow oi doubt remained, that all the “ pirates” did not die out with those of Algiers and the Spanish main.
—Our friend of the Amherst Student is not willing to acknowledge that his accusations against the Catholic Church were groundless, and that we have proved some ot them to ue so. He says: “ The exchange editor of the Scholastic. .. .in a somewhat lengthy article again gives vent to nis cheap logic, the chief characteristic of which always consists in dodging every point at issue.” Indeed! Well, let us recapitulate, and see how the matter stands. Is he able to prove, what was asserted in the prize essay, that while the Greek service is always conducted in the vernacular language, the Roman is uniformly celebrated in the Latin tongue (Italics ours) which we asserted was not and is not the case, for the Roman Catholic Church authorizes five rites and five tongues in her ritual, namely the Latin, the Greek, the Syro-Chaldaic or Mesorabic, the Armenian, the Coptic,—and others perhaps, for we, not being an ecclesiastic, and not intending to pursue ecclesiastical studies, do not pretend to be well posted in such matters—but this much we know for a certainly. He has made no acknowledgment on this point, as he should have done if the assertion was an error, and neither has he attempted to defend it. This is the first point. The second is the asserted “ Sequestration of the Bible” by the Catholic Church. We say this also is untrue; for the Church never sequestrated the Bible. 0 ur friend of the Student has given no proof of the sequestration, and we are prepared to show, by solid proofs, tnat the Church was always the friend of an open Bible, and that before Lutner published his Bible (with many errors in it, as Bucer, his fellow
reformer, and others, have shown) the Church had issued no less, we believe (we write from memory) than Jj/Zy-secen editions, and some of these in the vernacular tongues. (3) That the Papal hierarchy has filled Europe with intrigues and wars we asserted to be untrue; the hierarchy was, as a rule, the peacemaker of Europe, and no line of political rulers can show so clear a record as the Popes since the days of Constantine. Our friend also passed this by in silence. (4) That Rome has “been the uncompromising foe of political and intellectual freedom” we denied, and the exchange editor of the Student has not attempted to gainsay our denial. (5) That Rome “ cherished the Inquisition in all its hideous deformities” we also denied, and showed by an example that the “ Inquisition,” as our friend knows it, was simply a state affair, controlled by the state—that is, by the kings and courts— as is clearly shown in the case of the burning of the Knights Templars in France by King Philip the Fair, which the Pope wished to prevent, and which the king hurried, in order to escape the probable papal interdict, which did come, but too late. And (6), lastly, the statement, approaching the ridiculous, as we have shown, that “ the teachings of Constantine formed the canon of the Christian world, and from that canon the Greek Church has never departed,” the writer in the Student passed by in silence. And yet, he says we give vent to “cheap logic, the chief characteristic of which always consists in dodging every point at issue”! Well, that is rather a funny charge for the Amherst Student man to make against us, as the foregoing shows. He says in his last article, a column in length, that all history which favors the Church is readily accepted, while that which has stated facts as they were—praising the Church when it did right, and condemning it when ft did wrong, is rejected as poor authority. Not so fast, friend; you accuse us wrongfully. You forget in this sweeping charge that De Maistre asserts that history for the last three hundred years has been a conspiracy against truth, and that therefore it behooves one to ex imine what he wishes to accept as history. This is how we act, and if our friend will read Cobbett’s “ History of the Reformation”—written by a member of Parliament who lived and died a Protestant, and compare it with, other histories, he will see that he, and many others, bear out De Maistre’s assertion. As to the cnarge of bigotry—“ As a proof that our assertion is true,” he continues, “ take the statement in the article before us that * in faith and morals the Roman Church never made a mistake.” He thinks we cannot prove the statement true! We can, and to his satisfaction. We do not take such one-sided views of these matters as he supposes; we might answer him almost in the words of the “ Papist ” Pope, the poet, to the Protestant Bishop of Rochester, who wished to convert him, that at fourteen we had read up both sides of the question, and had studied them thoroughly before nailing our flag to the mast. As to our authority for saying that the Church never erred in teaching faith or morals, it is no less than Christ Himself, who, as we read in the 16th chapter of the Gospel of St. Matthew, promised that she should never err: “And I say to thee, Thou art Peter (Syro-Chaldaic, Cephas; Latin, Petrus, both signifying rock), and upon this rock I will build My Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: And whatsoever thou shall bind upon earth, it shall be bound also in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose upon earth, it shall be loosed also in heaven.” Again, chapter xxviii, v. 18: “ All power is given to Me in heaven and in earth. Go ye, therefore, and teach, all nations; baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you; and behold, I am with you all days, even to the consummation of the world.” . . . “ And I will ask the Father, and He shall give you another Paraclete, that He may abide with you forever. . . . The Spirit of truth .... He shall abide with you, and shall be m you." (St. John, xiv, verses 16 & 17.) And again: “ My Spirit that is in thee, and My words that I have put in thy mouth shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed nor out of the mouth of thy seed’s seed, saith the Lord, from hence iorth and for ever.” (Isaias, lix, 21.) Now, what does the Amherst editor say ? Are we right,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
325
or are we not, in asserting that the Church never erred in her teaching ? Isn’t her teaching here guaranteed to be inerrable, and what is inerrability but infallibility ? And if the Church be infallible, are we not safe in following her guidance? If our friend object that priests, and Bishops, and even Popes, sometimes did things that were not right, we answer Yes; neither priests, Bishops, nor Popes are impeccable (the Pope goes to confession every week like any other priest); but personal peccability and doctrinal infallibility are different things. Here again the words of Christ (St. Matthew, xxiii, 1, 2, 3) amply cover all objections: “Jesus spoke to the multitude and to His disciples, saying: “TheScribes and the Pharisees have sitten on the chair of Moses. All, therefore, whatsoever they shall say to you, observe and do; but according to their works, do ye not: for they say, and do not.” The Amherst writer has taken us considerably out of our sphere here, but we were determined to satisfy him at all hazards. Is he now satisfied, or does he still back up his objection of “cheap logic ” ?
New Publications.
—We have received the second number of the first volume of the Humboldt Library of Popular Science Literature. This is a new magazine, and, we think, one that will do much towards diffusing useful scientific knowledge. It is published semi-monthly, and contains a varying number of pages. Price of subscription, $3. No. 1 contained “ Light Science for Leisure Hours,” by R. A. Proctor, the astronomer. The second number contains the excellent little work of Prof. John Tyndall on “Forms of Water.” To judge of the usefulness of the undertaking, we need only take into consideration the contents of these first two numbers. The scope of the publication of the Library is to present the “Best Popular Expositions of Science” for a very moderate price, within reach of all classes of readers. We have nothing but praise and encouragement for the undertaking. Our most earnest wish would be that parents place such publications in the hands of their children, instead of the flippant magazines of sensational novels and stories, which tend so much to destroy both the morals and character of the young. Just try and get a boy to read number two, and if he does not like it as well as the story of his last monthly be sure it will not be the fault of Prof. Tyndall. We can say, on our part, that it was a perfect feast to us, as interesting as it was instructive. No student of science should be without The Humboldt Library. Subscribers can obtain this valuable magazine by addressing J. Fitzgerald & Co., 294 Broadway, New York.
CoHege Gossip.
—The trustees of Columbia College have decided not to allow the admission of young women.—Oberlin Beoiew.
—The twelfth annual reunion of the Manhattan College Alumni took place at Pinard’s, New York, on the 28th inst.
—What a marvellous man is the Archbishop of Tuam. The Maynooth College Calendar tells us that he was Lecturer on Dogmatic Theology as far back as 1814—that is to say, 65 years ago!
—There is a professor named Root at Williams College, and we see it slated in an old number of the Athenceum that once in a fit of abstraction he said he had a radical head on his shoulders. So, for once the root comes at the top.
—The Abbe Bourgeat, licentiate of physical and natural sciences, has been named Master of Conferences on Geology at the Catholic University of Lille, and the alumni rejoice in the acquistion of so profoundly learned a priest.
—Prof. Lelut’s theory is that Socrates was a lunatic. Can you mention anything that would seem to justify this charge of mental aberration? Junior (who flunked in his final) “ Why, yes, sir. His fondness for the study of Physics. (General assent).)—Oberlin Beview.
—The Literary Editor, after making long expeditions in search of “ material,” feels, he says, like the little girl who
was sent out to hunt for eggs. She searched long, but at last gave it up, exclaiming: “Strange! and here are lota of hens standing around doing nothing! ”—Bound Table.
—The professors in the Russian universities are prohibited by the Government from lecturing on tyranny, even such as Nero’s and Caligula’s.—Oberlin Bemew. Reason.— The tyranny of the czars is so much like that of Nero and Caliula, of Diocletian and Julian the Apostate, that the hot blood of the students would tempt them to shake it off’.
—Prof. Blackie, of Edinburg, lately in a short address in connection with a bazaar that had been held for the porpose of aiding the students of the University to clear off a debt upon their Club, expressed very pithily his opinion of this means of raising money: “It was a proper thing to spoil the Egyptians on all occasions. No greater good could be done to the public than that of taking money out of the pockets of the people for a laudable object.”
—The Marquis of Bute, desirous to promote Catholic education, and as far as possible to put within the reach of Scottish Catholics the benefits of university teaching of the first order, has generously granted to St Benedict’s College, Fort Augustus, Scotland, a subsidy of £500 a year, to enable it to secure the assistance of two professors from national universities, who will assist the present staff in teaching classics and the different branches of sciences.
—The Roman pronunciation in Latin is used by twenty-two non-Catholic colleges; the English, by eighteen; the Continental, by one, and a mixed pronunciation by two. All the Roman Catholic institutions use the Continental. Yale still adheres to the English.—Ex. The foregoing statement is simply absurd. Catholic colleges everywhere, except in Great Britain, have always used, and still use, the Roman pronunciation, properly so-called, and nonCatholic colleges are rapidly following suit What is termed the “ Continental ” pronunciation is a mystery to us.
—Othello’s occupation’s gone. Somebody has in our absence put in a requisition for our scissors, and that useful adjunct to an editortai room has mysteriously disappeared. He who steals our purse, steals—well, he will not have much for his trouble, and this fact will console us for ourselves;- but he who steals our scissors touches a weak point in our character; he cuts us to the sole, and makes away with our little awl. We hope the guilty one was unaware of the magnitude of the injury he has done us, and. if he returns our double-edged weapon will no more make him the subject of cutting remarks.
Society Notes.
—The Thespian Dramatic Association has been reorganized by Prof. Edwards with the following members: Messrs. W. Arnold, J. Norfleet, R. Stewart, B. Claggett, J. Berteling, T. Simms, F. Bloom, W. McGorrisk, J. McGrath, D. Donohue and G. Sugg.
—The Columbian Literary Club held its regular meeting on Tuesday night. Mr. H. Simms read a very interesting essay entitled “Echoes.” G. Donnelly and A. Zahm favored the Society with select recitations, after which the members took part in an extempore debate.
—The 12th and 13th regular meetings of the Philopatrian Association took place Jan. 9th and 15th respectively. Masters H. Foote and A. Coynine were elected members. Declamations were delivered by E. Litmer, M. Vedder, 0. J. Farrelly, F. McPhillips, Geo. Rhodius, J. Seeger, S. Dering, A. Coghlin, N. Nelson, J. L. Larkin, F. Becker, A. Rheinboldt, G. Castanedo.
—The 16th and 17th regular meetings of the St Cecilia Philomathean Association took place Jan. 7th and 15th respectively. Declamations were delivered by J. P. O’Neill, W. J. McCarthy, Chas. Tinley, E. C. Orrick. Nicholas Weney delivered a very fine selection in German. At the 18th regular meeting, held Saturday, Jan. 24th, several declamations were delivered, and the following were appointed public readers for the coming week: M. J. Borns, J. W. Guthrie, Chas. Rietz, Chas. Tinley, F. B. Phillipa and Chas. McDermott.
326
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
aw
Notre Dame, January 31, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Liter ary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per -Ammim, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
Physical Culture a Necessity.
On taking a stroll through, the Junior and. Senior recrea tion grounds on Saturday afternoon last, which, by the way, was one of the most pleasant afternoons we have had this year, we were impressed with the idea that many of our most industrious students have taken a decidedly wrong view of the manner in which the hours of recreation are to be spent On that bright and balmy afternoon, which we may often enjoy in May, but would never dream of looking for in snow-bound January, we noticed that many of the students took no part whatever in the many different games then carried on but were sitting down engaged either in quiet conversation, or with their books preparing, perhaps, their lessons for Monday, or reviewing all that they had gone over, as a preparation for the examination of the coming week.
Now, we do not mean to say that there is any intrinsic wrong in spending your recreations in this manner; but that you wrong yourselves in so doing, we shall endeavor to show you in as few words as possible. You are, no doubt, aware, that in order to become a good, worthy and useful member of society, you must acquire, 'by means of hard persevering study, an education which will render you capable of occupying that particular position in society to which God, by a special vocation, has called you. But remember, that if, in the acquirement of the means for the attainment and successful fulfillment of this position mental culture is a necessity, physical culture is none the less so. And it is precisely here that good and industrious students are liable to a great and too often fetal mistake. They never, or to “ pinafore ” the expression, “hardly ever” think of taking that daily exercise, which
they can so easily have by taking part in the many field sports, and other recreative games, which are kept up here, for no other purpose than that of affording the students plenty of invigorating exercise, and which is absolutely necessary in order that each and everyone may enjoy that greatest of all temporal blessings, which an ever-watchful Providence can bestow upon man—health. The intellect cannot long remain in a healthy condition after the body has become diseased; for the judicious exercise of the one is entirely dependent upon the condition of the other. As the mind as well as the body needs rest, so the body like the mind must be exercised. What a remarkable contrast is noticeable in those students who spend their recreations in wholesome bodily exercise, by taking part in games of football, handball, baseball, etc., and those who content themselves by sitting down during the whole time of recreation, engaged in talking about astronomy, geology, physiology, jurisprudence, etc. etc., or perhaps in cracking a few dry jokes at some one’s expense, over which they must have a dry laugh. And after recreation is over who, do you think, has been the most benefitted by it—those who spent their time in a conversation which has afforded their minds no relaxation, and have taken no exercise whatever, or those who, on the contrary, have during the time of recreation diverted their minds from their books and centred it upon some amusement whereby it has become refreshed, and while so doing, have taken that exercise which has caused the blood to circulate through every vein, and strengthen every bodily organ ? We are sure |you will say that the latter have been most benefitted by the recreation. And so say we. And we can lay it down as a pretty general rule that the last mentioned are they who, during the hours of class or study after recreation, employ every moment of their time to the best advantage, and are generally brightest students in class. They go on from year to year in the same manner, until the day of their graduation comes, when they receive their diplomas—the testimonials of an intellectual education, which has in nowise proved detrimental to their heatlh. We also see the first mentioned class of individuals receive their diplomas on the day of graduation, but though intellectually they may be no way inferior to their more healthy looking companions, still, physically, they are, not only their inferiors, but are moreover the, objects of every one’s pity, for they present such an emaciated and wornout appearance, that no one can but exclaim: “Poor fool! why have you educated your intellect to your body’s detriment? Oh! what a sad and unhappy consequence will result from your inconsiderateness. You have prepared for yourself a premature grave.”
We hope that these few words uttered by us in regard to this matter, will be heeded by each and every one of our students—by those who have heretofore paid attention to physical culture, as words of encouragement to a continuance in its practise, and by those who heretofore have paid no attention to this matter, as words incentive to the commencement of its immediate cultivation, and demonstrative of its necessity.
—He who never changed any of his opinions never corrected any of his mistakes; and he who was never wise enough to find out any mistake in himself, will not be charitable enough to excuse what he reckons mistakes in others.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
327
J, 'f
i i
<
The Late M. W. Bannon.
About two weeks ago a vague rumor was afloat of the death of M. W. Bannon, a distinguished member of the Law Class of ’79. Mr. Bannon was known to suffer from frequent attacks of heart-disease, and many fears were entertained for a time that the report was true. No confirmation of the news came, however, and it was generally set down as a false rumor, until, about a week ago, President Corby received a letter from the brother of the deceased informing him of the sad fact, and asking the prayers of the community for the repose of his soul. Mr. Bannon spent two years here, and was probably in the 22d year of his age when he entered the Law Class. A portion of his preparatory studies were also made here, and another portion at a local denominational college in Wisconsin. We have been told that at the college which he attended, there was but one Catholic student besides himself. A strong feeling prejudicial to Catholics was entertained, and in the various debates, essays, etc., the two Catholic students had at first to listen to the usual vituperation of their faith and its teachings. Such, however, was the manly character, ability, and bonhommie of these two, that notwithstanding their readiness to defend their faith they in a few months commanded universal respect and esteem, and not a word was uttered by anyone that could give them offense.
As a student, Mr. Bannon was a man among men—a courteous gentleman, a man of principle, with a warm heart and a ready good-will. As a companion, as a society man, his genial influence was always felt, his presence always welcome. In the debates and seances of the Law Class and of the Columbian Literary Club, Mr. Bannon ever took a prominent part, and his talent shone conspicuously both as a writer, a debater, aud a forensic orator. In a word, his inborn talent, his eloquence and his scholarship made him an honor to his class, his society, and his Alma Mater. During the late disastrous fire that consumed the University buildings, Mr. Bannon worked like a Trojan, and his services on that eventful day should never be forgotten at Notre Dame. Laboring under the fell disease that terminated his life, he seemed to forget everything but the trying exigencies of the moment; and when nothing remained but a crumbling ruin of the collegiate pile, it was his determination to do all he could among his friends to aid in the re-erection of the College. For this purpose he intended delivering a course of lectures, but ill-health (he was suffering from a chronic disease of the heart) prevented the fulfilment of his design. Reguiescat in pace.
I*
I
At a meeting of the members of the Columbian Literary Club, called for the occasion, the following resolutions were adopted in regard to the demise of their late fellowmember :
Whereas it has pleased the Almighty to take from this life our beloved friend and late fellow-member, Micha kt. W. Ban-non, we, the members of the St. Edward Columbian Associa. tiotf, do express in the following resolutions our deep regret at his sudden and early death:
Resolved, That as a member of our Society, Mr. Bannon endeared himself to all its members by his zeal and example, whilst .a member. That his integrity of character, his genial disposition, and excellent deportment during his entire collegiate course brings more forcibly to our minds the value of so virtuous a companion.
Resolved, that we do extend our heartfelt sympathies to
his bereaved parents, who solaced their old age with a hope so long centred in their son, and that we do believe, although they naturally feel and mourn his sudden death, that there awaits for him a crown of purer lustre and more lasting worth than could be gained by a long life of wordly toil.
Resolved, that we firmly believe that the community in which he resided has lost in him one who was preparing well for the profession he had chosen, as his zeal and intelligence gave evidence at Notre Dame, and who would have proved a star in their midst, a truly estimable citizen, who weighs well, and successfully promotes the public interest.	_
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to his parents, and published in our college paper, The Scholastic, and the local paper of his county.
Committee-
T. W. Simms, D. Donahoe, W. Connolly, T. B. Campbell.
Personal.
—We are pleased to notice that Father Zahm who has been for a short time absent upon a lecturing tour is again in our midst.
—We learn from the South-Bend Register that the Rev. Father Czyzweski is in Chicago attending the services of the Forty Hours’ Devotion. He will return soon.
i/—J. Lambin (Commercial), ’78. and Lou Hibben, ’73, are, as we hear, engaged in the office of a prominent collector in Chicago, and, we are told, are doing finely. We’ve no doubt of it. They did the same while here.
We are pleased to hear that our old friend E. Ohmer (Commercial), ’73, is engaged in a very prosperous dry good business in Fargo, Dakato Ter. He must have been kept lively to stand that 50 deg. below zero they have had this winter.
—Mr. P. O’Donnell, lately of Detroit, visited Notre Dame during the week. He was greatly disappointed in not meeting the President, who was absent on business during his stay. Mr. O’Donnell intends to have his two sons educated here. He made many friends during his short stay with us.
—We had the honor of a visit this week from Judge Turner, of South Bend. The Judge looked more hale and hearty than we had ever seen him; he seems to be growing younger every year—to be going up, rather than down the hill of life. We understand he has begun the publication of his Annual for 1880, one of the liveliest and best written mediums we have ever seen. The Judge seems to be as perfectly at home in business matters as in law or literature.
—We are glad to hear that James E. Hagerty (Commercial), ’77, who has been since his departure from here engaged with the firm of John E. Hagerty & Bro. St. Louis, Mo., has been able by his steady application to work to buy the interest of his uncle, thus rendering the firm John E. Hagerty & Son. Such reports from our old boys are really pleasant to receive, and we beg to congratulate our young friend, and hope that he may continue in his success.
—Prof. Luigi Gregori, accompanied by the Rev. Fathers Barzyhsi and Vaghi, of St. Stanislaus’s Church, and Bro. Leonard, Provincial of the Alexian Brothers, of Chicago, paid a flying visit to Notre Dame on Wednesday last. The Proiessor is looking as well as ever, and we are pleased to learn that he is getting along well in Chicago. We understand, that he is contracting to paint the newly finished St. Stanislaus’s Church, cor. Nable and Jugreham Sts. We congratulate the Rev. clergy of that church for their appreciation of true art, and for having secured for the task the services of Prof. Gregori.
—Willie Fletcher (Commercial),’73, visited Notre Dame on Thursday last, accompanied by his sister, and we had a hearty shake of the hand from the genial friend of our junior days. We were glad to see Willie looking so well
328
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.!
and hearty, he has undergone but little change—grown somewhat taller and stouter, but still retaining the same kind and frank countenance, and the affectionate manner of bis early boyhood days. Willie has been in business with his father in St. Louis, but expects to spend the winter in Shakspeare, New Mexico, where they have some large contracts. He came to place a younger brother at the College. This is his first visit since he finished his course, and he said he would hardly know the place. We hope soon to see him again.
Iiocal Items.
—Dont forget the Sorins’ Exhibition to-night.
—The Sorin Exhibition will commence this evening, at half-past seven sharp.
—The Preps, play baseball every day. They have the best club on the premises.
—“What’s your percentage?” was the most common salutation during the week.
—There is splendid fishing in St. Mary’s Lake. Why don’t our Waltons try their luck?
—The Sophomores say that they are going to carry off the honors on Washington’s Birthday.
—The “ Martyrs of the Coliseum ” is being read in St. Joseph’s refectory, every day at dinner.
—We understand that quite a number of the Commercials intend to take up the study of the Classics next session.
—A. wag at our elbow asks: “If the people of Canada favor the present viceroy, is it any indication that they are forlorn ? ”
—“ Dog gorn it! do you take me for a Payson, Dunton or Scribner ?” was the reply given by a young lad upon being reproved for his poor penmanship.
—We shall feel deeply obliged to all who may have copies numbers 19 and 20, of the Scholastic, and who do not need them, if they will return them to us.
—Our aquatic men take advantage of the present mild weather to practice for the spring races. The lakes have been entirely free from ice for several weeks.
—The musicians are preparing for Washington’s Birthday, when they intend to give us plenty of good music at the exhibition to be given by the Thespians. x
—Bro. Albert’s embryo Thespians will make their appearance to-night. They have been well drilled, and will, no doubt, display their knowledge of military tactics to advantage.
—Bev. Father Condon, the highly esteemed Prefect of Discipline, presided over the examinations of the Preparatory Board, and dispelled the monotony of things by his ready wit and good humor.
—Two picked nines of the Junior department played an interesting game of baseball on the 24th inst. Score, thirteen to eight. Charlie Campeau, of ’75, who was visiting. Notre Dame, acted as captain for the winning club.
—Examiner on Preparatory Board: “Of what gender is ship, George?” George, a bright young Prep.: “Feminine, sir.” Examiner, m astonishment: “ Why, feminine, George?” “Because, sir, the rigging costs more than the hull ” (whole).
—The Seniors have organized a military company, and it is rumored that a United States officer will be petitioned for, to reside permanently at the University, to instruct the students in military tactics. We understand that the Preps, will organize a cadet corps.
—Preludes.—By Maurice F. Eagan. There are some charming sonnets in this book, which will well repay perusal. It is published to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame, and is dedicated to the Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. S. C., the talented editor of the Ave Maria. —Donahoe's Magazine.
—Scholastic Annual for the Year of Our Lord 1880.—By J. A. Lyons. Mr.Lyons has given us a very interesting book. Notre Dame, Indiana, is doing a great work for the rising generation. The present annual gives, be
sides other interesting matter about Notre Dame and its institutions, Father Cronin’s grand poem, delivered at the Marquette celebration last summer.—Donahoe's Magazine.
—“ Hurrah for the Orchestra! ” we say, and for the energy they have shown in reorganizing, and getting right down to regular practice. They didn’t, as many would say: Oh, you might as well wait till the beginning of the new session ”; no, sir; they bad a rehearsal this week, which was good—good even though several important players were absent, because it showed zeal and a fixed determination to make the Orchestra a success. The great interest taken in it by their efficient teacher, Bro. Leopold, and the accommodating and kind spirit be shows in their instruction, renders him worthy of great praise and gratitude from all.
—Among the many circumstances of joy and pleasure that will be experienced by our young Minims to-night, in the entertainment they are to give us, there will also be one of regret and disappointment, which they will all feel with sorrow,—this is the absence of Very Rev. Father General, who has always taken such an interest in their entertainments. They miss that kind, paternal smile of joy that has always greeted them after their success. They hope, however, that it will not be long before they can greet their dear patron, and that the next time they may have occasion to appear they may enjoy his presence.
—We find sometimes among our Commercial students a certain number who are apt to underrate the great importance that penmanship holds in the pursuit for which they are preparing, and who, led on by a natural love of ease, don’t worry much about it. For the benefit of such students we should like to cite an instance, which is true, in which a late graduate in the Commercial course, who was considered while here a fine penman, obtained a situation that brings him a salary of $5 a day—and all this owing to his proficiency in penmanship. This is only to show you what can be done—it is for you only to show that you can do it, too. Seize with a vim the rare opportunities offered you here, and give diligent attention to it. Success is sure.
—What the New York Tribune Almanac is in the political world, the Clipper Almanac m the sporting world, the Scholastic Almanac is in the literary world. The Annual lor 1880 is lar ahead of the previous four in the character and variety of its literary contents. The editor, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., of Notre Dame University, has exercised his always good judgment with unusual care, and the result is a book which reflects great credit, not only on the editor but upon Notre Dame University, whose professors, students, and graduates are most numerous among the contributors. The calendrical portion of the Annual is prepared with special reference to the Catholic community. For sale at the Tribune store. Price 25 cents.—South-Bend Tribune.
—Mr. Maurice F.Egan, to whom the readers of The Times have frequently been indebted for their daily allowance of poetry, has gathered a number of his verses into a nice little volume, under the modest title of “ Preludes,” which is published by P. F. Cunningham & Son, of Arch street, to aid in rebuilding the University of Notre Dame. Several of the poems have been printed in Scribner's or Lip-pencott's Magazine or in The Times, but most of them are iresh. Mr. Egan has a poetical and reverent spirit, and his versification is delicate and skilful. He appears to have devoted himself mainly to sonnet-making, a lascinating exercise in which he has attained more than the usual degree of success. Though some of his sonnets halt a little, many of them are exceedingly good, having not only the correct form of a sonnet, but the correct conception of its spirit and of the subjects to which this form may be applied. Two or three little poems in ballad form are also very nice, and in spite of a certain amateurish charaater the “ Preludes ” are very welcome among the mass of more pretentious verse continually issuing from the press.— Philadelphia Times.
—The Exhibition to be given to-night by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association has been so arranged that nearly every one in the department will take some part in it The following is the programme:
Address.......................................  H.	Snee
Declamation................................Joe Courtney
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	329
Song...............................H. Snee and J. Courtney
Prologue........................................G. Knight
PART SECOND. “NEW BROOMS SWEEP CLEAN.” Testy (Rich and crusty).........................D. Taylor
Fred (Testy’s Nephew).........................Al	Coghlin
Jacob (Testy’s Servant).......................G.	Woodson
Tim (a new-broom)..............1..........G.	Van Mourick
Swipes (a bruiser)........................T.	Van Mourick
Song........................................A.	Schmuckle
Comic Olio......................G.	Woodson and G. Knight
Grand Military Drill (B. Albert’s Cadets)...Capt. O’Neill Song........................................H. Snee
PART THIRD. “HARD TO SUIT ALL.” Prof. Grimes.........................................Joe.	Courtney
Mr. Fosdick..........................................Jas.	Courtney
Bill (His Son).........................................J.	Bannister
Mrs. O’Leary....................................TH. Snee
Patrick (Her Son)......................................W.	O’Malley
Esq. Snyder.....................................J. Smith
Jonas (His Bon).................................W. Wright
Saunders (A Tippler)............................G. Knight
Jubey (His Son)...................................H. Kitz
Song..........................................G.	Woodson
.	School-Boys, etc., etc.
Songs and Chorus............................Nine	Minims
Closing Remarks..........................................
The music will be furnished by the Senior Orchestra.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week have given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, H. J. Ashe, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, J. P. Brice, F. Bell, B. J. Claggett, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, J. Casey, B. Casey, L. Clements, J. Carrer, G. Clarke, T. Campbell, R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, G. Donnelly, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogerty, E. Gooley, I. J. Gittings, C. Hagan, G. Harris, F. Humbert, T. Hinderlang, J. Halloran, D. Harrington, W. Hamilton, W. G. Jones, J. Keena, J. Kurz, T. Kavanagh, P. B. Larkin, A. Lent, R. Lanham, F. Lynch, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, E. Molitor, E. Murphy, P. McCormick, C. Moore, M. J. McEniry, J. O. McEnerny, J. Malone, J. J. McErlain, M. Maloney, W. McAtee, J. A. McIntyre, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlette, J. Noonan, J. Norfleet, G. Nester, R. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, J. Osher, G. IPike, L. N. Proctor, H. B. Pollock, W. Ryan, F. Reeve, W. Riordan, T. W. Simms, G. Sugg, J. Solan, P. Shea, L. Stitzel, R. D. Stewart, J. S. Smith, F. C. Smith, L. Smith, S. Smith, S. P. Terry, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, H. Wathan, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, A. Zahm, T. Zien, E. Le Beau.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Bodine, J. F. Brown, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, T. B. Byrne, H. W. Bachman, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, G. C. Cas-tanedo, F. L. Carter, J. V. Cabel, A. A. Caren, E. H. Croarkin, L. Cole, L. W. Coghlin, W. S. Cleary, J. D. Coleman, H. P. Dunn, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, 8. T. Dering, T. F. Devitt, J. E. Davis, F. T. Dever, T. F. Elynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. Gibbons, F. Glade, E. H. Gaines, F. W. Grovenwald, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Hermann, A. J. Hellebusche, J. F. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn,* L. 8. Keen, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, E. A. Larkin, 8. Livingston, A. B. Mergenthenn, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. H. Meister, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neill, E. A. Otis, G. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, R. M, Parrett, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. H. Roberts, A, R. Rheinboldt, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Kose, A. 8. Rock, R. J. J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Semmes, Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, R. Simms, C. Schneider, C. A. Tinley*. C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, J. B. Wilder, W. T. Weney, F. Zeis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, F. Mattes, E. A. Howard, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, W. H. Hanavin, G. C. Knight, J. A. Campeau, L. W. Spaulding, W. R. Coolbaugh, C. E. Droste, F. B. Farrelly, J. R. Bender, J. E.’ Johnson, J. A. Kelly, A. F. Schmuckle, A. A. Molander, J. S. Chaves, H. Ackerman, E. A. O’Donnell, W. M. Olds, W. Wright, L. J. Young.
• J. W. Kuhn omitted last week through mistake.
General Averages of the Semi-Annual Examination.
[No averages under 60 are published in the following lists.] SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, 96; W. Arnold, 68; R. C. Adams, 87; J. Berteling, 96; A. J. Burger, 100; F. W. Bloom, 98; F.Bell, 89; F. Brennan, 93; B. Claggett, 80: J. Casey, 84; B. Casey, 77; T. Conlan, 95; W. Connolly, 80; J. Carrier, 76; Geo. Clarke, 98; F. Clarke, 91; L. Clements, 78; T. B. Campbell, 98; R. 8. Campbell, 97; D. Donohoe, 97; J. Dempsey, 91; J. Delaney, 69; H. Deehan, 80; Geo. Donnelly, 90; M. English, 87; E. Ewell, 71; AL Falvey, 82; E. Foggarty, 91; E. Gooly, 94; 8. J. Gettings,'78; Chas. Hagan, 89; G. Harris, 88; D. Harrington, 83; W. Jones, 64; R. C. Johnson, 84; C. Johnson, 79; J. Kinney, 97; R. Keenan, 90; J. Keena, 65; J. Kurz, 94; T. Kavanaugh, 80; P. Larkin, 93; R. Lanhan, 92; A. Lent, 87; J. B. AIcGrath, 91; W. B. McGorrisk, 98; E. W. McGorrisk, 86; E. Molitor, 87; E. Alurphy, 84; P. McCormick, 79; M. J. McEniry, 94; J. O. McEnerny, 65; J. Malone, 85; M. Maloney, 60; P. McGuire, 81; J. J. McErlain, 77; J. D. McRae, 78; W. McAtee, 78; J. McNamara, 76; J. McIntyre, 85; J. Alug, 88; J. R. Marlett, 79; J. Noonan, 84; J. Norfleet. 99; J. Nester, 82; R. O’Brian, 98; J. F. O’Connell, 72; J. Osher, 89; Geo. Pike, 94; L. Procter, 70; H. Pollock, 84, W. Ryan, 93; F. Reene,* 91; T. W. Simms, 98; Geo. Sugg, 95; J. Solan, 96; P. Shea, 95; W. Scholfield, 86; L. Stitzel, 78; R. Stewart, 85; J. S. Smith, 88; F. C. Smith, 63; Sydney Smith,* 70; S. Terry, 70; Percey Terry, 78; C. B. Vandusen, 91; F. Wall, 94; H. Wathen, 65; C. Whalen, 90; W. Wilson, 88; A. Zahm, 94; C. Zarley, 69; F. Zeien, 80; F. Kinsella, 76.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. F. Brown, 82; A. J. Burger, 88; T. B. Byrne, 82; A. Burmeister, 81; C. Brinkman, 92; J. Boose, 74; A. Bodine, 76; H. Bachman, 84; F. Becker 70; M. J. Burns, 95; J. Coleman, 80; W. Cleary, 97; E. Conyne, 75; L. W. Coghlin, 82; A. Coghlin, 86; L. Cole, 68; J. V. Cable, 84; A. Caren, 90; E. Croarkin, 91; F. Carter, 80; G. Castanedo, 79; J. Larkin, 81; S. Livingston 73; H. Quinn, 82; H. Devitt, 80; J. Devitt, 85; T. Devitt, 88; F. Dever, 82; S. Dering, 88; E. Esmer,74; H. Foote, 71; O. Farrelly, 85; G. Foster, 82; T. Flynn, 78; R. Fleming, 99; J. Gordon, 82; J. Guthrie, 84; J. Gibbons, 85; F. Grever, 84; F. Glade, 75; H. Guynn, 82; E. Gaines, 87; A. Hintze, 79: A. Hierb, 87; J. Herrmann, 85; J. Homan, 95; A. Hellebusb, 78; P. Joyce, 84; F. Johnson, 82; J. Knhn, 78; F. Kleine, 87; C. McDermott, 90; A. B. Mergenlheim, 81; F. McPhillips, 89; J. Morgan, 81; W. J. McCarthy, 80; J. McCarthy, 87; A. Manning, 85; N. Nelson, 92; P. Nelson, 89; R. O’Connor, 83; J. O’Neill, 79; G. Orr, 90; E. Orrick, 93; E. Otis, 95; A Payro, 77; C. Perry, 86; F. Phillips, 89; R. Pony, 76; P. Perley, 83; G. Quinn, 61; F. Quinn, 82; A. Rock, 84; H. Rose, 92; C. Rose, 85; G. Rhodius, 90 J. Ruppe, 79; P. Rasche, 86; F. Rettig, 72; C. Rietz, 81; W. Rietz, 91; A. Rietz, 91; A. Rheinboldt, 78; C. Roberts, 72; E. Sugg, 81; R. Semmes, 89; J. Schobey, 85; J. Seeger, 85; W. Start, 79; J. Scanlan, 85; J. Simms, 68; C. Schneider, 69; F. Scheid. 68; C. Tinley, 82; W. Thompson, 83; C. Thiele, 90; M. Vedder, 78; J. Weitzel, 90; N. Weney, 93; J. B. Welder, 87; B. Zekind, 74; F. Zeis, 60.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, 100; James Courtney, 98; O. E. Droste, 99; G. E. Tourlillolte, 98; G. Woodson, 90; H. Alattes, 98; E. A. Howard, 97; Joseph Courtney, 100; H. C. Snee, 99; W. H. Hanivan, 92; G. Van Mourick, 96; G. C. Knight, 92; J. W. Bannister, 89; H. Kitz, 95; J. I. Smith, 94; J. F. Henry, 82; A. Van Mourick, 83; L. W. Spalding, 90; A. Campeau, 81; M. Olds, 90; A. Schmuckle, 90; W. O’Malley, 92; J. Johnson, 85; A. Molander, 90; J. Dwenger, 90; A. Kelly, 96; L. J. Young, 80; J. Chaves, 95; E. O’Donnell, 85; J. Bender, 80; C. Young, 75; W. Wright, 65; O. Campeau, 60; H. Ackerman, 60.
The following students were prevented by sickness from attending the examination: G. Witwer, L.Mathers, T. Hinderlang, R. McCarthy, R. Le Bourgeois, M. Herrick. Those who have attended class since New Years only were exempted from the examination.
* Not examined in all his classes.
330	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—A beautiful sermon from the Gospel of the day was preached by the Rev. chaplain on Sunday.
—Every day since Tuesday, the time from half-past four to half-past six, p. m., has been devoted to the examination of pupils in music, which has proved very satisfactory.
—At ths regular Academic reunion the reading was “Long Ago,” Bayard Taylor, by Miss Zahm; “ Lettre de Fenelon d Mr. . . sur le projet qu'il avail de se consacrer aux missions du Levant,” by Miss Rosing; “ The Passion for Publicity,” F. W. Faber, by Miss Quinn; “Jesus und das Moos,” Helmine v. Chezy, by Miss Gall.
—The Laboratory has been renewed from the basement to the class-room floor. Though the new apartment is smaller, the light from the windows and the snape of the room is more favorable to experiments, and the classes in Chemistry are highly pleased with the change. The Vocal room, the Museum and Library and the new Laboratory are in the same hall.
—The monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration which took place on Sunday, form a happy prelude to the examinations which are now occupying the attention of all. Exquisite lilies graced each side of the Tabernacle, and reminded one of Father Faber’s beautiful poem, “ 0 Happy Flowers.”
—The Examining Boards are now organized: four for the Academic Course, and three for languages; each Board to be presided, respectively, by the Rev. Fathers of Notre Dame, and to be assisted by the teachers and visitors. The earnest study with which all are preparing to meet the approaching test of proficiency promises an examination of more than ordinary interest.
—Maurice F. Egan’s “Preludes” are occupying the spare moments of certain young ladies whose parents have sent them this charming token of their esteem for chaste and soul-elevating poetry—as well as of their affection. If here we have but “Preludes,” we are impatient for the “Themes.” “ Fra Angelico,” and “Charity,” are enough to establish the author’s fame as a true poet. The Dedication, the “ Preface,” and the object for which the poems are issued, show him to be a wise philanthropist, a true Christian.
—Visitors: Rev. Father Noll, Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. O’Donnell, Portland, Me.; Mr. and Mrs. McCormick, Miss McCormick, Ada, Mich.; Dr. Johnson, Miss Johnson Miss Swaess, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mr. Kelly, Mr. Hennessy, Chicago: Mr. and Mrs. Angel, Goshen, Ind.; Mr. Beckwith, Constantine, Mich.; Miss Walsh, Rochester, Minn.; Mr. Anthony, Sandyville, Iowa; Miss Harris, Niles, Mich.; Mr. Paxon, Mr. Calvert, South Bend; Mrs. Westheimn,Frankfort, Mich.; Mrs. Garrity, Chicago; Mrs. McNellis, Morris, Ill.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior department the reading was “ Somebody’s Mother,” anonymous, by Miss Claffey; “ Winterlied” Krummacher, by Miss Reutlinger; “ Je suis le Lys de Betldehem,” poesiepour Noel, by C. Lancaster. Mrs. Fuller, of Marysville, Cal., who was present at the reunion, and who excels as an amateur elocutionist, at the request of Mother Superior recited “ The Bridal Scene.” A number of young ladies of the Senior department, anticipating the pleasure in store,, had obtained permission and were present. The dangers of the wine-cup were graphically pictured in the recitation, and the lesson conveyed is one well worth remembering.
—At the regular Monday evening lecture, Mother Superior commended the young ladies for the manner in which they acquitted themselves in reading at the Academic reunion, but suggested some improvements. The slavery of those who yield a correct judgment to satisfy the demands of fashion, was amusingly illustrated. As a con
trast to the votaries of the world, St. Agnes, whose feast was at hand, was mentioned. From The Aoe Maria, a portion of her beautiful life was read, from which the appropriate inferences were drawn. Her youth was so extreme, that even the Minims and Juniors should find in her a model. | For this purpose the three departments were assembled. I The remarks were not for the Seniors alone, but for all.
The acquirements, the mere accomplishments of science and art, are the smallest parts of education. There is something deeper and higher. Time, even the lapse of centuries, does not alter the character of the human soul, nor its relations to eternity. The same God whom St. Agnes loved, and whom she honored in her martyrdom, is the same who calls upon us for our love. The same traits St. Agues cherished tor His sake, are as beautiful, as precious to-day, as they were in the third century. Her modesty, her virtue, her steadfast resistance to evil, are no Jess important to-day, than they were then. Cardinal Wiseman’s “Fabiola” was cited as a proper source from which to gather further and valuable information respecting this noble and wonderful patron of youth and innocence.
Roll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Killelea, Silverthorne, McGrath, Woodin, Keenan, Maloney, Hambleton, Ewing, Neteler. 1st Seniob Class—Misses Ryan, Hackett, Sullivan, Danaher, Quinn, A. Ewing, Cavenor, Rosing, Cortright, Ward, Kirchner, Gordon, Galen, Farrell. 3d Sb. Class—Misses Dillon, Mattingly, Claffey, Neu, Winston, Usselman, O’Neill 3d Sb. Class —Misses Fitzgerald, Gall, S. Wathan, Bruser, Wells, A. Dillon, Fox, M. Dallas, McMahon, Roys, J ulius. 1st Preparatory Class —Misses Zahm, Piersol, Price, Murphy, Keys, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Hamilton, Baroux, Taylor, Gillen, Dessaint, Orr, C. Campbell, French, Populorum, Van Namee, Campbell, O’Connor. 2d Pbep. Class—Misses 8. Semmes, Rasche, Horner, Casey, Leydon, Crummey, Hammond, McFadden, Reinhard, Lemontey E. Hackett, Papin, Thompson. 3d Pbep. Class—Misses J. Wells, E. Lloyd, Edelen, Reynolds. Jb. Pbep. Class—Misses ,C. Lancaster, Ginz, Legnard, Duncan, G. Taylor, Chirhart, Barlow, Carter, Gibbons, Reutlinger, Paquette, C. Kyan. 1st Jb. Class —Misses Harrison, Clarke, Hutchison, Hale, Considine, E. Papin, Zimmerman, Fisk.
FRENCH.
3d Class—Misses A Ryan, C. Lancaster, 8. Semmes, Feehan> Baroux, L. Populorum. 2d Div.—Misses Keys, Clarke, L. Lancaster. 4th Class—Misses McMahon, Smith, Wells, Legnard, Barlow, Price, Simms, Paquette, Lloyd, Papin, Leyden, E. Dallas, Donnelly.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Soloman, Reinhard, Horner, Julius. 2d Class—Misses C. Hackett, McMahon, Claffey, Smith, Bischoff, Loeber. 3d Class—Misses Joyce, M. Fitzgerald, Ward, M. Hamilton. 4th Class—Misses Quinn, Bruser, Piersol, A Dillon, Ginz, 8. Semmes, Reutlinger, Chihrart, Duncan, Considine, C. Campbell, Gibbons, Casey, Carter, Fleming, Harrison, Hutchison, Moll, Zimmerman.
Tablet of Honor.
FOB POLITENESS, NEATNESS, OBDEB, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, A Ryan, Buck, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, A. Ewing,Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, L Semmes, Dillon, Joyce, Mitchell, Winston, Smith, O’Neill, Mattingly, Roys, Fitzgerald, Julius, Dallas, Wells, Bruser, Bischoff, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Zahm, Piersol, Callinan, Campbell, O’Connor, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Taylor, Gillen, Hamilton, Wall, Dessaint, Gavan, Baroux, Gall, Price, Davis, Thompson, Homer, Hammond, McFadden, Soloman, Reinhard, Rasche, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, McCoy, McCormick par excellence. Misses McGrath, Woodin, Keenan, Maloney, Hambleton, Kirchner, Gordon, Lloyd, Neu, Usselman, Otto, Keena, Loeber, Donnelly, De Lapp, Cleghorn, Tallman, Reynolds, Cox
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, Van Namee, S. Semmes, Leydon, Crummey, McN. Garrity, McCloskey, C. Lancaster, Reutlinger, Chirhart, E. Populorum, Ginz, Hutchison, Jaeger, M. Fitzgerald, par excellence. Misses Feehan, French, Orr, Populorum, E. Hackett, Casey, Papin, E. Dallas, Watson, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, Gibbons, Legnard, Paquette, Clarke, Hale, Harrison, Considine, M. Baroux,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
331
"Weeklv Newspapers.
rpUE CATHOLIC UNIVERSE, an excel-X lent Catholic and. family newspaper, published every Thursday.
Terms, §2.50 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager ai d Editor, 117 Erie Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
THE CATHOLIC COJJTTMBIAJV, published weekly a' Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, or 70.
THE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Paintin g or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going	Sonth.
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9.55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3 20 p.m. 2 30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.07 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 *• 10 26 “ 9 56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abrtve	Leave - - Michigan City, - - -	- - - La Porte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - - -	- - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - -	- - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - -	- -	- Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - - -	- Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton, - - - -	- - Noblesville; - - - - - Indianapolis, - - - -	- - Cincinnati, - - - -- - Louisville, - - - -	- - Saint Louis, - - •	9.35 a.m. 10.25 “ 1045 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m. 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3.00 “ 3.33 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m.	8.05 p.m 8.55 « 9.20 « 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 12.12 a.m 12.40 “ 1.01 “ 1.35 “ 2.16 “ 3.02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Pern 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m.
“	“ 6.40 p.m. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING .
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Pern 8.50 p. m. «	“ n.io “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
{^"Births $1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V.	T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l Manger, Indianapolis.	Gen’l. .Pass. and.Ticket Agent.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Ko extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
TMe Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and, Soioth, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and JiLin’	ing districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
■	James Charlton,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams at&, Chicago.
W.	C. Van Horne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent	Gen’l Manager.
332	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879. •
	♦Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p. m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 18 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 il 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 8 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 228 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 *• 8 08 “ 10 35 »	950 pm. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 8 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and South Bend Hi vision.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “
Ar. Niles —	9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Nites— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 OS a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 525 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 SO and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.	.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight
F» C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snpt.
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Hbnby C. Wentwobth,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago. Ill.
,	G. L. Elliott.
+Saturday and Sunday excepted. H. B. Ledyabd,
Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
Condensed Time Ta“ble, Noy. IO, 1878.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Ils CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LIN is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northe W'seonsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Abrtve	1145 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 535 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 8.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne, ..;	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 A Ji. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.85 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	*•••• •••*
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, AtlanJEx.	No. 8 Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.80 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.48 “	8.55	
Ft" Wayne,		655 “	225 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,				8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 a m	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	2.38 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	*•*••«*•••
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6.05 A.M.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,				400 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p nr.
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 ran Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Puixman Pat.a mt Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for) sale at aU principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. MYEB3, G. FJ& T. A.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	333
I
I
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in WTifor the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &e., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
•n o

EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALEB IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
AH Kinds of Engraving' Doue.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A IMEAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OP THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa. La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton, Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte. Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella. Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a I
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs. Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At CHICAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore A Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, FL Wayne & Chicago R.Rds.
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & SL Louis R. R.
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At PEORIA, with P., P. A J.: P-.L. A D.; I. B. A W.; Ill.Midland; and T.. P. A W. Railroads.
At ROCK Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island A Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport A NorthWestern R. R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. A Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City A Northern and C.. B. SO. R. Rds.
At KEOKUK, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and SL Louis, Keokuk A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, SL J. A C. B. R. R.
At ATCHISON, with Atchison, Topeka A Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R.Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are run through to PEORIA,BE8 MOINES, COTTNCH. BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVEXWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “ Great Boek Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your hone ticket oflice, address, -A.. KIMBALL,	EL ST. JOHN.
Genl Superintendent.
Gatfl Tkt> and Paae’gr AgL, Chicago. UL
I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.

(MAIN BUILDING^
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1812, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was’char-tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects wnich the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. Cn Notre Dame P. 0^ Indiana.