The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
TUDENTS.
DIsce quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 17,1875.	Number 30.
JNU. HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notary Public.
fyAGERTY & TONG, ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE ano INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South. Bend, Indiana.
'	o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS,	.
.	I' Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys* Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
’	—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS LN SMOKERS’ ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
E. CUMMINS, .
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, - South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to J^EN COQUILLARD’S LIVERY STJYBLES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, ■ South Bend, Indiana. o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, -	-	_	_	_ Michigan.
McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack tc and from all trains, for guests of the-house. -	DOV 28-% tt
Jg NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St^ -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishfag-Tackle, Etc.«
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, ewl,
oM-tf
y NICAR, -	•
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishiag-Tackle, Eto
—ALSO—
. Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
oM-tf
A. J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Laud Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to. 53
Office with M. Stover, Room 22, over Wills £ Stems Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
.	nov28-%tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL, ”
Soutlr Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Bailway Depot, opposite '	Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7-8m	'
QEORGE hehr,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up StaiiB.)	%o24-tf
r	f . —	, -	.	-	I—	—	_■
M. A. Smith.	E. P- Holloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys and Musical Instruments.
No.Tt, Washington St., -	- -SOUTH BEND, IND ;
dec5-%8m
434
THE SCHOLASTIC
CLOTHIKG- ZHZOTTSZEL
- x. ..MEYER LIVINGSTON, 60 w ashington Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store]
‘-SCyiTTH BLEISriD, IZSTHDIAuITA..
E^”Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’. Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a Call.	a!7
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 Washington Street.
SOUTH BEOSrJD, IJSTJDIA.ISrA.. Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES.
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and
Bbacket * Boyden’s Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK
IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
3C.A.TJTEIS,
We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	al7
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Bec. 1, 1874, trains
will leave South Bend
M follows: t
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. x. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. x.
10.12 a. x. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. x. ; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 A. x. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4.20 a. x.
• 9.11 p. x.(No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. x.
8.00 p. x. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. m,, Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1*10 p. x.
4 5.44 P. m. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.18 a. x. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6.30 a. x.
-5.24 a.-m. (No; 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8.30 a. x.
6.31 p. x. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. x.
5.44 p. x.'(No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 a. x. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. x , Chicago 11.10.
9.15 .a. x. [No. 71] Local Freight.
. Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers ■upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
—F. E. MORSE,-General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Bivision, Chicago.
W. W. GIBBINGS, Freight Agent.
S. 3. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
diicago, Rock Island and Pacific K. R.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Tbatns.	leave.	abbive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and " Atchison-Express,-	10.13 am	-3.30 pm
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Night Express’	10.30 p m	6.15 a m
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect Becember 27th, 1874.
Going East.
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Betroit
Mail -	-	-	500am	9 02 am	5 45 pm
Bay Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 a m	6 30 p m
Accommodation	- 335pm	7 35pm	8 45 a m
Atlantic Express	- 515 p m	8 55 p m	3 50 am
Night Express -	- 9 pm Going	1245pm West.	8 00am
Trains.	Leave Betroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	■	7 00 am	4 05 pm	805 pm
Bay Express -	- 10 20 am	5 20pm	900pm
Accommodation -	1 50pm	630 am	10 35 a m
Evening Express	- 5 40pm	230 am	630 am
Pacific Express -	- 10 00 p m	500am	8 30 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 p m, 6 30 p m, *9 a m, *7 pm.
Arrive at Niles—8 45am,355pm, 710pm *9 40 am, ♦740 pm.
Leave Niles—-6 30 a m, 9 20 a m, 510 p m, * 8 a m, 15 p m.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 am, 555pm, + 840am,+540pm
NOTBE DAME STATION.
Going East, via Billes.
Depart—807 am, 6.38 pm, +9 07 am, +7 07pm. Arrive—707 am, 942 am, 5 46 pm, 1832 am, +532pm
Going West, via Niles.
Bepart—310 p m. -Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C. B. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Betroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Betroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Bame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
^TRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near QI/ Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Lotus and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City and Benver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Bivision)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis, Springfield, Texas and New Orleans Lightning Express, via Main Line,
LEAVE.
•9:40 a.m.
• 12:00 noon
•12:00 noon
•4:30 p.m.
19:45 p.m.
AlililVK.
♦8:10 p.m.
♦2 50 pm
♦2:50 pan
♦9:20 a.m.
i7:30 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. $ Except Saturday. (Baily. § Except Monday
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
3NMES CHARLTON, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
j. c. McMullin, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PEXXS1LVAX1A CENTRAL
DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New	:
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 a. m. I Arrives at New York 7.35 a.m.* !
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. |	“	“	6.50 a.m.*
3rd train “	“	10.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.15 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
B. M. BOYB, Jb., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYKR8, Gen’l Pass.and Ticket Ag’t, Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLANB, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.	,
•Second day.

The Scholastic:
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
TUDENTS.
Disee quasi semper victimise vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 17, 1875.
Number 30.
A Lonely Death.
BY FLO.
The night grows dark, the cold winds blow, The ground lies mantled o’er with snow;
Within the forest shades, the pines
And hemlocks, clustered o’er with vines, In mournful silence stand, and seem Like spectres in a poet’s dream.
The clouds in heavy masses move, And darkness settles o’er the grove;
In hungry rage the wild wolves roam—
The lone owl sits upon its dome And hoots at every passer, who The stillness of the night breaks through.
And swiftly through the dismal park There glides a weird phantom dark;
. Who, followed by a hungry pack
Of wolves, oft anxious glances back, And sees the long, white teeth of death, And nearer feels the panting breath.
So closely followed, what escape ?
Before him lies the deep Spring Lake,
One glance upon its placid rest, And walks the figure on its breast, e But look! he sinks 1 the ice gives way, And falls beneath its mantle gray!
And o’er that deep, dark massive hole There passes forth a human soul, Whilst yet a solemn stillness broods Upon the lake within the woods;
And all around the scene of death The fiery eyes and panting breath.
On wintry nights when wild winds blow, And scatter far the drifting snow, -
When in the wigwam sheltered warm
You hear without the raging storm,—
On nights like these is often told
The story of a chieftain bold:
Of young Rha-Wha, who long ago
Through distant woods and drifts of snow, One stormy night had ventured far To seek the white man’s home Raiarre;
How late he left, and ne’er returned
Where the wigwam stood and the camp-fire burned.
There’s often seen when late at night An Indian young in hasty flight, And some imagine that they saw In him the Indian chief Rha-Wha.
And close they draw to the flickering light, And nearer approach the embers bright.
With compressed lips they tell the tale
Of the clean-picked bones in the shadowed vale;
Of the howling wolves, of the Indian brave, Of the early death and the unknown grave;
They shudder with fear at the horrid fate, And think, and dream, through the midnight late.
But should these same from slumber wake, And stand beside the dark Spring Lake;
Should I then follow by their side
And tell them how young Rha-Wha died, : With shudders they would hold their breath, • And learn with horror of a Lonely Death.
ZUnatured. People.
I don’t like illnatured people, they are so extremely selfish. They fancy, I have no doubt, that the world was made expressly for them. No one else can produce the evidence of his title to the most ordinary consideration. They must he the alpha and omega of society; and should anyone criticize or doubt the validity of their claim, and consequently fail to accord them the deference they fancy due to them, there is no predicting the extent to which their illnatured dispositions will carry them. I know of nothing so. repugnant to me as an illnatured man. It is a phase of character which I cannot understand, and consequently one for , which I am willing to make but small allowance. People may be vain and egotistic, and yet we can pity while we censure them; they may be arrogant or morbidly sensitive, and still we can overlook their shortcomings: but no man has a right to be illnatured; it is an offence against society at large, and one which society is not readily disposed to pardon. An illnatured man is never popular, nor should he be; the better impulse of the world cries out against selfishness wherever found, and never fails to discover it in the man who is petulant and disagreeable without cause. Au illnatured. man is never happy; he cannot be, for he obstinately shuts and bars the door through which peace and happiness might enter his souL He misses the true object of life—the following in the path his Saviour trod in meekness and humility—and continues in a state of constant insubordination against his Maker, and thus sins in almost every moment of his existence. His good deeds, because of the manner in which they are performed, are deserving of but little reward,—and his whole life is an unhappy failure. A habit of illnature grows upon a man and increases with his years; it feeds upon itself, magnifies with indulgence, and at length makes a sweeping conquest of all that is high and noble and good in his nature. A habit of continuous fault-finding is an evidence of weakness and cowardice. None of those whom the world has enrolled upon the ineffaceable tablets
43G
THE SCHOLASTIC
©f her history as brave and great men were ever illnatured fault-finders. They were men of lofty ambition, and sublime in the determination and power of their invincible will. They never descended to complain of an evil which they either could or could not remedy. The one, they perceived, could not be overcome; the other they crushed with a mighty, irresistible blow. There are innumerable instances recorded along the avenues of history where grand schemes and undertakings for the advancement and permanent benefit of mankind were wrecked and utterly destroyed by the reckless and unreasoning irritability of some one of the principal actors; but it is in little things, in the constant and unavoidable blending of men in society, that the annoying and vexatious influence of these illnatured men is chiefly felt. We have all met them, and it is because of their ungovernable disposition that we have learned to despise them. They complain of everything which annoys them, from the most trifling vexations of daily life all the way up to the most dreadful and extraordinary disasters. Their judgments are worthless where they are themselves concerned, for they perpetually magnify molehills of troubles into mountains. A little problem in algebra or arithmetic which they cannot understand at once is sufficient to overthrow their equilibrium for hours, and they will, perhaps, swear at it with an awful earnestness of profanity. What weakness! what absurdity! They deserve to be incorporated forthwith in a straight jacket as men non compos mentis. It is a habit which grows imperceptibly and surely, and hence its great danger. When I see a boy giving way to bursts of passion without any effort at control, I cannot but see in the vista of the future the progressive course of his subsequent career. Unless he become convinced of the folly and danger of the course he is pursuing, and reform his life—which is a sadly difficult thing to do—there can be but one road for him to travel, and that is invariably downward. Seductive pleasures even will not cluster around him, but wretchedness and unhappiness are his daily companions, without even the most trifling recompense. I have met men who had become so habitually illnatured that they could not answer the most ordinary question in a civil tone of voice; and it was a torture to them to see anyone light-hearted and happy. I never pity such men, they are not worthy of it; contempt is the only feeling their conduct inspires. How different the feeling when we meet a man who, we know, has encountered more than his share of the trials and misfortunes of life, and has borne them all with fortitude, and has carried a cheerful heart and a smiling face through all his sorrows and sufferings! We feel that his is a true nobility of soul, and we are inspired with unconscious respect for him. He may suffer the additional imputation of being heartless and devoid of sensibility, but to one who has borne and suffered the most poignant disasters in silence it is not difficult to sustain and overlook this unmerited sting of misconstruction. I admire such a man more than words can express, for I know that he has gained a more difficult victory than that of the greatest warrior the world has ever produced—“ he has conquered himself.”
___________ _______________ T. A. D.
—The friends of a dying man asked him what inscription they should place upon his tomb. He replied: “ Write this: Here lies a madman who went out of the world without knowing why he came into it.” There are many who thus leave the world. Let us not be like them.—Cure of Ars.
'	American Artists.
Charles Gilbert Stuart was born in Narraganset, Rhode Island, in the year 1756. His first instructions were received from an artist named Alexander, a Scotchman. When eighteen years of age, he accompanied Mr. Alexander to Edinburgh. But his master dying soon after, our young artist had no other alternative than to get back to America as well as he could, by working his passage home, before the mast.
Immediately on his return, however, he set about portrait-painting, in the beautiful and aristocratic city of Newport, in his native State. From Newport, he removed successively to Boston and to New York; but the war of the Revolution putting an end to all his prospects on this side of the Atlantic, he sailed for London in 1778. For two years he led a wandering life, made little progress towards establishing a reputation, and was often at a loss for the necessaries of life. At last, however, he obtained an introduction to Benjamin West, then at the height of his fame. West received his countryman kindly, assisted him in the way of money and of instruction, and even made him reside with him as a member of his family. These attentions were warmly acknowledged by Stuart, and .he afterwards painted a full-length portrait of his friend, Mr. West, which is now in the British National Gallery.
About the year 1781, he began to paint in London on his own account. He soon rose to great eminence as a portrait-painter, rivalling Reynolds and the best English artists of that day. Among his numerous sitters were George HI, the Prince of Wales, the Earl of St. Vincent, the Duke of Northumberland, Sir Joshua Reynolds, John Kemble, Col. Barre, Aiderman Boydell, and many other distinguished persons. Afterwards he resided successively in Dublin and Paris; and while in the latter city, painted Louis XVL Returning to America in 1793, he made a short stay in New York, and then proceeded to Philadelphia to paint’ the portrait of Washington. The first picture was destroyed, for Stuart would not allow an unsuccessful portrait to live after him. But the second attempt was successful, and he produced the well-known head from which he painted all his other portraits of Washington, and which has long been regarded as the standard likeness. The original study, together with a head of Mrs. Washington, is now in the possession of the Boston Athenaeum. He resided several years in Washington, but finally took up his permanent abode in Boston, where he lived in the active practice of his art until his death, in July, 1828. His last work was a portrait of John Quincy Adams, which was finished by Tully. Mr. Stuart had previously painted John Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, and most of the distinguished characters of the Revolution and of the early period of the Union. He left behind him many portraits of persons in private life in Boston and its neighborhood; and these, like all his works, have lost nothing of their freshness or brilliancy through the lapse of time. As a painter of heads, he holds the first place among American painters, if we except Copley, and his flesh-coloring rivals the finest efforts of any modern school. Upon the extremities of his figures, the draperies and other accessories, he bestowed little labor, and they are often left in the most slovenly manner • but his heads are living, speaking witnesses to his genius. According to Washington Allston, he was superior to almost any painter in “the faculty of distinguishing be"
%
THE SCHOLASTIC

tween the conventional expression which belongs to manners, and that more subtle one which is the indication of the individual mind. It was this which enabled him to animate his canvas not with the appearance of mere general life, but with that peculiar distinctive life which separates the humblest individual from his kind.”
Stuart was a man of fine social qualities, and a most accomplished talker.	* * *
Eroviience.
A Fairy Talk.
by f. d’a.
One day at the end of autumn, poor little Willie returned from the forest, loaded with as much wood as his feeble strength could bear. He was hungry and tired, for he could scarcely find any wood, so covered was every piece by the fallen leaves. He had also a great sorrow in his heart, for his father had died a few days before, leaving his mother to work hard for money to support herself and him.
He threw the wood upon the cinders on the hearth, and soon made up a good fire, which threw out a cheerful blaze at which he warmed his naked, swollen feet, and watched the smoke curling up the wide chimney and about the rafters of the low roof.
He breathed a deep sigh; for he saw no pot on the fire bubbling up with their frugal dinner. Alas! they had none, for his poor mother was weak, and could not walk fast to sell the things she had made.
Willie was an industrious boy, and did not like to sit idle when his strength—little as it was—might.be used to help his dear mother.
He had not to wait long before his mother came in, and threw herself into a chair, with tears of fatigue and illness
He threw his little arms around her, kissed her, and said: « I intend to start out into the world, and find something ■ to do, that I may no longer be a burden to you. I’ll work bard, and get money, and you, dear mother, shall have a nice little cottage.”
Just as he was leaving home, a curious white cloud appeared across his path, from which came out two enormous hands. He startled, and well he might, for he saw nobody belonging to them: no, there they were, only hands. There was no fear of them, for they were spread upon the grass before him, as if kindly inviting him to come and meet them. -
As he stood gazing with wonder upon them, a voice from the cloud said: “ Don’t be afraid,Willie; I know the good errand that you are on, and I come to be your friend.”
“Thank you, good hands,” said Willie; “I am sure you mean me good, for I am too little for you to wish me harm.”
The hands vanished,—and Willie hurried on his way.
As the day grew on, he went along more steadily, for he was not used to so much walking and running, and therefore began to get tired; but he went on till he came to the edge of a precipice, and saw a grand and awful rush of foaming waters, which threw themselves headlong down between the rocks, with a deafening roar.
He had not been there many minutes when he felt himself gently lifted from the ground by a gigantic hand, which passed him high above the waters, and placed him in safety upon the opposite bank.
As the hand put him on his feet, it became so much like a cloud that he could scarcely see it; but before it had quite vanished, Willie took off his hat, and politely bowing, said: “Thank you kindly,good hand; you have kept your promise well.”
After walking for a long time, he entered a deep forest; and now being hungry, he took out the cake that his mother gave him and eat it with very great relish, for he was eery hungry. Hext, he began to turn over in his mind how he was to make up his bed, for darkness was coming on, and it appeared that he had the great forest all to him self for a bedchamber. When he had got together enough of dry leaves, which he scraped up, he said his prayers and prepared to lie down, which he had no sooner done than he saw with great delight that the gigantic hands spread themselves over him, with the fingers entwined, making for him the most perfect little tent in the world.
“Thank you again, good hands,” said he, “for your kind care of me; but before I go to sleep, can you tell me anything of my dear mother ? ”
“Good Willie,” replied a voice, “your mother knows that you will be protected, as all good children are; and she has food, for she is industrious.” So Willie slept.
Willie was early afoot, for he believed what the voice also told him that the day was to be a day of labor, with some good luck at the end of it. He soon got through the wood, and left it behind him, and saw a huge castle a little way off. Approaching, he leaped up the steps, and tried to raise the knocker, but it was too heavy for his strength. In an instant the hands appeared, and grasped the knocker, and gave such a “ rat-tat-tat” that it sounded like thunder.
The door opened with a sudden jerk, and in the porch stood the mistress of the mansion, scowling like a bear.
The moment Willie saw her he went backward down the steps, for she was an ogress, and in a voice like a very hoarse raven she cried:
“ How dare you knock like that at my door, you little varlet?”
“If you please, princess, I wished to know whether you wanted a servant to assist you in your fine castle ? ”
“ Then come in, for my servants have all left me, because they were all lazy, idle, good-for-nothings,” said she.
With that, Willie entered, and soon found that he had plenty to do; for his first job was to get the ogress’ dinner ready, who in truth had a wonderful appetite, for there were many sorts of provisions—fish, fowl, beef, soup, mutton and hampers of vegetables.
He sighed as he looked upon such abundance, which would have been dinner enough for all the people in his native village. Again he sighed. As he did so, the giant hands appeared. If you could only have seen them truss this, skewer that, boil the other, turn out the sauces, pick the pickles, cut the bread, and put the dishes to the fire, you would have wondered!
The ogress dined, and said nothing for the first hour, eating as fast as she could; but when she had finished the last round of beef, she smiled upon her treasure of a servant, and said he was a better cook than all her other servants put together.
Selfish people are always ungrateful; and so the ogresa was, for she wanted poor Willie to do more and more, cooking dinners and suppers, so that he had not a minute’s rest; and one day, when she had been requiring more than usual,
438
THE SCHOLASTIC.
he turned round, and told her that-she left him hardly time to sleep, and that her appetite was frightful.
“Little wretch!” screamed she; “I have half a mind to snap you up as I would the wing of a chicken; and, remember from this moment, if my dinner is short of what I want, I will eat you to make up for what you have left undone.”
“ Then I shall leave you," said Willie.
Rage made the face of the ogress glow like a furnace, and she made a bounce at poor Willie for his angiy speech; and she would have caught him in her gripe, had he not dodged round a large bundle of vegetables which luckily lay on the floor. Round and round she went after him, until he felt that he must be caught, when a very large hand grasped her round the waist, and hurried her, yelling, out of the kitchen; Willie following, returning thanks for - his escape. They came to a window which opened to the sea; the hand thrust the ogress out, and right above the rolling waves it held her, while the sea-birds flew round about, with shrill cries, in terror at a sight so strange. The hand let go its hold; and the ogress, with a dreadful scream, whirled over and over, and fell with such a plump into the sea that the spray flew over the highest tower, and the fishes swam away in terror.
Willie ran out of the front door, and when he got to the margin of the sea he saw the good hands following him. They plunged into the sea close at his feet; he jumped into the palm of one and seated himself. Between t he finger and thumb of each hand was one of his cooking forks, stuck through two of the ogress’ best handkerchiefs, which made very capital sails, catching the wind and wafting him along over the sea just as well as the last invention in boats.
As the moon rose, it found him safely landed, and snug under the roof of a good farmer, who had promised him work. The next morning he was working in his shirtsleeves in the corn-field, reaping and sheaving, and doing as much work as two stout men could do. But there under the shelter of the high corn, were the friendly hands, working miracles; gathering up the corn, and putting it into sheaves in a manner that could not be done by mortal hands.
When Willie’s first day waned, then came out the farmer bringing with him his daughter, to enjoy a walk in the cool of the day. The farmer stared when he looked upon the golden rows of heavy corn standing for his admiration in the well-tied sheaves. He looked from the little man to the fruits of his labor, and promised to himself to do his best to keep so good a servant; his daughter, also, a good and beautiful girl, glanced an admiring look at the glowing face of Willie as he stood with sickle in one hand and cap in the other.
“Oh, oh! ” said the farmer, “if be can reap so well, perhaps he can plough.”
So the next morning found little Willie a plowman. The hands guided the plow: and the land was soon all plowed into furrows.
Willie, in fact, soon became boss, or head man on the farm, for he could be trusted with anything.
One day when he was out on the mountains, where he had gone to gather the flocks for the shearing, heavy storms came on, and the floods deluged the valley, sweeping away in their headlong course the flocks and herds of other farmers.	.
In a moment the ^giant hands spread themselves over the turbid waters, forming a most perfect bridge. He
drove the sheep across without fear, and reached his master’s house in safety, much to the joy of all, who had . given him up for lost.
Willie lay down that night full of gratitude, and was nearly asleep when a cry of “Fire, fire! ” roused him. He ran down the stairs; rushed into the farm-yard; there he saw his master with the servants running about, frantic with fright; no water handy, no fire-engines, everybody shouting. The flames made their way from room to room, and reached the chamber where Agnes, the farmer’s darling daughter, slept.
What can be done now? when suddenly the gaint hands appeared, and placing themselves against the side of the house, formed a ladder, upon which Willie quickly sprang.
In a few moments he reached the window, and folding the girl in his arms, rushed down the friendly hands, and 1 placed her, safe and sound, in the embrace of her weeping father.
A heavy-laden wagon creaks along the winding road covered with a tilt as white as snow; but what has it inside? you can peep and see beautiful tables and chairs, and sides of bacon, and geese and chickens, and fair, round cheeses, and rolls of golden butter, with white eggs peeping through the bars of the wicker-baskets!
Where is the wagon going? Ask the youth who is trudging along by its side, with a smiling, happy face, ruddy with health and the warm tinge of the sun.
At last the cottage is in sight. His mother is standing i at the gate. Willie shouts, oh, such a hearty shout! his mother looks upon him and smiles, but cannot speak.
Willie now staid with his mother, and the two managed । a nice little farm, which became in a few years a large one.
He then went to see the good farmer, and the good farmer’s young daughter too, who had admired him when he was reaping, and whom he so nobly saved from the fire.
To make a long story short, Willie and Agnes were soon after married, and lived many, many happy years— and the hands? oh, the hands, dear children—Well, older people, when speaking of the good hands, call them Providence. •
A Hams.
How many have, alas! in vain, Approached that tablet men call Fame And turned away in mute despair To leave no name engraven there.
’Tis the desire of Fame, which will only end with time, that has driven so many to ruin. They toil from morn till eve to gain what ? A name,—ambition’s dearest title. As the little flower is bright and beautiful in the morning dew, so are their hopes sweetened by the bright anticipations of a glorious future. But too soon they find that this flowery path to renown assumes a forbidding aspect. The bristling thorns of poverty, adversity, and the numberless ills of life, pierce the artist’s soul, and the charm is broken. Not a name alone have they to win, but a home wherein the conflicts of the outer world are to be forgotten, Where affection is to be found; a solace, an antidote for the^in-difference, the slights of an unfeeling public. *■
Let us not scorn the intellectual labor of the man of genius. He may lose fame, but he has gained the culture of the mind, “the spirit, the promethean spark,” and this advantage no power can wrest from him. Why should he be discouraged because ancient times have produced greater
THE S.CHO
Ii A S T I C •	439.
poets than those of the last century ? It is not that genius has failed, it is ambition. •
The man of talent, of genius, would much rather remain in a counting-room, banking-house, or commercial mart, than in studying the charms of a Homer, a Virgil, or the more modern Scott, Milton, or Dryden. Times have changed, and men have ceased to covet those laurels that decked the brow of a Tasso, Dante, or Shakspeare. The name of being a millionaire is more to them than that of being a great artist, orator, poet or statesman. But, most important of all, the love of comfort is beyond even the enticements of ambition; and to obtain the means of enjoyment is more to the degenerate sons of the present day than to live in the memory of the future.	M. W.
Scientific Notes.
—Count Malvaria, of Italy, has invented an earthquake indicator t o give warning of coming shocks. The instant that a tren bling of the earth occurs, the mechanism fires off a gun.	'
—The Iron Age says that a wedge or plate of iron has ( been discovered imbedded in the masonry of the great pyramids. It shows that this metal was produced and wrought in the age of King Cheops, which is placed by some authorities as far back as five thousand four hundred years ago.
—1 cubic foot, 1728 cubic inches, of water is 7.5 gallons, and weighs 6.25 pounds. 1 gallon, 231 cubic inches, weighs 8,338 pounds. 1,000 gallons weigh 8,338 pounds. 27,000 gallonswill cover 1 acre 1 inch deep. 1,000 gallons per hour constantly flowing, is equal to 2% inches without pressure constantly flowing, as from a box through an orifice 1 inch by 2% inches. 1 bbl. equals 31% gallons.
—Chloroform-vapor has been lately found by a chemist in Antwerp to act with great rapidity in extinguishing the flame of the vapor of petroleum. Combustible gases mixed with chloroform-vapor immediately lose their explosive properties and even their combustibility. It is suggested that chloroform might be advantageously employed upon a large scale for extinguishing fires in petroleum stores and on board ship.
—A discovery of great interest to Egyptologists and antiquarians generally is reported from Port Said. A learned archaeologist in that place has just found a monumental stone to Thotmes III, under whose reign (1491 B. C.) the exodus of the Israelites is supposed to have taken place. The inscriptions already deciphered contain more than four hundred geographical names, all recognizable, and for the most part belonging to Arabia, Armenia, and the coasts of the Mediterranean.
—On the 1st of February M. Loverrier announced to the Academy of Sciences the discovery, by M. Stephan, the director of the Marseilles Observatory, of Encke’s comet. On the 8th he announced the detection, by M. Stephan, of-Winnecke’s comet, which is a more notable object, and can be observed with a finder. It is necessary to employ powerful instruments to see Encke’s with certainty. Both comets were seen at Marseilles for the first time, that of Encke’s in 1818, and Winnecke’s in 1819.
—Commander Selfridge, who was appointed in 1870 to make a survey of the isthmus of Darien for the purpose of ascertaining the practicability of a ship canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, completed his report some time since. It has just been published by the Navy Department, and will prove a valuable work of reference on account of its varied information, minute details and statistics, its photographs of the country through which the exploration passed, and its valuable maps and charts.
—A new Swedish polar expedition will start from Troms& early in June. It will sail for the southern point of Nova Zembla, where some time will be passed in geological, botanical, and zoological investigations. It is then intended to push on up the west coast to the northernmost point of Nova Zembla, which should be reached in August. The expedition will then divide, part to sail northeast in order to survey this unknown portion of the polar basin, part
southward to the mouths of the Ob and Jenisej, the richest" district in Mammoth remains in the world.
—It is a common practice to protect the vineyards of France and Germany against frost by the production of. artificial clouds of smoke. A new method in this operation has been recommended by M. G. Vinard. This consists in mixing gas-tar with sawdust and old straw, and piling the material in large heaps in the vineyards. Despite of rain and moisture, the mixture preserves its in- . flammability for more than a fortnight. When required' for use, the heaps are divided into smaller ones, and distributed in and about the vineyard. If the wind be high, which it is in cases of frost, the heaps bum freely for about three and a half hours, producing a very dense' smoke. The artificial cloud which thus envelops the vines considerably decreases the radiation from the ground, and -' thereby counteracts frost, which is greatest towards mom-' ing during calm spring nights, and does so much injury to the tender plants.	_ _____.__
—A new naval gun-carriage and platform constitute one of the latest inventions of importance described in the foreign journals—an invention which is said to utilize the' application of hydraulic power to such an extent that all; the work of the gun detachment, with the exception of taking aim, may be dispensed with. A peculiar railway track, adapted to the purposes of a gun carriage, is also, it ’ appears, about to be tried. Before going to the expense of' making these carriages, it seems that the prinicple was ’ first tested in a rude way with an ordinary railway truck, on common rails, which were level with the ground. A gun was securely fastened to the truck with chains, and fired with a 500 pound projectile and 80 pounds of gunpowder; on being discharged, the gun and its extempore . carriage recoiled about one hundred yards along the level. line, showing that by inclining the rails upward toward the rear, at a very slight gradient, the recoil of the heaviest gun would be kept within reasonable bounds.
—We hear of a discovery which would seem incredible were there no visible and tangible proofs to convince us. We speak of a process the object of which is to destroy . the fragility of glass. Without entering into the technical -details, which, of course, are very mysterious, we mention simply that a pane of glass can be thrown on the ground without being broken, or that it will bear the shock of a-metalic ball thrown against it. The importance of this singular discovery may be better understood from the following extracts taken from a letter of the inventor Mr. A. de la Bartis, to his agent in America. “This new glass, resisting most violent shocks and sustaining without injury the action of fire, opens a great path to industry,-which can be seen from the numerous uses to which glass ; may be applied. ... I may add that my process is very, simple and inexpensive. I am ready to instruct American workmen, send all my plans, or leave them in the hands-of a skilful engineer and give every facility to the purchaser of the patent to commence at once.” The inventor, of this new and wonderful process is represented in New York by Aug. Weger.
—The reader, says the Medical Press and Circular, may stare, but science smiles supreme and asserts very emphatically that a toothsome delicacy can be made from a dilapidated foot-covering. Some time ago, says the Scientific American, Dr. Vander Weyde regaled some, friends, not merely with boot-jelly but with shirt coffee, and the repast was pronounced by all partakers excellent.’ The doctor tells us that he made the jelly by first cleaning the boot, and subsequently boiling it with soda under a . pressure of about two atmospheres. The tannic acid in the leather, combined with salt, made tannate of soda, and the gelatin rose to the top, whence it was removed and: dried. From this last, with suitable flavouringmaterial-the jelly was readily concocted. The shirt coffee, incidentally mentioned above, was sweetened with cuff and collar, sugar, both coffee and sugar, being produced in the same, way. The linen (after, of course, washing) was treated with nitric acid, which acting on the lignite contained in' the fibre, producedjglucose, or grape sugar. This, roasted, made an excellent imitation coffee, which an addition of unroasted glucose readily sweetened.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th®
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame. Indiana.
.	TEBMS:
■ Oneyear..............................fl 00
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students1 Office.
. The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 0 months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested Io send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of thb Scholastic, Notre Baine P. O., Ind.
—The article entitled “Our Colleges,” in the April number of Brownsaris Bedew is worthy of the serious attention of the Catholics of the United States. Dr. Brownson, while at the same time he shows that Catholic colleges are by no means failures, makes the statement which 'nobody can deny, that as far as higher education goes all the colleges in the United States, whether Catholic dr Protestant, are deficient Catholic colleges have had many difficulties to overcome; they have through years of poverty struggled successfully and have succeeded in placing themselves upon a firm footing. All things that they could possibly be expected to do they have done. But now there is more demanded of our young men. It may be true, as the Doctor states, that in the East the educated Catholic young layman has no audience in any profession in order to obtain eminence; but in the West here, we believe that the progress of the Church is such that the Catholic layman may in many places command an enlightened audience, and in a few years such will be the position of the Church that its lay members may, as Catholics, obtain a hearing before the most enlightened hearers in the United States. There are mmy young lawyers and doctors in the West who are rapidly rising to eminence in their respective professions who are not forced to lay aside their religion. It is true that they are backed principally by a foreign nationality, but that will be no reason against what we have to say.
What we need now is a grand national Catholic University to fit the Catholic Youth for the life that is now opening for them in the West. This university is what the Doctor demands. He says: “ What seems to us to be demanded is a Catholic University, with all the faculties, and with a competent staff of professors in all the branches of a thorough university education. It should not receive mere boys as students, but should take up the students of dur colleges who leave them, and matriculate none who have not graduated Bachelor of Arts. As a matter of course the university should depend on the bishops and be under their control; and, personally, we should wish it, as did the universities of the Middle Ages, to hold immediately from the pope, if it be practicable...........We would not require any of our Educational Establishments to be suppressed, or that the pupils be older when received. We would, if we could have our way, have, aside from the parochial schools, 1. The preparatory school; 2. The college; 3. The university...............................The colleges should be regarded as feeders of the university, or universities, should more than one be established and supported.” J'
We do not believe that the officers of any of the existing colleges could have any ejections to the establishment of such an university. On the contrary we believe that the most of them would readily co-operate in its formation. Of course the Editor of this paper would have it understood that when making any assertions of this kind he speaks merely for himself and as an editor, and not for any college, even that at which this paper is published, he not having spoken to any of the authorities of the house in relation to this matter.	.
We sometime ago favored the formation of an association among those connected with the education of Catholic youth, for the purpose of discussing all matters which pertain to their duties. We believe that an association of such a kind would soon make a move towards the foundation of a National Catholic University, such as Dr. Brownson recommends, and such as most of the Catholic hierarchy would be pleased to see established. We hope that Dr. Brownson and our Catholic press will agitate the question until a Roman University is established for the benefit of Catholic Education in America.
—Those publications of an utterly undisguised filthy class are forbidden by law, and those who sell them are prosecuted in the courts of law. It is a pity that other, classes are not included in this prohibition, and these are such publications as qre destructive to the morals of the young. We do not believe that those papers alone which are illustrated destroy the morals of youth. There are many which, though not illustrated with flash cartoons, do an incalculable injury to the minds not only of children but of young men. The reading-matter in these journals appeals with terrible force to the lowest passons of human nature, and are filled with the greatest danger to the reader, since it makes its approaches under the guise of pretended moral sentiment. We say pretended moral sentiment, for there is nothing real in it. And these publications, filled with trashy nonsense, are eagerly devoured by hundreds and thousands of young men and girls, creating in them an unhealthy craving for the heroic, and a dislike for their ordinary working-day existence. This reading makes them familiar with the details of viciousness, their higher and better nature destroyed by the fictitious existences depicted, while their ability to resist and overcome temptation is slowly but most surely weakened.
As the law is, we may say, helpless in killing off all the noxious weeds that crowd the literary field, parents and guardians should exercise a close and strict supervision over all the publications, whether in book-form or not, that may enter their homes. They should exclude all those of an immoral or sickly romantic character; for publications of these kinds are the great cause of vice. They bring disgrace or destruction upon all those weak enough to be influenced by their teachings.	(
In Rome there is a much misunderstood and wrongfully J abused institution known as the “Congregation of the I Index.” All books containing heresy, etc., are condemned by this Congregation, and all Catholics are for- , bidden to read them. What a pity we could not have an ' “Index ” here on which to place all books which young j men should be forbidden to read 1 Still, Catholic parents can keep such publications out of their chidren’s hands by supplying them with good periodicals. We have a Catho-lie press rapidly rising to a high standard. Brownson's . Bedew is the best periodical of its kind. The Catholic ’
THE SCHOLASTIC
441
World is the ablest monthly magazine published on this continent. Among the weeklies we have such papers as the Catholic Review, the Catholic Union, the Catholic Universe, the Catholic Standard, the Monitor, the Catholic Columbian, the Catholic Advocate, the Western Catholic, the Chicago Pilot, and many others, which afford excellent reading both for old and young. It should be the first care ofi every father to subscribe for one or more of these excellent papers.
Art Notes.
« _____________
—A. statue of P^re Lacordaire is to be erected at Florigny, France.
—The catalogue of the contents of the Louvre now comprises thirty-four volumes. A condensed catalogue is in course of preparation.
—A special exhibition of paintings is being held at Dresden in celebration of the four hundredth anniversary of the birthday of Michael Angelo. The collection consists of 338 specimens, of various schools.
—-•The statue of the Prince Consort of England, designed by the late Mr. J. H. Foley, which is to be placed under the dome of the Albert Memorial in Hyde Park, has been cast, and will soon be ready for its position. The figure is seated in a chair of state, and is of colossal size, being fifteen feet in height.
—At Carrara in Italy there are now 450 marble quarries in full working order. The most valuable kind of marble, which is a pure white, is reserved for statues; the second quality is used for architectural purposes. There are 115 establishments, employing altogether 4,000 men, where the marble is cut and polished.
—Meissonier’s third picture in four years has just been exhibited in Paris. It is less than a foot in height and barely more than a foot in width, and represents a halt of horsemen in the days of the First Empire. It is praised as a miracle of accuracy and of spirit; and has been bought at the reasonable price of 120,000 francs, or $24,000 in gold, by a private collector who ordered it three years ago.
—Congress has provided for the purchase of 3,000 negatives of photographs of distinguished Generalsand public men, now in possession of Brady, the Washington photographer, at whose galleries, during the war, many prominent citizens had their pictures taken. The negatives are to be used for the reproduction of the portrait*, which, when finished, are to form a national portrait gallery.
—On the 14th of April M. Knoedler & Co., the successors to Goupil & Co., sold at auction one hundred and twenty specimens of eminent artists. Among the celebrated names of the French school represented in the col lection were those of Corot, Moreau, Gerard, Vernier, Veron, Duval,and others; among the Roman-Spanish school, those of Escosura, Casanova, Castione, and others; among the German school, those of Achambach, Seibels, Lier, Mali, and others. Among the American artists whose works were included were the following: Hart, Dana, Kenlett, Inness, Boughton, Homer, Hall, Fuechall, and Perbaudt.
—Rosenthal's “Elaine,” the celebrated painting which was recently stolen in San Francisco and afterwards recovered, had its origin in a suggestion of a resident of that ' city, who ordered it on the understanding that it should be executed for $1,000. Mr. Rosenthal had a fancy for the subject, and he put more work on it than was bargained for. When selling-time came he raised his price to $2,000. This offer was refused by the gentleman who gave the order, and the painting was then sold for $3,000 to Mrs. Robert C. Johnson, of San Francisco, in whose possession it now is. Before the painting left Europe it became generally known in art-circles, and its estimated value was $10,DOO to $12,000. It is now held at $20,000 to $25,000. It was on exhibition in an art-gallery when it was stolen. The thieves kept it for a reward. It was recovered by the detectives at small expense.
—The Opinions, a radical Italian paper, publishes the fob lowing rather amusing paragraph: “The taxing of the Italian museums is very much talked about just at present. It is deeply regretted that the Government should even have allowed the question to be spoken about at all, much less have allowed it to be brought before parliament. If the new law is passed, it will be most severely felt at Florence, a city depending greatly on its artisic treasures, for, without them, few would be the strangers who winter within her walls. Now if each time persons visit one of the galleries they are to be charged a sum of money, however small, they will eventually decrease the number of their visits and feel their liberty hampered. One of the great charms of Florence used to be the ease with which people could go to the galleries whenever they felt inclined—once, twice, or fifty times a day—and this without paying a cent. Now this privilege is to be destroyed, by a tax of fifty centimes as entry fee. Naturally, this will limit the number of visits very materially. Rome also will be placed under much the same restrictions as Florence; but in her case the Vatican, being the property of the Pope, will be, for the time being, exempt from this tax, and consequently the only free museum in a country which boasts so much about its newly-acquired liberty and enlightenment.”—Catholic Review.
—The Academy of Design was opened on Wednesday evening to the artists and their friends for a private view of the pictures to be exhibited at the spring exhibition, which began yesterday. Unusual pains have been taken by the artists to make this exhibition one of more than ordinary interest and excellence. The request had been very generally made that such pictures as were designed for this occasion should not be exposed to public view, even to small -gatherings of people, such as the usual monthly club nights or social meetings of that character, This request seems to have been quite uniformly observed, and as a consequence there is an unusual freshness about the pictures. The standard also seems to have advanced, for the walls are graced by very many pictures of the highest merit, and, as a whole, the exhibition is one that should command the attention of every person interested in art. The artists are verv fully represented. One noticeable absence is that of Mr. S. R. Gifford. There was a time when the number of those who furnished really fine pictures was so few that the absence of so good an artist would have been a serious loss and one very generally felt, but it speaks well for the progress that has been made that no one man is any longer greatly missed, there being so many others of merit to fill his place aud occupy the attention with their works. Mr. Church, it had been hoped, would this year have contributed, but he is also an absentee. We defer to a later occasion detailed reference to the pictures. It suffices for the present to say that the expectations of those who have hoped that this exhibition would be a creditable one to American art have not been disappointed. The rooms were filled even to the point of discomfort, but that is an incident to all private views, and perhaps is generally considered to enhance rather than detract from the interest of the occasion.—AT. Y. Sun.
Musical Notes.
—Wagner has engaged Wachtel for the Bayreuth festival.
—Strauss’ opera, “ Queen Indigo,” will be brought out in Paris shortly.
—President MacMahon has conferred the cross of a chevalier of the Legion of Honor upon the celebrated violinist, Henri Vieuxtemps.
—The Hon. William S. Grosbeck "has presented $50,000 to Burnet Wood’s Park, Cincinnati, Ohio, the interest of which is to be used to defray the expenses of music in that park.
—Johann Strauss’s latest operetta, “ Cagliostro at Vienna,” is said to be one of his happiest inspirations. The subject of the piece is the credulity of the Viennese in 1783, dazzled by the pretended miracles of Joseph Balsamo.
—Max Maretzek opened his season of opera in conjunc
-442
THE SCHOLASTIC.
tion with the pupils of the New York Conservatory, in that city, last week. Among the operas to be performed by them are “ L’Ombra," “Linda” and “Trovatore.’’
—After wasting many months in decision, the Balfe Memorial Committee have at length taken up a resolute attitude, and decided on appealing to the people of Ireland for funds to erect a statue iu honor of their illustrious countryman.
—Mr. W. G. Cusins, conductor of the Philharmonic Society, and Master of Music to the Queen, has been appointed to the professorship of instrumental music in Queen’s College, London, vacant by the death of Sir W. Sterndale Bennett.
—Promptly, as usual, Brainards Alusical 'World comes to us. It is, as it always is, full of attractive music and interesting reading matter. All lovers of music and musical literature can obtain this valuable monthly by applying to S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, 0. For 25 cents they will send a specimen copy.
—Llsz', after a long elipse, reappeared recently at a concert in Rome. A writer says: “ The music was striking, astonishing, marvellous as to execution. The applause was very enthusiastic. Liszt was dressed as an lon^. His hair, which has become quite white, is still very abbe. His touch is still a prodigy, and the keys seem to fly to the ends of his fingers.”
—The Roman correspondent of the Catholic Review says: “ Ths Diritto tells the following amusing story of Bismarck’s great generosity. ‘Everybody remembers the attempt made some time since on the life of Prince Bis marck and how fortune saved him. This fact inspired a’ well-known Italian composer, Signor Pilade Bennati, to compose a fine march and dedicate it to the German Chancellor. This composition was called E' Salvo—‘ He is saved.’ Bismarck received it with pleasure, but to the disappointment of the maestro only sent him by way of remuneration ‘his most grateful compliments.’ The Chancellordoesnot intend ruining himself even for the sake of the most illustrious of muses.’ ”
—Fischer, the bass singer of the Italian Opera at Berlin, possessed an extraordinary voice, which extended down far below the bass staff. Low C was one of his favorite notes, and he never neglected an opportunity of showing with what force he could strike it, swell on it and allow it to die away amidst the perfect silence of his auditors. In singing an aria once he introduced the following:
but was robbed of his credit by an old sailor in the who took up the strain thus:
The effect on the audience may easily be imagined.
—We have received the Caxilia for April,—and find, as usual, a number of letters from all parts of the country, showing that the Cecilia Society is working its way rapidly into favor. The letters from Cincinnati are especially gratifying. Prof. J. M. A. Schultheis, Director of the choir at the College of the Francis-can Fathers in Quincy, Ill., gives an interesting account of choir music in that place, where there are still some who cling to the “ Wirthshaus" style. As a first-class specimen he gives the famous Tantum Ergo, by Rossi, to which he adds some German words, illustrating the above-named style, which certainly are much better suited to the character of the music than the sacred words of the Tantum Ergo. Owing, no doubt, to an oversight in mailing, there was no music supplement to our copy; we presume, however, it was to be the continuation of the Mass which Kaim composed for the Cacilia.
Many of our young readers heave a sigh of regret at the mention of Rossi’s Tantum Ergo, and recall the delight with which they listened in former times to the entrancing
voices of Prof von Weller and Vincent Hackmann. Alas, the happy times when we could listen to such intoxicating, sole-stirring music has gone, and left us nothing but the solemn aud pious music of the Csecilia Society! Injustice to Prof, von Weller we must say that he was one of the first to discard the trashy music; and it was while under his direction the Choir began to sing true Church Music. Out of sympathy for those who wish to hear again “the dear old strains” we would suggest to the Gillespie Choral Union that it give some selections from the new version at the next Exhibition.	' *
Literature. .
—M. Buecker, one of the most distinguished writers of France, died lately.	'
—Mr. Edmund C. Stedman’s volume of essays on the “ Victorian Poets,” will soon be published.
—Macmillan & Co., of New York, have in press “Macready’s Reminiscences,” edited by Sir Bartley Pollock.
—Mr. Ashton W. Dilke has in Macmillan’s press two volumes on the Russian Power, a subject seriously exercising England of late.	•
—M. Thiers is occupied in writing another important work, entitled “Histoire de l’Art,” from notes collected during his late tour in Italy.
—The French prize fcr poetry for 1875, the subject of which was “ Livingstone,” has been gained by M. Gaillard, nephew of M. Emile Augier.
—It is our painful duty, says the Liverpool Catholic Times, to record the death and funeral of Mr. T. Richardson, the eminent Catholic publisher, of Derby, and Capel street, Dublin.
—The Philosophical Faculty of the University of Rome, says the Academy, has invited Professor Max Muller to a banquet. It is to take place as soon as Professor Max Muller returns from Naples.
—Lady Georgiana Fullerton’s serial entitled “M&re Marie de la Providence,” now publishing in the Aw Maria, is a most beautiful biographical sketch, and is attracting • much attention. It was written especially forthat Journal.
—The unending criticism of Shakespeare has produced as its latest book Professor Edward Dowden’s “Shakespeare ; A Critical Study of his Mind and Art,” which the Academy pronounces as the best work of the kind that has been written in our language.
—Mr. S. C. Hall will publish, in the course of the summer, another temperance tale in verse, entitled “ An Old Story.’’ The author in his announcement states that he has iried to make the book broader and more comprehensive in details than its predecessor. Every page will be illustrated.
—Following the admirable example of the early English Text Society, there has been started in Paris an Early French Text Society. It will reprint, such scarce books in French literature as “Ttistan,” “Le Roman des Sept Sagos,” “Les Chansons du Roi de Navarre,” “La Chron-ique de Jeban-le-Bel,” and popular chansons of the fifteenth century. The annual subscription will be only 25 francs.
—Mr. A. P. Sprague, of Troy, has received the first prize of £200 from the British Social Science Association for a treatise on international arbitration. He has also received a letter from Count Sclopis, President of the Geneva Court of Arbitration, saying: “I thank you veiy much for your kind thought of sending me your profound and clever pamphlet on ‘ The New Science of Law.’ This is a work which greatly deserves the attention of all who take interest in the improvement of social welfare.” Mr. Sprague will go to Europe in October to receive the prize.
—Mr. Dillon Croker announces that the effort made to obtain subscriptions for a memorial to “Father Prout” (Mahony), in Shandon Churchyard, County Cork, has resulted to a sum which falls short of £20—scarcely sufficient, he imagines, for the erection of an unpretending marble slab, there being, when he last visited the spot, no record
THE SCH
O L A S T I C .	.	443
Whatever on the family gravestone. He recently made an earnest appeal to the nationality of Irishmen that they should generously come forward on 9t. Patrick’s Day with their “shilling” to do honor to the memory of their distinguished countryman, which small tribute would be gratefully received by Mr. Croker, at the Whitefriars Club.
—We are pleased to receive from the “Catholic Central Association ” of Cleveland, Ohio, a copy of “ A Lecture on School Education and School Systems,” by the Rt. Rev. B. J. McQuaid, D.D., Bishop of Rochester. We read, in that most able newspaper, the Catholic Universe, this able lecture shortly after it was delivered, and admired then the vigorous and eloquent defense of Catholic education by the Rt. Rev. lecturer. We are pleased that the “ Central Association” have had it issued in .pamphlet form. Lectures, such as this of Dr. McQuaid and that of Dr. Ryan, which we noticed & few weeks ago, should be scattered broadcast over the land, so as to let the people see what Catholics demand.
—The contents of Brownson's Quarterly Review for April are: I, Conflict of Science and Religion; II, Reforms and Reformers; III, The Prisoners of St. Lazare; IV, St. Gregory the Seventh; V, The Possible Nothing in Itself; VI, Newman’s Reply to Gladstone; VII, Our Colleges; VIH, Father Hill’s Philosophy; IX, Literary Notices and Criticisms. This number of Brownson's is even more interesting than the former numbers.. We shall in future numbers of the Scholastic refer to some of the articles editorially, after we have given them a more serious reading. The article on Catholic Colleges is in perfect keeping with the views of the editor of this paper, and of it we speak at large on the editorial page.
—We have received from G. P. Putnam’s Sons, the first volume of “The German Classics for American Students,” edited by Jas. Morgan Hart. On examination we find it to supply a want long felt by students of the German language, particularly those who study without the assistance of a professor. The volume before us, containing Goethe’s “Hermann and Dorothea,”—12mo., pp. xxii, 155,—is very neatly gotten up, and does credit to the taste of the publishers, but the most important features of the work are the well-written “ Commentary,” “ Glossary Grammar” which illustrate and explain the text so clearly that nothing more could be desired. We predict for the Series—whice is to embrace the chefs-d'wuvre of German literature—an extensive sale.
Bulla Jubil^i 1875. Sen Sanctissimi Domini Nostri Pii Divina Providentia Papas IX. Epistola Encyciica: Gravibus Ecclesias, cum Notis Praeticis ad usum Cleri American!, Curante A. Konings, C. S3 R. Neo-Eboraci: Typis Soeietatis pro Libris Catholicis Evuigandis. MDCCCLXXV. Pp. 16.
This is a very useful little pamphlet for the American Clergy. All matters of importance to them concerning the Jubilee are given truthfully in few words.
Postscript to a Letter Addressed to His Grace the Duke of Norfolk, on- occasion of Mr. Gladstone’s Recent Expostulation, and in answer to his “ Vaticanism.” By John Henry Newman, D. D„ of the Oratory. Together with the Decrees and Canons of the Vatican Council. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, 9 Warren Street, 1875. Pp. 58. Price 25 cents. ‘
This pamphlet contains really notes to the Reply of Dr. Newman in relation to “Vaticanism” by Gladstone. AU persons who have copies of the reply of Dr. Newman should procure this Postscript. The second part of the pamphlet contains the canons and decrees of the Vatican Council. This is the only English copy of these decrees, and will be found of great service to all lay Catholics who wish to inform themselves of all things in relation to our holy religion.
Mr. Gladstone’s Expostulation Unravelled. By Bishop Ullathorne. New York : The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street, 1875. Pp. 9L Price 25 cents.
Submission to a Divine Teacher neither Disloyalty nor the Surrender of Mental and Moral Freedom. A Pastoral Letter by Herbert, Bishop of Salford. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street, 1875. Pp. 77. Price 25 cents.
The Syllabus for the People. A Review of the Propositions Condemned by His Holiness Pope Pius IX, with Text of the Condemned List. By a Monk of St. Augustine’s, Ramsgate,
Author of “ The Vatican Decrees and Catholic Allegiance.’’ New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street, 1875. Pp. 51. Price 25 cents-
We have before this called attention frequently to the many able replies to the pamphlet of Mr. Gladstone, and hence we need not speak at length of the above able republications. The reply of Bishop Ullathorne in particular pleases us, and we consider it equal, if not superior, to those of Dr. Newman and Archbishop Manning. The last named volume (The Syllabus for the People) is a valuable little book, and our many subscribers among the clergy will find it of much service to them. Our other readers for whom it was especially published will gain more from if real knowledge of the Syllabus than they would from the many able replies to the pamphlet of Gladstone. The Catholic Publication Society deserve the thanks of the Catholics of America for the series of pamphlets, seven in number, which they have issued. We hope that they will keep up this series of works and issue others in the same style.
. Society Notes.
—The second regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held on Sunday evening, April 11th, Rev. J. A. Zahm presiding. A beautiful letter from Rev. Father Carrier, accepting the office of Hon. Director, was then read, and a splendid picture which he enclosed for the edification of the Society was eagerly passed about and admired by all. Judging from the picture, we conclude that the salubrious climate of the South agrees with Father Carrier. The members next drew lots to see who should possess the picture; Mr. H. V.. Hayes was the fortunate one. Rev. Mr. Zahm then delivered a lectureon “ Alchemy and Alchemists ” which was entertaining and instructive.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held the eighth regular meetingof this session last Tuesday evening, Mr. T. A. Grier, V. P., presiding, in the absence of Prof. Dailey. Mr. E. G. Graves read a carefully-written criticism on the previous meeting’s exercises. He is eminently qualified for this office by his long experience as a member of the Society. His criticism was faultless. Mr. G. Kelly read an essay “ On the Equality of Mankind.” It was a masterly effort; he was particularly happy in his selection of words, and the manner he treated the subject. The debate of the evening, Resolved “ That the Poor Should be Amply Provided for by the Government,” came next in order. The disputants on the affirmative were Messrs. Gillen, Keeler and Caren; on the negative, Messrs. Ball, Foley and Hoyt. Although there were good speeches made on both sides, we think the speakers lacked their usual ardor. The decision was in favor of the affirmative.
Personal.
—Chas. K. Hibbon, of ’67, is farming in Ohio.
—W. B. Small, of ’63, is in the lumber business with his father, in Wilmington, Ill.
—Jno. Davlin, of ’60, is connected with the Glen Flora Spring, at Waukegan, Ill.
—W. J. Cochrane, of '65, is chief clerk in the County . Treasurer’s Office, Chicago, III.
—Rev. Fathers Loftus and Stinson, of Ireland, paid a visit to Notre Dame on Wednesday last.
—Rev. Fr. Golovin attended the funeral of the late Rev. Geo. A. Hamilton, of Lafayette, on Monday last.
—We were pleased to see Rev. Fr. Ford at St. Joseph’s Farm on Wednesday last. He is in excellent health.
—In a letter to a friend in Chicago, Charles C. Hutchinson informs him that he is about to start for the Island of St. Thomas, to look after the interest of the Havemeyer Bros’, sugar refineries.
—The young gentlemen who made a visit to St. Joseph’s farm all unite in praising the unbounded and princely hospitality extended to them by Rev. John Ford, the pastor of the church there. If there is one reminiscence which will cling to them through life, it will be that of his generous reception at the Farm. Success attend all at the farm, and especially Father Ford.
444
THE SCHOLASTIC
have had along. It is needless to say that we had a good time.	•
—The College Band is composed of the following players: Leader—J. H. Gillespie; E Flat Sopranos—R. H. Staley, G. Roulhac; B Flat Cornetts—J. H. Gillespie P. F. Guilloz; E Flat Altos—M. M. Foote, J. L. Ruddi-man, H. H. Hunt and J. B. Crummey; B Flat Tenors— E. J. McLaughlin, Jas. Campbell, G. Crummey: Baritone —C. Otto; First B Flat Bass—F. O’Brien; Tubi—T. M. O'Leary; B Flat Contra Bass—J. F. Kennedy; Snare' Drum—T. C. Logan; Bass Drum—Cymbals—T. Cochran.
—We were highly pleased while looking over the new stock of elegant jewelry which Mr. L. E. Mayr has just purchased. Students desiring any engraving done would do well to call upon Mr. Mayr, as we know that he will be able to do the best of work for them at the most reasonable rates. Society badges for Commencement-Day can be procured of him very cheaply. Give him a call. His store is in the same room as that occupied by Ed. Carpenter, the popular hatter. And while you are about it, give Carpenter a call also.
—A friend at Memramcook, New Brunswick, writes to us : “For some time past, owing .to unavoidable circumstances, class has not been very regular. The celebration of St. Patrick’s and St. Joseph’s, following one another so closely, effectually broke up one week. As you have already heard of the seance on St. Patrick’s it will not be necessary to mention it here, except to add our congratulations on the success with which it was attended. Last week, being Holy Week, was of-course devoted for the greater part to religious exercises. On Easter Sunday morning we remarked that a number of young gentlemen in the Seniors’ dormitory arose much earlier than usual, and stationed themselves in artistic groups at the windows facing the east. Being too lazy to inquire, we could only conjecture that they were awaiting the arrival of Sol, in hopes of “ seeing him dance." This proved to be the case. It appears also that they were not disappointed, for we learned later in the day that he did “ trip the light fantastic.” But as our friend “ John ” (H.) who gave us the information, never in all probability saw the sun rise before, we may question the truth of his assertion.
Tuesday last witnessed the arrival of the Kt. Rev. Bishop Sweenej’, of St. John. On Tuesday evening a short seance was held. Messrs. Chas. Collins and Narcisse Landry came forward and welcomed the Bishop in two very pleasing addresses; a chorus from the Choir followed; and then commenced “ The Family of Martyrs.” This drama, performed on St. Patrick’s, was so well rendered that the Superior requested it to be repeated. If it was a possibility for the gentlemen who took part in it to outdo their efforts on the first occasion (which we are inclined to doubt) they did so. At the conclusion of the seance, his Lordship thanked the gentlemen for the pains they had taken for his entertainment, and complimented them on their performance. On Wednesday, Bishop Sweeney conferred Minor Orders on Mr. J. O’Flaherty and Mr. Cecil St. Cyr, C. S. C., and Subdeaconship on Mr. A Roy, C. S. C., and Sir. Jas. McDevitt. While the ceremony was going on, the Superior was informed that the College was on fire. He announced it to the congregation, and immediately a number started for the kitchen, where it was said the fire was. On their arrival no flames could be seen, but smoke was issuing from various places. It took considerable time to discover where the fire was. Piaster, boards, etc., were torn off without hesitation. At length it was discovered that the fire was concealed in a partition in the Juniors’ refectory, and it was speedily extinguished. The damage was very slight, but had the fire progressed unnoticed a short time longer the affair would have been serious. When the danger was over, one could not help laughing at the extremely silly feats performed while the exeiiement lasted. One gentleman, thinking no doubt that it would not be at all proper to enter a room by the ordinary means during a fire scorned the idea of turning the door-knob, and saved three steps by kicking the sash out of Father Labbe’s window. It is rumored also that this same gentleman made a bold charge at the door of the room and burst it open, an effort entirely unnecessary, as the door was unlocked. Several persons ran in great haste to the attic, and were exploring its various holes and corners in hopes of finding the flames, which were all the while away down in the basement.
The Grand Lottery began yesterday, and is about concluded now. We were present awhile when the drawing was going on, and it was distressing to see the bright, hopeful face suddenly turn gloomy as the everlasting “ blank ” came out. The Lottery is probably the last excitement which will trouble St. Joseph’s for some time, and we expect that everybody will make up for the lost time during April.
Before I close, one word about the weather Spring is expected towards the middle of June. When baseball is talked of, the lovers of the.sport glance at the grounds, and, turning
Local Items.
—Compliments to 41.
—The bathing season is at hand.
—The Minims are a happy crowd.
—Evening walks are again the fashion.
—Big snowfl ikes on last Monday afternoon.
—The Philopatrians have begun their rehearsals.
—How was that visit to the Art Department enjoyed?
—There are some beautiful flowers in the Junior Study Hall.
—Bro. Albau has been collecting flowers for his department.
—Charlie wanted Mr. Bonney to draw his picture for him last Wednesday.
—“Anovercoat! an overcoat! Oh! for an overcoat!” . was the cry last Monday.
—Bro.Simon is making some excellent “walks” about the Scholasticate grounds.
—The snow did not last long. Tuesday afternoon we saw all of Monday’s snow disappear.
—The Class of Civil Engineering was out last Wednesday laying the course of some railroad.
—Prof. Stace says that he was bitten by mosquitoes on the 7th of April. Tally one for him.
—The grounds west of the old church and back of the presbytery are receiving the attention of workmen.
—The Collegiates have many fine flowers in their study hall. If we are not mistaken, we saw some in bloom some time ago.
—On the 14'-h inst. a match game of baseball was played between the Star of the East and the Juanitas, with a score of 28 to 26, in favor of the latter.
—We understand that some beautiful geraniums, etc., are to be given by a young gentlemm to that study-hall which by June will have the finest collection of flowers.
—And they went and did it again. It seems there were mistakes in all past surveys of the botanical garden; so the Class of Surveying were out on Wednesday morning.
—Mr. Kiingle’s advertisement will be found in another column. He has an excellent assortment of boots and shoes. And all in want of such things will know where to call.
—Business just now in photography is not lively, but then just wait until June! However, we would advise sensible persons to call on Mr. Bonney these fine Wednesdays while there is no great rush.
—Father Louage and the Novices are very busy cleaning up the grounds at the north side of the Lake. In a few years there will not be a prettier place in the neighborhood than the grounds about the upper Like.
—The organ having been purchased for a church in Grand Rapids, Mich., our musicians were busy taking it down for shipping. The new organ will arrive here ab >ut the 1st of May, until which time the melodeon, now in the College Chapel, will be used in the large Church.
—We call the attention of our Students to the advertise-jment of Meyer Livingston in another column. Mr. Liv-ngston has opened a clothing store just three doors west of Blum, the great cigar-man. Follow Blum’s advice, and go west of his establishment to buy your summer clothing.
—There was a spelling match in the Commercial Department the other day, in Bro. Paul’s class. The class divided into the “ Websters ” and “ Worcesters,” the latter winning. Masters Quinn, Norris, Lonstorf Jewell and Goldsberry of the “ Worcesters,” and Masters Colton, Van-amee, Davis, Byrne, Jones andRiopelle of the “Websters,” were the best spellers.
—We took a ride to the St. Joe farm last Wednesday with the young gentlemen who have consented to write regularly for the columns of the Scholastic. All the young men were on time, but we were sorry to find, before starting on the trip, that one of the persons we intended inviting was missing, and that others were unwell—persons we would have been more than pleased to
2*331
THE SCHOLASTIC.
445'
away, mutter something 'which sounds remarkably like “confound the -winter,” or something more ungenteel. At a consultation held a few days ago, it was the prevalent belief that the weather-clerk has formed an attachment for the “ beautiful snow,” and has resolved to postpone summer for a few months in order to make arrangements for the wedding. We sincerely hope that the happy couple will spend their “ honeymoon” near our recreation hall. We think the bridegroom would remember the visit for a considerable period. Hoping that you will enjoy the “balmy breezes” sooner than we expect to do, we remain yours respectfully,	A. L.
Additional Arrivals.
August P. Pilliod,........Toledo, Ohio.
L. C. Berkey,.............West Union, Iowa.
Ambrose Hertzog,..........Natchitoches, La.
Frank Phelan,.............Saint Louis, Mo.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, T. Cochrane, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W. Canavan, R. Doherty, J. Devine, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, A. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Huirhes, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, W. McGavin, E. McLaughlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, T. Murphy, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, John Ney, T. O’Leary, J. O’Connell, Carl Otto, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, M. Regan, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, E. Seibert, J. Soule, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, C. Welty.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Betcher, L. Best, A. Bergck, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, J. G. Frauen-knecht, J. French, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, C. Hake, H. C. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, A. H. Mitchell, R. McGrath, J. P. McHugh, H. McGuire, M. J. Murphy, W. Nicholas, W. P. Nelson, H. Newman, C. Ottoway, D. J. O’Connell, C. R. Post, L. Pilliod, J. L. Perea, H. W. Quan, L. Smith, J. A.-Smith, W. Smith, T. J. Solon, H. Sickle, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, E. Washburn, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, F. Rollin, J. Buckles, E. Hall.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
John O’Meara, Walter Cunningham, Otto Lindberg, Francis Carlin, Edward Raymond, Clement Moody, Colly Clarke, Samuel Goldsberry, Colly Campau, Michael McAuliffe, Harry Ordway, Willie Coolbaugh, Albert Bushey, Louis Goldsmith.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 15.
MODERN LANGUAGES AND PINE ARTS.
Law—P. Skahill, J. Crummey, R.Staley, H. Hayes, E. Seibert. Medicine—E. McPharlin, G. Crummey, J. O’Connell.
Civil Engineering—C. M. Proctor.
German—G. Roulhac, A. Schmidt, A. O’Brien, W. Schultheis, C. Whipple, J. Golsen, E. Sugg, W. Nelson, C. Welty, J. Soule, J. Connolly, J. Marks, A. Leitelt, W. Ball, H. McGuire, J. Wood, M. Kramer, P. Shaul, G. McNulty, H. Korty, E. Gramling, C. Larkin, F. Hoffman, C. Walsh, J. Berringer, R. Norris, J. Leitelt, E. Ratigan, W. Roelie, H. Hunt, E. McPharlin, J. Lyons, C. Leonhardt, R. McGrath, M. Egan, J. F. Rudge, T. McNamara, J. Grace, H. Sickel, W. Byrne, F. Carlin, E. Washburn.
French—W. Moriis, G. Gross, J. Minton, L. Best, J. Del Vecchio, V. McKinnon, J. O’Connell, F. Smyth.
Drawing—W. Schultheis, J. Kurtz, J. Carrer, E. G. Graves, R. McGrath, P. Lawrence, A. Schmidt, J. Obert, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, J. Cullen, C. M. Proctor, G. Sugg, R. Golsen, E. Raymond.
Telegraphy—J. Wood, W. Stout, T. Carroll, J. McIntyre, T. Logan, R. Norris, J. Retz.
Music—G. Hoyt, E. Stchtenoth, H. Cassidy, W. Ball, W. Shcultheis, C. Otto, F. Schlink, J. Campbell, A. Reinke, G. Frauenknech, E. Sugg, G. Sugg, A. Longsdorf, C. Leonhardt, T." O’Leary, C. Clarke, M. Clarke, T. Quinn, J. Thornton, T. Gallagher, J.Gillen, W. Stichtenoth, C.Robertson, H. Sickel, G.
Gross, J. Devine, J. Colton, J. Lynch, R. Maas, M. Murphy, J. Del Vecchio, F. McGrath, A. Schmidt, G. Ronlhac, J. Lyons, C. Welty, W. Byrne, J. McHugh, J. Crummey, J. Berringer, L. Pilliod, E. Maas, W. Armstrong, A. Pilliod.
Band—G. Roulhac, T. O’Leary, G. Crummey, T. Logan, H. Hunt, J. Kennedy, E. McLaughlin, J. Campbell, J. Crummey.
Vocal Music—G. Kelly, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, T. O’Leary, F. Devoto.
minim department.
Hugh Colton, William Lindsey, Peter Nelson, Harry Ordway, William Cash, William, Van Pelt. Francis Campau, Harley McDonald, William Coolbaugh, Charlie Bushey, Sylvester Bushey.	’
List of Excellence.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director op. Studies.]	.
1st Algebra— C.^W- Welty.
Chapel of Our Lady of Lourdes.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY OF REV. A. LEMONNIER, C. 8?
A. Coquillard, South Bend, Ind................$50	00
Mrs. Coquillard, South Bend, Ind............... 5	00
Miss M. Shirland, South Bend, Ind............. 25	00
SAINT MART’S ACADEMY.
—The repairs of the beautiful little Chapel of Loreto are progressing, and will be completed before the opening of May.
—On Sunday evening the fourth No. of Rosa Mystica was read in the Study Hall. The editresses were the Misses Clarke, Foote, St. Clair, and Dennehey. Its best commendation is the words of Very Rev. Father General; “Some papers have been complained of as too long; the same cannot be said of this. It is too short.” The subjects and their mode of treatment were an honor to the young contributors.	,
—The prolonged absence of Mother Superior is much regetted at St. Mary’s, and her return is anxiously looked for. Beautiful letters have been received from her during the past week by the various classes of the Academy, for which they are deeply grateful. Many are the fervent prayers offered up for her, from loving hearts, that prosperity may attend her in the important enterprises which keep her so long from home,—namely, the establishment of foundations in the East, and other business of equal interest to science and religion.
—The delightful concert by a club from Thomas’ Orchestra, on Monday afternoon, is one long to be remembered at St. Mary’s. To say that the audience was spellbound from first to last, is but to testify to the lively appreciation the young ladies, and indeed all present, cherish for this rare musical treat. The advantage to music-pupils of listening to the perfect rendering of the choicest classic selections, such as were presented, is incalculable. St. Mary’s is the first educational institution, except Vassar College, which this celebrated club has visited. After the concert the musicians repaired to the parlor, where Miss H. Foote sang an aria from Meyerbeer, for which she was highly commended by them.	’
ART NOTES.
—We gladly welcome back to her place in the Drawing Class our little friend Amelia Koch, who went home for the Easter.	.
—The late fallen snow, we hope, is Winter’s last farewell, and that sweet Spring will continue to smile upon us many days as on the morning of the 7th. It is such a pleasure to have the closed walls behind us, and feel th e fresh spring air all around us, while our eyes and fingers are busy with our sketch.
—The first open-air sketching of the season began on the lovely Spring morning of April 7th. We found, a

446
THE SCHOLASTIC.
good shelter from the sun on the west side of the Exhibition Hall, and began to sketch a very graceful tree without foliage which can easily be recognized by anyone acquainted with this part of the world. We set about the sketch with a good will, and immediately found ourselves apply to stem, and branch, and twig, the principles learned on the blocks, and other studies belonging to the Fifth and Fourth classes. We found ourselves getting the direction of the limbs, and their size in proportion to each other, exactly as we had been in the habit of getting the direction of the lines in a block and the length of one line compared with another. In truth, the very same method learned on the blocks was put in practice on the trees.
TABLET OF HONOR.
Fob the Week Ending April 5.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, A. O’Connor, M. Daily, L. Ritchie, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, C. Woodward, S. Harris, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Nefeler, P. Gaynor, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, A. Duncan, S. H«le, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H- Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, J. Rio-pelle, E. Edes, S. Reising, M. Anthony, L. Gustine, F. and G-. Wells, L. Johnson, N. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley, L. Ryan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Pritchard, M. Ewing, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. Schultheis, B. Golsen, M. and B. Siler, L. McKinnon, M. Reynolds, H. Peak, J. Brown, S. Cash, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath. M. Hogan, A. Goewey, L. Hutchinson, L. Walsh, M. Hoffman, H. Kraus, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, M. Derby, K. Hudson, J. Andrew, M. Bell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, A. Peak, I. Mann, M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson, A. McGrath, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier, CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTUMENTAL MUSIC.
For the Week Ending March 28.
2nd Drv.—Misses L. Gustine, A. Curtin, C. Woodward, A. Walsh, L. Walsh, E. Lange, H. Peak, M. Schultheis, C. A. Orr, J. Andrew.
6th Class—Misses H. Parks, P. Gaynor, S. Hole N. McGrath, B. Siler, M. O’Connor, M. Siler, A. Goewey, A. McAuliffe, E. Lappin, M. Reynolds, S. Swalley, A. Smith, N. McGrath, E. Dougherty.
2nd Drv.—Misses M. Gaynor, S. Edes, R. Neteler, E. Simpson, I. Fisk, L. Brownbridge, M. Brady, M. Quill, L. Ryan, S. Moran, K. Casey, G. Hill, E. Pierce.
7th Class—Misses M. Daily, E. Edes, J. Brown, S. Cash, C. Maigrey, L. Kelly, L. Schwass, E. York, K. Morris, L. Bosch, E. Colwell, M. King.
8th Class—Misses A. Ewing, M. Bell, K. Hudson.
9th Class—M. Hughes, R. Goldsberry, C. Hughes.
10th Class—Misses M. Derby, Y. Miers, M. Hoffman, A. Peak.
Harp—Misses M. Walker, M. Wicker.
’ Harmony—Misses R. Spier. E. Quinlan, A. Smith.
Theoretical Classes—Misses J. Nunning, A. T. Clarke. E. Dennehey, A Byrnes, M. Faxon, K. Hutchinson, M. Walker, L. Kirchner, J. Locke, M. Redfield, M. Julius, L. Tinsley, M. Craven, H. Russel, K. Joyce, P. Gaynor, M. and B. Siler, L. Gustine, M. Roberts, B. Wilson, K. Greenleaf, I. Edes, L. Bosch, S. Moran, A Ewing. M. Schultheis, M. and L. Hutchinson, A. Duncan, S. McKay, A and F. Dilger, H. Kraus, M. O’Connor, M. Gaynor, M.
Pritchard, M. Derby, A. Goewey, j. Brown, C. Woodward, E. Lappin, N. McGrath, A. McGrath.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
For the Week Ending April 5.
1st Class—Misses Foote, Henrotin and Haggerty.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer and Riopelle.
2nd Class—Misses Wicker, Cavenor, Kearney and Riley.
2nd Div.—Misses Smith, Locke, Dougherty and Arnold.
3rd Class—Misses Morgan, Kirchner, M. O’Connor, Curtin, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, T. Gaynor, A. and M. Walsh.
2nd Div.—Misses Bennett, Cash, L. Walsh, Anthony, and Andrew.
THE ART SCHOOL.
DRAWING.
1st Class—Miss R. Neteler.
4th Class—Misses G. Walton, L. Henrotin, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, A. Cullen. E. Lange, E. Lappin.
5th Class—Misses M. O’Connor, M. Schultheis, E. Arnold, P. Gaynor, E. Kirchner, J. Kreigh, K. Morris and E. Colwell.
WATER-COLOR PAINTING.
4th Class—Misses E. Ritchie and I. Wade.
5th Class—Miss L. Henrotin.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FRENCH LESSONS.
1st Class, 1st Div.—Misses J. Kearney, M. Walker.
2nd Div.—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, L. Tinsley, S. Harris, J. Kreigh, M. Poquette, N. McGrath, B. Wilson.
2nd Class—Misses L. Ritchie, P. Gaynor, A. Lloyd, -C. Morgan, M. Wicker. E. Haggerty, R. Canoil, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, A. Dilger, M. Riley, A. T. Clarke, K. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, H. Russel, K. Morris, L. McKinnon, A. McGrath.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, J. Nunning, S. Harris, L. Kirchner,’M. Schultheis. B. Golsen.
2nd Drv.—Misses R. Neteler, L. Bosch, A. O’Connor.
2nd Class—Misses M. Dunbar, R. Klarr, L. Kelly, M. Julius, S. Reising, E. Botsford, H. Kraus.
3rd Class—Misses B. Wade, H. Peak, L. Walsh.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING..
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, A. Smith, J. Locke, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, K. Joyce, M. Daily, j. McGuire, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, S. Harris, C. Woodward, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, P. Gaynor, M. Roberts, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, K. Casey, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, S. Moran, H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, M. McKay, S. Cunningham, C. Maigrey, G. Hills, L. Bosch, L. Schwass.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FANCY WORK. -
Misses L. Bosch, S. Harris, S. Reising, K. Greenleaf, H. Parks, E. Mann, M. McKay.
THE BLESSED VIRGIN
AND THE
Divina
OF DANTE.
Translated from the Italian of Padre Pio Giuseppe Capri, 0. Pa, by Rev. D. Moyes.
PRICE 30 CENTS,
For Sale by THOMAS BUTLER, Catholic Bookseller, Fitchburg, Mass.
THE SCHOLASTIC,
447
pALMER & Vanwinkle,	.
Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ’ ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
t®- Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
' BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., ... South Bend, Ind
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JJR. 0. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE,	'
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J$-tf
A HANAUER,
* Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
BURKE’S
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE, Proprietor.
JRELAND & SON,
.	PROPRIETORS OP
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54 MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(Opposite the Dwight House).
--o---
HACK JLEVE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o242m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” ----------------0--- DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND	.
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. J£o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture.-The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hon e during their stay,
JERRY KN1GHT, 1 captain mills, j ™®neto«.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
M. LIVINGSTON & CO:,
94 Mlelilgaii St., South Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clothing is Cheap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths. Classi-meres and "Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and. our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
140 and 143 Alaclison Street.
{Between Clark and LaSalle,} CHICAGO, -	-	- IlLIu.
f6 3m.
E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller, • 105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old nnglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-^tf.
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT, 99 MAIN STREET, - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. MEALS AT ALL HOURS!	‘
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!,’	.
{®“ Fresh Candies Made Daily. ‘
THE SCHOLASTIC.
448
. WATSON’S
ART JOURNAL
Music, Literature, Art and. the Drama.
THE ONLY WEEKLY MUSICAL ART JOURNAL PUBLISHED IN AMERICA.
The Office of WATSON’S ART JOURNAL is 104 East Thirteenth Street, where all Subscriptions and Advertisements will be received.
Address,
a3-4t
WATSON’S ART JOURNAL,
104 EAST THIRTEENTH STREET, New York City.
—AN- .
Illustrated Weekly Journal
LITERATURE, ART, MUSIC AND THE DRAMA.
§4.00 Per Annum.
Address,
169 and 171 FULTON STREET, New York, Where Subscriptions and Advertisements wil be received. a3-4t
Quarterly Review,
PUBLISHED BY
Fr. PUSTET FOR THE PROPRIETOR.
L. B- 5613, New York; and 204 Vine St., Cincinnati, Ohio-
This work is devoted to Religion, Philosophy, Politics, and General Literature. Each number contains 144 pages, and four numbers make a volume of 576 pages, which is furnished to subscribers at five dollars per annum in advance.
J^£RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan. Street, South .Bend, Indiana.
DEALER IN
Millinery Goods, Hats, ‘Bonnets, Laces, &c.
E^ rhe young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their
advantage to give her a call.
ap!17
OVER 1,000 CASES
Dr. S. Clay Todd, corner of Calhoun and Columbia streets, Fort Wayne, Indiana—P. O.'Box 1,<61—has permanently cured over 1,000 cases of Epileptic Fits, not having failed ina single case in the past six years. Consultations free. Medicines sent to all parts of the United States and the Canidas. For particulars, call or address as above. Dr. Todd also treats successfully ALL DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.	ap!17-4t
1
JAMES^BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
SOUTH BEND.j
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Pbices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
Cob. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Gooiiley's Drug Store, South Bend, Indiana.
Proportionately Low Prices to Whole - sale Casli Buyers.
105 MICHIGAN St. dec5-^tf.
GOLSEN & EASTMAN,
Successors to Jno. Clarke, & Co.,
DISTILLERS, 31 & 33 RIVER STREET CHICAGLO.
JOECNT EC. CODY «fc CO.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
HEADING, HOOPS, &C, Factory at Junction of P., Ft- W. & C., Ft. W., M. &. G. G. B. & I. Ft. W., J. & S„ AND W. &. &. Z. CANAL. FORT WAYNE, IIVDTjYIV^.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Ool-lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
o24-tf'
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-
Fine Mixed Candy -	-
Choice Mixed Candy -	-
Caramels -	-	-	.	_
Molasses and Cream Candy -
15c.
25c.
35c. 35c 35c
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door. ~
-	o24-tf