
gtitt Hast
Bwnted ta th# interests nf th# Sfocl#nt$>
“ILAJBOIt OMNIA VINC1T.”
Volume IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 6, 1871.
Number 17.
Such is Life.
A Poem in Four Parts.
by M. B. B.
Part First.—Youth and Innocence.
■	i.
Sweet was the smiling day upon the hill;
A luscious verdure clothed the sloping side;
The song of birds chimed with the rippling rill, Making sweet music at the matin-tide;
While, here and there, the wandering sunbeams glide Through the thick boughs to print a rapid kiss On the clear waters, as they skip along in bliss.
ii.
I sat upon a fallen trunk and mused, And as I mused, I asked my throbbing heart Why sin and misery and time misused Should hurry men, by some resistless art, From joys like that in which I now had part! A gentle voice, of one unseen, though nigh, Responded: “ Such is life!”—'Twas uttered with a sigh.
nr.
I sat, still musing, till upon my car
A merry voice in silvery accents fell;
Its tones were joyous, musical and clear As when at night the swift vibrating bell Sends forth its cheerful greeting o’er the dell; ’Twas thus that voice spoke forth its matin glee, Inspired by nature, while its tones enchanted me:
IV.
“ O, sweet is the morn when the birds singing gaily, Invite us to rove on the hill-side afar;
0, sweet is the song of the silver-tongued water, When singing its hymn to the bright morning star;
But sweeter by far is the joy of that bosom Whose happiness never has felt sorrow’s jar.
“And sweet is the morning when night shades receding, Give place to the gold tints of glory-crowned day;
8weet, too, is the soft, rustling sigh of the grove trees, When mom’s fragrant breath through the branches doth play;
But sweeter, far sweeter, the peace of that spirit O’er which love and virtue exert their mild sway.”
VI.
While thus undoubted innocence did speak, I sat enraptured by the faultless strain;
My eye was fain the singer’s form to seek, And wandered restless o’er the adjacent plain, Till at my side I heard a sigh of pain, And that sad voice now whispered in my ear:
“ Ah! such is life !—but wait a while—another year.”
VII.
As died away that sad yet patient sigh, A youth appeared, of graceful form and meek; The light of guileless truth was in his eye— The rose of health bloomed on his rounded cheek ; fTis fearless step elastic, too, doth speak The innocence that smiles at solitude, And finds companionship in conscious rectitude.
VIII.
He sped along in joy and blameless pride;
He breathed the fragrance of the flowery grove; Then, seated by the rippling water’s side, He listened to the strains of mirthful love,
As sang the birds, perched in the bonghs above, ‘ Rejoicing with exuberance of cheer
In his mild presence that inspired them with no fear.
n.
He smiled—his features glowed with healthful glee;
His bosom heaved with gladness, unrestrained By thought or impulse angels might not see, And, as I gazed, earth seemed to have regained The beauty that in Eden’s bowers had reigned, And man appeared to have resumed that sway Which God first gave, and primal sin had swept away.
Part Second.—The Danger.
i.
But, as I gazed in rapturous delight, Another form appeared upon the scene,— A youth in whose dim eyes there was no light To tell the beauty of the soul within.
He moved along with slow and listless mien ;-His step was feeble and his cheek was pale, And nature had no charm to cheer this mortal frail.
ii.
But, as he moved, the song birds shrank away, And fearing, hid them in the foliage dense; The merry tinkling of the streamlet’s play Fell on the ear like sounds of penitence, While the soft breezes seemed to take offence At this intrusion, and, resenting, fly
Up to the lofty tree-tops where they wail and sigh.
in.
Thus did all nature, as by instinct led, Give warning of a danger near at hand;
Yet the intruder e’eu raised not his head To seek the cause why joy came to a stand, Till the first youth thus spoke in accents bland:
“ Why, Julio, how so early in the grove ?
’Twas not your wont thus at the early mom to rove!”
iv. -
At this the pale-faced youth seemed to revive; A struggling smile lit up his vacant eye, As with an effort he essayed to drive
His gloomy thoughts away; then coming nigh He sought, in cheer, with innocence to vie, And straightway launched into a joyous mood.
’Twas thus he burdened with his voice the solitude:
v.
“ Well, Claudio, think’st thou not I well may roam Amid the cooling shades upon the hill, Since I have sat in Pleasure’s palace-dome , And drank the cup of joy which mirth did fill ? But you’ve not felt how exquisite a thrill Pervades the soul when Pleasure sheds her light, So you must come and join our company to-night.”
vr.
“ But, Julio, why so pale ? Is this the dole That Pleasure metes to vot’ries at her shrine ’ Methinks ’twere greater pleasure to the soul To contemplate a frame where health doth shine, Than in the fever of an hour resign The ruddy cheek, perhaps our peace of mind, Which all may quickly lose, but few again can find.”
TO.
“ Tut, foolish boy, this is not Pleasure’s price;
I have been ill,—who is at all times well ?
I tell you, did not Pleasure fair entice	1
My cares away, I dare not think or tell	I
How much this earth to me would be like hell—	I
Excuse the word—but social joys, all bright, Enchant the soul, and change its Harkness into light.”
vm.
“ Yet, Julio, whence that darkness of the son], That only yields to Pleasure’s torch of flame? Does it not spring from joy’s undue control That, like the glitter of the noonday beam When viewed too boldly, blinds us with its gleam ' And blurs all gentler beauties to our sight
That else would please, were we not dazed with too' much light ?"	•
IX.
“ There, there, good Claudio, you have learnt, I see, The pious cant which calls it deadly crime To pluck the sweetest frnit on life’s grand tree, In whose rich taste lurks happiness sublime. No doubt, your mother, lest before your time You learn to be a man, has filled your mind
With prejudice that makes yon fearful of mankind,”
x.
I trembled as I heard this crafty speech, So like that one of old, which hurled our race From Eden’s joys, and opened that dread breach ’Twixt disobedient man and Him, whose grace And boundless mercy could alone efface The guilt of that sad deed—our death and shame.— Nor staid I long to learn man ever is the same.
XI.
A fiercer glow was now in Claudio’s eye;
’Twas anger that his mother should have blame, As if she curbed his freedom with a lie, And thus he spoke: “ It were a hitter shame For me to hear my mother’s faultless name Thus charged with vile deceit and false pretence Prepare to take the meed of shameless insolence.”
xn.
Then spoke the tempter: “ On my soul I swear. Such thought ne’er lived an instant in my mind,— Yon’re hasty, Claudio, so I must forbear And make my meaning plainer, more defined: I would but say, your mother, o’er inclined. By love for you, to heed the least alarm.
Is over-fearful lest her son should come to harm.
xm.
“ She is convinced that danger lurks among The genial throng—this is a groundless fear, And still it holds you in its fetters strong— Bnt please yourself—'twere sin in me to tear The birdling from its nest; yet when you dare To risk your tender pinions in the light
Of full-fledged freedom, I shall hail you with delight.
XIV.
He turned togo. An anxious shade came o’er The brow of Claudio, and a fierce debate Seemed raging in his breast with feverish power ; Should he, less generous than his youthfill mate, Let Julio go suspecting untamed hate ?
To one of Claudio’s spirit this were sin,
And thus he sought to quell the storm that raged within:
xv.
“ Hold, Julio, ’twere ungracious thus to part In anger with a friend who speaks so fair;	,
Though nature's charms now satisfy my heart An hour to friendshp I may surely spare,	.
To show you that, consistent with that care My mother exercises, I am free
To join your social cheer, though void of charm for an.
I
s
SO.TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
XVI.
“ Fil go to-night—for once I’ll test your cheer;
I’ll smile as bright, I’ll be as blithe and gay
As you can wish.” Then thought that youth sincere: “ Why should I fear? To night succeeds the day.
Should lurking ill its presence dark betray, I can thenceforth these social joys forego.”
Then spoke he to his friend: “ Tis all agreed—I’ll go!"
XVII.
“ Well, Claudio,” now the wily youth replied, “ I hail this proof of manhood’s rightful sway;
As well might man in dungeon dark abide
As veil his eyes from Pleasure’s joyous ray;
But, till the eve, adieu ; I must away. For duty calls me.” So he turned—was gone
With hasty step, as fearful of a dark deed done.
xvnr.
And as he walked, or rather fled away,
His vile intent escaped in whispered sound:
•• We’ll see how long this Mentor still can play
The cunning saint when Pleasure’s cup goes round, And uncurbed gayety and mirth abound.”
This told the tale—a tale with sorrow rife— I found myself repeating: “Such, ah 1 such is life 1”
[concluded in next number.]
- Bugism.
Br Alphabet Jones, M. D. F. R. S. A. X. Y. Z., author of the “Sentimental Fly,” the “Rejected Mouse,” the “ Hidden Tail,” &c., &c., &c.,
CHAPTER THE FIRST.
SUMMARY.
In hoc capite, quod in ordine rerum primum vocatum est ab auctore, pnetcr alia multa, de variis aliis rebus atque etiam de genere generaiiter, iterumque in loeis ipsarum propriis de specie specialiter bugarum omnium tractatur. Jamque, tandem aliquando, ut ad punctum, sine mora, veniamus, dicendum est nobis quod nee in genere, nee in specie bugas amamus, unde dicimus ergo si quis eausam odii nostri discat, ab illo paginal sequen-tes legantur. His rebus explieatis, sequens scriptum est Anglice.
This question, viewed under any of its numerous aspects, is interesting. The bed-bug, for instance, is a sarcastic sort of a cuss. Of all the family of bugs, it is the most indelicate in the senses of feeling and odor. It is sure to ply its trade in the darkness, and blast a man’s peace of mind and body when most he needs repose. Its approach is noiseless, and always under cover; but its bloody attacks are none the less effective because of its stealthy tactics. You never hear it, but you are always sure to feel it. It is a thief in the night, and the more you cover yourself against its attacks, the more you will be impeded when the fight comes off You are sure you have to run anyhow, and I think he will make the best run, who has the least baggage to carry in a bug run, a Bull Run, or any other run. As a rule, the peculiar haunts of the class of bugs I speak of, are beds. Hence their name, bed-bugs. There are exceptions to this general law, however, in their sanguinary peri-grinations, for they occasionally have the audacity to appear in broad daylight, in public on the stage, and even in church pews. I have seen one of the female persuasion, attempting to claim a share of the honor pertaining to the judicial ermine,—this is said figuratively,—of a Justice of the Peace. Her aspirations, I suppose, are traceable to some great speech which she heard on female suffrage.
A short time ago, I was listening with pleasure and edification to the oration of an ancient lady,— not a bug lady,—on the wrongs of Womity,—I will explain this term hereafter,—and the wickedness of the sons of Adam, when my attention was drawn to my neighbor in the next chair. My attention •was attracted in this way: I had my mouth just opened to say “ good for you,” to the speakeress who had made a strong point against masculine cruelties, but as the words of approbation got to the inner sides of my lips, they were arrested there,
and would not go out,—not if I’d burst my checks tiying to force them into hearing space. At the same time, a singular noise fell upon my ears. I was unable to account for these phenomena. I began to think it was my neighbor’s voice burlesquing my own, so I gave him a scowl, and made another bursting effort to get the words of applause up as far as the stage. This time was another failure. At this point I became convinced that it must be the doings of my neighbor, so I turned to him with an air of injured dignity, and said: “-----Dickens the word would come out if I’d blow at them since; they quaked, rattled, rumbled, and trembled through my mouth from one side to the other, and tried to get back into where they came from, or down my throat, or into my nose, or any place, but out they would not come. In the mean time the object of my suspicion, and of my unutterable wrath was—fast asleep. As I gazed intently upon his face, to see if he was only playing possum, the singular sounds fell once more upon my ears, and, almost simultaneously, my eye was attracted by the excited motions of a huge, brown, venomous, pugnacious, uproarious animal sitting with all possible dignity on the bosom of my neighbor’s shirt, and cheering and clapping eight or ten of its ugly legs together at the same time. This animal was a bug of the male gender, and a most enthusiastic advocate of “ woman’s rights,” of which advocacy it was in no ways ashamed. It was its appearance, I am sure, that scared the words from coming out of my mouth, while its cheering and applauses so annoyed and bewildered myself. I looked at the fellow, and tried to frown him down, but it was to no purpose. He sat down on my friend’s shirt, on his two hind legs; crossed his two fore ones, the way people cross their arms; threw one of the middle legs across another after the manner of men resting one leg over the other, and gave me a sarcastic look. I couldn’t stand it any longer, so says I: “Aint you ashamed to be making a show of yourself, in this wTay, in a respectable assemblage?” I have seen bugs before, under unfavorable circumstances, but never did I look upon such an angry’, indignant bug, as that “ woman’s rights ” bug was. It was his turn now to be speechless, and as, from anger, he couldn’t speak, he just expressed his contempt by spreading out the toes of one of his unoccupied feet, and, putting the fore one to his nose in the most approved fan-tailed fashion, said as plainly as signs could say it: “Do you see anything green in my eye?” I took the first opportunity to get another seat. I hhve been informed that my somniferous neighbor had to send for a physician on the following morning. I am not surprised, if he spent the night in the society of that bug.
I conclude this thesis, by an explanation of the term “ womity ” which I used in the beginning. It means that portion of the human race, between man and woman. The creatures who claim to belong to that order are made up of those who will not be women, and who cannot be men. As, therefore, they will not be the one, and cannot be the other, it is plain that all that remains of them is simply’ “ wo.” To this I have added the ordinary termination “ity,” and put in the letter m for the sake of euphony, and hence “Womity." In the course of time, I propose to elaborate this hypothesis into a system on the origin of the race, and expect to be able to show that Womity’ is the cause of itself. It is a clear maxim in science that a consecutive series of concatenated generations predicated upon a hypothecated infinity of mental conceptions can never be called collateral entities when the radical idea exoriating itself from a pyramidal basis finds its origin in the geological strata of cellular arcana and then, by the hypercatalectic laws of atomic friction, the condensed complexity of the negative and positive elementals becomes 'unificated into a simplex singularity and finally branches out into a mathematical infinitesimality
of acataletic parallel ramifications. “ How high is dat?” I would advise peace-loving citizens to avoid anything like intimacy with bugs. Shun their society as you would the embraces of a New Jersey mosquito, and let it be your independent boast that you never g >t a nocturnal bite from one of this pestiferous Blanket Brigade, and that unbitten, unbled, unstung, yon have calmly slept the night away’ to the melodious music of your own gentle and fascinating snores. Then, and not till then, shall the poet be able to place this epitaph on your heroic monument:
“ Farewell, my friends, I’m lying low No bus can claim iny overthrow. Take my advice, and kill them all, By stuffing up your buggy wall.”
Tho Gildci Bara.
A Pnaatasy.
by nowrs tiiatpher hye.
CHAPTER THE FIRST.
“ Dolph, go to the barn and see if you can’t find a few eggs. Mrs. Suckerson is coming to tea.”
Adolphus was sitting on the door-step eating a doughnut, and the setting sun illuminated the curls of his golden hair.
He w:ts a youth of a meditative turn of mind, and he arose slowly’, though not reluctantly, to obey his mother's behest. He first bolted the 'remainder of the doughnut, and then closed his jackknife, which he deposited in his breeches pocket.
He then entered the barn.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Suckerson arrived in a new bonnet, and the mother of Adolphus had scarcely time to remove the vestiges of the kitchen from' her countenance, and receive the distinguished visitor with the attention which the occasion demanded.
“How do you do, Mrs. Suckerson?” said the smiling exterior. “ Drat that boy, why’ don’t he come with the eggs?” said the agitated bosom within.
That evening was an epoch in the life of Adolphus.
While his mother, siting upon figurative pins and needles, was endeavoring to entertain Mrs. Suckerson with urbanity and decorum, until such time as the arrival of the desired eggs should enable her to complete her evening repast, Adolphus was undergoing a series of experiences which were destined to change the whole current of his earthly career.
In the first place, on entering the bam, he found that the brown filly had broken loose. Forgetting in his haste to fasten the stable door first, he attempted to catch her; but after much chasseeing and balancing to partners (to use a figure derived from calisthenics), she finally eluded his efforts aud escaped by the door.
He rushed after her into the pasture.
Now, through the midst of the pasture there flowed a “ branch,” where they used to water the horses, and where the other stock, that were running loose, used to water themselves. Along the banks of this “ branch ” were trees, and in some places a broad and thick undergrowth of brush.
The brown filly, which had been in the bam all day, aud wanted exercise, careered madly down to the “ branch,” making for the thickest of the brush.
Adolphus followed her.
“The shades of night were falling fast.”
When he got through the brush and out the other side, he perceived that the brown filly was standing still. In fact, a man was holding her.
He was about to thank the man for catching his horse, when he perceived that it w’as Jake Dred-full, the notorious horse-thief.
He had only seen Jake once before, and that was

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
when this hold, had man was in the hands of the enraged populace, who were about to hang him. By a sudden and unexpected turn of events, however, Jake had escaped from the enraged populace.
Recognizing Jake, therefore, Adolphus shouted: “ Hello I you t liar! What ye doin’ with my mar ?"
“Shet up, you little cub,” answered Jake, and having already secured the brown filly to a tree, he went for Adolphus, whom, having gagged and bound, he tied securely on the back of the brown fill}’, and then, mounting his own horse, which was near at hand, he led away his prey.
The shades of night had fallen.
Mrs. Suckerson had partaken of an eggless tea.
The mother of Adolphus couldn’t imagine what had become of him. After impatience had merged into maternal anxiety, and had become unbearable, she communicated her fears to her guest, who was graciously pleased to assist in an exploration of the barn.
“Darkness there, and nothing more."
The neighbors weie aroused to search for the missing youth, but the search was in vain.
[to be continued.]
Flowers.
Flowers delight us; their beauty draws to them our admiring sight; their fragrance holds us in its-sweet, invisible vapor; their associations of noble and tender ideas, twine round them the feelings and passions of our heart and soul; everything leads us to pluck the blossoms and lay them on our bosoms. Beauty of flowers consists in their form and color. In the former their variety is as great as in their names: some starlike, shooting forth white or golden rays from a centre, as the daisy and aster; others hang down little bells or trumpets whose pouting mouths breathe forth, instead of sweet sound, as sweet fragrance; such are the lilies, blue-bells, canterbury bells, trumpet creeper, etc. Many again hold up tiny cups for the heavenly dew-diamonds—as the buttercup and daffodil; lastly, there are the ladies’ slipper, the ladies’ tresses, ladies’ car-drops, bachelors’ button, coxcomb, etc., whose names tell their shapes. Many trees also deck their spring robe with tassels of blossoms as the willow, black alder, chesnut, etc. Size, too, varies greatly, from the wee blossoms of the grape to that magnificent lily of the Amazon, the Victoria Regia. Sameness is indeed disliked by natrue, as we find also int he color of the flowers. Often a single variety bears on its petals three or fourcolors; intermingled in stripes, asin the tulip, or scattered in spots, as in the tiger and orange-lilies. Generally, however, they shade imperceptibly into each other. A nice odor is liked by all for it carries with it a notion of cleanliness and purity in the object pioducing it. This is why man so delights to perfume his body and garments and, consequently, why he so loves the flowers. Here, too, is there a countless variety, from the delicate scent of the orchard to the overpowering perfume of the lilac, which, like strong wine, needs a dilution—that of the intermitting evening zephyrs.
Another flowers’ charm is the association of ideas which hangs around them like their own peculiar fragrance. By its magic it calls forth sweet recollections; by it the lover forms from the beauties of the flowers the image of his mistress; in the lily he sees her grace and purity; the rose bends under her beauty; the violets attract like her eyes and the half-opened bud, hiding the dew-pcarls, like her mouth. The wanderer from home remembers, when he sees the blossoms, a mother who used to love him; a sister who used to pet him; a brother who accompanied him over his native plains and marshes to pluck a plunder of these treasures; he remembers the scenes where they grew; the mill-pond where the lilies, Venus-like, sprang out of the waves; the hill-side where
A Hival of Greeley.
Mr. C. W. Fay, of the Trenton Sentinel, is after Greeley’s agricultural laurels. Here is a sample of what he knows about it: The proper time to pull hemp is any Friday that a good judge may select. Castor oil beans succeed best in the bowels of the earth. They will soon work their way out. The best preparation for hops is a toad or two in each hill. They will make the vines fairly jump. The usual time to put in rye is early in the morning. Some husbandmen, especially those in the city, continue to run it in at intervals of half an hour until bedtime. The practice is only allowable in case of a dry season. In reaping wheat never take it by the beard. It is found to go against the grain. Buckwheat is not healthy food. It is apt to cake upon the stomach. Corn in the ear is apt to affect the hearing. If eaten green it will make the voice husky. When dealt out in army rations the kernel should be served first and then the men privately. Never plant your potatoes early. It is the early potato that gets the worm. It is up-hill work with them after that. To be certain of the right kind of squashes, compare them with your head. In adopting this rule I first mistook pumpkins for squashes, but by a continued, careful comparison, I soon learned to detect the difference. But for some new beginners it requires great caution. In making cider out of apples I found it a pretty tight squeeze, notwithstanding my long connection with the press. Never drink cider made from crab apples. It is pretty certain to “go back on you.” If you would lay in a supply of old wine be sure to make it of elder berries.
crowded the purple heather and the yellow gorse, a truly imperial mantle; the pastures and meadow with their red and white topknots of clover, or the timid sweet-briar hiding its fragrance amid the coarse grass. Often, too, are the flowers emblems of a loved country; the rose of imperial England; the thistle of hornet, rough, stinging Scotland; the lily once of graceful, pious France.
Incidental circumstances will also add charms to flowers. Early in the morning the dew-diamonds weigh them down, either gleaming on their calyx, or hanging like tears on the cheek of some young bud; or when the jialous sunrays have carried away those, one may see butteflies in sable and gold, in azure or brown, flitting around like stray leaves of a tropical garden, or balancing themselves on the scarcely bending petals. Or he can see the avaricious bee filling her yellow bags, and then emerging from her sweet toil, dusty as a miller.
Dan.
-------< »---------
Eatient Labor.
“ There is no worship dearer unto God Than patient labor.” Toiling thousands lift Their eyes to heaven and offer thanks to Him As if for a new revelation, given In these our latter days, when eloquent lips Preach the old truth, old as the Gospel words That tell us of the thirty silent years That Jesus toiled ere He began to teaeh.
His thirty years of worship! Until then, For forty centuries, mankind had groaned Beneath the penitential primal curse; But then—ennobled by the daily toil Of Jesus—penance was to worship turned, And the whole earth became a cathedral, Wherein each hour men may, if so they will, Offer to God grand worship, with their souls Lifting to Him the labor of their hands;
And clank of hammers and the hum of looms Sound like melodious anthems in His ears, And smoke of forges is as incense sweet.
Alas ! for the blind hearts that know not how To make their labor worship; still, for them Only the ancient curse can rest on toil, And they must live in sorrow to the end I
R. V. R.
What a Ventriloquist Did.
Signor Blitz tells the following: I once made a visit to Faneuil Hall market, Boston, which at the time surpassed all others in the country, not so much for the luxuries it supplied, as for its cleanliness, conveniences, regulations, and general respectability. .
After a pleasant ramble around, well pleased with what I had seen, I arrived at the outside of the building where it was customary forthe country-people to display and dispose of their produce. Seeing a barrel of apples, I inquired the price.
“ Only fifty cents,” said the owner.
“Are they as good as they appear?” said I, taking one in my hand.
“Yes, sir, they are picked fruit”
“I do not believe a word of that!” seemingly spoke a man, in a gruff voice, who had just stopped with a basket of eggs.
‘^Neither do I!” seemingly said a tall, thin-looking woman, in a squeaking tone, as she walked up to the apples, a basket on each arm,—one containing a calfs head, and the other a variety of vegetables.
“I do not care what you believe, sir, or what you think, madam,” answered the apple vender, looking angrily at the parties.
At the close of the latter sentence, the loud cry of a child proceeded from the barrel, which produced no little amazement, all parties starting back with affright and surprise.
, The woman declared that any man who concealed a child in a barrel of apples was a brute.
“That is my opinion,” said the egg man.
Here the apple dealer protested against these in sinuations; but unfortunately, at this moment a cry of “ Help! help I take me out! I shall smother!’ ’ came from the barrel.
“ He is a villain!” squeaked the woman, appealing to the crowd that had in the meantime collected.
“Turn out the apples!” said one.
“Upset the barrel!” cried another.
“ Send for the police!” suggested a third.
“On my honor, there is no child among the fruit!” exclaimed the countryman, evidently alarmed at the appearance things were assuming -but he had scarcely spoken these words when the child was heard sobbing aloud.
“It will die!” exclaimed several voices.
At the same moment the barrel was upset, the apples rolling in all directions, and, of course, no child found, much to the comfort and joy of the owner, and disappointment of the lookers-on.
“Well, that is odd!” observed the woman; “we all heard the child.”
Here the calfs head in her basket commenced blating, which she immediately dropped with alarm, when the apple man, who had been relieved from his difficulties, retorted on his female accuser, by calling her Beelzebub’s wife.
“ I am no such person!”
“You must be,” said the egg man, as he stooped to take the head, which again Mated, when he quickly withdrew his hand, to the amusement of all.
“She is a witch, and should be arrested!” he ex claimed, when he was again interrupted by the chuckling of chickens among his eggs.
“Halloo! what is here?” cried he. “More witch’s work?”
“ A fine fellow you to talk of witches,” chuckled the woman.
“Cluck, cluck, cluck,” went the chickens; the calfs head blating, and the child crying; when, amidst this confusion, the police appeared, and demanded the cause of the disturbance; but immediately preceiving and recognizing me, laughed uproariously, and pointing at me shouted:
“ Halloo, Signor Blitz! Up to your tricks, eh ?”
At the announcement of my name the people gave three cheers, and separated.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre ^ame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED AT
NOTRE pAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
TERMS: One year....................................$1 00
Copies of the publication can he obtained at the Students* Office.
Laying of the Comer-stone of the Hew Church*
The 31st of May has been determined upon for the laying of the corner-stone of the new church. Most. Rev. Archbishop Purcell has written that he will honor us with his presence, and a number of Right Rev. Bishops and of the Clergy will be present. The parents of students, and our friends generally, are invited to attend; and we take this means of informing them that they should not wait for a special invitation. They may be assured of a hearty welcome at the College, not only on the 31st of May, but also on the occasion of the “ Commencement Exercises,1’ in June.
W. Corby, President.
Letter From Archbishop Purcell.
Very Rev. Father Provincial has just intimated to us that the Most Rev. Archbishop of Cincinnati has written him in reference to the laying of the . corner-stone of the church at Notre Dame. The Most Rev. Archbishop in his letter says: “ Though work has crowded on me so as to make it almost impossible for me to leave, yet I shall, God willing, be with you the 31st of May for the interesting ceremony, and shall so publish in the Tdegraph, and invite bishops and priests to be present.”
Imprisonment of Lev. Father Cham-peau, by the Reis of Faris.
From the New York Herald we take the following telegram, dated April 2Gth, which confirms the sad forbdoings that have filled the hearts of the friends of Rev. Father Champeau, the President of the College of St Croix, Neuilly:
“ The houses of Neuilly are tom open by shells, railings and lamp-posts are ripped up and trees cut down. Many dead horses were seen at the barricades, where, in spite of the armistice, the insurgent Nationals are working. The devastation is horrible. At the point of junction of the Avenue de Roule and Rue Orleans nothing with life was to be seen; and it was evident that nothing with life could have existed in this locality under such a storm of iron hail as was poured into it
“I visited St Croix, and found the institution all in ruins at the top. I found a young man there appearing very much emaciated. He has lived in the cellars for three weeks. Last week the National Guards came and demanded the plate and money. The next day the priests removed to the English convent, next door. On Friday last the Communists returned and went to the English convent, where they made a demand for the priests. The Concierge attempted to save them; but he was seized and bound and the priests were discovered and taken to the Mazas prison. The Nationals attempted to set the convent on fire to-day.”
W. Quan, Esq., of Chicago, DL, and P. Tuberty, Esq., of Lafayette, have kindly donated two gold medals of $50.00 to the most worthy students of the Junior Deparment.
The Month'of May.
In our latitude it seems, to require a more than usual amount of poetic fancy to go into raptures over the Budding Spring. April showers, as a rule, have rather too much ice in them, and the verdure of May is invisiblegreen to the sharpest-eyed naturalist, though he may truthfully say that it is “ all in his eye.” The chilly twitter of a few small birds gives about as lively a representation of the warblings of the feathery songsters as a cracked fiddle and a pair of bones offer of a full orchestra; and when from the profusion of flowers that rhymesters raise in their Poems on Spring we turn to the poor, timid flowerets shuddering under the dead leaves of winter, and seeming conscious that they have got up too soon, we are forced to allow that the rhymesters have more poetry than truth in their lines, though it is universally admitted that they have vety little of the former.
This year, however, we are happy to record the first of May did its best to come up to all that has been said about it, and realize in our region what it is in those w’here Winter does not hold on so long. The sun was bright, the sky blue, and all the etceteras were furnished in abundance. To celebrate such a phenomenal first day of May, there was an extra rec., as we heard a younster abbreviate the exercises of an extraordinary holiday. All enjoyed themselves, if we may judge from the blitheful air of a party of stalwart students bent on their way to the boat-house, and who did us the honor of inviting us to ride on the lake; and from the cheerful look of a party of surveyors, whom we saw starting from the front of the College; on their return to the College they might, with more truth than Mr. Crusoe, asseverate that they were masters of all they surveyed, though not one of them owned a foot of land within a hundred miles around. Some, we hear, made a day of toil of it, by engaging in a game of base-ball; others took to the water’s edge and endeavored to get up a correspondence with the fish by dropping them a line, and others went upon the still more delusive task of finding blooming specimens for herbariums on the promontory opposite the farm-house. The day was well spent,—of this we are assured not only by observations made, but by taking our stand on, and drawing our conclusion from, the saying that “ all’s well that ends well; ” for, having passed the day as they pleased, and having partaken of supper, the students completed the day by attending the regular exercises which are held during the month of May, not only in every College but in every parish and family throughout Christendom.
We are happy to find that we shall hear eloquent and instructive words during the exercises from Rev. Fathers Provincial and Superior, as also from the three Rev. Fathers Lauth, and the Rev. Fathers Lemdnnier, Brown and Quinn. We would be still more pleased, if we could flatter ourselves with the hope of hearing Rev. Father Spillard; but, we presume, he will be too busily engaged with his numerous flock in South Bend, to .find time to come out and evangelize us. We doubt not that the members of St Gregory Society will more than come up to their motto,—that they will not onlysing to the Lord the Canticum novum, but that, through charity for us, they will sing during this month several Cantica nova, and not fall back entirely on the well-thumbed repertoire of past years.
Not one word has reached Notre Dame for two months from our once excellent College of Notre Dame de Ste. Croix, at Neuilly, near Paris. Rev. Father Champeau, its well known. President, and several other priests and brothers, were there during the Prussian investment, and escaped unharmed ; but since the Reds have raised their irreligious standard, but few priests have been heard of; moreover, the College stands between the fire of both the insurgents and the loyal troops.
Church Dedications.
In the latter part of the month of May tlie cornerstone. of the new church at Notre Dame, to be dedicated to the honor of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, will be laid with all the imposing ceremonies of the Catholic Church. At this great ceremony the presence of many of the most distinguished Prelates in the United States is expected. In connection with this statement we venture to make a few remarks concerning the ceremonies then to take place. To do so properly, it will be well for us to speak of the usage of the Church from the earliest period, and of the respect which she enjoins ou all for the temples of God in which dwells, in the Sacrament of the Altar, our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.
The first writer who speaks of the ceremonies of the Church which relate to her temples, is Eusebius, the historian, who says that it is a beautiful and consoling spectacle to see the solemn dedication of Christian churches and oratories which spring up from the earth as if by enchantment. And this sight, he continues, is so much the more imposing and august that it is everywhere graced by the presence of all the bishops of a province.
But although we cannot give anything positive as to the dedication of churches during the first three centuries of the Christian era, yet it is fair to presume that the early Christians celebrated the divine mysteries in buildings blessed and dedicated by prayers and sacred rite to God. The learned Cardinal Bona, a great authority on all questions of this kind, is of the opinion that this dedication of edifices to God has come down to us from the times of the apostles themselves. However, certain authors attribute this sacred institution to St. Evaristus who was chosen Pope of Rome in the year of our Lord, 96. It is certain that, during the first three centuries until the reign of Constantine, no great pomp and display -were given to this ceremony; and indeed it seems impossible that they could be given; for, during those ages, the Church was afflicted with persecutions, and the faithful were necessitated to attend to their religious duties, as it ivere, by stealth. It seems improbable that in such a matter as the dedication of houses of worship the Church should not adopt the custom of the Jews. If the temple of Jerusalem, which was nothing more than the figure, was worthy of solemn consecration, how much more worthy would not the temples of the Living God be worthy of the same after all the figures of the old law were fulfilled? We have, besides, the word of Eusebius, that the councils of Jerusalem and of Antioch were held on the occasion of the consecration of the churches in those cities by Constantine. And the basilica of Tyre, which was erected on the ruins of a former basilica, was consecrated in 315, on which occasion Eusebius of Cesarea preached the consecration homily to an innumerable number of the faithful. The basilica of St. John Lateran was erected two years before that of Tyre, but was not consecrated until afterwards.
We have the inscription, also, whicli shows that Pope Damasus, chosen A D., 366, dedicated a church in the Holy City; the inscription is in these words: “ Tilulus in Christi nomine. Ego Damatos urbis Romas episcopus hanc domum cansecravi."
It is not known, precisely, what the form of the rite of consecration, in the early ages, was, as it has not been handed down to us as the canon of the Mass has been, but we know that it was a religions act accompanied with many rites. St. Gregory, of Tours, speaking of the consecration of an oratoiy of St. Euphronius, says: “ Having taken the holy relics we carry them into the oratory with. the cross and a great number of lighted wax tapers, accompanied by a great number of priests, deacons, &C. in albs, of the most distinguished persons of the city, and a crowd of people who follow us.”
L
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
That is what we do now in our own times when performing a like ceremony.
From what we have said it can be seen that the Church has from a very early period, if not from the times of St. Peter, dedicated her places of worship to God by prayer and by display of pomp and sacred rites. We could give further proofs, but the above we think sufficient At what time the custom of blessing the corner-stone of the church began we cannot tell with any degree of certainty. But it began by the desire of all the faithful followers of our Holy Mother Church to have the very beginning of all their laudable works blessed by the ministers of that Church. As it was the custom of all Christians to have all their goods blessed, it is not to be wondered at that they should cause the building, destined to be the tabernacle of God, to receive from the very first the blessing of God himself. And Holy Church, ever forward in all good works, has now her formal and beautiful rite for the blessing of the corner-stone of all new churches—which holy rite we will see carried out in a few weeks with all its beauty, magnificence and grandeur.
It is customary to place under the corner-stone, after it has been blessed, specimens of money in current use, medals, an account of the church, together with the name of the Pope, the President, Governor, &c., &c. Part of the ceremony of the Catholic Church has been taken and adopted by seculars when laying the corner-stones of public buildings, but, alas, they leave out the most important part of it—the blessing.
Right Rev. Bishop Luers was at Notre Dame last Thursday.
The Bulletins will be sent home during the course of next week.
Ttte 31st is approaching, and preparations are being made to give the day a proper importance. More anon.
Prof. C. A. B. Vox Weller is engaged in painting new sceneries for the exhibition of the 31st of May.
Judge McKinnon, of Chicago, was lately at Notre Dame, and left to the Juniors a valuable token of his esteem, for which the Judge has their heartfelt thanks.
P. Dechant, of the class of’63, is now Attorney at Law in Dayton, Ohio. Mr. Dechant is remarkably well gifted in mental talents, and will do honor to himself and his Alma Mater.
Rev. Father J. Freke, S.S.C., of St Vincent, near Fort Wayne, passed a few days with us this week, and reports the Academy of Notre Dame du Sacre Ceeur prospering steadily under the kind government of the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
We have read, in the New York Tablet, an account of a visit to the college of St. Laurent, 0. E., and we feel glad to know that our Fathers are well, and their College flourishing. Father Golovin, S.S.C., is now its worthy President.
Visitors to the College have been very numerous, lately, so much so, that Bro. Peter,- who is always most accommodating, had his wits puzzled to attend all comers. One of the largest visiting parties, was composed of Rev. gentlemen of the Dutch Reform.
John J. Carlin, of Chicago, HL, who graduated here in 186G and afterwards went to Europe to complete his medical course in the University of Dublin, was chosen first assistant surgeon in the Irish Ambulance corps during the late war in France. He has received the highest praise from his chiefs for his excellent service throughout the campaign.
The ball-alleys are in- need of some important repairs. A petition to that effect was presented some time ago by the Senior students, and the steward was informed of its object We hope that the amateurs of hand-ball will soon enjoy their game to their heart’s content
The choir has been placed under the direction of Bro. Placidus, whose active, stirring energy is the necessary requisite of success. We cannot give too much credit to Rev. Father Quinn for his zeal in connection with the welfare of the choir, whose fine appearance in the sanctuary is mainly due to his unremitting zeal.
Prof. Corby’s vocal class is making excellent progress in learning the Cantata and choruses, which they will sing on the 31st. Some of the singers show a remarkable proficiency. The play “ Fidelity,” or “ the White Knight,” is now being rehearsed by the St. Cecilia Philomatheans. We need not say that the play has many claims; however, its success will in a great measure depend on the music with which it is interspersed.
Arrivals of students have been of frequent occurrence lately. Some are coming from the sunny regions of the South, others from the cold prairies of the North; some from the East, and others from the West, especially from the great metropolis. Chicago certainly deserves an honorable mention for persevering in sending us new recruits every week and oftener. It Is not flattery to say that the Chicagoans are a credit to their city.
Mr. A. Arrington, A. B., of the class of’70, for some time assistant teacher in the college and member of the Law class, has been called to Washington, where a lucrative and enviable position lias been offered him in the Auditor’s office. As much as we regret the departure of an esteemed friend, we cannot hesitate a moment to part with him when a brilliant future seems to await him. We wish Alfred Arrington God speed and success. His great talents will soon make him better known.
We take from the Keokuk Daily Constitution the following item of news concerning one of our old students who is well remembered by his college friends:	'
Assistant District Attorney.—We learn that District Attorney Sprague has recently appointed Mr. John Gibbons, Esq., of this city, assistant district attorney for this county. Mr. Gibbons is a very promising young lawyer, and will, no doubt, discharge the duties of prosecuting attorney with credit to himself and satisfaction to the public.
The lakes seem to allure the lovers of fishing as much as ever. The fishing brigade which may be seen starting from the neighborhood of Bro. Thomas’ store on a quiet Wednesday morning or afternoon, presents an imposing appearance, and bodes no good to the salmon and trout which lurk in the deep recesses of St. Mary’s lake. The sturgeons have made strong protests against such unwonted attacks, and will no doubt resent the outrage committed against rights enjoyed for twenty years and over, viz., of eating up all the fish they need for their honorable sustenance.
The Orchestra seldom gives us a treat in the parlor or elsewhere. However we know that this interesting musical organization is always in readiness, and that really classic music will delight our ears at the approaching exhibition.
The Band is likewise too modest, and does not come forward as often as we think it ought. It is true the horrid weather that has generally prevailed these two weeks and more, would discourage the best intentioned, and music is very sensitive ; it prefers a fine sunny day to the dull and cheerless days with which the unpropitious heavens seem determined to favor us.
The work on Qte new church is progressing vigorously, under Bro. Alfred’s superintendence. Excellent workmen have been procured to put up the brick work; and the stone-cutters, the result of whose work may already be seen around the church, are men of superior ability in their trade. Everyone seems to take a lively interest in the work going on, and more than all others, the workmen themselves, who will soon pride themselves on having near their home a beautiful temple erected to the glory of God. Contributions to the church continue to arrive; now is the time to give, because it is the time of need. Let then all our friends give a cheerful and generous assistance.
Competitions hpve been given out in some of the classes. Each class should vie to present the best specimens of its ability, and to surpass anything of the kind done during the preceding years. Under the direction of the Professor each composition will, or at least ought to, acquire the degree of perfection obtainable from the student, and become a motive to witness in future years the good training and progress of the class from’ which it was produced. The competitions will be bound in solid quarto volumes and will, during Examination and Exhibition days, be left in the parlors, for the inspection of parents and visitors.
These competitions do not demand any of the would-be ornamental works by which some were disfigured formerly; they ought to be neatly and simply written, according to the rules laid down by the Professor of the class.
Boating continues to flourish'. The boats are out every day, and the invigorating sport becomes more and more attractive and popular. St Joseph lake has been very rough during the past few weeks, and a row was never had except under trying difficulties. Now that the April showers ought to be fairly over, and the blowing and blustering of Boreas, Eolus and other high-spirited, disagreeable visitors seem to yield to the gentle influence of the May sunshine, the pleasures of the watery element will be enjoyed undisturbed. The Boating Club is in a- prosperous condition, both as to members and to finance. New sets of oars,, of the best material, are soon to be purchased, ' to replace the common-fashion oars now in use. Much credit is due to the secretaiy, Mr. R. Finley, and the treasurer, Mr. G. Luddington, for strict attention to the duties of their office. To such members, and others likewise interested in the welfare of the club, its prosperous condition may be credited.
Arrivals.
Frank P. Hamilton, T. Stubbs, J. Stubbs, C. F. Rehm, W. P. Fogle, H. T. Eames, W. H. Kinzie, M. M. Baily, F. Carlin, C. Barsher, Louis Munn, Frank Sweger,
Flint, Mich.
Galveston, Texas, cc	<c
Chicago, HL Lebanon, Ky. Red Wing, Minn. Chicago, HL Adrian, Mich. Findlay, Ohio. Castelia, Ohio.
Ft Wadsworth, Dakota T. Chicago,HL
Tables of Sonar.
senior department.
April 21.—R. Finley, W. Crenshaw, Thomas O’Mahoney, T. Ireland, H. Schulte, J. McGlynn, C. Adams, M. Carney, J. C. Heine, J. Rourke.
April 28.—J. D. McCormack, J. E. Shannahan, F. B. Shephard, J. E. Hogan, Thomas Grier, N. P. Wooster, M. Carr, J. H. Keenan, P. Federspiel, T. E. Dechant.	____
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
April 21.—H. Kinkead, H. Taylor, T. Egan, S.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dum, C. Vinson, 3L Moriarty, K Gault, F. Arentz, E. Howland, M Winegar, J. Heintz.	_
April 28.—H. H. Hunt, E. Shea, V. Hackmann, S. Hopkins, L. McOsker, W. Meyers, M. McCormack, G. Greene, J. Goesse, G. Hug, B. Boberts.
M. A J. B., Sec.
MINIM DEPARTMENT
April 23.—A Morton, C. Faxon, H. Faxon, E. Forester, H. O’Brien, T. Nelson.
Honorable Mention..
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy—J. Zahm, R. McCarthy, T. Johnson.
Ancient Literature—J. Zahm, T. Johnson, B. McCarthy, M. Mahony, J. McHugh.
Second Greek—M. Keely, T. Ireland, E. Gambee.
Fourth Greek—D. Hogan, D. Egan, B. Staley.
Second Latin—J. Keeley, T. Ireland, J. Shanna-han, J. McHugh, E. Gambee, IL Carr. .
Third Latin—J. Gearin, M. Carr, J. Heine, M. Keeley, D. Egan, J. McGlynn.
Fourth Latin—C. Hutchings B. Staley.
Fifth Latin—T. O’Mahony, N. Mitchell.
Physics—J. Gearin, J. Zahm.
Botany—J. Gearin, N. Mitchell, J. McCormack, A Howe, J. Wilson.
Mineralogy—J. Gearin.
Zoology—T. Ireland, E. Gambee, J. Wilson, M. Mahony, N. Mitchell.
Geology—J, McCormack, A Howe, J. Wilson, B. McCarty.
Physiology—M. Mahony, E. McCarty, J. Wilson, B. Curran.
Astronomy—J. Zahm, J. Gearin.
English Literature—T. O’Mahony, J. Heine, M. Carr, M. Keeley, J. Fox, D. Egan, E. Gambee.
Surveying—J. Fox, F, Shephard, J. Wilson, J. McCarthy, N. Mitchell.
Trigonometry—F. Shephard, J. Wilson, T. Ireland, M. Keeley, J. McCarthy.
, First Geometry—F. B. Shephard, W. Crenshaw, E. Keeiey, J. Wilson, M. Mahony.
Second Geometiy—P. O’Connell, B. Finley, M Grier, J. McHugh, J. McCormack.
Algebra—T. Ireland, T. Grier, C. Swenk. G. Darr, S. Dum, J. McCormick, T. Dundon, P. O’Connell, S. Ashton, B. Curran, A Howe, B.-Finley, W. Dum, T. Kelly, F. Bucher, J. Keenan, J. McGahan.
Bhetoric—J. McHugh, C. Dodge, J. McCormack, D. Hogan, T. Ireland, J. Murphy, T. Grier, B. Crenshaw, C. Hutchings, A Howe, J. McGlynn, 8. Ashton, B. Finley, P. O’Connell, P. Scott, W. Clark.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Greek—T. O’Mahony, J. Heine, J. Shannahan, M. Carr, L. Hayes, F. Chamberlain.
Latin—0. Dodge, D. Brown, W. Clark, J. Chamberlain, L. Dum, L. Hayes. C. Duffy, J. Hogan, E. Bucher, A Howe, N. Wooster, W. Wilstach, W. Dum, L. Murphy, J. Campbell, J. Buhler, V. McKinnon, J. McGinnis, J. Dunn, P. Beilly, P. O’Connell, J. McCormack, J. Finley, J. Carroll, A Higgins, J. Borke, J. Potts, F. Shuey, J. Dickerhoff, J. Shanks, F. Anderson, J. Hoffman, M. McCormack, E. Emmons, C. Butler, E. Lyons, F. Egan, C. Johnson, G. GoodelL
English Grammar—P. Coakly, B. Fahey, E. Watts, C. Swenk, T. Foley, C. Morgan, H. Achoff, W. Dodge, M Moriarty, J. Bumely, B. Lange, C. Ortmayer, B. Boberts, H. Kinkead, L. McOskar, A Dickerhoff D. McGinnis, P. Federspiel, J. Taylor, C. Butler, C. Peterson, E. Shea, F. Trautman, G. Goodell, J. Hogan, A Higgins, Potts, A King, J. Murphy, M. McCormack, J. Keenan, J. Hentz, E. Nugent, W. Atkins, C. Adams, L. Bupert, A. Dechant, F. Shuey, J. Zimmer, J. Finley, J. Cam
bell, 0. Wing, E. Dunn, F. Arantz, J. McGinnis, M. Weldon, H. Kreuger, A Sharai, G. Lyons, G-Wirthlin, E. Sheehan, H. Jones, G. Crummey, T. Casey, C. Sollitt, J. Wuest, J. Ireland, H. Hug, G. Hug, T. Hiebler, B. Templeton, E. Gault, F. Livingston, E. Gribbling, J. Drake.	*
Book-keeping—C. Wheeler, W. G. Smith, J. Dunn, J. McFarlane, G. Darr, W. Atkins, G. Goodell, J. Mumane, L. Bupert, M. Carney, W. Crenshaw, B. Fahey, J. Bourke, T. Murphy, V. Hackmann, L. Hayes, C. Hutchings, B. Lange, B. Boberts, J. Bumely, J. Ward, P. Scott, V. Armstrong, C. Vinson, H. Breckgeg, F. Arants, H. Woltring, Newton, J. Heintz, D. McGinnis, J. Culver, 0. Wing, H Schulte, A. Brown, L. Both, 0. Jevene, J. Wuest, J. Spillard, A King, EL Hulburt, W. Fletcher, E. Nugent, T. Selby, W. H. Smith, J. Taylor, J. Lynch, H. Waldhauser, H. Campbell, H. Bourdon, J. Stinson, A. Hoerber, B. Tarkington, G. Crummey, G. Biopelle, W. Dodge, J. Finley, J. Ireland, J. Staley, L. Hilsendagen, G. Luddington, G. Buger, O. Angle, A. Sharai, F. Trautman, E. Sweeney, B. Vogt, F. Obert, J. Goesse.
Arithmetic—G. Darr, C. Morgan, T. Foley, M. Moriarty, J. McGuire, HL Carney, J. Stinson, C. Wheeler, E. Watts, O. Wing, J. Buehler, L. Hayes, G. Smith, J. Dundon, P. Coakly, W. Atkins, E. Dunne, H. Schulte, T. Kelly, P. Finnegan, E. Nugent, P. Federspiel, C. Hanna, J. Carroll, W. Smith, C. Dodge, V. Hackmann, J. Wuest, H. Ackhoff, C. Butler, 0.^Ortmayer, J. Bumely, F. Beeves, J. Lynch, N. Wooster, J. Potts, F. Shuey, A Dechant, C. Adams, J, Keenan, L. Hibben, C. Lenheart, J. Heibler, J. Ewing, G. Buger, J. Murphy, E. Sheehan, T. Ireland, H. Woltring, C. Vinson, J. Sharai, J. Quill, J. Taylor, F. Whitney, C. Sollit, F. Egan, G. Wirthlin, W. Dodge, T. Casey, H. Hug, G. Hug, G.. Hoffman, J. Pumphrey, F. Joseph, E. Gault, W. Emmonds, HL Healy, F. Smith, S. Marks, F. Livingston, J. Healy, O. Tong, J. Drake, H. Quan, T. Smith, B. Dooley, C. Allen, F. Tolerton, E. Marshall, B. Kelly, E. Grib-ling, H Campbell, J. Petesch, W. Sterling, F. Trautman, M Fitzgerald.
Orthography—B. Fahey, 0. Wing, E. Sweeney, A. King, E. Dunn, O. Shuey, M. Fitzgerald, P. Federspiel, J. Campbell, O. Angle, J. Finley, C. Vinson, S. Bumely, H. Achoff, C. Morgan, J. Ireland, J. Heintz, C. Butler, T. Hughes, L. McOskar, J. Sharai, H. Waltering, D. McGinnis, P. Beilly, L. Both, G. Lyons, E. Sheehan, E. Gault, T. Casey, F. Anderson, G. Wirthlin, W. Ball, A. Dickerhoff, H. Jones, H. Hug, F. Egan, F. McOskar, P. Skelton, P. O’Bryan, J. Fawcett, J. Pumphrey, F. Livingston, C. Campeau, J. Deeban, D. Wiedeman, C. Allen, J. Drake, B. Kelly, J. Hubert, M. Weldon, F. Devoto, F. Sage, G. Buger, F. Tolerton, J. Ewing, 'II. Hunt, J. O’Hara, E. Howland, E. Marshall, J. Quill, W. Gross, J. Cambell, L. Hibben, J. Goodhue, E. Haydell, G. Hoffman, T. Smith, EL Waldhauser, M. Winegar, J. Murphy, T. Ely.
Beading—J. Crummey, J. Goodhue, J. Filson, J. Ewing, A. Dickerhoff, F. Andersou, J. O’Hara, H. Taylor, W. Myers, J. Kinkead, D. McGinnis, L. Hibben, G. Crummey, C. Langendeffer, E. Lyons, E. Shea, H. Gregg, F. McDonald, H. Breck-weg, C. Leonard, S. Egan, HL Cummings, J. Marks, L. Marks, T. O’Brien, F. Devoto, F. Arantz, T. Selby, E. Sheehan, P. Beilly, T. Smith, M Wine-gar, E. Newton, A Sharai, E. Gault, G. Greene, H. Campbell, F. Hamilton, H Eames, T. Kelly, M Fitzgerald, E. McGee, J. Boss, J. Shields, J. Petesch.
Geography and U. S. History—A Hertisch, E. Sweeney, J. Sterling, J. Hogan, E. McGee, T. Smith, L. McOskar, E. Sheehan, E. Gault, C. .Vinson, F. McOskar, G. Lyons, J. Ewing, H. Quan, B. Templeton, O. Tong, E. Marshall, C. Allen, B. Kelly, E. Greaves, J. Drake, W. Lum.
Catechism—E. Sheehan, E. McOskar, J. Spillard, G. Lyons, J. Dunne, J. Ewing, J. Wuest, J. Crummey, A Dickerhoff P. O’Brien, M Healy
J. Fawcett, W. Emmonds, J. McCall, J. Graham, J. Murphy.
Penmanship.—H Breckweg, E. Gribling, E. Syons, C. Ortmayer, A. Hoerber, W. Myers, H. Jones, H. Walthauser, J. Smith, HL Cummings, J. Campbell, C. Vinson, G. Hoffman, H. Hunt, Geo. Lyons, B. Kelley, W. Gross,. W. Emmonds, B. Boberts, V. Armstrong, G. Green, B. Hutchings, W. Dunne, J. Taylor, H. Taylor, E. Shea, J. McGuire, T. Foley, L. Both, J. Ward, H. Hoff P. Bielly, S. Ashton, L. Hibben, F. Arrantz, V. Hackman, F.McDonald, J. Spillard, J. Goesse, A. Dickerhoff, D. McGinnis, J. McGinnis, J. Quill, J. Kroger, T. Livingston, J. Graham, J. McCall, M. McCormack, C. Morgan,'J. McCormack, C. Jarne, W. Wil-stack, J. Burnley, J. Goodhue, J. Murphy, J. Heintz, F. Tallerton, J. Pumphery, J. Healy E. E. Gault, J. Shanks, M. Healy, B. Staley, H. Ely, J. and G. Crummey, A. Filson, H. Quann, A.. Foster, D. Brown. H. Hug, G. Hug, B. Finley, WL Smith, D. Ludington, P. Finegan, G. Goodell, J. McFarland, P. O’Connell, P. Coakley, T. Dundon, P. Federspiel, J. Hogan, W. Clarke, J. Zimmer, F. Shephard, J. McGann, E. Sweeney, Z. Swenk, E. Watts, M. Atkins, A. Brown, J. McGlyn, T. Murphy, J. Murnane, A. Angle, W. Crenshaw, E. Dum, C. Wheeler, D. Bupert, F. Healey, J. Finley, E. Kyau W. Smith, C.’ Hanna, T. Kelley, E. Dechant, A. Hertrick, C. Duffy, J. Great, M. Carney, J.'Keenan, V. Von Ceulebroeck, J. Farrell, H. Hulbert.
LANGUAGES.
French.—J. Gearin, T. O’Mabony, J. Mulquin, W. Myers, J. Stubbs, W. Wilstach.
Spanish.—T. Johnson.
German.—D. Egan, J. Ireland, J. McHugh, J. Fox, J. McGuire, J. Zimmer, W. Meyer, F. Anderson, V. Armstrong, H. Hunt, G. Crummey, D. Wiedman, J. Hanley, F. Whitney, J. Buddi-man, J. Petesch, H. Potter, J. Taylor, N. P. Wooster, C. Peterson, J. Stillwagen' H. Jones, H. Woltring, H. Waldhauser, F. McDonald, J. Crummey, J. Shanks, G. Buger, F. Joseph C. Behm, E. Gribling J. Hubert, O. Wing, J. Carroll, H. Hulbert, B. Higgens, C. Duffy.
MUSIC.
Vocal Music—G. L. Biopelle, N. Mitchell, A Brown, C. Duffy, D. Luddington, W. Crenshaw, J. Tournaux, V. Vonceulebroueck, V. Hackman. C. Hutchings, G. Hoffman, F. Obeft, T. Smith, A Foster, C. Whitney, J. Quill, T. Ely, J. Ely, J. Goodhue, J. O’Hara, J. Filson, L. Montedonico, C. Tarble.
Instrumental Music (Violin)—TV-- Atkins, J. Staley, B. Higgins, W. Dodge, J. McGuire, B. Boberts, H. Jones,. T. Foley, D. Brown, G. Hug, T. Ireland, J. Walsh, J. Goesse, B. Lang, W. Byrnes.
Piano—F. Obert, M. Weldon, E. Haydell, H. Quan.	'
Flute—R. Crenshaw, J. Carroll, P. Coakly.
The following students have been promoted from the First English Class to Bhetoric: B. Curran T. Dundon, M. Daly, P. Finnegan, M. Carney, J. Carroll.
Figure Drawing—N. Mitchell, J. Buhler, A Bosenblatt.
Landscape—J. McGahan, C. Ortmayer, W. Wilstach.
Animal—G. Hug.
Architecture—J. Goesse.
Academic—F. Devoto, H. Breckweg.
To the Composition Class: P. Coakly, C. Swenk, B. Fahey, E. Watts, T. Foley, C. Morgan, W. Dodge, J. Bumely, H. Achoff, M. Moriarty, R. Lange, C. Ortmayer. D. McGinnis.
•	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Arithmetic—G. J. Gross, W. C. Byrne, E. S. DeGroot, B. Dougherty, E. Raymond, L. Montedonico, H. McIntosh, C. Tarble, H. O’Brien, A. Morton, T. Nelson, J. Cordan, F. Dowe, H. Faxon, C. Faxon, J. O’Meara.	-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sealing Letters.
Mn. Editor: In reading the “Notes and Queries ” in last Scholastic, I was reminded of a pernicious letter-habit in vogue hereabouts which I should like to see corrected. AB letters, except letters of introduction, should be sealed. Some persons, through a mistaken notion of politeness, leave unsealed those letters which are sent by the hand of a friend. Such an action may show a vast deal of cofindence in one’s friend, but it is certainly not agreeable to the friend himself.
■	.	Friend.
“ Star Studies.”
Mr. Editor: I am indebted to Prof. Lyons for the pleasure of a tastefully printed pamphlet with the above title, written by Mr. Colbert, of Chicago. Whoever wishes to read the latest news from the starry heavens, should at once send fifty cents for this admirable little volume. Mr. Colbert is deservedly famous for his astronomical writings. This is due to three causes—his thorough knowledge of the science, his lucid English, and his enthusiasm. Astronomy is not a popular science^ but Mr. Colbert seems determined to make it so ; and certainly if any one has the power to awaken the popular mind to a love of this grandest of all the physical sciences it is this editor astronomer. ' Here at least he has given us a little book which many deciaimers against science might read with profit. It is a question whether truth has received greater injury from the rash defenders or from the flippant opposers of modem science; and he is indeed both narrow-minded and foolish who tries to laugh at what he does not understand, and begins to fire his pop-gun at a strong citadel without first learning whether it be that of an enemy or a friend.
I notice that Mr. C. proposes to publish a complete work on his favorite science, to consist of two large volumes, illustrated with maps and engravings, provided he receives the names of at least 500 subscribers. It would be a satisfaction to all lovers of real science, as well as all friends of Mr. Colbert himself, to know that this enterprise received a little encouragement from us. There should be some subscriptions sent to Mr. Colbert from the lovers of astronomy at Notre Dame.
Holy Angels’ Sodality.
The soul of the inspired Psalmist felt the force of the sacred fire, which lights up the inner recess of God’s sanctuary, when he cried out: “Lord, I have loved the beauty of Thy house;” and this feeling is doubtless participated in by all who approach the same hallowed precincts. The youthful band, who gladly volunteer their attendance at the divine services of the altar, are preparing their hearts to enkindle the sanctifying spark of enthusiasm for the glory of God’s house,—the tabernacle of his abode with men, on the festival of their patron, St. Michael. The feast of the Apparition of the great Archangel, the prince of the heavenly host, the champion of the God of armies, the minister at the altar of incense, will be kept, religiously and happily, by the members of the Holy Angels’ Sodality. They are already equipping themselves for the pious and social duties of the occasion. Under the direction and instruction of Mr. A A Brown, S. S. C., the Society is shaping itself into proper rubrical form.
The weekly meetings for instruction and other business have been regularly held. Messrs. W. Fletcher, H. Bourdon and G. Crummey, were received as members. The Society begins immediately its instructions in ceremonial, for the laying of the foundation stone of the new church of Notre Dame.	H. Breckwig, Sec.
St. Gregory’s Society.
The 5th regular meeting of the St. Gregory’s Society was held April 26th, in the Society room, at 7 o’clock, P. M., Rev. Dr. Quinn, S. S. C., in the chair. The chairman announced to the Society that the College authorities had appointed Brother Placidus, S. S. C., Director of the Association and Leader of the Choir. This announcement was greeted with applause. Messrs. Staley and Rume-ly were made Censors, and Mr. Kinkead Librarian. Hereafter the rehearsals of the Society will be at the times following: ■
The Alti on Tuesdays and Fridays, from 3 to 3% o’clock, P. M.
The Soprani on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, from 3 to 3% o’clock, P. M.
The Tenori on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, from 9X to 10 o’clock, A. M.
The Bassi on Tuesdays and Fridays, from 9J£ to 10 o’clock, A. M.
The general rehearsals will be on Wednesdays, from 8 to 9 o’clock, A. M, and on Saturdays, from 5J^ to 6J£ o’clock, P. M.
Messrs. Stillwagen, Riopelle and Goodhue were admitted to membership.
St. Aloysius Philoiomic Association.
The twenty-seventh regular meeting’of this Association was held on Tuesday, April the 18th. After all preliminary business had been transacted the following question was debated:
“ Resolved, That the National Capital ought to be removed farther West.”
The affirmative was sustained by Messrs. J. A Zahm and R. Finley; the negative by. Messrs. P. O’Connell and W. Crenshaw. The President, after expressing himself greatly pleased with the manner in which the debate had been conducted, summed up the arguments brought forward on both sides, and gave his decision in favor of the affirmative.
The twenty-eighth regular meeting took place on Wednesday, April 25th. The programme of the evening calling for essays and declamations, Mr. J Wilson first took the stand and read a well-written composition on “ Human Happiness.” He was followed by J. Gearin, who read a lengthy and pleasing essay on “.Romance and Works of Fiction.” Mr. Shephard next appeared, and delivered in a very appropriate manner “ Rienza’s Address to the Romans.”
The exercises of the evening were concluded by the reading of a few select articles from the Two Penny Gazette, after which the meeting adjourned.
J. A Zahm, Cor. Sec.
St. Eiward’s Literary Association.
The twenty-ninth regular meeting of this Association was held Tuesday evening, April 25th. After transacting the business of the evening, Mr. Thomas O’Mahony read a fine criticism upon the exercises of the last meeting. As a critic, Mr. O’Mahony afforded an example worthy of imitation, not failing to show faults, as well as bestow praise whenever the occasion demands it. The question,
Resalved, That civil government should have the power of prohibiting the publication of literature injurious to morals and religion, was then debated. Mr. J. D. McCormack, the first speaker on the affirmative, took the stand, making quite a lengthy speech, using many forcible arguments, which convinced his auditors that he had considered his subject well. Mr. O’Mahony, the first speaker on the negative, answered his opponent at some length, and expressed his arguments in a concise and powerful manner. Mr. M. Keely,
who then spoke in favor of the affirmative, handled the subject with great skill and contributed much towards the discussion of the question. Mr.. J. M. Rourke, as second speaker on the negotive, made a very logical speech, and deserves much creeit for the new proofs which he suggested.
The Rev. President reviewed the arguments giving his decision in favor of the affirmative, after which, owing to the lateness of the hour, the meeting adjournment.	Eyrrw.
Scientific Association.
On Sunday, April 30th, a meeting of this Association was held in the college library, at which the members had the pleasure of hearing a very interesting lecture delivered by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. The subject of the Rev. gentleman’s discourse was “The Nature and Scope of Philosophic Study.’’ The manner in which the subject was treated made it unusually instructive and entertaining. Everything pertaining to it was explained in a plain, con- . cise and forcible manner, and what was obstruse or difficult was so illustrated that nothing remained obscure or ambiguous to the minds of the auditors.
.	J. A Zahm, Rec. Sec.
■ St. Cecilia Bhilomatiiean. Society.
The 31st meeting was held April 15,1871. At this meeting Master J. Ewing presented himself for membership, and after reading a fine composition, entitled a “History of an old oak tree,” and declaiming a tasty selection, he was unanimously elected. Declamations and essays were then the order of the evening.
The 32nd regular meeting came off April 22d-Master F. Egan came forward with a composition entitled “ The Red Men of America,” after which he was unanimously elected. Master J. McHugh was appointed Vice-President'of the Historic, vice J. Nash; D. Brown was chosen Corresponding Secretary, and Philip Scott, Monitor. Of the declamations, Master W. Dodge’s, deserves special mention. Professor Foote, then explained, in a very nice speech, the rules of the Moot Court, and appointed Saturday evening, April 29th, for the opening.	'
At the 33d regular meeting, April 25th, the following members read very fine essays: S. Ashton, on “Novel Reading;” Samuel Dum, “ Vulgarity;” C. Hutchings, “Deceitful Appearance;” T. Foley, “Evil Communications corrupt good Morals;” L. McOsker, “Force of Example;” J. Bucher, “Honesty;” J. Heitz, “Thoughtless Persons.” Of the declamations, C. Moigan’s was the best. The Moot Court is now going on, a full account of which I will give you in my next report.
D. Brown, Cor. Sec.
Sase-Ball.
X.
Unparalleled Achievement—Greatest Athletic Feat <f . the Age—“ The ” Base-BaU Game of the Season—
“Lazy Fine" of the Senior Department cs. the Minim Base-Ball Club.
On the first day of May, 1871, was played one of the finest games of base-ball that we ever had the good fortune to witness. The day was lovely. At an early hour the players began to assemble. The two nines were in an excellent condition, and prepared to play their best The senior nine was composed of the following “lazy” gentlemen: McGee, Hulbert, Bucher, Turner, Healy, Goodell, Dunn, and Kelly. It will be seen from the above list that ■ only eight seniors were in the field; the ninth having become so cussedly lazy that he dedared that he was unable to play. Considered collectively we say that the senior nine was a dedded“suc--cess.” The following agile young gentlemen composed the minim nine: Doherty; Deehan, Byrnes,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Gross, Montedonico, Morton, DeGroot, and Mc’In-tosh. At half-past seven the game commenced. The minims were sent to the bat, and retired after making ten runs. We cannot follow the game through all its details, suffice it to say, that the gam? from the very commencement seemed to be in favor of the minims. The game ended at a quarter to twelve. The score stood 43 to 17 in favor of the minims. However, considering that they com-■ posed the lazy nine, they all did remarkably well.
Mr. Hulbert took balls from the bat very readily. “Doc.” Bucher displayed great dexterity in pitching every ball to suit the taste of the striker. It must be remembered that “Doc.” took several balls red-hot from the bat. “ Doc.” exhibited great endurance of body, and remarkable consistency of mind, in playing the “center” the whole nine innings. McGee held all balls that were thrown to him, except those that he did not catch. But one must remark here, that he was’nt worth a “ tinker’s dam,” on the “ scoop.” It must be remarked, however, that McGee displayed more agility than any other member of the nine. “ Hal.” Turner “ reckoned ” that he caught every ball that was thrown to him. Of all the “fielders ” Mr. Healy made the best score. Messrs. Goodell, Dunn and Kelly all played very well; but they failed, however, to catch several good “flies.” As regards the playing of the minims we cannot say too much; all played exceedingly well, Mr. Dority, as pitcher, made several of the seniors “strike out.” We have seldom seen one so young occupy such a difficult position so well. J. Deehan played remarkably well; no one could have played better in his position. W. Byrnes, on first base, took care care that no balls should pass by his station. George Gross acquitted himself very creditably. His playing certainly reflected great credit upon his club. Louis Montedonico, occupying the third base, had considerable influence in determening the fortune ofthe day. He played exceedingly welt A. Morton cannot be “beat” by any of the seniors as a left fielder. Eddy DeGroot took in balls with astonishing accuracy. This young gentleman’s playing was certainly remarkable for one so young; if he continues to improve, he will be one of the best base-ballists in the college. McIntosh reflected great credit upon his club by his playing; he certainly deserves much praise. We must now say a few words about the umpires. Mr. Tarkington umpired for the first six innings. He displayed a profund and critical knowledge of the game. Mr. Tarkington resigned his position at the commencement of the seventh inning, and Mr. Fitzgerald took his place. He umpired to the satisfaction of everyone. lu conclusion we would say that the minims deserve all the praise that can be accorded them. They deserve to go home on the 21st of June. They are perfectly infuriated against those persons who oppose the desire of the great majority of the students to leave for home on the 21st of June, instead of waiting until the 28th. Many spectators witnessed the game, and at the conclusion of it, the minims received prolonged applause.
Special Reporter.
Anecdote of “Old Hickory.”—Shortly after Mr. Buchanan’s return from Russia, in 1834,—to which he had been sent by President Jackson in 1832, and immediately following his election to the Senate of the United States by the Legislature of of Pennsylvania, to'fill the unexpired term of William Wilkins, resigned, who, in his turn was sent to succeed Buchanan in the same foreign mission,—he called upon Old Hickory, with a fair English lady, whom he desired to present to the head of the American nation. Leaving her in the reception room down stairs, he ascended to the President’s private quarters, and found General Jackson unshaved, unkempt, in his dressing-gound, with his slippered feet on the fender before a blazing
wood-fire,$ smoking a corn-cob pipe of the old Southern school. He stated his object, when the the General said he w.ould be very glad to meet the handsome acquaintance of the new bachelor Senator. Mr. Buchanan was always careful of his personal appearance; and, in some respects, was a sort of masculine Miss Fribble, addicted to spotless cravats and huge collars; rather proud of a small foot for a man of his large stature, and to the last of his life what the ladies would call a “very good figure.” Having just returned from a visit to the fashionable continental circles, after two years of thorough intercourse with the etiquette of one of the stateliest courts in Europe, he was somewhat shocked at the idea of the President meeting the eminent English lady in such a guise, and ventured to ask if he had not intended to change his attire, whereupon the old warrior rose, with his long pipe in his hand, and deliberately knocking the ashes out of the bowl, said to his friend: “ Buchanan, I want to give you a little piece of advice, which I hope you will remember. I knew a man once who made his fortune by attend-to his own business. Tell the lady I will see her presently.”
The man who became President in 1850, was fond of saying that this remark of Andrew Jack-son humiliated him more than any rebuke he had ever received. He walked down stairs to meet his fair charge, and in a very short time President Jackson entered the room, dressed in a full suit of black, cleanly shaved with his stubborn white hair forced back from his remarkable face, and advancing to the beautiful Britisher, saluted her with almost kingly grace. As she left the White House, she exclaimed to her escort, “ Your Republican President is the royal model of a gentleman.”
Don’t be too Sensitive.—There are some people, yes, many people, always looking out for slights. They cannot carry on the daily intercourse offthe family, without some offence is 'designed. They are as touchy as hair triggers. If they meet an acquaintance in the street who hap,, pens to be pre-occupied with business, they attribute his abstraction in some mode personal to themselves, and take umbrage accordingly. They lay on others the fault of their irritability. A fit of indigestion makes them see impertinence in everybody they come in contact with. Innocent persons, who never dreamed of giving offence, are astonished to find some unfortunate word, or some momentary taciturnity, mistaken for an insult. To say the least, the habit is unfortunate. It is far wiser to take the more charitable view of our fellow beings, and not suppose a slight is intended, unless the neglect is open and direct. After all, too, life takes its use in a great degree from the color of our mind. If we are frank and generous, the world treats us kindly. If, on the contrary, we are suspicious, men learn to be cold and cautious to us. Let a person get the reputation of being touchy, and everybody is under more or less restraint; and in this.way the chances of an imaginary offence are vastly increased.
A sour old bachelor made the remark that a girl who is termed a “ beautiful blonde,” would a few years ago have been called a “ tow-head.”
The verity of any and everything appearing in print, should not be questioned, inasmuch as all that is published is previously “ proven.” So says a printer.
A Sco.tchmn’b Definition of Metaphysics.— “ When the folks wha listen dinna ken the meaning o’ what they hear, and when the mon who speaks dinna ken what he means his ain sei*— that’s meetafissicks.”
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
TABLE OF HONOR—SR. DEP’T.
April 30—Misses Niel, Sturgis, Kirwan, Moriarty, Young, Locke, Millard, O’Neill, Foote, Rhinehart, Duggan, Birney.
HONORABLE MENTION— SR DEP’T.
First Senior Class—Misses Tuberty, Dillon, Shirland, Kellogg, Marshall, Hogue, Clark, Forbes, Borup, Hurst, Tinsley, Cornish, Shanks, McMahon, McDougal.
Second Senior Class—Misses Zell, Cochrane, Lange, O’Brien, Haymond, Finley, Brown, Shea, Ray, Montgomery.
Third Senior Class—Fox, Shea, Dooley, Duffield, Greene, Ogden, Hoover, Dickerhoff, Finley, Hendricks, Getty, Millis, Spiers, J. and R. Leoni, Langendeffer, Ford, Woods.
First Preparatory Class—Misses Letourneau, McFarlane, Wilder, Nelson, Wood, Falvey, Wicker, Boyd, McTaggart, Devoto, Lloyd, Prince, Bounell, McGuire, Lane.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses Greenleaf, McIntyre, Emmonds, Weire, Sutherland, McMahon, Lacy, Creveling, Sullivan, Lehmann, Kellogg, ’’Champion.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses Nash, Roberts, Klassen, Frazer, Conafian, Drake.
Vocal Music—Misses Wicker, McMahon, Montgomery, Creveling; Robson, O’Brien, Cornish, Frazer, Brown, Shea, Prince, Lange, Devoto.
German—Misses Krutzer, Rhinehart, Dickerhoff, Hoover, Frank, Faxon, Lehmann.
French—Misses M. Shirland, Niel, Millard, Forbes, Marshall, Spiers, Locke, Kirwan, Quan, Tinsley, Moriarty, Young, O’Neill, Borup, Gross, Cochrane, Clarke, Hoyt, Sturgis, Foote.
Instrumental Music—Misses Foote, Hynds, Kir-wan, Young, Shirland, Angle, Borup, McMahon, McDougall, Kellogg. Spiers, Hurst, Cornish, Pla-onton, Ward, Clarke, Locke, O’Niel, Todd, Ray, McMahon, Rhinehart, Reynolds, Tuberty, Duffield, Lassen, Frazer, Cable, Greene, Kreutzer, Ogden, Quan, Wier, Langendeffer, McFarland, Byrnes, Fox, Kearney, Hoover, Shea, Radin, Mast, Champion, Clark, Wicker, McKinnon, Leoni, Classen, Haymond, Hoover, Getty, Wier, Sutherland, Hendrick, Boyland, Honeyman, Nelson, Wood, Prince, Creveling, Taggart, Finley, Conahan, Lloyd, Duffield.
Harp—Misses Shirland, McMahon, Radin.
Guitar—A. Montgomery.
Exercises—Misses Wier, Hogue, Hoover, Marshall, Kreutzer Niel, Spiers, McDougall, Kearney, Rhinehart, Haymond, Mast, E. and T. Finley, Dooley, McKinnon, Hendricks, McTagart, Boy land, Ssllivau.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
Winter Arrangement.
fjpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST,
Leave South Bend 935 a.m. “	“	1217 p. m,
“	“	9.15 p. m.
“	“	12 37 a. m.
Way Freight, 8.40 p. m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 5.10 p. m. “	“	3 08 a m.
“	M	5.07 a.m.
“	“	6 30- p. m.
Way Freight, 9.35 a m.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m ‘‘	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	8.20 a. m
“	•	lOlOp.m
“	“	9A0p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
48* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tablet at the depot and other public places. a
49* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which Is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
CHARLES F. HATCH. General Superintendent, Cleveland* • C. P- Leland, General Passenger Agent, Toledo.
H. Watson, Agent, South Bend.
CBOSSIBG.
Going North-Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30 d. mi Freight, 4:05 p. m.	r
Going South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m., and 6:20 P. m Freight, 4:50 a.m.	* -