Notre Dame kScholastic.
< Disco quasi semper vieturus; vivo qxiasl eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTES DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 26, 1880.
Number 42.
,	Commencement Exercises.
Society Day.
• The Commencement Exercises opened on Monday morn> ing last at 10 o’clock, in Washington Hall, with the usual annual exercises by the different Societies connected with the University. The weather was all that could be desired, and, in fact, we can say that never do we remem; ber having had such a pleasant day for these exercises as we had this year. Although the audience was not very .}	large, as most of the visitors did not arrive until the fol’	lowing morning, yet the Hall was pretty well filled with
i	the students and the few visitors who had arrived, all of
whom seemed to enjoy the exercises well,—and with good reason, as they were far superior to those of pre' ceding years. As the audience entered the Hall, the Band, under the leadership of Luke J. Evers, ’79, struck • up one of its liveliest tunes, and played in a manner that reflects credit on the young gentlemen who participated in it. We take this occasion to say that the music furnished by the Band during the Commencement Exercises was in every respect good, and in no way inferior to the Band of former years; in fact, the members of the Band did their part well, and ably sustained the reputation which the r University Band has always enjoyed. After the music had ceased, Mr. M. J. McEniry, the representative of the Senior Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, r came forward and delivered an interesting and instructive address on “Education.” Mr. McEniry referred to the Archconfraternity as an old and honored Association, that ' was looked upon as the mother of all the other Societies at Notre Dame, which in itself is a title of no little worth. The speaker then went on to show the importance of a ~ Catholic education, and proved in plain terms that educa-\ tion without God does not elevate the man, but, on the contrary, renders him more capable of ill-doing. It is true, he continued, that there was never a time when true and honest men were more needed than at present; they are . wanted everywhere—in our legislative halls, in our political assemblies, in our balls of commerce; in fine, in every position of trust. Mr. McEniry delivered his address in a pleasing manner, and showed by his emphasis, his ges- tures, etc., that he well understood the importance of his theme.
Mr. George E. Clarke represented the Philodemics in a , manner highly creditable to this Association. His subject was “ Oratory.” Mr. Clarke commenced by saying that the history of the Philodemic Association was intimately “ blended with the intellectual life of Notre Dame; that it is yet, as it has ever been, the representative of the best literary abilities of the Law and Collegiate Departments, and »	embraces among its members most of the best students of the
College. From these considerations,he passed on to speak of his subject proper, and this he did in a most creditable man-t ner. Mr. Clarke is an interesting and intelligent speaker ; his gestures are graceful, and his whole manner of acting . on the stage shows careful training. As we said before, he represented the Philodemics creditably, and his address ' was everything that could be desired.
The next speaker was Mr. W. B. McGorrisk. This young gentleman represented the Thespian Association, • and acquitted himself to the entire satisfaction of all present. His subject was “The Drama”—a most interesting one, by the way, and doubly interesting in the
hands of Mr. McGorrisk, who.traced its origin; alluded beautifully to the influence which it has on society; and concluded with an exordium to all to act well their part, that by so doing they might prove a source of interest and of pleasure to themselves and to the society of which they form a nart.
Mr. W. J. McCarthy ably represented the Cecilia Philo-mathean Association, and took for his subject “Heroism.” He spoke, in glowing terms of the world’s great men,— men who by their disinterestedness and love of country, their bravery and honor challenge our admiration. “ The heroic element,” Mr. McCarthy went on to say, “enters largely into the world’s experience, and assumes phases as various as the stages of its history. Veiy different is the influencing heroism of John Maynard standing with scathed eyes and crisped hands on the deck of a burning steamer, and guiding her in safety amid an agony of fire; and that of St. Lawrence perishing so calmly on the gridiron. One was inspired duty, the other was the outgrowth of faith; one was the highest type of human courage, the other the grandest form of Christian sacrifice.” Mr. McCarthy is quite an elocutionist, and shows the training of Prof J. A. Lyons to good advantage.
After Mr. McCarthy came the Glee Club, who treated the audience to one of their well-known choruses. The young gentlemen composing this Club acquitted themselves well. On the part of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association Master N. Nelson sang a most beautiful song, while the Quartette rendered an excellent selection from “Faust.” The strains having died away, Master John A. Gibbons came forward, as representative of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, and delivered a neat address. His subject was the influence and importance of the Society which he represented,"and we must say that he acquitted himself well.
The Columbian Dramatic Club was well represented by W. Connolly, who spoke for a considerable time on the advantage to be gained from dramatic exercises, and the manner in which the same have been conducted at Notre Dame. He showed that the little time spent in the rehearsal of plays, etc., is not spent in vain, as some are inclined to believe, but that it is in reality time well spent, and for which no one can ever be sorry.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was represented in the person of Master D. Taylor, who, in his address, was not loath to say that the Organization which he represented was not the least among the many Societies at Notre Dame. Master Taylor has an excellent voice, and read his address, which was very well worded, in a most pleasing manner. Very Bev. President Corby made the closing remarks after which the Band struck up the march for retiring, and thus the Monday morning exercises were brought to a close.
Monday Afternoon, 4 p. w.
The exercises of the Graduates took place in the afternoon in Washington Hall. The attendance was large, and everything came off in a most satisfactory manner. After the opening march by the Band, the Commercial Address was delivered by Mr. J. H. Delaney, and was listened to with marked attention. After defining in what a commercial education consists, the speaker went on to show the special facilities existing at Notre Dame for its attainment. He paid a special compliment to the Commercial Faculty by stating that they knew their business, and that a diploma from Notre Dame means something. Mr. Delaney
656	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-------------------------------------------------------- j
acted his part well, and, as far as we could see, is quite at home in addressing an audience.
Following this was a clever and highly-creditable speech on the “Importance of the Study of the Law” was delivered by Mr. F. X. Wall, who begun by saying that the law was a most important subject, on account of its immediate application in every day life; hence a knowledge at least of its general principles was necessary to all in order to a proper fulfilment of the duties incumbent upon them. “For,” the speaker went on to say, “ whether a man pursues a mercantile life, or engages his attention in fathoming the sciences, or whether he assumes the garb of a religious and retires to the seclusion of the cloister, he should understand the laws of his country and be able to account for those principles of justice and right that govern our moral and social being.” Mr. Wall, after defining the term law, proceeded to give some practical hints on its application, and how it should be looked upon as a profession. He then continued to speak of law in a general manner, giving now and then some nice hits to those who would have all law terms in English and not in Latin and French. Such men, Mr. Wall remarked, must certainly have a prejudice against the beautiful languages, else they would never so express themselves. The speaker then spoke at length of what should be considered a legal education, and in conclusion referred to Notre Dame as an institution affording every facility for the proper study of law—as an institution in which science and religion go hand in hand. Mr. Wall delivered his address in an earnest and business-like manner, and showed by every word and gesture that he has not been idle for the past ten months,—something that augurs well for his success in after-life.	•
After Mr. Wall, the programme called for a violin solo from Mr. B. J. Claggett who, as all know, is a musician of no ordinary attainments. Mr. Claggett, as a matter of course, did excellent.
Next in order was an able oration from Mr. D. Donahoe on “Loyalty to the Constitution.” His subject was, of course, an interesting one, and was well handled. Air. Donahoe showed that tbe Church of Rome is anything but the opposer of liberty; that, on the contrary, she is its guardian, and that the American Constitution has no more faithful adherents than good Catholics. We praise Mr. Donahoe for his able effort. But if we speak so highly of “Loyalty to the Constitution,” what shall we say in regard to the “Dignity of the Legal Profession” by T. W. Simms? Mr. Simms is certainly an able speaker, and his every word and movement on the stage would do honor to an old practitioner. His, indeed, was a perfect oration, and as to us we have all praise to bestow upon it.
After Mr. Simms had concluded, Mr. J. B. Berteling read an interesting and instructive essay, entitled “Sketch of the Middle Ages,” and was followed by A. J. Burger with another instructive essay on “Geology in its Relation to the Other Sciences and to Religion.” Mr. Burger’s essay showed considerable research. His reasoning was clear,— so clear, in fact, that a child could understand it, and yet so forcible as to bring conviction to any unbiased mind. This essay was then well written and well read. Music from the Band closed this as the morning exercises, and all quitted the Hall, thinking only ot the grand treat that was in store for them by the elocutionary exercises of the Euglossians later in the evening.
Monday Evening, 8 p. m.
The most interesting, and, perhaps, the most enjoyable of the exercises that occurred on Monday last was the one which took place about 8 o’clock in the evening in the main College hall, and which was witnessed by a select and highly appreciative audience, consisting of Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, Very Rev. Fathers General and Corby, Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., Rev. Father O’Rourke, Hon. 0. E. Dunne, and a large number of other distinguished visitors. The exercises were by the “Euglossians,” a Society lately formed by Prof. J. A. Lyons, and composed of the students who make the study of Elocution a specialty. After a beautiful and pleasing selection was played by the Orchestra, Mr. D. Danahey stepped forward and delivered an original speech entitled “Self-Glorification,’’ which was well received, and put the audience in good humor for the more serious pieces that followed. Mr. Dan-
ahey’s style of delivery is good, and his clear sonorous voice resounded with great effect through the large College hall as he tried to master his many sesquipedalian terms. Mr. Danahey was followed by Mr. Albert Zahm, ' who spoke in a clear distinct manner a piece entitled Z “The Indians.” Next appeared Master W. McCarthy, who, in his own pleasing style, declaimed “The Young Gray * Head.” Mr. McCarthy entered completely into the spirit of his piece, and showed his hearers that he was fully aware of what he was doing. With a little more prac- । tice we can safely say that Mr. McCarthy will become J an elegant and pleasing speaker. The next piece, a humorous selection, called the “Editor’s Visitors,” was beauti- *' fully rendered by Mr. F. X. Wall, who showed unmistak- ' able signs of a good future orator. His piece was highly appreciated, and mentioned in plain terms the many inconveniences and trouble with which an editor has to con’end. Mr. Clagget next favored the audience with a beautiful solo on the guitar, an instrument which seems to be this young gentleman’s favorite, and one which he J manages well. His playing on this occasion was all that could be desired, and this was fully testified by the hearty * • rounds of applause with which it was received. “Perha- *' sious and the Captive” was finely personated by Master C.
N. Tinley, who mastered this rather difficult piece for an «. amateur in a highly creditable manner. After a solo, beautifully given by Prof. M. T. Corby, the audience dispersed, well pleased with the evening’s entertainment, and bestowing high praise on the learned Professor of Elocution, J. A. Lyons, LL. D.
Tuesday Morning—The Alumni.
The attendance this year at the reunion of the Associated Alumni was unusually large. Members were present from all parts of the country; there were, however, 41 some whom business of considerable importance, or distance, detained. The exercises opened at six o’clock with Solemn High Mass, Very Rev. President Corby being the celebrant, assisted by Rev. Father Walsh as deacon * and Rev. C. Kelly as subdeacon. Quite a number of the Alumni and others were present. Tne celebrant preached a sermon suitable to the occasion. '
At 10 o’clock the regular annual meeting of the Associated Alumni took place. A large number of graduates ” were present. After some preliminary remarks in regard to the Constitutions of the Society, the regular election of , officers for the ensuing year took place, resulting as follows: Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., President; Prof. W. J.
Ivers, 1st Vice-President; Rev. D. A. Clarke, 2d Vice- J President; Florian B. D.;voto, M. T., Secretary; Prof. J.
Lyons, LL. D., Treasurer; John J. Coleman, A. M., Historian; Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, M. A-, Orator; John P. McHugh, Alternate; Timothy E. Howard, M. A., Poet; L Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, Alternate. After the election of officers some very sensible remarks were made, and then the meeting adjourned until half-past one, when the annual banquet took place. At this banquet a goodly number of members and invited guests were present • and after all J had done ample justice to the many good things placed before them, the following toasts were read by Luke J.
Evers and S. T. Spalding:	..
Our Holy Father, Pope Leo, XIII: The light and teacher ’ of our age. Responded to by Very Rev. Father General.
The President op the United States: May he discharge his high office with wisdom, and bring the various sections and interests of the people into still greater union and har- __ mony. Responded to by Hon. Judge Dunne.
Notre Dame, past, present and future. Responded to by Rev. E. B. Kilroy.
Religious Education: The hope of our Country. Responded to by Rev. W. F. M. O’Rourke.	* >
The Press, the silent but all eloquent director of modern thought: May it be efficient in guiding the mind of the age to < all that is noble and virtuous. Responded to by Mr. John G. Ewing.
Our Absent Members. Ever dear to our memories: may r the dead sleep in peace, and may the living often return to gladden our hearts by their presence at our annual reunions. . Responded to by Rev. E. J. McLaughlin.
At four o’clock the regatta took place, and proved to be •’j one of the most exciting of the Commencement exercises.
Long before the appointed tinie, which was 4 o’clock p, m.?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	657
the shady groves around the lake were thronged with ladies and gentlemen, who all watched with lively interest for the rival boats to appear, which shortly after 3.30 p. m. shot forth from the boat-house, amidst the loud and prolonged cheering of the anxious spectators. The crew of the r	“Minnehaha ” was composed of the following young gentle-
men: M. J. McEniry, Captain and 3rd; W. Ryan, stroke; T. Kavanagh, 2d; M. J. McCue, 4th; W. B. McGorrisk, 5th; A. J. Burger, bow; and F. W. Bloom, coxswain. Tne crew of the “Hiawatha,” was composed of the following: D. Harrington, captain and 2d; J. Coleman, stroke; W. Ar, nold, 3d; G. Sugg 4th; J. B. Berteling, 5th; J. P. Kinney, bow; and W. Connolly as coxswain. Rev. P. W. Condon gave the signal for starting, and both boats started out well. Each crew had its favorites on the shore, and loud ’ and long were the cheers that broke the stillness of the surroundings. The race was three lengths of the lake, and on the first turn, the crew of the Minnehaha seemed to gain on their rivals. Finally, when they returned for the last time, the Minnehaha came in about two boat , lengths ahead, thus winning the race. The time was the best ever made on the lake, being 5 minutes and 30 seconds.
Immediately after the boat race the Notre Dame Mili-’ tary Company, under command of Captain Cocke, gave an exhibition drill, which proved to be a most interesting feature of the Commencement exercises. The Company went through their tactics well, and showed that they were not working to no purpose during the past few months.
,	Tuesday Night.
The Dramatic Exhibition in Washington Hall took place, as was announced, at 7.30. A large and appreciative , audience greeted the youthful actors. The exercises commenced with a grand Opening March by the Notre Dame University Cornet Band, and was followed by a solo and chorus by the Glee Club. Next in order was the Oration of the Alumni, by Daniel E. Maloney, ’74. Mr. Maloney is an able speaker, and we must say that he did ample justice to his theme. He spoke as follows:
Right Rev. Bishop, Very Rev. and Rev. Fathers Fellow-Alumni, Ladies and Gentlemen-.—Six years have hurriedly passed by since I had the pleasure of being before these foot-lights assisting in the closing hours of the scholastic year,—hours written in ink indelible, en-’ graven as on granite—endeavoring in my feeble way to please an audience assembled, as you are, to witness the grandest exercises of the college year. Many that are now seated before me were likewise here upon that occasion. My heart then, as now, was filled with the deepest K gratitude, for I was then happy that my college days had closed, that I was no longer to be under the vigilant eye of the prefect; that no more would I hear those ominous sounds: “Two for ranks.” But those feelings vanished long * ago, and I am now grateful for the privilege of standing once more on this stage, gazing at faces so familiar, faces that are painted on memory’s canvas in the most pleasing and lasting colors, there to remain as long as memory itself will last. But what a change has taken place within * those six years! A little more than twe-ve months since * that lordly Alma Mater which had twined her arms about us, and in our youthful days protected and preserved us in paths of honor, stricken down, as it were, in the prime of *	life—not by the keen and certain scythe of Father Time,
but by that awful of awful elements—fire. Her lofty dome - levelled to the dust; a heap of ashes and debris alone marked the spot where a few short hours before she stood in all her grandeur. But her memory is, and ever will be, cherished in the hearts of thousands—aye, tens of thousands * of her children and friends in every land, whose lives or good works, when death takes them hence shall ever stand a lasting monument to her glory, goodness and honor. I * am illy able to portray in words the deep sorrow felt by everyone when the sad news, with lightning speed, was sent throughout the land. But each of you bore witness to it; such sorrow never was felt before. But why need I dwell upon it, for it’s only reiterating the sentiments expressed by thousands of the sorrowing ? If one year ago 7 our cups of sorrow were filled to overflowing, they are now * almost forgotten, and our joy is great as we gaze upon that majestic and architectural monument that now stands -< pn the spot yvhere its predecessor Jay in smouldering ruins,
You who in years gone by came here always to find the arms of that Alma Maier opened to receive you, no doubt feel the loss, as I do, a great one, for to me, were it not for the familiar faces of former days I meet with, it would seem a strange place.
This afternoon as I stood in yonder campus gazing upon the vast structures before me, my mind followed a peculiar and amusing train of thought; and I hope you will pardon me for relating it. Still as one who is now classed among the old students I think I may be allowed that liberty. My thoughts were these: A few years back, my classmates and myself, having bid a fond adieu to our Alma Mater, with her blessings and sincerest hopes for our welfare still sounding in our ears, started forth on life’s perilous journey. We were soon far out at sea. Time rolled on, and we had almost forgotten our former home and friends, when, alas! one day the sad news reached us that our Alma Mater was no more. We mourned her loss; still we sailed on from port to port, till at last we once more reached our former home and harbor. With weeping eyes and sorrowing hearts we pass along those well known paths, and stop to find that venerable Father, not in mourning for the true Alma Mater we loved so dearly, but, on the contrary, joyful in the enviable possession of what to us seems an “ Alma Moverca? Still I hope she welcomes us, and that she will treat her step-children with the same kindness that she does her children.
But to pass on to the performance of the duty imposed upon me. When I was selected to perform the task I have now undertaken, and was made orator for this occasion, for “ orator jit," I thought I would prepare a grand oration. But time rolled on; 1880 followed ’79, and found me without oration, or the semblance of one. And when some few days since my attention was called to this day by the annual invitation to be present, with my oration, I discovered that my fellow-alumni, to their loss, had greatly over-estimated my oratorical ability, and further found, as you soon will see to my discomfiture, that the intended oration with which I was chosen to regale you, would dwindle down to a few disconnected, if not meaningless, remarks. It could scarcely be otherwise; for the time which a young man—particularly if he is engaged in some profession—can devote to matters outside of his regular duties is very limited, provided he employs his time as he should; for if he is not actually engaged in labors, he should read, study and otherwise prepare himself, the better to solve such legal, medical, theological, or other problems, submitted to him for solution. Thus, in endeavoring to carry out this idea, I found myself unable to devote the time and thought required for an address suitable for occasions like this. Moreover the time being too short for the gentleman who was chosen alternate, after I had discovered my own inability, in which he might prepare a suitable oration, I concluded that the best way for both of us to get out of the dilemma was for me to put in appearance and essay a few remarks that would half csrry out the intended programme this evening, even at the risk of their proving to be not even a shadow of an oration.
In presenting them to you, I do so strong in the conviction that the older portion of the audience will resolve themselves into a body of critics, and, by them, what I may say will be received in the same manner and ■ with the same latitude as a school-boy’s piece. Still I pray you will be lavish with your patience, and charitable in criticisms. To those who to-day, or at farthest in a few short years, will leave this grand repository of learning I should wish that what I say may prove a glance of what they may expect from the cold and heartless world which they must encounter. Thus, while deciding what should be the subject of these remarks, recalling to mind my college days and college mates—many of whom are to-day guarding well the responsibilities which a trusting public have placed in their hands, while many.more, I regret to say, equally talented, seem to have sown wild oats alone—I was most forcibly impressed with this thought: “ The Ups and Downs of Life."	.
It would seem that the lives of the generality of mankind are composed of reverses of one kind or another; for scarcely can be found a man whose wrinkled brow marks two score ten, but could recount a great many instances wherein Dame Fortune has met him with favor and disfavor alike. If each of you who have already reached man
658
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hood’s years will for a moment cast a backward glance o’er life’s pathway, you will note that the voyage has not been all smooth sailing, but that you were like a bark, either frail or strong, breasting a sea of waves—now up, now down, now elevated by fortune, now cast down by fate, now sailins smoothily under prosperity’s sun, now suddenly enveloped in a sea of misfortune. Such is the experience of nearly all of us; and the greater the number of years marked on our brows the more forcibly do we realize this fact. Hence it is that my remarks may recall to the minds of the older ones assembled here many scenes of pleasure and prosperity, of unhappiness and adversity; while to the younger portion I would wish that what I say might cause them to reflect upon the future. .
You should ever bear in mind, young friends, that this world is selfish, heartless, uncharitable; that each individual first looks after his own interests ere he gives a helping hand to his neighbor; that if you trust to your fellow-beings for help, and do not exert yourselves to the best of your ability, you will find after a lew short years that your lives have been failures; that misfortunes abound where fortune should be. Few, very few, are they of this world upon whom prosperity’s sun continues to cast effulgent rays from its first dawn in the morning of life until it sets in the evening of our earthly career without some dark cloud passing between, casting a shadow over our happiness. Therefore, as this is almost the universal experience of mankind, it would be well that we consider the subject carefully, even if briefly, weighing well in our minds each particular point, and endeavor to find out the reason why so many make a failure of life while others meet with success, and what we should do to prevent this failure and obtain this success.
Of the manifold causes of failures I shall briefly consider a few. Among them we find the erroneous selection of a vocation in starting out on life’s journey. This undoubtedly is the direct cause of more failures than any other, for it is self-evident that a man can do but very little in the way of progress if he is engaged in an occupation to which his abilities, his tastes,his mind are adverse; therefore, we should be very careful in making the selection, and first find out what our exact capabilities are, then choose that occupation to which our abilities are best adapted. Of course the Christian finds but little difficulty here, for he will have recourse to that Divine Being, who gave him these faculties, and who best knows what place on life’s stage he should occupy; and from Him, through His chosen servants, here below, receives the desired advice and guidance.
After we have made the proper selection of our profession or occupation, our next danger is that we are apt to discard the assistance of our Creator, and rely too much, if not entirely, upon our own strength and judgment. Of course both must be exercised to their almost greatest extent, for God has endowed us with a free will, thus leaving us to ourselves to pursue such a course as we may see fit; but still He has also promised us help if we need and ask it. And we surely do; for man at best is but an imperfect and almost helpless creature, and wholly unable to comprehend the perfections of nature in all her mysterious workings, either in connection with worldly affairs or otherwise. Hence it is all important for us that we ask aid and assistance from that All-Powerful Being who best knows our wants, and who, if we ask properly, will guide us in the path of success and prosperity.
There is still another great source of assistance to which we close our eyes in our vain attempt to climb the hill of fame alone, and that is the experience, the knowledge and observation of older persons who have seen both the bright and darker sides of life, and who best can direct us along the path of greatest brightness and least darkness. We should not be slow to take advantage of such experience, for scarcely any two human beings view nature in the same light and with the same results. Hence it is all important for our success in this life that we seek assistance from and be guided by our fellow-man, who like ourselves has been endowed with mental faculties; who, in his contact with the world, may have made many important discoveries of much avail to the proper management of earthly affairs; discoveries of existing things which may have gone unnoticed by us, which knowledge, when joined to what we have already acquired by our own exer
tions, will without a doubt lead to more success, and enable us to prevent more failures, than if we had relied wholly upon our own strength and ability. Now that we have decided upon our vocation, and received the advice and assistance of others as to what should be our course, the next dangerous rock to be avoided is going outside our chosen profession or business to engage in duties not germane to our occupation. Alas! how frequently do we see it, and especially in this country where progress is the watchword. A young man starting out in life with all needed ambition and every appearance of being upon the road to success, but is not long out on life’s journey ere he m®ets others upon whom fortune seems to have been more lavish with her smiles, then his ambition and covetousneis over-rule his judgment, and frequently he steps aside to pluck some passing fruit that has pleased his fancy; and at last he finds ere the journey’s end is reached that all the fruit he has gathered has decayed, and nought is left him but regrets that he did not keep the straightforward course up the hill of fame, and with zeal, determination and ambition gain that which through covetousness he lost. And that the mind may be doubly fitted to be centered upon this object; that its judgment may not always be erroneous, no better way of preparing it is there than developing it by means of a good, substantial and moral education.
The absence of education is nearly as much the cause of failure as any other; and too much stress cannot be placed upon this one idea of education alone. But I’ll have occasion to recur to it. Another source of ill-success is that when after we are engaged for a short time in some occupation, and prosperity comes not to us as we expected, we become disheartened, and so continue to be discouraged until all fortune—but bad fortune—seems to have forsaken us; and we have not the courage to banish all such thoughts from our minds and feelings from our hearts, nor the ambition to undertake once more the task of ascending this hill-side, nor the patience to continue the journey, provided we do once again commence it. Particularly is this noticeable in professional life, and more especially in the legal and medical professions. How often we see it! in fact scarcely one among you but can cite instances wherein a young attorney or physician, after closing his college books, starts out in life full of pride, ambition, determination, and hopes of success, but, after a few months, at most a fe w years’ trial, he finds he has overestimated and miscalculated his progress, and the number of men he must compete with. Thus finding one hardship followed by another, one privation by another, he allows his first despondent thought to take possession of his mind, which thought is soon followed by many more, and ere long his mind is filled with the saddest misgivings, and his whole ambition vanishes; and if he seeks not the suicide’s grave, he at least withdraws from the professional race and engages in some other less honorable occupation, to which lie, in all probability, will adhere but a short time. And here another thought presents itself to my mind for consideration, and one which is particularly noticeable at tire present day, when nearly every young man is looked upon as a recruit to some political party or another, worshipping the golden calf of all ages and nations, or the shining silver, or that ragged little urchin whose dorsal region possesses a greenish tint, and to have a purse well filled from one or all of these sources, for in the eyes of many wealth makes the man. Hence many a young man starting in life with an almost empty purse soon discovers that nearly all in high and wealthy stations turn to him the cold shoulder, and thus again he is discouraged; or in his desire to become wealthy, or occupy some prominent place, in politics allows himself to be drawn aside from the straightforward path of honor, manhood, and integrity, and ere he has had time to reflect and change his course finds he has lost the good will, the respect and confidence of his fellow-men, and soon finds, so to speak, ruin and destruction staring him in the face.
Thus might I go on and recall causes upon causes of failure in our worldly undertakings and engagements, by the avoidance of which success is our reward, but time will not permit me only to touch lightly upon a very few; nor can I but refer to them, for I feel not able to treat a subject of such magnitude and importance with the attention, force and thought which it demands; nor can I even clothe the ideas which may suggest themselves to my
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	659
mind in those rich, attractive, and flowing robes of words and expressions which they deserve. Still, if in the whole course of my remarks, I can cause one among you to stop and reflect on this important subject I shall be satisfied, for I know that by reflecting thereon, you will discover your own errors, and take immediate steps to correct them, or if you are right up to the present, you will doubly guard in future to keep so.
Now let me address myself more particularly to those young men who are about to doff their college robes and enter the world, to battle and endure its hardships and enjoy its pleasures, for both of which you are most suitably fitted, provided you have spent your time profitably during the past few years, or months, that you have been within those walls, drinking in the draughts of learning which have there been dealt out to you unsparingly; but il laziness has been your idol, and pleasure your sole object, you will, I fear, find yourself in a sorry plight to encounter the enemies of success which are arrayed against you on every side, and that instead of being able to climb the renowned hill you will gradually slide down to its very base, and thus wandering around, vainly endeavoring to find some easier path than the ordinary rugged one, or, perhaps, expecting that some former friend will, through charity, assist you up a portion of the road, at least towards its summit. But, alas! you will find but one sure and safe path up this hillside, and those who will willingly give a hand to help you, mighty few. Let us therefore consider for a moment some of the many means which we should employ to reap merited reward for our labors, and meet with that success which all of us hope for; and the first that should occupy our earliest, closest and most constant attention is our moral and mental cultivation and education. That we must be possessed of good morals in order to be truly successful wiil be conceded, although you cau look around you in the world and find many whose moral characters are not of the best,but who nevertheless in the eyes of the wicked world have met with what is commonly called success. But I call not that true success. I measure not success by the weight of one’s purse, nor the number of mock-laurel wreaths the world has placed upon his brow. The most successful wayyou*can cultivate good morals is to associate with those who are possessed of them, and by avoiding evil company; and though in worldly pursuits you must more or less come in contact with the base, still you will never be obliged to dabble with it to the extent that you will be contaminated by it, for it is by close alliance to, or taking pleasure in, evil company that brings upon us many of the vices of the day, and perhaps none to a greater extent than intemperance to which, in the majority of instances, can be traced the commission of almost every kind of crime. You must shun the social wine-glass as you would the most destructive poison. If you are now free from its use, for God’s sake and the sake of yourselves, your friends, and your future lives, I beg and entreat you to keep from it. It is this rock that has shipwrecked thousands upon thousands of young men after leaving college and starting out on the hidden course across the sea of life. Almost countless are the sacrifices of human beings who have been offered on this Bacchanalian altar. Better be it for you to let “Touch not, taste not, handle not,” be your motto ever; for if you touch it you’ll taste it, if you taste it you’ll drink it, and when once you drink it, King Alcohol will claim you as his vassal, and hard indeed will it be for you to escape from within the walls of his land of revelry and drunkenness.
Look around you, and tell me, where is the young man a victim of this vice who receives the respect and confidence of men as he would were he pot addicted to it? You cannot find him. Men will not employ such. Intemperate men will not receive at the hands of the public those offices and those positions which are the gifts of the people, for they are unable to perform their duties creditably when their minds are vitiated by drink. Hence, if you wish to succeed, if you wish to have the respect and confidence of your fellow-men, you must avoid this vice, and do so in your younger days, for you will find it difficult to correct in your older. That will be one step towards your being the possessor of a good name, character and reputation, without which you cannot succeed.
Though your morals have been guarded and directed in the right path, still that you may have the more strength
of mind or mental power to successfully resist any and all encroachments of the vicious ememy, you must supply your mental faculties with the means of warfare; and this is the object of your education, that you may the better know and understand truth justice and honor, and have the will, power and strength of mind to avoid temptations, and pursue only the good and upright.- And what a fortune, what a mine of wealth is an education! Who can estimate its worth! Can any of you tell me how much in dollars and cents would tempt you to part with whatever knowledge you may have acquired and stored away during the past few years? No, you cannot: for it is like life itself— something we prize far beyond earthly things. Even in its most limited form it is the labor of years of the closest and most constant toil. Since it is so valuable, oh, how thankful you should be that you are allowed to enter that mine of knowledge, there to search for and obtain this most precious ore, infinitely more valuable than gold and silver! And how like the steady, saving miner who labors daily in search for even the smallest particles of gold, and carefully hoards them until his fortune is made! So you should daily add something, no matter how small, to your stock of knowledge, that when your college days shall close you will have made your educational fortune, and thus be able to enter the world to engage successfully in one of its variops pursuits, and not be, like many educational mendicants, begging and borrowing the knowledge of their neighbors which they, through laziness, impatience, or some other cause, failed to acquire. Of course, young friends, you do not fully, nor can you justly be expected to realize the importance of this one point of education. You know not the value of knowledge, nor will you know its worth until you enter the busy thoroughfares of life; then it is when you will realize its worth if you possess it, or its loss if you have it not. You may rest assured, young friends, that what I have said to you is true; for you will hear it from the lips of all who have seen any of life, be he the venerable man of eighty, or the young man just entering the arena.
Now that your morals have been cultivated in youth, your mental faculties educated and prepared, you can the better exercise some judgment in the selection of a vocation or station in life, being the better able to select the one to which your abilities, taste, etc., are adapted—one which will bring you success and prosperity, one that will bring into action all your mental powers which for years you have been strengthening by your acquisition of knowledge, the one which will do yourselves the most good and prove the most beneficial to your fellow-men. Still, after all this preparation, if you are unable to make the proper selection, do not hesitate in asking the guidance of that Divine Being, who will not refuse to direct you in this most important act of your life; and though He has given you a free will, still He has endowed you with faculties only known to Him, the use of which you know not, but which will prove most beneficial in the pursuit of some particular vocation.
When you have chosen your vocation, and entered upon the performance of its duties, do so in a manner that will be a credit to yourselves and beneficial to you fellowbeings. Avoid everything that tends to draw you away from the path of honor, honesty and integrity. Let your every act be done with a will and determination to succeed. Have patience, perseverance, and ambition. But let not your perseverance and ambition cause you to become avaricious, nor your success make you vain-glorious and proud of whatever of this world’s goods or fame you may possess, or worldly honor you may attain; forever bear in mind that they maybe lost in a day, and the greater our fortune, the higher our honors, and the more pride we take in them, so much the greater will be our fall, the .more severe the loss, and the more poignant the grief caused thereby. Let your occupation be what it may, adhere to it closely, strive continually to become more perfect in its execution, for you can never do your duty too well, you will never be perfect in its performance. Perfection is a quality never found in man—God alone being perfect.
In conclusion, young friends, let me exhort you to weigh well this greatest of subjects to you just now. Though I be but a novice myself in the affairs of the world, still I have even in my few years seen some of its misfortune, aa
660	THE NOTKE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
well as a little of its success,—sufficient at least of both to cause me often to stop and reflect on this subject, a subject upon which we cannot reflect too much.
You who are about to pass into the arena of life, have double cause to reflect, for you will find the tempter on every side, and at every turn endeavoring by his fascinating smile to draw you away from the path of true honor and manhood, to journey on which you have been most suitably prepared with the armor of knowledge, virtue, religion and moral culture. You who are to return in a few short weeks to those truly classic halls, do so with renewed vigor, energy, and determination to apply yourselves more closely than ever to "your studies—perform all your duties well. Let your moral character be modelled after the fashion and form of those good and holy men who have undertaken the difficult task of teaching and directing you. Though now they seem like days of hardship, still I assure you they are the happiest days of your life, I care not how much fortune may favor you hereafter. Such is the experience of all of us; and I dare say not one ever leit dear old Notre Dame, be he young or old, but looks back with pride and pleasure to the days he passed beneath her shade, and regrets that he cannot again enter as one of her students. And this you will likewise feel, after you have closed your books,-—perhaps never again to be opened,—and engaged in the long and tedious battle of life, to fight which well and victoriously you must prepare yourselves thoroughly by becoming the possessor of good morals and education, to give you which Notre Dame with her enviable reputation stands without an equal, with a founder honored in every land, with directors and professors, than whom no holier, more learned or noble men can be found.
After Mr. Maloney ceased speaking, Prof. M. T. Corby favored the audience with one of his choice and.appreciative solos. Mr. Corby is a pleasing singer, and we do not doubt but that all were delighted with him. After the Orchestra had discoursed some excellent music, Mr. A. J. Burger came forward and delivered the prologue to the play in a neat and well-ordered manner; then the curtain rose and the play of the evening—“ Heartwell at Hamford ” —commenced. This drama has been given at Notre Dame before, but nevertheless it lost none of its charms by this. It was well brought upon the stage, and the cast of characters was all that could be desired. Each played his part well, and taken all in all it was a grand success. “Thomas Simms’’ably personated “Mr. Kind win, President, of Hamford,” as did also A. J. Burger that of “ Mr. Sharp, Vice-President.” Patrick Larkin acted well his part as Professor, while D. Donahoe personated “ Larry O’Toole ” (servant) to the entire satisfaction of all. Tne fact is, he swept well, and in justice he deserved the title of “ A clane swape.” As to W. B. McGorrisk, we must say that he acted his part of an undergraduate in a vivid and truthful manner, and left nothing undone on his part that could concur to a faithful rendition. Erank Bloom, W. H. Arnold and B. J. Claggett did well in their respective roles; while G. Sugg and John B. McGrath showed that a little fun was not a bad thing, and that having a “ lark ” is after all but one of the incidents of college life. Both these gentlemen did well. F. X. Wall took the part of “ Simon de Verd,a Freshman,” whose luck or unluck was to be “sold again.” Mr. Wall did well. To J. Noonan was intrusted the part ot “McGrubber,” an undergraduate (“Lend us a cigarette ”), and to R. Stewart," Reinhardt,” another undergraduate, and a most curious one at that. The part of the double-dealing Doubleday was admirably taken by John B. Berteling, who showed from first to last what a miserable thing it is to be a deceiver. His deception and almost ruination of “ Willie Lovejoy” is but a warning to all young men not to be in too great a hurry in placing confidence in strangers, and to be slow in violating the good resolu-' tions made on leaving home, before entering college, in order to pursue those studies so necessary to make life a success. “ Hon. W. Lovejoy ” (Willie’s father) was well taken by Geo. Clarke, while D. Harrington and Michael Burns did well in the roles of “Mr. Heartwell,” and “ Red-derville,”—a detective—respectively.
This is the short account of the Thespian Entertainment that our space permits us to give. The Entertainment, on the whole, was everything that could be desired.
Wednesday Morning, 8 a. m.
The exercises of Wednesday morning, June 23d, opened with a fine selection by the Band. The audience on this occasion was unusually large, and consisted of 1 persons from all parts of the country. Washington Hall was completely filled, and many were forced to abandon -the idea of entering it at all. After the Baud had ceased to play, Mr. J. B. McGrath, of New York city, came for- - -ward and in a pleasing style delivered the Valedictory.
This young gentleman spoke as follows:	j
Right. Rev. Bishop, Very Rev. and Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen:—The culmination of a stu- \ dent’s career has its pangs as well as its triumph. The last weeks of his sojourn with his Alma Ufater form a season of excitement Fears, hope, doubt and suspense agitate his heart, until the ordeal of the final examination is passed, and until he feels that all is happily concluded; and even then amid the joys of success arises an emotion of sadness, as he reflects that he must soon bid adieu to the scenes of his trials and victories, now endeared to him, as it seems, by a tie never realized before;	\
bid adieu to hiscomrades, bis generous rivals, whose rivalry	'
although once it may have seemed akin to enmity, now appears as a fountain to him of strength and final success, • ■ —so different is the golden light of the retrospective view from the lurid glare of emulous anticipation; bid also adieu 4 to those kind friends and instructors, whose true benevolence was not until now fully recognized, wearing, as it often did, the guise of a wholesome severity, but whose worth will hereafter be a remembrance to assure him when *■ engaged in the hand-to-hand conflict with the external * world, that justice and truth have not altogether deserted our earth, banished by the evil ways of mankind, as the 4 poet once sadly dreamed.
But this parting, painful as it is, is unavoidable. Our college career though valuable in itself, and cherished as it ever will be in our memories, is but the prelude to the psalm of life. The day has come when our paths, so * far pursued together, must diverge, conducting us to scenes of varied usefulness, whithersoever the special calling of each shall lead him: some to the engrossing cares of t commercial life, with which it seems the lot of every « American to be more or less connected, adding his testimony to that of the merchant princes of the old Venitian Republic, that commerce is not the base offspring of a T ( sordid thirst for gain, that, on the contrary, she is one	|
among those beneficent powers that advance the march of	"
civilization, bringing man into friendly relations with his fellow-man, affording channels by which the superfluities of some nations may supply the necessities of others to the A benefit of all; fulfilling the Gospel injunction—feeding	k
the hungry, clothing the naked, ransoming the captive— spreading harmony and mutual confidence among the peoples of the globe. Such is the exalted view that the • K Christian and the Catholic should take of a profession which is destined to absorb so much of the intellect and energy of the American youth. Again, some of us will devote ourselves to the development of the vast resources which our country offers: the exhaustless forests, the widespread prairies, the mines of untold wealth that lie hidden amid the mountains. These yield not their treasures to brute force alone; intellect and skill are the victors here as elsewhere. Some will take advantage of the encourage-	* •
ment our liberal laws offer to the inventor. They will add their names to the already long list that adorns the annals - -< of the nineteenth century, providing us with conveniences which no fancy, however wild its vagaries, has hitherto represented to itself in idle reverie. Others will embrace a literary career. Their ready pens will fill the columns ■* of some among our vast array of periodicals, ephemeral * or otherwise; while a few, perhaps, will ascend to the level of noted authorship, and write their names in the poet’s « corner. Some will aspire to serve their country in the military profession; fired with martial ardor, they will t join the phalanx of heroic men who form their country’s bulwark and her pride, prepared, if necessary, to lay down their lives for her safety. Still others will brave the terrors of the trackless ocean in addition to those of war- >-fare. Not a few among us, perhaps, are destined for the y profession of the law, to be the conservators of social order, tiie arbiters of opposing interests, the guardians of j ustice;	>-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	661
rising, perhaps,—who can tell?--tc ibe level of statesmanship—representing their fellow-citizens in the legislative ,	halls of their native States, nay, even in the general Con-
«	gress of the nation; or entering the civil service of the
country in one among the numerous positions now offered in that expansive field; or adorning the magisterial bench with their learning, uttering wise decisions which shall be handed down to generations yet unborn; and form part of the laws of the land. Others among us will approach more nearly to the sacred springs of human vitality. As physicians, they will be called to minister to their fellowcreatures in times of suffering aud fear. They will wrestle ’ for victory with the King of Terrors in his principal fortresses. They will brave the horrors of the pest-house— horrors before which the stoutest heart will quail. For * them not only is the highest degree of intellect and tact desirable, but also the moral qualities of benevolence and courage, combined with that supreme form of kindness which knows when the revelation of an inevitable catas-i trophe is imperative, and can nerve itself to its duty. And finally, may we not hope that some among those here present may enjoy a favor frequently vouchsafed to youths who have sat as students at the footstool of Notre Dame —the inestimable favor of a divine vocation to the sacer-* dotal order? that their lives will be spent in the exercise of the heroic virtues of the evangelical counsel? Their > occupations to inculcate holiness by precept and example, to instruct the ignorant, to counsel the doubting, to console the afflicted; to bring hope 'to the bedside of the dying; to listen to the penitential sobbings of the sin-worn * soul in the sacred tribunal of penance-; to raise the spotless Victim of the unbloody Sacrifice in the supreme act of worship to Majesty Divine. Such are some among the » many paths in life on which those now engaged in these Commencement Exercises are preparing to set out. How great the diversity! How varied the apparent ends and objects! And yet may we not hope that, various as they appear, they may all reunite one day in that everlasting home to which every Christian aspires?
Well has the poet said:
“------God gives to every man
1	The virtue, temper, understanding, taste
'	That lifts him into life, and lets him fall
Just in the niche he was ordained to fill.”
» It is true that all men are free to choose whether they will fill this niche so ordained for them, or whether they will wear out a wretched existence in trying to occupy a position for which they were never designed. With each, therefore, rests the responsibility of following the vocation sent from Heaven. Now is the time allotted to us, ■* comrades, for the choice.
‘ If we have not already made our decision, the next step is to make it, and thenceforward to stick to it faithfully.
■» Now it is that we are called upon to determine the place we should take among the great throng crowding this world. Now is the time to consider that “Life is only what we will make it,” and that we are tied to no man’s triumphal car, for even the future is, in a measure, at our disposal. No childish longings for the past, therefore, *	must cause us to waver in our resolution. No vain regrets
r	must delay us. When the traveller, ascending the moun-
tain side, stops, his first impulse is to look back; but when » a step farther brings him into full view of the broad area that lies beyond, he fixes his attention towards the _ front. So with us. To-day, our hearts would fondly turn ~ back and cling kindly to the many pleasant scenes and associations made familiar, and to the attachments formed and strengthened during the past four years; but one step ► further and we shall be brought face to face with the broad * world, and it is but natural that we should persistently contemplate the greatness of the undertaking before us.
» We part, therefore, but not in tears. Even in this life we may hope for many a happy reunion in the halls of our own Alma Mater. After our labors have been rewarded— 1 after we have achieved a social position worthy of the education that has been afforded us, our first desire will be to revisit the old College, to see completed these build-< ings which have already recovered to so great an extent 1' from the calamity of last year; to meet the friends of our youth and to exchange the narratives of intervening years;
_ to find the University still more numerously thronged by
boys who will have learned to take an interest in all that have gone before them; to call up old remembrances of the doings of previous years which will be interesting to all. As a celebrated poetess has said,
“Life hath as many farewells As it hath sunny hours, And over some are scattered thorns, And over others flowers.”
And if, as it may easily happen, so changeful is this earthly life, there are some that now bid farewell never to meet again on earth, we have still memories of a happy past and hopes of a glorious future to unite us. It is, then, under the influence of these sentiments that in the name of each I pronounce the word “ Farewell! ”
After the Valedictory had been pronounced, Prof. M. T. Corby, of Chicago favored the audience with one of his exquisite solos. The orator of the day, Hon; Edmund F. Dunne, of Salt Lake City, Utah, was then introduced by Very Rev. President Corby, and was received with great applause. This honorable gentleman’s subject was “Realities of Life ”; he spoke as follows:
Very Reverend President:—I shall do what I can to comply with your request to address some remarks to the distinguished audience assembled here on the occasion of the 36th regular Commencement Day of the University of Notre Dame, the first celebration in the grand edifice erected here in place of the building destroyed by the great fire of 1879.
Monseigneur :—We are glad to be honored again by your presence here; and, on the part of the friends of Notre Dame, I tender their heartfelt gratitude for the great interest you have always manifested in their labors, and express for them the hope that in the future, as in the past, they may rely on your support as one of the surest means of their success.
Very Reverend Father General:—All hearts here rejoice that you have been spared to witness this great triumph of the labor of your life; and we all hope and pray that you may gladden with your presence many Commencement Days yet to come.
Reverend Fathers:—It-is impossible for anyone to speak of the glory of this day without remembering the large part you bear in it.
Ladies and Gentlemen:—A slight retrospect of the history of this University will hardly be considered out of place on this occasion. Forty years ago, Notre Dame was founded, and for decade after decade stood here, a grand and beautiful monument of the faithful work of the Fathers of the Holy Cross, as well as of the noble generosity of the people for whom that work was done.
One year ago, to every corner of our land was flashed the startling news that Notre Dame was in flames. Dispatch followed quick upon dispatch, some telling that the fire was gaining, others that it would be subdued. A day of anxious waiting, and then the final word that all was lost. Only those who have aided in building up such an institution as Notre Dame had become, can realize the dreadful destruction wrought by that one day’s fearful work; they alone can properly estimate the long study of the far-reaching mind of the founder in determining the basis of organization for the work; the care‘in the selection of a site; the labor in this new country of collecting funds sufficient for the project; the planning of the buildings ; the years of work required to carry those plans into execution; the libraries to be collected; the philosophical apparatus to be purchased; the Professors to be maintained, and ail not by public tax, nor princely favor, nor munificent endowment, but by the simple, earnest efforts of a few poor but zealous men,—efforts vain indeed, had they not been seconded, as here they were, by the hearty co-operation of a people, in the matter of education, the most appreciative and generous that ever possessed a land or controlled its destiny. Some such solid basis on which to rest, must of course have existed, or no such result could have been accomplished, bat even with all this hearty co-operation assured, to found a university is a work requiring vast intelligence, exhaustless patience, unfailing hope, undaunted courage, and almost superhuman labor. That all these things were found and applied here, the history of what we may now call
662
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE OLD NOTRE DAME abundantly proves. Its venerable founder began the work in comparative youth, and, laboring on till long after time had silvered o’er his brow, lived to see it grow and expand under his fostering care, until its fame had spread, not only over the broad expanse of our own vast domain, but to every quarter of the globe, alive to the vivifying influence of literature, science and art. Yet all this life-long labor, not of the venerable founder alone, but of many heroic coworkers as well, some of whom, sharers with him long in toil, surround him now, co-partners here in honor, but most of whom, alas for us! live here no longer, but one by one have been called hence forever—yet, not to nothingness; tar away in the heavenly land, they wear the shining robes and bear the jewelled crowns and wave the triumphal palms, enraptured ever with the ecstasy of the Beatific Vision, reward of noble deeds and holy lives here below; but all this life-long labor of that gallant band of brothers, was, we may say, in one short hour, swept away. It was enough to appal the stoutest heart. But all was not lost. The unconquerable energy which had riven the rocks and hewn the forests in the early days, and out of them shaped the stately halls of the old Notre Dame, still remained.
THE OLD LEADER, dispatched for with electric speed, hastened back from his contemplated European tour, surveyed the ruins of the work of forty years, and though the sight was enough to break the bravest heart, his spirit stood the test unbroken. The fire of his early youth leaped into life again, and, not only nothing daunted, but with a boldness bound to become historic, he startled his triends with the declaration that even this awful calamity should, as to others, work no further result than a slight prolongation of the usual vacation.
THE GALLANT PEOPLE
to whom he appealed were worthy of such a leader. They rose at once equal to the occasion. They snatched the hissing stones, red-hot from the smouldering pile; swept away the debris; and though but one short year has passed the sun of the regular Commencement Day shines down upon the classic walls of '
A NEW NOTRE DAME, grander in conception, finer in execution, more splendid in appearance by far, than the one which crowned this site before.
All of this is something worthy of perpetual remembrance. The recollection of such grand resolution, such heroic co-operation, such almost incredible success, must ever have a most powerful effect on all connected with this University: on its managers, its supporters, and last, but not least, on its fortunate beneficiaries, but more particularly, because of their personal knowledge of the circumstances, on those of them to whom it is my especial duty to now address a few remarks.
Gentlemen of the Graduating Class:—I do not see you assembled in a body before me, but I am assured you are all here; therefore while the remarks I now make may seem to be addressed to the audience in general, you will understand that they are intended for you. Gentlemen, you represent, here the crowning result of the labors of the late scholastic year. After long and careful training, we send you forth, new champions in the great battle of life. In the days distinctively spoken of as the age of chivalry, the candidates for knightly honors had also to undergo their period of probation. That ordeal favorably passed, they had their ceremony of girding on the armor. This, in a nobler sense, is what we do with you to-day. Your friends have gathered here from circuits hundreds, and even thousands of miles in extent, to witness the ceremony. They have come also to note and applaud the proofs of progress given by the host of bright-eyed, eager-hearted youth, pressing on behind you, anxious to occupy the place you fill and adorn to-day, and we can plainly see that, when their day comes, there will be no fear but that the honor of old Notre Dame will be, as now, gallantly sustained.
Gentlemen :—This is an interesting day for you now, but you do not yet know how often in after-life you will revert to it: how vividly you will remember every incident connected with it, even those which now seem unimportant;
how, whether your lot be cast in the whirl and rush of city life, or in the peaceful country air, or amid the novelties of distant lands, you will often turn to this as one of the noted days of life on which memory will ever love to dwell. You do not know this yet, to its full extent, but your Very Rev. President knows it well, and because he knows it, and because he is animated with a loving care for your good, not bounded by your stay within these halls, but which he fain would have follow and protect you through every step in life, he seizes on this opportunity to have	•
A FORMAL ADDRESS made to you, in order that its words of advice may be so intertwined with your memories of this day that you never can forget them. It is your misfortune that this duty was not confided to abler hands than mine. I know that if any words of mine live even briefly in your recollection, it will be chiefly because of the time, place, and circumstance of their utterance.
First then, my young friends and, after to-day fellowworkers in life, let me urge upon you to not forget what you have so well learned here as to
THE DUAL NATURE OF JIAN.	’
You know that human nature consists of two parts, body and spirit combined. One of the first things which young men, after launching out on life’s great sea, are apt for a while to forget, is the existence of the spiritual part of their nature, and he who forgets it, does not thereby become only half a man, but, for the time being, he practically ceases to belong to human kind, as human kind is created and intended to exist; because, as during life, these two natures are inseparable, their is no half-way possible in the matter. You are bound to care for all the gifts with which you have been endowed. You must care tor the spirit as well as for the body; but in this, you highest duty, you will find your greatest pleasure. The ven -erable Charles Carroll of Carrollton, one of the signers of our Declaration of Independence, after ninety years’ expe-perience of life, solemnly declared that, although he had been blessed with friends, fame, fortune, long life, health, honor—all that the world could give, the greatest happiness he had, when about to die, was the consciousness that he had, to the best of his ability, properly cared for his spiritual life. I do not ask you to believe that the rule is general just because of that one declaration. I cite it merely as an instance in point. You will find corroborative proofs of it as long as you choose to look for them; and with all the research you may be able to make, live as long as you may, you will never find anything to satisfactorily sustain the contrary proposition. Having your convictions on this subject, acton them, promulgate them; demand and insist on having unrestricted enjoyment of them to the last degree of untrammelled freedom. In this matter, compromise is crime. Claim all your rights, and never cry content until you get them, all of them.
He either fears his fate too much, Or his deserts are small, Who will not put it to the touch, And win or lose it all.
Of course I mean by this, the system by which rights are practically secured; the rights themselves you can neither risk nor lose, for they are not alienable even by voluntary act. It would ill become me in this presence to pursue this subject further, but, knowing the training you must have had, I felt that you would have been surprised had I passed it without mention. Let us turn now to minor matters. Let us take up at once
THE FIRST QUESTION.
Some years ago, a celebrated author wrote a novel, to which he gave, what was then considered, a singular name. The title was er interrogation: “ What will he do with it?” That is the question your friends are asking as to each one of you to-day. They say: “ Here is a fine young man, who, after an immense expenditure of various things, has, at last, acquired what is called a complete education. The question now is, “ What will he do with it?” How many of you can answer that question? Oh! I doubt not, almost everyone of you feels he can answer it perfectly. Most of you have doubtless already, as you think, chosen your life’s work. The serious question is, not so much what that choice is now, as, whether in one,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
two, or five years hence, it will be the same as now. You must realize the
IMPORTANCE OF STABILITY OF PURPOSE.
Make your choice as carefully as you can, but when once made and well entered upon, do all in your power to adhere to it. The failure to do this, is the cause of most life failures. Each one in starting, has his idea of the success he wishes to obtain. He sets about realizing his hopes; a few years fly quickly by; he does not get on as fast as he expected; he sees others leading him in the race; he gets, discouraged; begins to listen to voices about him suggesting that he is on the wrong track; sometimes comes to believe them; throws away the labor of years; goes back to his starting point, and begins again. Beware of this. Be not discouraged at slow advance.
Heaven is not reached by a single bound; But we build the ladder by which we rise From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies, And we mount to its summit round by round.
Do ycu know how long some men have had to wait for success? Goldsmith did not know that he could write till after he was thirty, and he was forty before anything like success began. Sir Walter Scott was over forty before he published “ Waverly,” the first of that series of tales by which he gained his fame and redeemed his honor. Dryden saw. half a century slowly pass before he found the work in which he was able to take a master’s place; while Milton had passed his fiftieth year with “ Paradise Lost ” not yet even begun.
Can you not have a little patience, when you see before you examples such as these?
BELY ON STEADY, FAITHFUL WORK.
The fable of the hare and the tortoise is old and trite, but, like many other such things, there is more in it than at first meets the eye. The longer you live the more respect you will have for that ancient story, and the more you will regret that you did not sooner comprehend the deep philosophy it contains. Make your way as fast as you can, of course, but remember that it is the constant drop that wears away the stone. If any one of you has within himself the consciousness of power to keep pounding away at his work, even though the sparks do not always fly with dazzling brilliancy, let him hold up his head and move boldly on. He need have no fear as to his success. Good, honest, faithful work, steadily persevered in, seconded by even reasonably good habits, never yet went long unrewarded. Do not mistake me. Lay not the flattering unction to y^ur souls that if this be so, success is easy. I did not say it was easy. I said it was certain, if you took the proper steps to obtain it. Do not worry too much about talent. You all have talent enough to succeed in any occupation for which you now have a strong personal preference. The more Important ?uestion is, have you sufficient industry and patience?
t would be well for you if you could understand now what some day you will fully realize, that
APPLICATION IS THE BEST TALENT. '
Newton seriously declared that he believed he was endowed with only ordinary natural abilities; that the secret of his success was work, a steady bending of his mind to any problem he wished to solve, and holding it there until the matter became clear to him.
Buffon—but, you are fresh from your books, and doubtless know the story. I will recount it for our younger-friends here, whom we must not altogether forget, ana to whom it may not be so familiar. Buffon declared that genius consisted chiefly in being able to get up at six o’clock in the morning, lighting your own fire, and getting to work. He had very little of this kind of genius himself. Noble by birth, rich by inheritance, he became lazy from habit; but the ambition of authorship seized him, and he has left a most interesting account of the struggle he had to accomplish his work. Finally, despairing of his own will-power in the matter, he condescended to make a bargain with his valet that for every morning Joseph succeeded in getting him out of bed by six o’clock, he should have one crown extra pay for the day. Alas for resolution! when Joseph sought to earn his crown next day, Buffon not only would not get up, but threatened the life of the intruder if he would not leave the room; but when the lazy Count managed at last to rise, and found the best part of
the day gone and no work done, he again vented his anger on his servant, called him a vile, worthless fellow, who could not do what he was told, and assured him that if he did not perform the service demanded of him he should be discharged. The next morning Joseph, as a last resort, dashed a bucket of water in his master’s face and practically floated him out. Then the great work on Natural History began to progress, and Buffon has left it on record that at least three or four volumes of the work ought to be credited to his faithful servant Joseph. How many similar sousings these three or four volumes represent is not stated, but,
Gentlemen, this story of Buffon is a powerful illustration of the
IMPORTANCE OF REGULARITY IN WORK.
If you will inquire into the practice of men who have accomplished much in life, you will find that they generally made it a rule to set aside a certain number of hours each day for the chief work they had in hand, and always placed those hours as early in the day as possible. It is of importance that you acquire this habit. First, it is an old maxim, and a true one, that a thing begun is half done. Begin your day’s work early, and you will almost surely get it done before night overtakes you; and do not imagine that it is a small matter to do each day’s work on the day it ought to be done; second, for all the ordinary work of life you are in better condition to do it then than at any other time. I grant you that there are certain kinds of work which are sometimes best done in the silent watches of the night, when nature sleeps and all is still; that, as the poet says,
The dead of night is the noon of thought, And genius mounts her zenith with the stars; but that is for occasional work, of an exceptional kind, and has nothing to do with the general rule. For the ordinary work of life, the golden rule is: rise early, go at it immediately, pursue it diligently, fight it as you would a battle on which your life depended, finish it up promptly, and when you get through with it, stop. Do not, except in extraordinary cases, anticipate the next day’s work, for when you do that y< u break your rule of regularity; you overstrain your powers, and then, resting on succeeding working days, first from necessity, you are in danger of soon coming to do it from habit. When your day’s work is fairly done, then look about you; chat with your friends; pick up the odds and ends of work which always lie about and arrange them for disposition then, or at some future time, but never give the sacred hours of morning to any but the most important work of the day.
It has been, not inaptly, said that
MAN 18 A BUNDLE OF HABITS.
Make up your bundle with care; keep the bad ones out and get the good ones in. I have spoken of a habit of regularity in work, but, if you would have success in life, you must establish a habit of
PROMPTNESS
in all your relations with men. The unpunctual man is always at a disadvantage. Arriving late, he is flurried, bound to make excuses, obliged to act hastily because others are waiting, and thereby often does things which he should not do and would not have done had he been first on the ground and had time to collect his thoughts and determine as to his actions. A noted man confessed that he felt he owed much of his success in life to so small a thing apparently, as always keeping his watch five minutes fast. -Another little habit to which I would call your attention, is
COURTESY.
Do not despise little things. The Italians have a proverb that the smaller wheels of a carriage come in first. I call courtesy a little thing, because in this country it is sometimes lightly esteemed in theory, though its power is felt in practice beyond what many would believe. To realize this, you have but to notice the effect produced on yourselves when approached with or without it by others. Courtesy is intimately connected with, and often dependent upon, what is sometimes a habit and generally a virtue,
PATIENCE.
This you must by some means acquire, or you never will get on. The impatient man is the sport of his friends and the scoff of his enemies. He can be played upon easier
664	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
than a pipe, hut when you come to deal with a thoroughly patient man, he careful what you do. He will fool you to the top of your bent and trip you when you least expect it. In proportion as you get patience you get power. The Germans say that it is the cold hammer which fashions the hot iron; and what passes into a proverb with those people, you may be sure is worth remembering. Do not forget the great sustaining and persuasive power of
CHEERFULNESS.
If you wish to get on, you must not only be patient, but you must go a step further and learn to be pleasant, as well. The world has no love for sad faces, and they are the poorest of all passes to success. You know the lines,
Why so pale, fond lover? why so pale ? If thy looking well won’t move her, Think’stthou looking ill will e’er prevail?
Practice self-control, and believe, that practice makes perfect. Do not “wear thy heart upon thy sleeve lor daws to peck at,” though it need be none the harder, for all that. Let ft ever melt in gentle, loving
CHARITY,
divine virtue! the quality of which, like that of mercy, “is not strained but droppeth, as the gentle rain from heaven,” and is not only twice, but many times blest.
HOW SHALL I FIND MY VOCATION?
many ask. Notice what you have read, and what it is of your reading that has most attracted your attention, most fired your ambition. We are told that Cowley was made a poet by finding a copy of Spenser; that Correggio was led to become a painter by reading the life of Michael Angelo; that Richardson’s lives of the painters made Reynolds an artist; and we know, that a gallant Spanish knight, solacing himself in the hospital at Pampeluna, with a perusal of the lives of the saints, became thereby the founder of one of the greatest religious orders of ancient or modern times. Of course there is something above all this in the matter of determining vocations, and most of you, I hope, know how to get safe direction on the subject.
HOW MAY I SUCCEED IN MY VOCATION?
Ah! that is the question the new recruit is always asking. It has been answered innumerable times, and the answer is, “ Always do the best you can with whatever you have undertaken.” Do not waste time questioning as to whether you have a great natural talent for your work. If you have had freedom in your choice, you have, in all probability, more talent for the work you have selected than you have for anything else, and, having made ycur choice, all that remains for you to do is, to take your talent as it is, and do with it the best you can. Of course there is such a thing as great natural talent for special work—genius in fact, and I will not breathe one word in derogation of the admiration, reverence and awe with which, as a great gift from God, it ought ever be regarded; but not one man in a hundred thousand has it; not one in a million is able to bear it. It is a spark of divine fire, I know, but a fire of such fierce, consuming flame, that it were better for you to go down on your knees and thank God for withholding it, rather than, with Promethean rashness, ask for its endowment. The question for most of us then is not, have we great natural talent for our work, but can we, by care, by patient, persevering labor, develop power sufficient to succeed in our vocation, even though we may not have been able to show at first any great natural aptitude for it. Can we do this ? All along, down through all the history of all the ages, the answer comes ringing back, You can if you will.
Is not oratory a gift ? Almost every one will tell you that it is. This world is now historically some six thousand years old. During that time, hundreds of nations have risen, thriven and fallen, affording numberless opportunities for the production of distinguished orators. Of this whole time, one man stands before the world, acknowledged to be the greatest orator that ever, anywhere, lived. Did he spring, full panoplied, from the brain of Jove dazzling the world “ like the herald Mercury new lighted on a heaven-kissing hill ” ? Oh, too well you know the story! how Ais first efforts too were failures; how he filled his mouth with stones and gnashed his teeth upon them in an agony of rage; shaved his head and hid himself from the sight of man, until, by
PATIENT LABOR, he had perfected himself in the art by which he sought renown. All along the line you will find the same story. You will find it with Beaconsfield in debate, with Bulwer in literature, with Peel in memory, with Santa Giacinta in piety, with Domenichino in art, and hundreds of other cases known to you now, or with which I hope you will soon become familiar.
As you study the secret of their success, you will find it consisted, not in gazing longingly upon the distant future,, but in faithful utilization of the ever-living present. Young sportsmen crane their necks looking afar off for game, while the old hunter is quietly knocking down his deer almost at their feet. In your anxiety to accomplish something worthy, do not dream always of great things in the distance, but,
DAY BY DAY, DO THE WORK WHICH LIES WITHIN YOUR - REACH,
appealing to you for attentioni, Even so, and only thus, will your hand gain in cunning, your mind broaden in conception, your will grow in power, your heart swell with courage, and when the occasion sudden ” comes, as to every man it comes once, if not oftener in life, while the vain dreamer, who has been supinely waiting, is swept aside in the mighty rush of events, you will be able to seize the opportunity and, as with giant strength, hold it, all your own.
In the game of chess, the pawn is the most insignificant piece, yet it has passed into a proverb with Caissa’s votaries, that to properly play the pawn, is to be master of the game. The game of life is played with a thousand pieces, most of them of comparatively trifling value, but you will never succeed in it until you come to
HAVE A PROPER REVERENCE FOR WHAT SEEM LITTLE
THINGS.
Michael Angelo was explaining one day to a visitor what he had been doing to a statue since his friend's last visit, when it was thought the statue was finished; how he had sharpened a little here, softened a little there, let his chisel fall with almost Infinitesimal touch upon the corner of a lip, the expression of an eye, the delineation of an almost undiscoverable muscle. “But,” said his friend, interrupting, in astonishment, “ are not these things trifles after all ? ”
“ No,” said the artist gravely, “ they are not; these are the things which go to make perfection, and nothing which does that can be called a trifle.”
Gray’s elegy is a little poem of a few dozen lines; yet the author worked on it eleven years before he gave it to the world. Some books of most easy reading were entirely re-written five, ten, fifteen and in one case, I remember, seventeen times, before getting to the printers, hands.
I knew a Chief-Justice once, now a member of the Supreme Court of the United States, who on one occasion travelled one hundred and eighty miles, just to change one word in one of his opinions before publication; a word not- affecting the decision, but only the turn of a phrase, as a matter of style. Such is the care some men take of their work, while foolish, lazy people, too confident of their ability, too careless of their reputation, too contemptuous of others’ judgment, say: “ Let it pass; it is well enough; it will not be noticed.” Very likely it passes without notice, and the author likewise, but the careful Judge I spoke of, was passed to a higher place.
I cite these things for your encouragement when you find you cannot, at the first dash, do things as you would like. Most other people have the same trouble, even the most suceessful ones. The difference between people in this regard is chiefly one of work. Is there anything more orderly, more finished, more nearly perfect as a work of art, than Gibbon’s “ Decline and Fall ” ? Yet the author tells us, that: “At the onset, all was dark and doubtful,” and that, even after seven years’ work, he came near abandoning the whole project in despair. Dryden tells us, of some of his finest work, that “It was, at first, only a confused mass of troubled thoughts, tumbling over one another in the dark.” “ Invention/’ says Buffon, “ depends on patience. Contemplate your subject long; it will gradually unfold till a sort of electric spark convulses for a moment the brain and spreads down to the very heart a glow of inspiration.”
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	665
IF YOU HAVE AMBITION, HAVE ALSO COURAGE.
Work on steadily, faithfully, hopefully. You will prevail at last, whatever the work may he, and accomplish more than at first you even dreamed of doing.
“Every man,” says Gibbon, “has two educations: one which he receives from others; the other and more important one, that which he gives himself.” To-morrow you begin your second education. Give your talents a fair chance. You do not know yet what power there may be in them. Work in the future as some of you have worked here, and there is hardly anything you may not accomplish. I have seen since my arrival here, proofs of labor which astonished me. I said to some of you in the hall, after the first night’s display of your powers, that you had frightened me, and that instead of going to your regatta yesterday, as I intended, I was going to shut myself up and work before venturing to address you. I have seen here minds which are able and worthy to be of the rulers of this nation, and will be if they choose; therefore I repeat, give your talents a fair chance, you do not know yet the power there may be in them. Notice what has been done by
ECONOMY OF TIME.
Cardinal Wiseman wrote that enchanting account of the Church of the Catacombs during odd moments snatched from severe missionary labor, and not in a cozy library, surrounded with all the appliances of composition, but, for the most part, in railway depots, waiting for trains; in cabs and hacks and occasional halts at out-of-the-way country inns. Cardinal Manning is one of the hardest-worked men in England; does more work visible to the public eye than any man of his day; yet, somehow or other, he manages to turn out, every year or two, a book which would make the literary fortune of our most distinguished writers. Dr. Good translated Lucretius while riding in his carriage, in the streets of London visiting his patients. Burney learned French and Italian, on horseback, riding from one country house to another, giving music lessons. A great French Chancellor wrote one of his books during the moments of waiting for dinner. Madame de Genlis wrote several of hers while awaiting the pleasure of her princess pupil.
What do all these things teach? Three things at least. First, the importance of work; second, that there is always time enough for work if we economize what is given us; third, the importance of a proper choice of work. A proper choice of work is important, because such an almost unlimited amount of labor is required, to reach, anything like surpassing excellence in anything, that unless you find a work congenial to your tastes and suited to your powers, it will be almost impossible for you to stand the strain required for great success, whereas, if you are fortunate in your selection, the effort will be comparatively easy, for,
“ The labor we delight in, physics pain.”
If you profit by the suggestions I have recalled to your minds, you will “ learn to labor ”; but you must also
LEARN TO WAIT.
Having with due care chosen your life’s work, do not quarrel too much with an unpleasant lot at first assigned you.
Sweet are the uses of adversity.
It wounds our vanity, humbles our pride, tries our patience; but it purifies our bear's, develops our powers and sends us back, An’aeus like, filled with new strength for the contest. Sidney Smith was at first sent to a miserably dull, out-of-the-way country station. He knew he was fitted for better work but his superiors did not know it. How did he set about convincing them ? By writing complaining letters, begging for promotion ? No: he simply displayed his powers. When he did that, he was sent for and put where he belonged. So it will be with you. Prove yourselves worthy, and advancement will be heaped upon you.
Laurel crowns cleave to deserts, And power to him who power exerts ;
Hast not thy share? On wingdd feet, Lo I it rushes thee to meet;
And all that nature made thy own, Floating in air, or pent in stone, Will rive the hills and swim the sea, And, like thy shadow, follow thee.
You must care though for your
PHYSICAL HEALTH.
I could talk to you for hours on this subject, and you may with profit devote years to its study. I know that young men, bursting with health, exhilarated with the mantling wine of youth, laugh at such suggestions. The wealthy, careless prodigal, who keeps no tally of the cheque he draws, soon finds his cheques dishonored. The poorest, weakest, most frail, most delicate man of all this class, who learns and observes the laws of health, will, as a rule, outlive, outwork, and most easily vanquish the lustiest man among you who disregards them. Study the story of the Count Cornaro. Economize your forces. Learn also the
e	ECONOMY OF MONEY.
Avoid debt. You will find it a monster hard to escape. The more you are really able to defy it, the more danger you are in of becoming its victim through carelessness, inattention, or over confidence in your ability to meet the obligation; but if its deadly fangs are once securely fastened on your vitals, farewell, a long farewell, to all your hopes, not of greatness, but of anything like comfort, ease or satisfaction of any kind in life. I will not mar the pleasures of this day by recounting the fearful denunciations on this subject uttered by the most powerful masters of our tongue. To merely read them is enough to make one sick at heart? Debt is the father of lies, of meanness, of things most vile, and often the cause of crime, despair, and dishonorable death.
WATCH YOUR COMPANY.
Association teaches more than books. Aim to pass your social hours only with the brave, the noble and the good. Cherish the old, knightly virtue of chivalrous courtesy for woman, sweet woman! whose gentle, refining influence, pure and high resolve, patient, watchful care, and true and holy love, will do more to encourage your efforts, perfect your character, ennoble your ambition and exalt and purify your lives than all the 1 orations ’ which might be culled from the ‘ garnered wisdom of a thousand years.’
My Young Friends :—I have told you many things by which you may command success. I have now
ONE LAST BUT MOST IMPORTANT WORD.
Be not satisfied with mere material success. We expect of you something more than that It is not for that alone that this University was founded; that learned professors give you the result of life-long study; that parents, through many weary years, sustain you here, and that, by every possible means, your faculties have been trained to the highest attainable point of perfection. You must remember that to be a university graduate is to be as one man picked of ten thousand, and that where much is given much wiil be required, for,
Nature never lends
The smallest scruple of her excellence, But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines Herself the glory of a creditor, Both thanks and uses.
Spirits are not finely touched, But to fine issues.
Thyself and thy belongings
Are not thine own so proper as to waste Thyself upon thy virtues, them on thee.
We expect that you will go through the battle of life not mere Dalgettys, fighting solely for personal gain, but that you will use your powers so as to accomplish something for the good of human kind. You will have abundant opportunity. We live in a country that is both old and young; it has many of the vices and infirmities of age, with much of the power and virtue of youth. We have burning questions still pending, which fire the hearts and inflame the passions of men. Others of equal or greater import are bound to arise. We need our best men in the thickest of the fight, for there is where the grandest work, is done. “The philosopher who contemplates from the rock, is a less noble image than the sailor who struggles in the storm.” In these pending and coming contentions,, as men of high intellectual culture, it will be expected that you will take a prominent part in public affairs, but, as for-graduates of this University, it will be required that your public acts be ever in accordance with the purest principles
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of morality. While this must be your course, as a matter of highest duty, it -will also be your surest road to victory. In the long fight of life, the man of greatest virtue is always the man of ultimate and permanent power. Honor then the nobler part of man. Make no compromise with corruption. As our glorious Meagher •of the sword has grandly said: “ Surrender not your conscience in public affairs, to be debased by the political knaves who thrive, fatten, rise and coruscate upon the ruins of the young, the pure, the gallant and the gifted. Rest assured of it, honesty, intelligence and Independence in public life will carry the longest day and be the sun and glory of it. Intrigue, fraud, deceit and treachery may rule, indeed, the shorter hours, and be the sovereign brigands of them. But, dominant in the sky of a few confused and troubled hours, their inevitable doom is, the blackness of Erebus’and the hissing flames of Phlegethon.”
Young Men:—I will not detain you longer. I know that I have said to you nothing that is new, but that is your best guaranty that what I have said is worthy of your remembrance. I have set before you maxims of advice drawn from the wisdom of ages, consecrated by time and verified by experience. Reflect upon them and you will do well. Act upon them and you will do better. I have drawn these maxims mainly from the natural order, but, as I told you in the beginning, that touches only the lower part of your nature. If you would draw from the great fount and source of never-ending power, you must have recourse to the super-natural order. You will find there an inexhaustible mine of wealth for all your needs, temporal as well as supernal. Even Tennyson, from whom you would hardly expect it, tells you, that:—
More things are wrought by prayer
Than the world dreams of. Wherefore, let thy voice Rise like a fountain, . . . night and day.
For what are men better than sheep or goats, That nourish a blind life within the brain, If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer, Both for themselves and those who call them friends ?
Mv Dear Friends:—At a parting like this, the adieus are not easily said, but the final word must be pronounced. Gallant Knights, receive now your armor. Take the weapons you have here prepared. Go forth with them to battle, and may God give you grace to always know the just cause; courage to espouse it and strength of arm, tongue and pen, heart, body and brain to ever lead it on to glorious victory 1
Ladies and Gentlemen:—This is the first formal address I have ever delivered to an audience east of the Rocky Mountains. It is the first time I have ever addressed so distinguished an audience anywhere. I am astonished at your patience, flattered by your attention, overwhelmed with your more than generous manifestation of approval, for all of which I tender my most sincere and heartfelt thanks.
You have suffered for lack of accommodation in this little hall, constructed solely for the needs of former times. As you pass out you may notice the foundation laid for an exhibition hall of proportion suited to the needs of a University like this. Some of the walls even are there; the plans are in the architect’s room; but the funds .'—Look at the buildings that have been erected here during the past year and you will understand that the poor Fathers must be sorely pressed. If you would have a hall worthy of this institution, all that is needed is a little more of your generous assistance. Can we not make one pull more and put the finish on the work of Notre Dame? Sooner or later it must be done. Let us do it now, and have the new hall for the next Commencement Day.
After Judge Dunne’s able oration, which was received •with immense applause, the distribution of premiums, the awarding of diplomas, class prizes, honors, and the conferring of degrees took place:
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Hon. Edmund F. Dunne, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Degree of A. M. was conferred on W. P. Breen, Fort Wayne, Ind.; J. J. Coleman, Ardee, Ireland; J. P. McHugh, Lafayette, Ind.; Maurice F. Egan, New York, N. Y.t Andrew Morrissey, Notre Dame, md.
The Degree of M. 8. was conferred on F. Devoto, Salt Lake City, Utah.; John G. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
The Degree of A. B. was conferred on J. B. McGrath, New York City.
The Degree of B. S. was conferred on Anthony J. Burger, Reading, Pa.; John B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio; JohnP. Kinney, Ravenna, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Arthur J. ’’ Stace, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of LL. B. was conferred on T. W. Simms, Springfield, Ky.; F. X. Wall, Springfield, Ky.; D. Donahoe, „ Huntley, III.
Medical Certificates were awarded to William Connolly, Cresco, Iowa; A. J. Burger, Reading, Pa.; E. J. Molitor, - ’ Somonauk, Ill.
The following young gentlemen received Commercial -Diplomas:	„
R. E. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.; E. Fogarty, Pittsburg, Pa.; J. E. McCarthy, Lafayette, Indj J. N. Osher, Chicago, Ill.; Geo. Pike, Uniontown, Ky.; W. Ryan, Delevan, Ill.; Jas. Solon, Ivesdale, 111.; Patrick Shea, Wabash, Ind.; Jos. *• Smith, Circleville, Ohio; P. H. Vogel, Columbus Ohio; F.
B. Phillips, Fort Wayne, Ind.; A. Rietz, Chicago, Ill.; Wm. Rietz, Manistee, Mich.; Jno. Casey, Erie, Pa.; B. Casey, “•* Erie, Pa.; C. J. Brinkman, Terre Haute, Ind.; J. H. Delaney, Green Bay, Wis.: M. B. Falvey, Ind.; G. H. Donnelly, Chicago, Hl.; Frank Brennan, Whitewater, Wis.; Alpha A. < Lent, Waterloo, Ind.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.	’
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.	(
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	f
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to R. Anderson, Circleville, Ohio.
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded to M. J. Burns, Ada, Mich.
Junior Cl ass—Medal awarded to Geo. Sugg, Chicago, Ill. COMMERCIAL COURSE, f
Medal awarded to R. E. Flemming, Henderson, Ky.	•;
Medal for Evidences of Christianity, awarded to | E. C. Orrick, Miss.	i
The Edward’s Medal for Progress in Penmanship, awarded ex aquo to F. R. Johnson, Memphis, Tenn., and < to H. L. Rose, Evansville, Ind.
The Francolon Gold Medals for Christian Doctrine, awarded to W. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; F. I Brennan, Whitewater, Wis.; and to J. R. Martlett, Vicks- . burg, Miss.
Medals for Excellence in Elocution (that donated : by J. B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio,) awarded to C. E. Tinley, Covington, Ky.; (the one, by J. A. Lyons. Notre v Dame, Ind.,) to W. J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.; (that by J. P. Shea, Toronto, Canada,) to F. X. Wall, Springfield, Ohio; (the one donated by Rev. T. O’Sullivan, Mount Forest,	'<
Hl.,) to C. Hagan, Dungannon, Ohio.	j
The Edward’s Medal for Church History (1879),	,
awarded to Wm. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; and that for 1880, awarded to J. B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio.	,
AWARDING OF FIRST HONORS.
SENIOR department.	* ,
John B. McGrath, New York city. N. Y.; Wm. B. McGor- j risk, Des Moines, Iowa; Robert M. Anderson, Circleville, O.;
John B. Berteling, Cincinnati, O.; John Casey, Erie, Pa.; B. Casey, Erle, Pa.; Thos. Conlan, Neenah, Wis.; Frank T. /. Clarke, Columbus, O.; W. Connolly, Cresco, la.; D. Donahoe,^.	.
Huntley, Ill.; Thos. W. Simms, Springfield, Ky.; Jacob I X « Kurz, Dubuque, Iowa; R. C. O’Brien, Sandusky, O.; Patrick , Shea, Wabash, Ind.; Joseph Smith, Circleville, O.; Frank Smith, Circleville, O.; J. N. Osher, Chicago, Ill.; M. J. Mc-Eniry, Osborn, UI.: J. P. Brice, Des Moines, Iowa; Patrick ’ B. Larkin, Loogootee, Ind.; A. F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind; ; Thos. Zeien, Iowa.	, J
junior department.	-
A. J. Buerger, Burlington, Iowa; C. J. Brinkman, Terre	■
Haute, Ind.: M. J. Bums, Ada, Mich.: A. A. Caren, Colum-	1
bus, O.; J. J. Gordon, Cairo, Ill.; F. H. Grever,Cincinnati, ■« ; Ohio; W. J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.; J. E. McCarthy, « Lafayette, Ind.; R. Le Bourgeois, St. Landry Parish, La.; j Peter P. Nelson, Chicago, Ill.; Frank B. Phillips, Fort j Wayne, Ind.; Charles F. Rietz, Chicago, Ill.: A. S. Rock, * J Lincoln, Hl.; James K. Schobey, Danville, Ill.; John A. I Seeger, Dubuque, Iowa; F. C. Scheid, Lincoln, Ill.; Edward 1 G. Sugg, Chicago, DI.	X
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	;
Geo. C. Knight, Chicago, Ill.; Guy Woodson, Laramie, Wyoming Territory; Jas. M. Courtney, Washington. D. C.; r Joe. S. Courtney, Washington, D. C.; Harry Snee, Chicago, >
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
667
Ill.; Jose Chaves, Belen, New Mexico; E. A. Howard, South Bend, Ind.; H. A. G. Kitz, Indianoplis, Ind.; A. J. Campan, Detroit, Mich.
AWARDING OF SECOND HONORS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
L. Proctor, Elkhart, Ind.; L. Clements, Erie, Pa.; G. E. Clarke, Cairo. Ill.: Wm. McAtee, Ky.; Gilbert Hams, Ky.; Frank Kinsella, Dubuque, Iowa; L. Mathers, Ky.; Geo. Pike, Ivesdale, Ill.; Jas. Solon, Uniontown, Ky.; Henry Wathen, Ky.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. E. O’Connor, Chicago, Ill.; E. A. Otis; P. H. Rasche, Oakland, Md.; Joe Ruppe; H. L. Rose, Evansville, Ind.; C. F. Rose, Evansville, Ind.; J. M. Scanlan, Chicago, Ill.; C. A. Tinley, Covington, Ky., C. H. Thiele, Goshen, Ind.; N. Weny, Ind.; J. B. Weitzel, Frankfort, Ky.; J. V. Gabel, Washington, Ind.; C. J. McDermott, Ohio: G. C. Foster,Dakota; J. A. Gibbons, Keokuk, Iowa; G. J. Rbodius, Indianopolis, Ind.; J. L. Morgan, Marco, Ind.; A. C. Hierb, Des Moines, la; G. Castenado, New Orleans, La.; J. F. Browne, Brownsvill, Tex.; Frank Becker, Canton, la; A. M. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; L. W. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; J. W. Devitt, Chicago, Ill.; H. F. Devitt, Chicago, ill.; T. F. Flynn, Des Moines, la; R. E. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.; J. W. Guthrie, Tarroll City, Iowa; A. J. Hintze, Milwaukee, Wis.; J. A. Herrmann, Des Moines, Iowa; A. F. Hellebusch, Cincinnati, Ohio; F. R. Johnson, Memphis, Tenn.; F. A. Kleine, Cincinnati, Ohio; F. McPhillips, Dexter, Mich.; N- J. Nelson, Chicago, Ill.; E. C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.
MINIM DEPARTJIENT.
Dan. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.; H. P. Dunn, Mobile, Ala.; W. Hanavin, Columbus, Ohio; M. S. Olds, Ohio; J. Bannister, Ind.; J. F. Henry, Ohio; F. Farrelly, Chicago, Ill.; Jos. Dwenger.Fort Wayne, Ind.; C. Campau, Detroit, Mich.; G. G. Droste, Cincinnati, 0.; C. Echlin, Colorado; F. Mattes, Iowa; J. T. Smith, Circleville, 0-G. Van Mourick, Detroit; Mich.; L. Young, Indiana; A. Kelly, Washington, D. C.; William O’Malley, Ill.; James E. Johnson, Tenn.
Premiums.
>	'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
u	Anderson, R.—Premium in Machine Drawing; Pre-
I mium in 1st Algebra; Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Pre’ ■» mium in Botany; Premium in Physiology. ’
a	Berteling, J. B.—1st Premium in Modern History; Pre-
|	mium in Ancient History; Premium in Geology; Pre-
।	mium in Mineralogy; Accessit in Descriptive Geometry;
J 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
f	Burger, A. J.—Premium in 3d Latin; Premium in De-
scriptive Geometry; Premium in Human Anatomy; 1st
5 Accessit in Moral Philosophy.
1	Bloom, F. W.—1st Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in
I* 3d Greek; Premium in Astronomy; Premium for Violin ;
I Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Accessit in Moral Phi-I losophy.	_ .
|	Brennan, F.—3d Accessit in Sth Latin; 1st Accessit in
I 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in English Composition;
I	1st Accessit in 1st Geometry.	. _
tV Burns, M. T.—Premium in 4th Greek; Accessit in
*	Elocution.
s	Bell, F.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.	.
;»	Claggett, B. J.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin; Accessit in
?. 4th Greek; Premium for Violin.
®	Casey, J.—3d Accessit in Sth Latin; 1st Premium in 3d
a Algebra; 2d Accessit in 1st Geometry; Premium for ExI	amination.
|	Casey, B.—2d Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in
' ►	4th Algebra; Premium for Examination.
►	Connolly, W.—2d Premium in 5th Latin; Premium in
Chemistry; Premium in Descriptive Surgery.	_
, Campbell, R.—1st Accessit in 5th Latin; Accessit in Ethics; Premium in English History; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
f	Clements, L.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading; and Orthog-
’ raphy; 4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d •	Book-Keeping.
Clarke, G.—1st Accessit in 6th Latin; Premium in Mod-7	ern History; Accessit in Logic.
Clarke, T. F.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
,	Donahoe, D.—Accessit in Ethics.	.
Dempsey, J.—4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Danahey, D.—4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Accessit in Architectural Drawing; 1st Accessit in English Composition; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution.
Delaney, J.—2d Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Delaney, H. J.—1st Premium in Penmanship.
Donnelly, G.—2d Accessit in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examination.
English, M.—2d Premium in 1st Geography; and History;
2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; Premium in Trigonometry.
Ewell, E.—1st Premium in Telegraphy.
Falvey, M.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Geography and History; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Fogarty, E.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Guitar.
Harris, G.—Premium for Examination.
Harrington, D.—2d Premium, er aquot 4th Latin; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Hamilton, W.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Hunt, J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Hesse, W.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Jones, W. G.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution.
Kinny, J.—Accessit in 3d Latin; Accessit in Geology; Accessit in Mineralogy.
Keenan, R. E.—2d Premium in Public Reading; Premium in Examination; Premium for Piano.
Karins, C.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 4th Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Kavanagh, T.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Kinsella, F—4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit. in Violin.
Kurz, J.—Premium in 6th Greek; 1st Accessit in 1st Geometry; Premium for Examination.
Larkin, P.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in 2d Algebra; Premium in Ancient History; Accessit in Trigonometry; 1st Premium in 1st Geometry.
Lent, A.—1st Accessit in Telegraphy, amination.
Lynch, F.—4th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Lynch, E.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar.	,
Lanham, R.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
McGrath, J. B.—Premium in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek; Premium in Elocution.
McGorrisk, W. B.—4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium in Ethics; Premium in 3d German; Premium in 2d Physics.
McGorrisk, E.—3d Accessit’in 1st Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 2d Algebra.
McEniry, M. J.—Accessit in Logic; Accessit in Physics and Chemistry.	_
McIntyre M. J.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Geometry; Accessit for Piano.
McRea, J. D.—6th Accessit in 1st Geography and History ; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
McAtee, W.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
McNamara, J.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.	.
Murphy, E.—Premium in 4th Greek; Accessit in Astronomy.
Molitor, E.—3d Accessit in 7th Latin; Premium in Examination; Premium for Guitar.
668	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mattingly, F.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Mathers, L.—2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 8th Latin.
Marlett, J.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in Telegraphy; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Noonan, J.—Accessit in 3d Greek; Accessit in 3d Latin.
O’Brien, R.—2d Premium, ex aequo, 4th Latin; Premium in Logic; Accessit for Piano.
O’Reilly, J.—1st Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Osher, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Geometry.
Pike, G.—1st Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Penmanship ; Premium for Examination.
Proctor, L.—Premium iu Architectural Drawing.
Ryan, W.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Simms, T. W.—Accessit in 3d Latin; Accessit in English History; 1st Premium in Public Reading; Premium m Moralphilosophy.
Simins, H.—2d Accessit in Sth Latin; 1st Accessit in Rhetoric.
Sugg, G.—2d Accessit in 5th Latin; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; Accessit in Geology; Accessit in Astronomy ; Premium in Calculus and Mechanics; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Solon, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st BookKeeping; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examination.
Stitzel, L.—Accessit for Violin.
Shea, P.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in Telegraphy; Premium for Examination.
Smith, J.—3d Premium m 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Examination; Accessit in Violin.
Smith, F. C.—4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Smith, C L.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Smith, S. J.—2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Stewart, R.—Premium in Zoology.
Schollield, W—2d Accessit in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Van Dusen, C.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; 2d Accessit in 1st Geometry.
Wall, F. X.—Accessit in Ethics.
Whalen, C.—1st Premium in 1st Geography and History ; 1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; Premium for Examination.
Zahm, A.—Premium in 5th Greek; Premium in 4th Latin; Accessit in Surveying; Accessit in 1st Algebra; Premium in Elocution.
Zeien, T.—2d Accessit in English Composition; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Zarley, C.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar.
JUNI0B DEPARTMENT.
Browne, J. F.—3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Burger, A. J.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Sth Latin; Premium General Average of Examination.
Brinkman, C. J.—1st Premium in 1st German; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Composition.
Bodine, A.—1st Accessit in 1st Catechism.
Burmeister, A.—2d Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Byrne, T. P.—Premium General Average of Examination.	.
Bachmann, H.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Becker, F.—2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography ; 3d Accessit in Sth German; 2d Accessit in Elocution; Premium General Average of Examination.
Burns, M. J.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Premium in 2d German; 1st Premium in Public Reading; 2d Pre.
mium, exaequo, in Penmanship; Premium in ZoQlogy; Premium in^Botany; 1st Accessit in Chemistry.
Butler, M. G.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; Premium General Average of Examination.
Butler, V. G.—Premium in 2d Division of 4th Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d Geography; Premium General Average of Examination.
Castanedo, G.—2d Accessit in Grammar; 2d Accessit in Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 4th German; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Accesit in French; Premium General Average of Examtion.
Carter, F.—3d Accessit in 4th German.
Caren, A.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek.
Croarkin, E.—6 Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography and History; 3d Premium, ex aequo, in Penmanship; 2 Accessit in Elocution; Premium General Average of Examination.
Coghlin, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in United States History; 3d Premium, ex aequo, in Penmanship.
Coghlin, L.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Conyne, E. A.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 6th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Elocution; Premium General Average of Examination.
Cleary, W. S.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Geography and History; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Bible History; Premium General Average of Examintion.
Devitt, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium General Average of Examination.
Devitt, H.—Premium General Average Examination; 2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Devitt, T.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Dering, S.—Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography and History. .
Dever, F.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Davis, J.—3d Accessit in 3d German; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in United States History; 3d Accessit in 2d BookKeeping.
Flynn, T. F.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra; 2d Accessit in Bible History.
Foster, G. C.—3d Premium in 1st Geography and History ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Fleming, R. E.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Bible History; 1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Farrelly, O. J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in Telegraphy.
Foote, H. G.—1st Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Gordon, J. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit for Piano.
Grever, F. H.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium for Flute; Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 2d Geometry; 1st Accessit in 1st German.
Guthrie, J. W.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium for Cornet; 1st Accessit in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in Elocution. *
Gibbons, J. A.—1st Premium, ec aequo, in United States History; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading; 1st Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Rhetoric; Premium General Average of Examination ; 2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 4th Accessit in Bible History; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Guynn, H. G.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
669
1 f
. Gaines, E. H.-—Premium General Average of Examina-• tion; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Groenewold, F. W.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Sth Accessit in 2d Geography and History.
Gibert, L. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Herrick, M. E.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Hierb, A. 0.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Hintze, A J.—Premium General Average of Examination ; 3d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Herrmann, J. A.—Premium General Average of Examination ; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Hellebusche, A. F.—Premium General Average of Examination ; 2d Accessit in 2d German; 1st Accessit for Flute.
Johnson, F. R.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Joyce, P.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 7th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Kelly, J. M.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; 6th Accessit in 2d Geography and History; 3d Accessit in Elocution.
Klein, F.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Premium in 2d German; 4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit for Piano.
Kuhn, J. W.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium General Average of Examination.
Le Bourgeois, R.—2d Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in French; Premium in General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in United States History.
Litmer, J. E.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Larkin, J. A.—1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Mergentheim, A. B.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; Premium in 2d French; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in Elocution.
McPhillips, F.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Bible History.
McDermott, C. J.—2d Premium, ex aquo, in Composition ; 1st Accessit in 1st Algebra; 1st Accessit in 7th Latin.
Morgan, J. L.—2d Accessit in 3d German.
• McCarthy, W. J.—1st Premium in Public Reading; 2d Accessit in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Rhetoric.
McCarthy, J. E.—2d Premium in 4th German; Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 4th Accessit in United States History; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Manning, A. S.—Premium General Average of Examination ; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit for Piano.
Nelson, P. P.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; Premium General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in 2d Geography and History; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Nelson, N. J.—1st Premium, ex aquo, in 2d Geography and History; Premium General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Orrick, E. C.—Premium in Modern History; 1st Premium in Elocution; Premium in Surveying; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 4th Latin.
O’Connor, R. E.—1st Premium for Violin; Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in Elocution.
O’Neill, J. P.—2d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Physiology.
Otis, E. A.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d ex aquo, in Composition; Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 3d Algebra.
Payro, A. G.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Perry, C. F.—4th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Pomy, R. H.—1st Premium, ex aquo, in 2d Geography and History; Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d German.
Phillips, F. B.—1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium, ex aquo, in Telegraphy; 1st Premium in Penmanship ; 1st Accessit in Elocution; 1st Premium in Composition ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Parrett, R. M.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in Penmanship.
Quinn, F. A.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 6th Greek; 3d Accessit in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Rhetoric.
Quinn, G. J.—1st Accessit in 3d Geography.
Roberts, C. H.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 5th German; 4th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Rietz, C. F.—1st Premium for Piano; Premium General Average of Examination; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in United States History.
Rettig, F. J.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Rhodius, G. J.—2d Premium for Piano; Premium in General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Rasche, P. H.—1st Premium in 1st Catechism; Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography and History.
Rose, H. L.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic. .
Ruppe, J.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Rose, 0.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 4th German; 2d Accessit in Elocution.
Rock, A. S.—2d Premium in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Botany; 1st Accessit in Sth Latin.
Rohrback, A.—1st ex aquo, in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Elocution; Premium General Average of Examination ; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Semmes, R. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra ; 2d Accessit in United States History.
Schobey, J.—2d Accessit in Elocution.
Sugg, E. G.—5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d German; 1st Accessit for Piano.
Seeger, J. A.—Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Start, J. W.—2d Accessit in Elocution.
Scanlan, J. M.—2d Premium in Bible History; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Wilder, J. B.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Simms, Jno.—1st Accessit in 2d Division of 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Simms, R. 0.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 5th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Schneider, 0.—1st Premium, ex aquo, in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit oi 2d Division in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Thiele 0.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Tinley, 0.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit for Violin.
Thompson W.—1st Premium in 1st Geometry; 2d Accessit in Botany; 2d Accessit in 7th Latin; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1st Accessit in Elocution.
Tate, A.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Vedder, M.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in Telegraphy.
Weitzel, J.—3d Accessit in Bible History; 1st Accessit in 2d German.
Weny, N.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 7th Latin; Premium, ex aquo, 3d Algebra; Premium, General Average Examination,
670
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Zeis, F.—Premium General Average Examination.
Zekind, B.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Geography.
MINIM DEPARTMENT
Ayers, W.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Accessit in Reading.
Ackerman, L. J.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; Sth Premium in 3d Orthography.
Bannister, J. W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Reading; 3d Accessit in Orthography.
Bender, J.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Campau, A. J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th in 2d Reading; 4tb Accessit in 1st Geography.
Campau. C.—3d Premium in 4lh Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Courtney, J. S.—1st Premium in Geography; 4th Premium in Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Courtney, J. M.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 8th Premium in Grammar; 5th Premium in Reading; 6th in 1st Arithmetic.
Dunn, H.—P. 2d Premium in Penmanship; 7th in Grammar;4th in Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in Orthography ; Prize for Artistic Drawing.
Droste, C. E.—3d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in United States History; 3d Accessit in Arithmetic ; 7th Accessit in Grammar.
Dwenger, J. H.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Farrelly, F. B.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 3rd Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Echlin, C. J. E.—1st Premium in Orthography; 6th Premium in Geography; 2d Premium in Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in United States History.
Howard, E. A.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in Orthography; 1st Accessit in Geography.
Hanavin, W. F.—5th Premium in Second Reading; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d in Geography.
Henry, J. J.—6th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Accessit in Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Johnson, J.—1st Preu ium in 3d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Knight, G.—4th Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d in Geography.
Kitz, H. G.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in Orthography; 2d Accessit in Geography.
Kelly, J. A.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Mattes, F. P.—5th Premium in Orthography; 6th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Molander, C.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Metz, H.—4th Prize in 3d Arithmetic; 5th in 2d Geography.
Metz, C.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Miller, W.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Malley, W. V.—1st Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in Orthography.
O’Donnell, E.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Olds, M. S.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; A Prize for Artistic Drawing.
Smith, J. T.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Geography; 1st Accessit in Grammar.
Snee, H. C.—4th Premium in Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Schmuckle, A. F.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Taylor, D. G.—1st Premium in Grammer; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Geography.
Tourtillotte, G. E.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 7th Premium in Orthography ; A prize for Artistic Drawing.
van Mourick, A.—6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Van Mourick, G.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 9th
Premium in Geography; 5th Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Woodson, G.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Young, L.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Reading.
Young, C.—6th Premium in 4th Reading.
Personal.
—The following were among the numerous visitors at Notre Dame during Commencement Week: Right Rev. Joseph Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind.; Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., Stratford, Ont.; Rev. Father O’Rourke, Middleton, Ohio; Rev. D. A. Clarke, Editor Catholic Columbian, Columbus, Ohio; Rev. Father Mulhane, Columbus, Ohio; Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, Clinton, Iowa; Rev. Father Foley, Chicago Ill; Rev. D. J. Riordan, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. D. Tighe, Chicago, Ill.; Rev P. F. Quigley, Cleveland, Ohio.; Rev. Aug. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. John Oechtering, Laporte, Ind.; Rev. W. A. Horan, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. Thomas Leydon, Woodstock, Ill.; Rev. John Dinnen, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Hon. E. F. Dunne, Salt Lake City, Utah; H. F. Turner, South Bend, Ind.; P. Devitt, Chicago Ill.; S. S. Spalding, Lebannon, Ky.; J. P. Flemming, Henderson, Ky.; Mrs. Snee, Chicago, Ill.; J. Arantz, (’79) Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mrs. Gall, Indianapolis, Ind.; J. Hafner, (’78) Chicago, Ill.; John Ewing, (’78) Lancaster, Ohio; W. Breen, (’78) Fort Wayne, Ind.; H. Faxon, (’77) Chicago, Ill. ; G. J. Lons-dorf, Ann Arbor, Mich.; E. Riopelle, Detroit, Mich.; F. Gavan, New York, N. Y.; Hon. A. J. Thurman, Ohio; P. Hogan, (’79) Dungannon, Mich.; Mr. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. W. Bruser, Vicksburg, Miss.; Mrs. H. Bruser, Vicksburg, Miss; G. W. Hutchinson and lady, Vicksburg, Miss.; Miss Black, Vicksburg, Miss.; Mrs. B. Phillips and Mrs. C. Freeze, Fort Wayne, Ind.; H. Fanor, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. E. Tinley, Covington, Ky.; J. Lambin, Chicago, Ill.; P. Hagan, Dungannon, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Noonan, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. Burns, Ada, Mich.; Mrs. Davis, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. O’Connor, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Roberts, Michigan City„Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Keenan, Lindsay, Canada; Mrs. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Brinkman, Terre-Haute, Ind.; Prof. Tong and lady, South Bend, Ind.; Prof. Ivers, South Bend, Ind.; Prof. Howard, South Bend, Ind.; Hon. P. Gibbons, Keokuk, Iowa; H. Church, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. Ad. Widdicombe, St. Paul, Minn; Miss Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Campau, Detroit, Mich.; C. J. Foster, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Gaines, Niles, Mich.; Mr. Hayne, (’76) Detroit, Mich.; John Baker, (’78) Fort Wayne, Ind.; Miss Devine, Chicago Ill.; Miss and Mr. Cavanagh, Philadelphia, Pa.; Miss Ball, Lafayette, Ind.; Miss J. McClellan, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Lemontey, Washington D. C.; Mrs. Dunn, Mobile, Ala.; Mrs. Orsback, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Hugg, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Heintz, Milwaukee. Wis.; Mr. Caren, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. Zeis, Chicago, Ill.; John Cullen, Lafayette, Ind.; C. C. Connolly, Chicago, Ill.; J. F. Mugg, Lafayette, Ind.; R. McCarthy, Lafayette, Ind.; J. Livingston, South .Bend, Ind.; L. Cole, Peru, Ind.; John A. McNulty, New York, N. Y.; T. M. O’Leary, Middleton, 0.; Adam Schmidt, Chicago, Ill.; Edward Larkin, Wheeling, Va.; Edward J. McMahon, Chicago, Ill.; J. F. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; J. P. McHugh, (’78) Lafayette, Ind.; G. E. Medly, Springfield, Ky.; • Miss A. Simms, Springfield, Ky.; C. F. Hinz and lady, Milwaukee, Wis; John Nelson, Chicago, Ill.; John English and lady, Columbus, O.; F. D. Kinsella, Chicago, Ill.; C. Rockwell, Indianapolis, Ind.; M. M. Maloney, Howard, Ill.; L. Pollock, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. C. Burmeister, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. A. Drees, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. John Clarke, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. M. De Veney, Chicago, Ill.; J. A. Larkin, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. H. N. Zekind, St. Joseph, Mich.; Anthony Jaeger, Laporte, Ind.; John L. Cummings, Chicago, Ill.; James B. Crumley, Colorado; John Hafner, (’78) Chicago, HL; D. H. Baker, South Bend, Ind.; G. S. Lit-mer, Dexter, Mich.; N. Bacon, Niles, Mich.; D. E. Maloney, Elgin, Ill.; Mrs. D. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio; Miss


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	671
Mary Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio.; Mrs. Killelea, Ottawa, UI.; Mrs. Landergren, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Katie Danaher, Ludington, Mich; Mrs. Si. Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; Mrs. K. Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; J. L. Fitzgibbon, London, Ontario.; Simon Rock, Lincoln, Ill.; Joseph A, Duncan, Henderson, Ky.; P.Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; Mrs. J. Grattery, Fort Wayne; P. Garrity, Chicago; J. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; J. E. Dobson, Chicago, Ill.; J. Quinn, Springfield, Ill.; W. Quinn, Springfield, Ill; G. J. Lons-dorf, Naganna, Mich.; Wm. Hake, Jr. Grand Rapids, Mich.; Miss Bumbury, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. Lohey, Niles, Mich.; Blanche Bumbury, Niles, Mich.; Miss Lizzie J. McLaughlin, Dubuque, Iowa.; Mrs. Brinkman, TerreHaute, Ind.; Mrs. Croarkin, Dexter, Mich.; H. T. Fitzgibbon, Chicago, DI.; G. Vigeant, Chicago, Ill.; J. P. Flaherty, Chicago, Ill.; Thos. Cochrane, Chicago, 111.; D. E. Maloney, Elgin, Ill.; Mr. D. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; and others who did not register their names.
Local Items.
—	Good-bye 1
—	The Campus is lonely to-day.
—The essays and orations of the Graduates were excellent.
—	The Scholastic wishes all the students a pleasant vacation.
—	Quite a number of clergy were present at the Commencement Exercises.
—	Our Office was visited by many old friends during Commencement Week.
—The visitors say that the Minims’ new study-hall is the finest room at Notre Dame.
—“Hartwell at Hamford” was well rendered by the Thespians on last Tuesday evening.
. —Hon. Judge Dunne’s Oration was deservedly admired by all who had the pleasure of hearing it.
—Mr. Bonney, the photographer, was kept busy on the days devoted to the Commencement Exercises.
—On the Feast of St. Aloysius, twenty-one students of the Minim Department received Holy Communion.
—It was really good to notice the affection that the students manifested towards one another when leaving.
—This Commencement brought a larger number of students to Notre Dame than has ever been seen here before.
—The students of the Minim Department who remain here during vacation will have class for two hours every day.
—The last Commencement Exercises were the most brilliant ever held at Notre Dame. All were delighted with them.
—The Commencement Exercises were everything that could be desired. Each one whe took part therein acquitted himself well.
—We return our sincere thanks to all those who in any way assisted us during the time that we have been manager of the Scholastic.
—The scenery of Notre Dame never looked better than just now. There will, however, be many improvements made by next September.
—Catalogues will be sent to all the students at an early date. All desirine a catalogue should address Very Rev. President Corby, Notre Dame, Ind.
—All who visited Notre Dame and St. Mary’s during Commencement Week have nothing but praise to bestow upon these institutions, and the surroundings.
—The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was well represented on Society Day by D. G. Taylor. His address was very fine, and well delivered.
) / —A handsome donation has been sent to the College Li-orary by Miss L. H. Grever, of Cincinnati, Ohio. Miss Grevei has the many thanks of the Librarian.
—Let all subscribe for next year’s Scholastic as early
as possible, so that they may receive the first number of the next volume, which we expect to prove interesting to our readers.
—Manuscripts were at a discount on Society Dav. All the young gentlemen who took part in the exercises of this day showed pluck and nerve in delivering their speeches without the manuscript.
—With this number the present volume of the Scholastic is brought to a close. The first number of the fourteenth volume will appear shortly after the fifteenth of August. This number will give an account of the college officers for next year, and other news interesting to the students.
—At the request of Hon. John H. Baker, of Goshen,, Ind., and member of the House of Representatives, a very’ valuable selection of books ha^ been sent to the University Library by Hon. G. Wright, Chief of Engineers, U. S. A. For this the aforesaid parties have the grateful thanks of the Librarian.
—Very Rev. Father General gave three hours of his precious time to the Minims’ examination. He examined the Arithmetic, Geography and Reading Classes, and expressed himself highly pleased with the smartness and intelligence shown by them. He gave a handsome volume to each of the ten best readers. The Minims return Very Rev. Father General their best thanks for honoring their examination with his presence, as well as for the many proofs of affection which he has given them during their stay at the College. They once more affectionately bid him “good-bye” until next September, when the pleasure of meeting him, and receiving his kindly welcome, will do much towards making them forget the pain of parting with home and those they love.
June Examination.
GENERAL AVERAGES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, 96; W. H. Arnold, 66; J. P. Brice, 64; F. W. Bloom, 86; F. Brennon, 89; M. T. Burns, 62; F. Bell, 79; A. J. Burger, 90; J. B. Berteling, 93; B. J. Claggett, 63; John Casey, 90; B. Casey, 91; T. F. Conlan, 70; W. Connolly, 85; R. S. Campbell, 90; L. Clements, 74; Geo. E. Clarke, 83; F. T. Clarke, 81; D. Donahoe, 95; J. Dempsey. 85; D. Danahey, 84; James Delaney, 89; H. J. Delanev, 86; H. B. Dulaney, 67; Geo. Donnelly. 95; A. Dobson, 74; M. English, 86; M. Falvey, 87; E. Fogarty, 89; I. J. Gitlings, 73; C. L. Hagan, 70; Geo. Harris, 85; D. Harrington, 70; W. Hamilton, 84; Jno. Hunt, 93; S. Henoch, 67; W. Hesse, 93; W. Jones, 75; R. Keenan, 91; C. Karins, 85; Tims. Kavanagh. 89; F. Kinsella, 73; J. Kurz, 93; J. P. Kinney, 81; P. Larkin, 95; A. Lent, 80; F. Lvnch, 87; E. Lynch, 80; R. Lanham, 94; J. B. McGrath, 84; W. B. McGorrisk, 91; E. McGorrisk, 84; M. J. McEniry, 94; J. A. McIntyre, 85; J. D. McRae, 63; W. McAtee, 82: J. McNamara, 81; E. Murphy, 81; E. Molitor, 85; T. Mattingly, 78; L. Mathers, 80; J. R. Marlett, 70; J. Noonan, 74; R O’Brien, 94; J. O’Reilly, 83; J. Osher, 87; Geo. Pike, 91; B. H. Pollock, 62; L. Proctor, 84; W. Ryan, 90; F. W. Simms, 94; H.Simms, 76; Geo. Sugg, 95; J. Solon, 94; L. Stitzel, 84; P. Shea, 96.; Jos. Smith, 92; J. Sydney Smith, 71; C. L. Smith, 69; R. D. Steward, 82; W. Scholfield, 78; C. B. Van Dusen, 80; F. X. Wall, 91; H. Wathen. 79; A. Zahm 91; C. Zarley, 73; O. Randolph, 78; Thos. Zeien, 73; W. B. Cooney, 83; C. Whalen, 96; Frank Smith, 78.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Browne, 70; A. J. Burger, 90; C. Brinkman, 97; J. M. Boose, 82; A. Bodine, 75; A. Burmeister, 95; T. P. Byrne, 88; H. W. Bachmann, 85; F. Becker, 85; M. J. Burns, 97; M. G. Butler, 87; V. G. Butler, 85; G. C. Castanedo, 91; F. L. Carter, 81; J. V. Cabel, 78; A. A. Caren, 72; E. H. Croarkin, 91; A. M. Coghlin, 72; L. W. Coghlin, 95; E. A. Coynne, 89; W. 8. Cleary, 91; J. W. Devitt, 93; H. F. Devitt, 87; T. F. Devitt. 94; 8. T. Dering, 90; T. F. Dever, 79; J. E. Davis, 80; T. F Flynn, 91; R. E. Flemming, 100; G. C. Foster, 92; O. J. Farrelly, 91; H. G-
J J .
672
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Foote, 87; J. J. Gordon, 94; F. H. Grever, 93; J. W. Gutbrie. 69; J. A. Gibbons, 94; F. Glade, 79; H. Guynn, 90; E. H. Gaines, 89; E. J. Gallasher, 78; F. W. Groene-wold, 85; E. F. Gall, 78; L. J. Gilbert, 90; AI. E. Herrick, 92; A. C. Hierb, 93; A. J. Hintze, 82; J. A. Hermann, 86; A. F. Hellebusche, 96; F. R. Johnson, 85; P. A. Joyce. 88; J. M. Kelly. 83; F. A. Kleine, 89; J. W. Kuhn, 90; L. S. Keen, 78; R. Le Bourgeois, 94; J. E. Litmer, 88; J. A. Larkin. 83; Sam Livinuston, 81; A B. Mergentheim, 79; F. AlcPhillips, 86; C. J. McDermott, 82; J. L. Morgan, 82; W. J. McCarthy, 74; J. E. McCarthy, 94; A. S. Manning, 91- F. P. Morrison, 80; P. P. Nelson, 94; N. J. Nelson, 96; E. C. Orrick, 94; R. E. O’Connor, 90; J. P. O'Neill, 78; E. A. Otis. 93; A. G. Payro, 66; C. F. Perry, 73; R. H. Pomy, 92; F. B. Phillips, 95; R. M. Parrett, 85; F. A. Quinn. 89; G. J. Quinn, 73; C. H. Roberts, 86; C. F. Rietz, 90; F. J. Rettig. 86; J. Ruppe, 89; G. J. Rhodius, 91; P..H. Rasche. 86; H. L. Rose, 83;,C. F. Rose, 89; A. S. Rock, 73; A. N. Rohrbach, 87; R. J. Semmes, 89; J. K. Schobey. 76; E. G. Suge, 82; J. A. Seeger, 80; J. W. Start, 71; J. M. Scanlan, 88; F. C. Scheid, 81; J. A. Simms, 73; R. C. Simms, 83: C. Schneider, 80; C. H. Thiele. 81; C. A. Tinley, 88; W. M. Thompson, 81; A. T. Tate, 85; M. A. Vedder. 92; J. B. Weitzel, 79; J. B. Wilder, 92; N. Weny, 96; B- Zekind, 78; F. Zeis, 85.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Ayres, 80; H. J. Ackerman, 75; J. W. Bannister, 97; J. R. Bender, 90; J. A. Campau,92; J. M. Courtney, 98; J. S. Courtney, 99; E. C. Campau, 50; C. E Droste, 98; H. P. Dunn, 98; J. H. Dwenger, 96; C- C. Echlin, 100; F B. Farrelly, 95; W. H. Hanavin, 94; J. J. Henry, 92; E. A. Howard, 98; J. E. Johnson, 90; G. 0- Knight, 97; H. A. Kitz, 96; J. A. Kelly, 96; A. A- Molander, 97; F. P. Mattes, 96; H. Metz, 75; C. Metz, 75; W, Miller, 80; W. M. Olds, 92; W. V. O’AIallev, 80; E. N. O’Donnell, 75; J. I. Smith, 99; A. F. Schmuckle, 85; H. C. Snee, 99; D. G. Tavlor, 99; G. E. Tourtillotte, 98; A. J. Van Mourick, 84; G. P. Van Mourick, 80; G. Woodson, 98; L. J. Young, 80; C. Young, 55.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those stndents who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. AL Anderson, W. Arnold. J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger J. P. Brice, F. W. Bloom, F. Brennon, F. AL Bell, AL T. Burns, B. J. Clagget, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, R. S. Campbell, L. Clements, D. Donahoe. J. Dempsey, D. Danahey, J. H. Delaney, J. Delaney, H. B. Dulaney, G. Donnelly, A Dobson, M. English, AL B. Falvey, S. Fogarty, I. Gittings, D. Harrington, G. Harris, W. Hamilton, E. Henock, W. G. Jones, R. L. Johnson, J. Kinney, R. Keenan, T. Kavanagh. C. H. Karins, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, E. Lynch, F. Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. McNamara, E. Murphy, E. Molitor, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, T. A Mattingly, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, H. Noble, R. C. O’Brien. J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, G. Pike. B. H. Pollock, L. M. Proctor, W. Ryan, O. Randolph, T. W. Simms, H. Simms. G. Sugg, J. Solon, L. Stitzel, P. F. Shea, J. Smith, F. C. Smith, S. Smith, L. Smith, R. D. Stewart. W. Scholfield, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X Wall, C. Whalen, H. Wathen, A Zahm, T. Zeien, C. Zarley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J, F. Browne, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A A Burmeister, T. P. Byrne, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, AL G. Butler, V. Butler, G. Castanedo, J. V. Cabel, A Caren, A AL Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, E. A. Conyne, W. S. Cleary, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, 8. T. Dering, J. E. Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, G. C. Foster, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, H.-G. Guynn, E. H. Gaines, E. J. Gallagher, F. W. Groen ewold, E. H. Gall, L. J. Gilbert, A C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A Herrmann, A J. Hellebusche, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, L. S. Keen, R. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, S. Livingston, F. AIc-Phillips, C. J. AfcDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. P. Morrison, P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, E. A Otis A. G. Payro, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Phillips, R. M. Parrett, F. A Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. F. Rietz, Q. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J, Ruppe,
H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A S. Rock, A. W. Rohrback, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. W. Start, J. AL Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. A Simmes, R. C. Semmes, C. Schneider, C. H. Thiele, C. A. Tinley, A Tate, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, J. B. Wilder, M. T. Weny.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
D.	G. Taylor, J. I. Smith, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, H. C. Snee, C. E. Droste, J.J. Henry, H. C. Kitz, F. P. Mattes, J.A. Campau, J. A Kelly, A A. Molander, G. Woodson, G. C. Knight, G.
P. Van Mourick, A J. Van Mourick, W. H. Hannivan, W. AL-	i
Olds, E. A Howard, C. C. Echlin, J. W. Bannister, W. Ayres,	j
H. P. Dunn, G. E. Tourtillotte, W. V. O’Afally J. R Bender,	j
A F. Schmuckle, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, L. J. Young	i
E.	C. Campau, E. N. O’Donriell, F. B. Farrelly, W. Miller, C.,	<
Metz, J. E. Johnson, C. Young, H. Metz.
Jamt l|fe\
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—During the two days of Commencement the grounds were covered with visitors, and opportunity was given to enjoy the many points of interest.	.
—The grounds of St. Mary’s are every year becoming more beautiful. The large stone vases ornamenting the winding carriage drive and promenade, along the banks of the river, known as Loretto avenue, are a mass of beautiful flowers.
—The display of Ornamental Needle Work was fine. There was some superior work by the Misses Saloman and Horner. Three Benediction burses made by the Misses Wathen, Gavan, and Neteler, exquisitely adorned, and to be presented on their return home to their respective pastors, were much admired.
—The music, both instrumental and vocal, was all that would be looked for in St. Mary’s Conservatory. The choruses were sung well, particularly “ Miriam’s Song of Triumph.” The duett, “Quis est Homo,” and the song “Sul Carnival di Vinizia” deserve particular mention. The trills and runs of the latter were especially clear and pure.
—Two floral plots of significant loveliness are on either side of the Academy entrance. They represent the Sacred Heart, and are composed of scarlet geraniums and are borden d with rose-tinted ocean-shells from the South Seas. These shells are the gift of a generous sea captain to the Sisters of the Normal School in Baltimore, who sent them to adorn the grounds of the Mother House of their Order.
—A. grassy fort, surrounded by beds of salvia splendeus and gladiolus bears upon its summit a rich souvenir of the late war: namely, two cannons, of largest calibre, captured at Island No. 10, and presented by Admiral Davis to the Superior of the Sisters of Holy Cross who were engaged in the military hospitals during the late war. Such a donation will not appear mdl apropos when it is known they are intended to he moulded into a statue dedicated to Our Lady of Peace.
—In St. Luke’s Studio the Exhibition was very attractive. A fine copy of Carlo Dolci’s Madonna was the crowning piece, and gained for Miss Neteler the Toner Gold Art Aledal. The specimens in Oil-Painting, WaterColors, and Drawing, compared more favorably with the work which merited the prize. The various articles of China painting were simply beautiful. A Genealogical Chart of English History, richly adorned and framed, was on exhibition. It is a gift from the First Senior Class to St. Mary’s Museum.
—On the broad lawns, covering an extent of eighty acres, the plots of colens, centuaries, geraniums, peschias, verbanas, choice monthly roses, ana other ornamental plants, look out like gems on a ground of brightest green, and the waters of St. Joseph’s River seem proud of the beauty they encircle. During the excessive heat of the few days past, the shade of the noble forest frees hag
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	673
proved most refreshing, and to the visitors, the charms of the fountains, the groves, and the arbors outside the Academy, have been rivals of the beautiful things on exhibition inside.
—On the evening of Wednesday Judge Dunne delivered a most eloquent address to the Graduates and Post-Graduates. The Judge paid a beautiful tribute to the labors of monastic institutions, particularizing those of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, as he himself has seen their workings in the hospitals and schools on the Pacific coast, showing the wide field of usefulness entrusted to their charge, and the manner in which they have employed the means Providence placed in their hands for the good of others. He pictured the great work accomplished in hospitals and other institutions of charity where the self-sacrifice and devotedness of the Sisters of Holy Cross save so many precious lives, and impart comfort and consolation to the sick and dying. He recommended to the Alumna; of the Academy an unabated devotedness to its interests throughout their lives, for the indebtedness contracted is of too sacred a nature to be canceled by mere human rewards. The Sisters are not laboring for themselves, but for the world at large, and society reaps the benefit, through the education they impart to the young, and the purifying influence they exert.
—The St. Cecilia’s Hall, in which the closing exercises have been held for many past years, having been taken dowm, and the new one not yet erected, the exercises took place this year in the large apartment destined for the Seniors’ study-hall, which held comfortably the hundred and eighy students on raised seats, the platform for the 4 grand piants and 2 harps and vocal choruses, the remainder of the hall occupied by invited guests, among whom were the Rt Rev. Bishop Dwenger, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Order of Holy Cross; Very Rev. Dr. Kilroy, Canada; Rev. Dr. Quigley, President of the Ecclesiastical Seminary of Cleveland; Very Rev. Father Corby .Provincial of Holy Cross; Rev. Fathers Reardon, Tighe, Foley, Horan, Leydon, of the diocese of Chicago; Rev. Father Clarke, of the Catholic Columbian; Father O’Rourke, Ohio; Father Barroux, Ecorse, Mich.; Father Foley, Canada; Father McLaughlin, Iowa; Father Beclel-man, Fathers J. Aug. and Oechtering, Dinnen, the Fathers John and Peter Lauth, Condon, Walsh, Kelly, Zahm, Maher, Kollop, Sherer, Shortis, Saulnier, Indiana; and Judge Dunne, of Utah, the distinguished speaker of the day at the University. The Rt. Rev. Bishop, after the distribution, addressed some appropriate remarks to the pupils, congratulating them upon their advantages, and the evident good use they made of them. The picture was a memorable one: that of the stately Bishop, whose genial and fatherly heart was so clearly mirrored in his features, as he crowned so many innocent young brows and the bright happy faces of fair maidens and parents as the honors were besowed. The essays of Tuesday were well read, and gave universal satisfaction. The Valedictory of Wednesday was a fine piece of composition, beautifully enunciated, and feelingly delivered.
25th. Annual Commencement of St. Mary’s Literary Academy, Conservatory of Music and School of Art and Design.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Notrb Dame, P. O., Ind.
’ Tuesday June 22d, 3 O’Clock, A. M. PROGRAMME.
Valsede 1’opera—“Faust,”	-	-	-	- Gounod-Liszt
Miss Dillon.
Essay—“The Madonas of Art,” -	-	- Miss Neteler
Essay—“ Character, not Acquirements, the Test of Merit,” - -
-	-	-	-	-	-	- Miss Maloney.
Cavatina -	--	--	--	-- Centemeri
'	Miss Gordon.
Essay—“Painting a Creative Art,’’ - - Miss Hambleton Essay—“ Mystic Footprints of Divinity,” -	- Miss Woodin
Fa.UstaforlwoB.rpsj
Miss Galen and Dillon.
Essai—“ Le Role de la France en Rapport avec la Civilisation,” -	-	-	. -	- Miss Silverthom
Recit. and Air—“With Verdure Clad,”from “The Creation,’* Haydn -	-	-	- Miss Adelaide Kirchner
Essay—“ Industry the Guardian of Home Virtue,” Miss Keenan Poem—‘‘ Treasures from the Tide of History,” - Miss Killelea Rhapsodie, No. 2	-	-	-	-	-	- Liszt
Miss Keenan.
Essay—“Self-Abnegation the only road to True Success,”
•	-	_	_	_	_ MigS Silverthom
Poem—“Gathering the Oak-leaves,”	-	- Miss McGrath
Solo—Duet and Chorus	-	_	- Jfende&soAn
Vocal Class.
Wednesday, June 23d, 9 O’Clock, A. M.
Fest Overture ----- A. Leuiner Pianos: Misses Galen, Usselman, Keenan, Kirchner, Buck, Neu, Gordon, and Sullivan.
Harps: Misses Semmes and Dillon.
Chorus .	-	.	.	-	-	- Meyerbeer
. Vocal Class.
Distribution of Premiums—Junior Department.
Duett—“Quis est Homo.” From “Stabat Mater,” - - Rossini Misses Gordon and Kirchner.
Distribution of Premiums—Preparatory Department.
Song—Variazioni di Concerto—“Sul Carnival di Venizia,” - -J. Benedict -	-	-	- Miss Silverthom
Distribution of Premiums—Senior Department.
Rhapsodie (Rakoezy) ----- Liszt Miss Galen.
“ Miriam’s Song of Triumph ”	-	-	- Schubert
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic DepartCantata for Soprano and Chorus.
ment.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Conservatory of Music and Prize Medals.
Distribution of Crown^ and Honors in the Senior, Preparatory and Junior Departments.
Coronation Chorus -	-	- Arranged for the Occasion
General Class, Accompanied on two Kanos by Misses Farrell and Campbell.
Valedictory -	- Miss Ewing of Lancaster, Ohio
'	Closing Remarks.
March from “Athalia” -	-	-	- Mendelssohn
Pianos: Misses Neu, Campbell, Usselman, McMahon, Rosing, Gall, Farrell and Hackley.
Harps: Misses Galen and Bruser.
—On the second day one hundred and seventy young maidens, ranging from eight to nineteen years of age, in the separate Minim, Junior, and Senior Departments received the premiums honorably earned by them during the scholastic year just ended. As their names were called, and they passed in succession to receive from the hands of tiie Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger the rewards of their faithful application to study, the audience could but remark from how many parts of the United States and her Majesty’s possessions, these various aspirants to the first honors were drawn as to a common centre to this well-known institution of learning on the banks of the St. Joseph’s River. From New York city, Philadelphia, Washington, New Orleans, San Francisco, Denver, Chicago, and cities and towns of lesser importance in Texas, and other Southern States; from Ohio, Nebraska, and the broad West; Pennsylvania, New Jersey and the other Eastern and Middle States.
GRADUATING gold medals in the academic course, in English, French and Latin, were conferred on the Misses Clara Silverthom, Charleston, Ill.; MaryE. McGrath, Chicago, III.; Teresa Killelea, Ottawa, Ill.; Mary Rebecca Ewing, Lancaster, O.; Sarah Hambleton, Mound City, DI.; Eleanor Keenan, Lindsay, Canada; Eliza A. Woodin, Sig-ournev, Iowa; Anna Maloney, Harvard, Hl.; Rebecca Net-eler, Havana, Ill.
CLASS MEDALS.
The Gold Medal in Domestic Economy was awarded to MissAdella Gordon, Cairo, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Reading was awarded to Miss Annie Cavenor, Chicago, Hl.	_
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Miss Louisa Neu, Tolona, Ill.
The Gold Medal in Christian Doctrine was awarded to Miss Nellie McGrath, Chicago, Hl.
The Gold Medal in French was awarded to Miss Clara Silverthorne, Charleston, Ill.
The Gold Medal, in the Senior Department, for Neat-pess, Qrder, Amiability and Correct Observance of Ruleg
i i

674
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was awarded, ex aquo, to Misses Teresa Killelea and Anna Ryan, Lockport, Ill.
In the Junior Department the Gold Medal for Neatness, Order, Amiability and Correct Observance of Rules was awarded to Miss Catharine Campbell, Washington, Ind.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
GRADUATING GOLD MEDALS
for Instrumental Music were conferred on Miss Ellen Galen, Helena, Montana; Miss Nellie Keenan, Lindsay, Canada; Miss Angela Dillon, Chenoa, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was conferred on Miss Silverthorne.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
The Gold Medal presented by Dr. Toner, Washington, D. C., awarded to Miss Neteler, Oil Painting. The Silver Medal, presented by the same generous donor, awarded to Miss Catharine Hackett, Watertown, Wis.
Among the First Class Prizes we remarked with pleasure premiums in Stenography, or Printed Short-Hand, awarded, ex cequo, to the Misses Anna Ryan and Marie Dallas, daughter of Col. Dallas, U. S. Army. Miss Semmes, of Memphis, niece of late Admiral Semmes, received the 1st Premium in Latin.
K
H
z
o
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
W. H. STENNETT,
MARVIN HUGHITT,
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
Gen, Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all :	ottv
points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, ; CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, ;
China, Japan and Australia. Its	.
James Charlton,	.. J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager, 210 Dearborn st., near cor. of Adams, Chicago,
The Chicago & Worth-Western Sailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona. Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Three Great Cities of the West


CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the -world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITT, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tile Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas; Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route "between the North and South, and to and from Kansas -Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minings districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to

loti
Disco
Volume XIV.
I
Gone Ere her young he? The pangs of grief Ere her young fee We laid her ’neatl
To rest, five yer Gone
We d For though the de Wells from the he Forever in a quiet Gave vent to griel But we’d not call
No me
Gone I Upon a loving Sa\ She finds the soul' While we ’mid fea But we shall meet Where gather all I
Shall i
Notre Dame, August lOtl
Novels ai
In this age of progress a so striking as the high p] have won for themselves sight, it seems somewhat which prides itself on the of life should seek and amusement hut-its instruc a seeming one, and quickl sight into the cause of the reason is not far to seek, it in the old hackneyed qu sum; nihil humani a ma al stood and more pithily e , line, “The noblest study was true in past days is this generation has seize j	more earnestly and dived
i	forefathers did; and what
is truer and more applic women there is nothing s men and women. The ne s	in each other, the display
ment of new phases of ok j
I j