^otre Dame Scholastic
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume IX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, ABRIL 29, 1876.
Number 35.
Life’s "Death, Love’s Life.
BY B0BEBT SOUTHWELL, S. J".	:-
Who lives in love, loves least to live, And long delays doth rue ;
If Him we love, by whom we live, To whom all love is due ;
Who for our love did choose to live,
And was content to die,
Who loved our love more than His life, And love with life did buy
Let us in life, yea, with our life, Requite His loving love;
For best we live, when best we love, If love our life remove.
Where love is hot, life hateful is, Their grounds do not agree ;
Love where it loves, life where it lives, Desireth most to be.
And sith love is not where it lives, Nor liveth where it loves ;
Love hateth life that holds it back, And death it most approves. -
For seldom is he won in life Whom love doth most desire, If won in love, yet not enjoyed
Till mortal life expire.
Life out of earth hath no abode, In earth love hath no place;
Love settled hath her joys in heaven, In life all her grace.
Mourn, therefore, no true lover’s death;
Life only him annoys;
And when he taketh leave of life, Then love begins his joys.
M. Rio.
As much attention has been paid this year to drawing and painting, both in the College and at the Academy, we think it worth while to devote some space to a writer who has done more than any other man to give students correct principles of these arts and to bring to general notice those paintings that deserve the attention of the Christian artist. The writer to whom we refer, A. F. Rio, is best known by his learned and erudite work on Christian Art in Italy, a book that should be in the hands not only of all artists but also of those who pretend to any critical knowledge of pictures. There is no other book on the subject so exhaustive as this, which cost the author the labor of a full third of a century.	. .
His Epilogue d VArt Chretien has not, we believe, yet been translated into English, but we hope it will soon -be found in all the libraries of our colleges, in English as well as in French. It is, says a writer in the Dublin Eemeio, a true and almost impersonal picture of the difficulties he had to contend with at the very outset, both on acconnt of his primitive ignorance of the matter, as well as the stolid indifference of his countrymen to a subject so utterly be yond the usual range of their own thoughts. It is no less a picture of eminent men and manners about thirty years ago—in England, Rogers, Macaulay, Carlyle, Gladstone, among others; in Germany, the author lived on terms of intimacy with Schelling, Baader, Joseph Gorres, and others, then in the very blaze of their celebrity; while on the other hand we constantly meet with such names as Albert, Olga, Eugenie, and Count de la Ferronnays,—all so mournfully familiar to the readers of the “ Becit (Sune Soeur" for M. Rio was the bosom friend of the head of that remarkable family.
Towards the end of the last century’M. Rio was born on a small island called Arz, on the sea coast, near Vannes. The inhabitants of the island are accustomed to brave the perils and storms of the Atlantic. They have always remained faithful Christians, and although in the first outbreak of the great French Revolution they embraced the cause of what they considered freedom, they did not hesitate to choose between their faith and republicanism run riot when they saw their priests hunted down like wild beasts and massacred, and their churches levelled to the ground. The circumstances of time and place of birth, and the character of the people, always have an effect upon the young. Napoleon concluded the Concordat after the excesses of the “Reign of Terror,” when M. Rio was in his early childhood. On this M. Rio says:
“ Now let anyone imagine an iconoclastic Government prohibiting, under- the most atrocious penalties, any manifestation of what they were pleased to call the people’s credulity, and then ' all of a sudden, after eight long years of mortal tortures and spiritual death, this same people recovering their right to pray together in the same building, and explaining to little children what was meant by the House of God,—wherein they had never entered before that day,—why the altars were ruined, why the crowd venerated certain images ? Under such circumstances it is easy to understand how a real craving for a public worship may become a downright passion, and even a passion lording it over every other. It is easy, likewise, to understand the enormous advantage of inaugurating, under such auspices, the intellectual, religious and aesthetical education of a child.”
Such was the first education young Rio received at home. During the First Empire he studied under the direction of learned and worthy masters. We must pass over an episode in his life during the time of the Hundred Days, when he placed himself at the head of a band of three hun
546
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dred Breton schoolboys and carried on a guerilla warfare From Vannes, where he held for a short time the post of professor in the city grammar school, he went to Paris. Not succeeding in getting a position in the University he had to content himself with one in a provincial lycee. But, having energy and pluck, he returned to Paris with brighter expectations. By the advice of one of his friends he studied German. He was admitted to the Societe des Bonnes Lettres, which was a sort of debating society, over which Chateaubriand presided, and of which many of the most illustrious men of France were members. It was of great advantage to a young man like M. Rio to be connected with a society which was deservedly held in high repute.
The one who had perhaps the greatest influence upon M. Rio was the Count de la Ferronnays, although M. Rio was at different times on intimate terms with such men as Montalembert, the eloquent Dominican Lacordaire, and the learned and unfortunate La Mennais, in France, and with many distinguished men in Germany and England. Under Charles X, Count de la Ferronnays was for a time Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he chose M. Rio for his private secretary. After the Count had given up his pos-as Minister and was appointed Ambassador to Rome, he took M. Rio with him, still in the capacity of private secretary. To form an idea of the influence of the Count upon M. Rio, it would be necessaay to read the Epilogue d VArt Chretien. The man was a strange blending of Christian humility and innate dignity. “ The very first craving of my soul,” said he one day, “is to stand erect, even before an enemy. I believe I should die were any living man to deem himself entitled to make me lower my eyes.” With this man and his son, to whom after a while he became tutor, he made a journey to Italy. We think it best to let him relate in his own words his arrival in Rome.
“At last ” he writes, “ on the 15th of April, 1830, one of the happiest days of my life, I could exclaim on awaking: Italiam, Italiam! We travelled at a slow rate, especially on the other side of the Alps, and I easily obtained of my companions that we should stop at Pisa to see thee Campo Santo, and at Florence, to visit the Uffizi gallery and the Pitti, where I should feel the most exquisite delight in contemplating the Judith of Cris-tofano Allori! I candidly confess that I was quite disconcerted by my own ignorance when thus suddenly placed before so many wonderful masterpieces without the slighest respect to their chronological or genetrical orders. Not one of the books I had read gave me a clue to guide me through the labyrinth. Valery’s work on Italy had not been published; I had not even heard of the one by which the German Rumohr had just struck out a new road in a branch of literature forming the very basis of aesthetics.
“But this transitory disappointment was compensated for by sundry emotions, the keenness of which-was not always in due proportion to the importance of the different objects, nor to the sights that produce them. It was a delightful mixture of childish and serious admiration, which was to culminate in Rome, where we entered by night, on the 1st of May, in the midst of a deep, solemn silence interrupted only by the rumbling noise of our vehicle and the waterworks of the Piazza del Popolo. Yet neither the fatigues of a long journey nor the need of food and sleep were so imperious as that of prayer. Mine had never been so long and ardent. Methought I was entering the city of God, whose wonders I was about to contemplate.”
In Rome he visited the great paintings in the museums, churches and chapels, and it was his good fortune to bring to light the purest types of aesthetics! beauty on the walls of the chapel called Di Sesto Quinto, which have been,
painted by the great artist and saint, Fra Angelico. In these visits he was in company with M. de la Ferronnays and his daughters, with whom we are all well aquainted through the “Recit d'une Sasur.” Their appreciation helped him in his search for the beautiful, and as he went with them from chapel to chapel, from one masterpiece to another of Christian art, he endeavored to guess at their prayers and to join in them. “And,” he adds, “I almost envied the tears which bathed their cheeks when their prostrate heads rose from the ground.”
This sketch is almost too long, yet we have said nothing of his visit to Venice, his sojourn in Florence with his chosen friends, Albert de la Ferronnays and Count de Montalembert. At some other time we may give a picture of the life of these three talented enthusiastic young men, who instead of spending their time in vain amusements devoted all their energies, each in his own peculiar way, to the defence of the Church, living together a life of mingled prayer and study, with mutual affection for each other, and partaking of the refined enjoyments known only to those who to a lofty intellect add purity of heart and liveliness of faith. We must pass that by at present and merely outline his further movements, in all of which his aim was to perfect himself as a true critic of art. He travelled through the Romagna, Umbria, Tuscany, Ferrara, and Venetia, always acquiring deeper insight into the mysteries of art, and preparing documents for his book. Thrice he went to Germany, believing that only in Munich could he find a guide in the technical study of the art. The first time he visited Germany he was accompanied by La Mennais, and by him introduced to Schelling. This was in 1832. Twice after he visited Italy, and three times Germany, collecting matter for his great work, one that was so much needed in those times and is so useful in our own.
M. Rio married an.English lady, and frequently visited England. He there met with the most distinguished men of the day. We would like to give some extracts, showing his appreciation of such men as Carlyle, and Manning, whom he knew first as an Anglican minister, Macaulay and others; but we must draw to a conclusion, strongly urging on all who wish to have any appreciative knowledge of art to become thoroughly acquainted with M. Rio through his great work on Christian Art. He died on the 18th of July, 1874, in the seventy-seventh year of his age.
Such books as M. Rio’s should hold an honorable place in the circulating library.
Compulsory Education.
Amid the exciting events of the last decade, the subject of education, which is always of .paramount importance, was overlooked. Now it appears to be the all-absorbing topic, and with an impulsiveness characteristic of the American people, the reaction bids fair to run to a hurtful ’ extreme.
The first complaint was the inefficiency of our publicschool system. Parents, whose time was wholly engrossed in the acquisition of wealth, left the training of the children to the State, and when they thought them prepared to take positions of usefulness in life, or as ornaments to society, were surprised to find them sadly deficient in both mental and moral culture. Instead of polished, erudite, earnest-thinking men, and accomplished, gentle, lovable women, the adolescent generation were found to be “ fast young people, with a certain slangy smartness and free-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
54T
and-easy style of manners, but with a notable absence of those important qualities of head and heart which alone could make the men honorable and useful citizens and the women tutelary saints of happy homes; and in both sexes there was a growing irreverence for all that our fathers and mothers were wont to hold sacred, positively shocking to the thinking mind of the old school.
Badly managed as the public schools may be, they answer only to a certain extent the end for which they were instituted, viz.: to place within the reach of all classes the facilities for obtaining the rudiments of a common education. The unwise parent who is deluded with the idea that the public schools common or high, can confer all the education his children need, discovers his error only when it is too late.
Those placed in positions of power, instead of admitting the fact that the public-school system as it now stands has not answered the end proposed, have attributed the failure to the depravity of the people in not availing themselves of the proffered blessing, and the remedy they propose is Compulsion.	-
Compulsory education is entirely at variance with the spirit of free institutions, and is repugnant to all republican feeling. Yet it is rapidly becoming familiar to the popular mind. It has been gravely discussed, and found respectable advocacy in the meetings of our teachers’ institutes, and many respectable and influential journals are at present giving it immense support.
That compulsory education is impracticable in this country, and incompatible in any country with free government, seems susceptible of easy demonstration. The greatest argument adduced in its favor by its advocates is the example of Prussia. But this should be the strongest argument against it. Only under the most despotic of European Governments could the system be enforced, and the fruit it has borne is as opposite to republicanism as anything that could well be imagined—no less than the consolidation of a number of petty monarchies into a powerful, imperial despotism, with the assertion of the “ divine right of kings” and the denial of the capacity of the people for self-government as its cardinal principles.
■ The mere acquisition of knowledge is not education— still less the smattering of knowledge acquired by the transient attendance, voluntary or compulsory, upon the best of public schools. A reference to the dictionary would evidently be of service to some of the flippant advocates of the compulsory system. Webster says: “To give children a good education in manners, arts, and sciences, is important ; to give them a religious education is—indispensable; and immense responsibility rests on parents and guardians who neglect these duties.”
In the light of this definition—and it would be difficult to conceive a more concise and comprehensive one—it is apparent that a national and compulsory system is utterly impossible, without a radical change in our whole theory of government. It is the highest duty of the parent to correct the temper and form the manners and habits of his children. The Government which by a compulsory system of education absolves him from this duty, and deprives him of this right, is the worst kind of despotism that ever degraded humanity.
When Catholics, Protestants, Jews, and Pagans can agree upon a universal religion, it will perhaps be practicable for a Government of which religious freedom is a fundamental principle to undertake a national compulsory sys
tem of education. The greatest obstacle to compulsory' education, as society is now constructed, will continue to be, until the millenium, the poor classes. How can the • Government make the education of the poor compulsory without providing for their subsistence?	'
If the head of a family, either through misfortune, dis-' ease, or the indulgence of vicious habits, is reduced to such poverty that the children must labor, from the very earliest age at which they are capable of labor, for their dally bread, how are such children to be embraced in the national scheme of education, except by setting aside the guardianship of the parent, and adopting them as the' wards of the nation ? It is therefore plain that the compulsory system could be but partial in its operations. The very class it is desired to benefit is beyond its reach, while the classes that could be brought within its operations would only be injuriously affected by its interference with their natural and inalienable rights and most sacred duties.	L.
Robert Wallace Healy.
Among the graduates of Notre Dame there is not per-' haps one who has so warm a corner in the hearts of those who knew him as General Healy, now of Alabama,—“ Bob Healy,” as he was known to us in days gone by. His name graces the “Roll of Honor” in the Junior refectory, leading the second column; and as his old companions still here look upon that honored name, they remember the' noble character who bore it at Notre Dame, and feel that such a youth deserved such a manhood as he has attained.
After graduating at Notre Dame in June, 1859, young Healy entered Sloan’s Commercial College at Chicago and completed a thorough commercial course. Afterwards he engaged in mercantile business till the breaking out of the war. He entered the service in 1861, recruiting a company for an infantry regiment, for the organization of which W. F. Lynch, also a pupil of Notre Dame, had just received authority from the Governor of Illinois; waa commissioned and mustered into the service at Camp Douglas, Chicago, Uis., Dec. 25, 1861, as Captain of Co. A, 58th Illinois Infantry, of which W. F. Lynch was at the same time mustered in as Colonel. Captain Healy was promoted Major, Aug. 20,1864; Lieut.-Colonel, March 27, 1865; Colonel, Sept. 5,1865. He was twice brevetted,— viz.: Lieut-Colonel U. S. Volunteers, to rank from March 26,1865, “for faithful and meritorious services during the campaign against the city of Mobile and its defences,” and Brigadier General of U. S. Volunteers, to rank from Feb. 13,1866, “ for faithful and meritorious services during the war.” Was mustered out of the service April 15, 1866, one year after the close of the war.
He was engaged in the campaign and battles resulting in the capture of Fort Donaldson and its garrison in February, 1862, under Gen’l Grant; in the siege and capture of Corinth, Miss., under Gen’l Halleck in May, 1862; in the campaign and engagements resulting in the capture of Meridian, Miss., under Gen’l Sherman, in February, 1864; in the Red River campaign in March, April and May, 1864, under Gen’l Banks, and in the storming and capture' of Fort De Russey, March, 1864; at the battle of Pleasant Hill, La., April 9,1864; battle of Yellow Bayou, May 8, 1864, and the various minor engagements in which his regiment, as part of the rear guard, was daily involved-during Banks’ retreat; he was in the campaign against
548
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Forrest, in West Tennessee, under Gen’l A. J. Smith, in August, 1864; in the campaign against Price, in Missouri, under Gen’l Rosecrans, in October and November, 1864; in the defence of Nashville, under Gen’l Thomas, and the battle of Nashville, resulting in the total route of Hood’s army, Dec. 15th and 16th, 1864. After the pursuit of Hood to the Tennessee River, he was transferred with his regiment and corps (16th Army Corps) to the Department of the Gulf, where he was engaged in the campaign against Mobile under Gen’l Canby, and the battle, storming and capture of Fort Blakely, April 9,1865, resulting in the surrender of the city of Mobile. After the close of the campaign against Mobile, he entered on a campaign, with the 16th Army Corps and Army of the Gulf, against the interior of the Confederacy by way of Montgomery, Columbus, Augusta, etc. Reaching Montgomery April 24, 1865, news of the surrender of Lee was received and the further progress of the campaign was stayed. His regiment, being a veteran regiment, was retained while the bulk of the corps was mustered out of service. During the autumn and winter of 1865 he commanded the post of Montgomery, and in February, 1866, relieved Major Gen’l Henry E. Davis, Jr., in command of the District of Montgomery, and all the troops therein, comprising one-third of the department then commanded by Maj. Gen’l Charles R. Woods. This command he retained till mustered out of service.
In the winter of 1866 certain members of the bar of Montgomery waited upon him and desired him to accept the office of U. S. Marshal, to which he consented. In recommending him for this civil appointment, the members of the bar of Montgomery, Selma and Mobile united. He was recommended also by prominent men at his old home in Chicago and by several of his late companions in arms and commanders. We will quote but one of these:
“ Head Quaeters Armies of the United States, Washington, D. C., Jan. 4,1867.
“ Dear Sir:—Genl. K. W. Healy, who served with credit in the Union Army during the rebellion, has since become a resident of Alabama. He is now an applicant for the office of United States Marshal for the Southern District of that State. It has not been my habit to recommend any one for civil appointments ; but as Genl. Healy has been a Union soldier and s recommended for an important civil office in a State lately in rebellion, by the bar of that State and also by the officers of the army doing duty there, I venture to depart from the rule which I had established and to add my recommendation to the others for his appointment.
“I hope Gent Healy may receive the appointment of United States Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama and that he may prove a valuable officer.
“ I have the honor to be, With great respect, Your obedient serv’t, U. S. Grant, General.” “To Hon. Henry Stanberry, Attorney General of the U. S.”
He was accordingly appointed U. 8. Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama by President Andrew Johnson in January, 1867, and the appointment having been confirmed by the Senate in February, 1867, he immediately entered on the duties of the office, which during the trying times of reconstruction and political disquiet were often onerous, important and very delicate. The Courts which it was his duty as Marshal to attend and provide for, and whose mandates it was his duty to execute, were the U. S.
Circuit and District Courts, held at Montgomery, and the U. S. Circuit and District Courts held at Mobile.
On the expiration of his commission, which was for four years, he was reappointed by President Grant in February, 1871. On the expiration of this last commission in March, 1875, another person, through adverse political influences, was appointed to supersede him. After holding the office about one month, this person was detected in practicing frauds on the Government; President Grant immediately removed him, and, on his own motion, reappointed Gen’l Healy, who re entered on his duties on the 22d of April, 1875, and still administers the office.
Such is, in brief, the career of one of whom his Alma Mater has every reason to feel proud,—a soldier tried and' true, a civilian without a stain on his robes of office.
i i
I j I
St. Peter’s at Home.
The Basilica of St. Peter’s, Rome, is surpassed by no Cathedral in antiquity and splendor, and equalled by none in magnificence. In the year 90, St. Anacletus, Bishop of Rome, who was ordained by St. Peter, erected an oratory on the site of the Apostle’s burial, after his crucifixion. In 306, Constantine built a basilica on the spot. In 1450, Nicholas V commenced a building on plans of Bernardino and others. Paul II continued it, and Julius II secured the services of Bramante, whose plan was a Latin cross, an immense dome on arches springing from four large pillars. The latter died in 1514, and Leo X appointed Giuliano Sangallo, Giovanni da Verona, and Raphael, who strengthened the pillars of the dome; but Sangallo dying in 1517, and Raphael in 1520, Leo employed Baidas-sari Peruzzi who changed the plan to a Greek cross. Paul III employed Antonio Sangallo, who returned to Bra-mante’s plan, but Sangallo died very shortly, and the Pope appointed Giulio Romano, who also died. The work was then given to Michael Angelo, then in his seventy-second year. Paul the III died in 1549, but Julius HI continued Angelo in his place, giving him full authority to change whatever he wished in the building as it then stood. Michael Angelo returned to the Greek cross, again strengthening the piers for supporting the dome, and formed the plan for it as it now exists. The drum of the dome was completed before he died, in 1563. Pope Pius V appointed Vignola and Pirro, with orders that they should adhere to Angelo’s plans. The dome was not finished until 1590, by Giacomo della Porta. Sixtus V gave 100,000 gold crowns towards its completion. In 1605, Paul V employed Carlo Maderno, who changed the ground plan back to the Latin cross. The nave was finished in 1612, the faqade and portico in 1614. The church was dedicated by Pope Urban VIH, on November 18,1626. Under Alexander VII, 1667, Bernini finished the colonnade. The building of St. Peter’g from foundation in 1450 until its dedication, occupied one hundred and seventy-five years; and if we include the work done under Pius VI, three and,a half centuries passed away before it was completed, during which time forty-three Popes reigned and died. The dimensions of the church are as follows: length of the exterior, 727 feet; length of transept, 500 feet; height of nave, 150 feet; width of the great nave, 89 feet; of side aisles, 21 feet; the pillars that support the dome are 70 feet in thickness; the cupola is 137 feet in interior diameter, and 193 feet in exterior diameter. A stairway leads to the roof, broad and easy enough to allow a loaded horse to ascend.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■549
,L.	4)
• The vestibule of St. Peter’s is 233 feet long. The height under the arch of the great nave is 151 feet. Upon four enormous pillars runs a great frieze, on which is carved the inscription: Tn es Petrus, et super Jianc Petram cedificabo Hc-desiam Hearn; et tibi dabo claves regni ccelorum. (Thou art Peter, and upon this Rock I will build My Church; and I will give thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.) The letters of the inscription are about the size of a man. Above the frieze rises a great range of composite pillasters, which enclose high windows, and these are surrounded by an attic, from which springs the superb dome. Finally, a gilt ball and a cross crown the lantern, which contains sixteen windows, from .which one looks down into the area of the church as into a great abyss. Its works were successfully directed by thirteen architects, from Bramante to Bernini, and cost a sum which, in 1693, amounted to nearly 252,090,0090 francs. The Cathedrals of Milan, of Mans, of Rbeims, the largest that exist, are dwarfed by the side of St. Peter’s; and as for Notre Dame at Paris, and the Cathedrals of Bourges and Chartres, they could stand very well in the transept of the great structure at Rome.
On the Use of Big Words.
Nothing can be more foolish than the pleasure some people take in using big words. They are careful always to have an abundant supply, and they fancy they will not be thought learned or clever unless they employ them without restriction. But this is a great mistake. The indiscriminate use of big words always betrays a weak mind or a ' very depraved taste; and is avoided by all sensible people. Using big words, however, is not absolutely prohibited; in many learned professions it is unavoidable. In a treatise on Geology or Botany for instance, we expect to find scientific and ponderous words; and in their place they are both appropriate and serviceable. It is the abuse, not the use, that is condemned. Young people especially are much given to this habit, and far from considering it a fault they look upon it as no mean accomplishment.
Everything they write, even their conversation on the most ordinary occasions, is filled with the most unwieldy ’ words the language contains. For instance, if a person is dangerously ill, they will ask if there are any symptoms of approaching dissolution. If there is anything they can’t explain, they will attribute it to some electrical phenomena or optical delusion. When asked a simple question, in . place of saying I don’t know; they make use of such expressions as, “ Not knowing, I cannot presume to substantiate.” They speak of philosophy as a concatination of ideas; of milk as the concentrated quintescence of clover; of the barber as a dermatologist or professor of the ton-sorial art. If they have a cold, they cure themselves by the mercurial influence of hydropathy. If anyone insults them, he is called a vituperator. When a mosquito bites them, they are “ excessively annoyed by an infinitely diminutive parasitic insect of the first order.”
Such affectation is simply disgusting; and if people who undertake to use big words were only aware of the responsibility they incur they would be more cautious. The most distinguished writers and conversationalists are they who are able to make choice and proper use of common words; and it is a perfection which very few attain. To suppose that bulky words are the most forcible and expressive is a great error. Like landsmen at sea
they are often an obstacle rather thana help; and instead of being any assistance are generally in the way. A witty Spanish writer says: “We know by the sound of a hell when it is cracked; and in the same manner, we know by a man’s words how his head is affected.” This is a very happy comparison. Big words are the sounds which come from cracked heads. A celebrated author in writing to a young friend, gives him a piece of advice which many would.do well to remember. He says: “If you wish.to shine in conversation, if you desire to become a popular writer or an eloquent speaker, above all things, avoid using big words.”
Palimpsests.
In former times, when parchment had once been :used it became common to erase what had been written, in order that the same parchment might be again used. The practice of thus utilizing the vellum manuscript existed among the ancients; but during the Middle Ages, when the scarcity of writing-materials became very great, it became of much more frequent occurrence. This scarcity of materials was felt at an earlier date in the Western Empire than it was in the Eastern, because it was cut off from Egypt and thus was unable to procure proper supplies of papyrus. As a consequence, the earliest Greek palimpsests found date about the eleventh century, while the Latin go back as far as the seventh. The original writing in some palimpsests has been so poorly effaced that it may be easily read by a practiced eye, but for deciphering the majority of them the application of chemicals and the use of strong lenses are required. In late years a number of palimpsests which contain portions of the New Testament and the Septuagint have been discovered; hut the greatest results have attended the researches in classical ■ literature. Fragments of Greek and Latin classics, heretofore lost, have been recovered, and it is expected that when fuller investigation shall have been made even more val uable results will follow.
Paul James Bruns, in the year 1773, was the first .to bring out an edition of a fragment of a classic author recovered from a palimpsest. This was a fragment of the ninety-first book of Livy, which he discovered in rescribed manuscript in the Vatican Collection. The great explorer in this department, however, was the celebrated Cardinal Mai, who was so successful as to discover the lost work of Cicero, De Bepublica. His exertions greatly attracted the attention of philologists who devoted themselves to the transcription of the orginal writing on the palimpsests. Among others, Niebuhr was successful. Among discoveries made by him was a fragment of the Institutes of the Roman jurist Gaius, from a palimpsest manuscript in the library of the Chapter of Verona. In late years a great number of very valuable fragments have been discovered. The first, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth and fifteenth books of Pliny were found in 1854, in a Benedictine monastery in Carinthia, by Dr. Fridigor Mone; fragments of the Iliad of Homer from a Syrian palimpsest containing in all three thousand eight hundred and seventy-three lines, -were afterwards discovered; and in 1857 Karl Pertz published from a palimpsest of a similar kind fragments from the history of Gaius Granus Licinianus, an author who flourished about the beginning of the Christian era; Phi-lolgists still continue their work, and many important discoveries may yet be made.
' 550
the notbe dame scholastic.
Jealousy and Envy.
Jealousy and envy are generally regarded as two very low and detestable vices, but in reality the former may sometimes be accepted in a good sense, and becomes rather a virtue than a vice.
Jealousy is a painful apprehension of losing what one possesses; envy is a feeling of pain or dislike at seeing another in the possession of some good or advantage. Jealousy may have two motives: the first, a disapprobation of the love and service which should be attributed by right or justice to a certain object or to one’s self, transferred to another, and in this sense it is rather a virtue than a vice. The word "jealousy” is often used in this sense in Holy Writ, as when God says, in Exodus: “ I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God,”—that is, God knows that divine worship should be paid only to Himself, and to none other; to this He has the exclusive right, as He is the Cause of all being, and the creatures of His hand, or word, should give Him alone supreme homage or worship. On the other hand, jealousy may have an unjust and malicious motive, as when a person wishes himself honored when in reality he does not deserve honor, and cannot bear to see praise or honor bestowed on others.
But envy is always a base passion, and can never be used, like jealousy, in a good sense. A person is jealous of what is his own, but envious of what is another’s. A sovereign is jealous of his authority, a subject of his rights, but courtiers are envious of those in favor. A student may be jealous of his already acquired knowledge, but this jealousy, indifferent in itself, should not go so far as to convert it into envy and hatred when a fellow-student stands upon the same level in knowledge as himself; and then trying, if not entirely to cast into the shade the advantages of the other, yet to lessen their brilliancy so that he may himself be regarded as at least a little his superior in knowledge.	'
A virtuous person may be jealous of his virtues so as to employ eveiy means to preserve them, jmd this is the jealousy spoken of by St. Paul in his Second Epistle to the Corinthians, chap. 11, ver. 2.: “I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy.” When one in the class writes a better composition than another, then the envious person will have it that he was helped by another or that he copied it; at all events he will make it appear that he never could have written such a composition; because he, the envious, cannot do it, he does not like to see others capable of doing it.
The envious man is never at rest; he is always on the look-out for some reason to find fault, even when there is none, so as at least to lessen the esteem and merits of another, if he cannot entirely efface tham. Shakespeare, speaking of jealousy, says:	.
“ Trifles light as air
Are to the jealous confirmation strong As proofs of Holy Writ.”
And Pope, of envy, says:
“Envy, to which the ignoble mind’s a slave Is emulation in the learned and brave.”
“Emulation,” says Colton, “looks out for merits, that she may exalt herself by a victory; envy spies out blem-shes that she may lower another by a defeat.” Thompson thus characterizes the latter despicable trait r
“Base envy withers at another’s joy, .	• And hates that excellence it cannot reach.”
Axe you envious of the success or good qualities of one
of your fellows,—or do you attempt to deny or lessen the good qualities of others? Do you feel hurt when another is praised for something,—and for the simple reason, perhaps, that you yourself cannot obtain this praise? Then this article was written for you, to correct those ill-feelings at another’s success. But if you have the godly jealousy of St. Paul, then go on, for you do not wish to detract from the success of another, but simply to secure your own; you do not try to lessen another’s merits by unlawful means, but you try to increase your own by closer application and renewed exertion. And further, if you refer the praise bestowed on you to the honor of God, the primary cause of it—He from whom you have received the talent necessary to obtain it, then you store up for yourself an immense treasure for the life to come. .
A.M. K.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Millais, the artist, has been offered $75,000 for a picture not yet painted.
—A monument to Alexander von Humboldt is about to be placed in front the University of Berlin.
—The Munich Royal Academy of Fine Arts has conferred upon the American artist, David Neal, the great silver medal in acknowledgment of the merits of his picture, “ Marie Stuart.”
—Gounod’s new opera, “ Piccolino,” is having a great success at the Opera Comique, Paris, particularly since the libretto has been retrenched. The music is original and sparkling and the scenery splendid.
—In a register of the year’s doings in drama and music, published in Paris, the United States has but one entry, the opera of “Ostrolenka” by J. H. Bonawitz, of Philadelphia, who is not an American either.
—Public meetings have been held in Washington to organize a grand musical festival during the Centennial season. There seems to be no lack of enthusiasm, and it is reported that bands, singers, and a gaurantee fund can all be secured.	.
—We have received from the Messrs. Benziger Brothers, publishers, New York city, a very handsome chromo of Pope Pius IX, which is given gratis to subscribers to the Catholic Book News. The subscription price of the News is 50 cents per anumn, hence the chromo is almost given away.
—Messrs. A. S. Barnes & Co. have their centennial history very nearly ready for issue. The work makes a handsome square octavo of nearly 700 pages, with profuse illustrations, and appendixes giving chronological tables arranged by the days of the month, a brief study of early school-books, and other interesting matter.
—Miss Elizabeth Thompson, who painted the “Roll Call,” has been at work for some time past upon a new war piece, to be called “ The Return of the Six Hundred from Balaklava.” This will probably be her last battle painting, as she designs giving her attention entirely to religious subjects after having taken a course of study at Rome.
—The contribution of Massachusetts to the art department of the Centennial exhibition will have a permanent memorial in a heliotype volume to be published at once by JamesR. Osgood&Co. The painting represents Allston, Copley, Gilbert Stuart, as well as some of the Boston artists of early and recent days, and the book will give sketches and reproductions of them, with a full descriptive index.
—Liszt has given at Pesth the promised concerts for the benefit ofthose who sffered from the overflowing of the Danube. He executed Beethoven’s “ Sonata Pathetique;” also his own composition of “ La Legende de St. Francois de Paule,” his transcription of “La Charite,” by Rossini, and “ Divertissement Hongrois,” by Schubert. The choir of the Societe Liszt sang some of his compositions.
—A correspondent of the London Standard learns from a reliable quarter that Richard Wagner and his friends
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
551-
lntend to start an agitation, having for its object the purchase by the state of Wagner’s new opera-house at Bayreuth, so as to make it a national institution. Some of the leading members of the reichstag had already been sounded with regard to this project, but there seemed to be little hopes of its realization.
—Prof. George Stephens, of Copenhagen, hopes to publish in May a pamphlet on the interesting ruined monolith lately exhumed in Sweden, which was raised in memory of men, one of whom fell fighting under Earl Siward against Macbeth. This monument is, says the professor, the very oldest document left us connected with the obscure history of Shakspeare’s hero. A chromotype of the monolith will accompany the pamphlet.
—Wagner’s Centennial March is finished! The motive of the piece is taken from the second part of “Faust,” and the harmonies are so massive that a colossal instrumentation is required. The German newspapers assert, that in accordance with American taste, which strives after bizarre effects, Wagner ends a powerful fortissimo passage with a long pause—so long, that the tune may be used in firing a few cannon shots, or something of that sort, by way of an interlude.
—Gentlemen prominently connected with theMay musical festival in Cincinnati, last year, in connection with the Harmonic and Maennerchor Societies of Cincinnati, are preparing to give a musical festival of a superior order, to extend during three nights, next month, in the Exposition Building. The choruses of last season’s festival have been invited to participate, and the organization already numbers 400 singers. The solo singers thus far engaged are H. A. Bischoff, tenor, and M. W. Whitney, basso. Mr. Otto Singer will be the musical director.
Books and Periodicals.
Louise Latexo : Her Stigmas and. Ecstasy. An Essay Addressed to Jews, and to Christians of Every Denomination, By Dr. Augustus Rohling. New York: Hickey & Co. Price. 25 cents.	.
This is a pamphlet of 55 pages octavo, translated from the German by the Rev. J. Walsh, Professor of Theology in St. Patrick’s College, Mayuooth, Ireland, for the Catholic Review, and furnished with notes, critical and explanatory, by the translator. We are told that over 80,000 copies of the German edition of the work have been sold in Europe alone, where it has created a profound sensation. It is a pamphlet, as the title-page indicates, addressed not only to .Catholics but to Christians of every denomination, and to Jews; for the phenomena of the stigmas are clearly explained not only from the common-place view, but from scientific standpoints, so that the devotion of Catholics and the curiosity of non-Catholics maybe alike gratified by the perusal of the pamphlet. Dr. Rohling, the author, is now in this country, a professor in Most Rev. Archbishop Henni’s Seminary at Milwaukee, having been exiled from Munster by the tyrannical Bismark. Dr. Walsh, the translator, personally witnessed the miracle of the stigmata, therefore his notes are the more practical in their bearing on the case. It is needless to say that we commend the perusal of the pamphlet.
Folio. A Journal of Music, Drama, Art and Literature. For
May. Boston: White, Smith & Co.
This monthly comes to us filled as usual with interesting musical and art gossip, and has some choice music in its pages; but its true blue bigoted foreign correspondent, writing from abroad under date of January 6th, says some things that we cannot allow to go by without a passing remark, however much we may regret the occasion and the tax upon our time and space in doing so. We don’t like to say unpleasant things, but it is necessary to do so sometimes. The correspondent referred to, chronicling a visit to Rome, says: “ This old city of the saints, and hub of the Pope’s former power,—spiritual and political, is literally emancipated under the regime of Victor Emanuel, and has been since the eventful day, Oct. 20,1870, when the army battered down the north walls, entered, and took p ossession. A notable event was the entrance through this b reach of two young men with a cart full of Bibles and
Testaments, drawn by a dog, following close upon the troops. This was the first weapon of the spirit,—a bombshell which struck the city, and which the Pope fears more than he does the Italian army under Victor Emanuel.” Further on the same veritable correspondent, speaking of Rev. Mr. Van Meter, the fortunate possessor of the aforesaid dog-cart: “ He has a flourishing day, evening and' Sunday-school within a stone’s throw of the Vatican, also .in other sections of the city, and is doing a great and glorious work for emancipation and education in Rome.”. One more extract from this very special correspondence,' literatim : “An interview with his holiness, Pio Nino, I dot down as one of the notable events of my visit in Rome. Some Americans are just as silly as anybody else; and I. cannot refrain from classing Miss Emma Abbott in that, category, when she rushed across the room, and asked the Pope to bless her voice ! The reply, ‘You must pray,’was; not so bad, although senseless.”
Now we would not for the world have any sensible man obliged to refrain from expressing a candid and unbiased opinion on matters upon which he is capable of giving an opinion, but we do say that such opinion should be given in a gentlemanly manner, and not in a way to outrage truth or wound unnecessarily the feelings of anyone. Those who are at all acquainted with the state of affairs in Rome since the Robber-King took possession of the city know very well that it cannot bear comparison, in any respect, with the’ Rome of the Popes. Formerly it was a pleasure to visit that city; the people were prosperous and happy, taxes, were very light, the educational institutions were, without exception, the grandest and most numerous of any city on the globe, considering the number of inhabitants; hospitals, free-schools, schools of art and science were numerous and flourishing; of the churches we need not speak,—evena Yankee is reported to have said that “ they knocked the socks off any meeting-houses he ever saw! ” Morality was such as could not be seen in the best of our third-class towns here; scarcely a fallen outcast from society could be found within the limits of that large city,—at least there were so few of this class that they could not be seen flaunting in public places, as has been the case since the notable breach at Porta Pia, Oct. 20,1870. The Rome of the Popes was quiet and peaceful; Rome of to-day is notable for turbulence, grinding taxation, immorality, murders, suicides, and political corruption equalling the Belknap affair in this, country, as anyone may see who reads much of the foreign correspondence in our newspapers.
As to the clause about some Americans being as sidy a» anybody else;—well, some people will draw conclusions that this correspondent would scarcely have expected- People who read the Bible know very well that from the first days of Christianity to the present time it has been a universal custom to ask the prayers of others, both in spiritual and temporal matters, and the Holy Bible itself has many such instances recorded in its pages, with the favors, spiritual and temporal, which were received through prayer. Why, then, does the correspondent of the Folio take the liberty of holding Miss Emma Abbott up to public ridicule for doing that which other and better people had done before her? And what does the correspondent mean when, he says that the Pope’s reply, “ You must pray,” “ was not so bad, although senseless!" [Italics ours.] Did not our Lord tell people to pray, and did not He Himself give us frequent examples of prayer in His own Divine Person—-for our example, of course, as He needed it not for Himself? But perhaps this correspondent is an infidel, and does not believe in God, or in prayer, or in anything else Christian? Then the sooner he is dismissed from the staff of the Folio, and allowed to go and write for his brother Pagans the Chinese or others, the better it will be for that paper, as we hope we are yet living in a Christian country and among a Christian people.
—An Indianapolis cat got to playing with a small turtle the other day, and was having a nice time tumbling it around, when suddenly the turtle’s jaws closed on the cat’s tail. There was some very lively tumbling then ou the part of the cat, to an accompaniment of her own selection. Two hours after she was seen examining that tail tenderly, evidently wondering if the piece would grow out again.—Ex.
562	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
oirc
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum,Postpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s, 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Dame, A.pril 2&, 1S7O.
The May Devotions.
In our latitude, it seems to require a more than usual amount of poetic fancy to go into rapture over the budding spring. April showers, which are said to bring May flowers, as a rule have too much ice in them, and the verdure of May is invisible green to the sharpest-eyed naturalist, though he may truthfully say that it is “all in my eye.” The chilly twitter of a few small birds gives about as lively a representation of the warbling songsters as a cracked fiddle and a pair of bones offer of a full orchestra; and when from the profusion of flowers that rhymesters raise in their poems on spring we turn to the poor, timid flowerets shuddering under the dead leaves of winter, and seeming conscious that they have got up too soon, we are forced to allow that the rhymesters have more poetry than truth in their lines, though it is generally held that they have precious little of the former.
This year, however, we are happy to state that from present appearances the first of May will do its level best to come up to all that has been said about it, and realize in our regions at least a semblance of what it is in those happy climes where winter does not hold out so long. The sun on this almost last day of April is bright, the sky blue, and all the etceteras are furnished in abundance. That during this phenomenal weather the students should enjoy their sports on days of rec., as most of the students denominate those days of rest from class, is not to be wondered at. All enjoy themselves, if we may judge from the blithe-ful air of some of the stalwart students bending their way to the boat-house, from the cheerful look of the young surveyors starting from the College, and from the merry shouts on the Campus, where the young athletes spend their hours at baseball.
But to return to our subject. The month of May will, we believe, come this year with smiles and sunshine, and make us feel that there may after all be some truth in the rhymings of the poets. And with these smiles and sunshine, birds and blossoms, we will have each evening the May devotions. These will last only one half hour each evening, and will consist of English hymns, a short prayer, and a sermon lasting fifteen minutes. We have already heard the choir practicing hymns, and we trust that the youthful singers will make the May devotions what they have ever been at Notre Dame, edifying and instructive.
The devotion of the Month of Mary is now a universal practice, and Catholics in every part of the world unite at this time in honoring the Blessed Virgin in a special man-
ner. Like many other devotions, its origin was obscure, and unpromising of such great results. During the early . part of the sixteenth century, Father Lalomia, a professor in one of the Jesuit colleges in Italy, proposed to -the pupils of his class to perform eachjiay during the month of May some particular devotion to the Mother of God. The ■ happy suggestion was joyfully seconded by his pupils, and accordingly a statue of the Blessed Virgin was placed upon a table at the end of the class-room. Before this humble altar, which was decorated with flowers, the good father and his pupils daily assembled and recited certain prayers ■. in honor of Mary, and made a short meditation on her virtues. The fathers of the college remarked with much • gratification the fervent piety which from that period distinguished the members of Father Lalomia’s class. On the returning May, the devotion was extended to the -whole college. The effect was remarkable. Those who’ had been heretofore untractable now became models of obedience and docility; those who had been remiss in the practice of their religion were converted to a holier life; the slothful and indolent became examples in the punctual discharge of their duties. The praises of Mary were on every tongue. The priests, seeing the good effects which . the devotion of the month of May had produced in a single college, immediately introduced it into all their colleges in Italy and other countries ; and as they went forth from these institutions on the mission they established the devotion among the people, and thus its pread all over the world.
Liberty of the Press.
This is one of the stock subjects of our newspaper scribblers and fourth-of-July stump orators; one they can always fall back upon when they have nothing else to write about or when they wish to laudate themselves.
We take it for granted that the intelligent reader knows all about how the liberty of the press is a palladium, a bulwark, a sheet-anchor,- and many other things that we need not now repeat. It would be an old song, but, unlike “Home, sweet home,” not the more agreeable the oftener we sing it.
They also know how the papers of this country, and of others, too—but we confine ourselves to our native land-how the papers of this country raised their voices, from the clarion notes of big editorials in our great dailies to the penny-whistle shriek of little items and scissorings in our innumerable weeklies (with or without patent insides) when they foretold how Victor Emmanuel was going to heave this sheet-anchor into Borne, and by it hold fast his Kingdom of United Italy in the Eternal City, and how Kaiser William was to bring back to modern Germany the grand national feeling of the Empire with this palladium, and hold united Germany together by means of this bulwark. Liberty of the Press, said these papers; was to be proclaimed by these great champions of freedom, by these liberal rulers.
The muzzled press of Borne under Victor Emmanuel is a rather poor fulfilment of these foretellings. The papers counted their chickens of freedom before they were hatched. Victor Emmanuel being a bad egg himself, it is not a matter of surprise that the chickens never hatched under his addling influence. The fact is that while the press in Italy has full license to print anything and everything that can corrupt the morals of the people and make them irreligious
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and contemptible, it dares not print a word to show its detestation of the acts of injustice committed by the Government of a royal profligate. As for Germany, let any paper publish a Papal Allocution forbidden by the Government and prosecutions will immediately be instituted against it.
As for the manner it is understood by some in this country who write weak, trashy stuff about the liberty of the press, we gather from the fact that the great majority of daily newspapers when printing cable despatches announcing the suppression of Roman Catholic papers in Germany and Italy make no comment thereon. • They may simply repeat in their editorial columns the substance of the despatch, taking it as a matter of course, and perfectly in accordance with their ideas of the liberty of the press, since the papers suppressed are Catholic and the matter contained in them is not immoral but something which is not in accordance with the opinions of the Kaiser or King.
What a difference there is in the tone of our dailies should a Catholic sovereign attempt to suppress a newspaper! What long editorials would be written denouncing the tyranny of the Catholic Church—even when the Church has nothing to do with the suppression! When some vile sheet reeking with immorality, profanity and blasphemy is surppessed by a Catholic Government, all the vials of wrath and bottles of dirty ink are poured out on it by certain newspapers of this country that have not a word of condemnation to utter when the Emperor of Germany or the King of Italy prosecute Catholic papers for publishing perhaps an allocution of the Pope.
Such papers mean, by liberty of the press, liberty to assail the Catholic Church with calumnies, to advocate her destruction, to blacken the character of Catholics as a body, to impute the vilest and wickedest intentions to them, to attack them in their property, their person and political rights, and liberty to gag the Catholic press if it dare attempt to refute the calumnies or defend the rights of- Catholics—rights which they possess and intend to hold, on an equality with their fellow-citizens; no more, no less.
We do not regard the liberty of the press in that light; nor do the people generally in this country so regard it, papers like those described to the contrary notwithstanding. We, and all sensible people in fact, bold that the prosecution and suppression of the Catholic press which have been the rule with the Governments of Berlin and Rome indicate the weakness of these Governments, show on what a feeble foundation the Governments stand, and prove they have not the confidence of the people.
Were not Bismark and his master in dread of the weakness of their hold on the Empire, and of the dissatisfaction of the finest part of the Empire, they would not have expelled the Jesuits and other religious orders from Germany. They wish to enslave Germany, to establish Cmsarism, to abolish the freedom of the constitutive States of the Empire, to enthrall religion and make it a mere creature of the State; they know that the people of South Germany are attached to their freedom, to their religion, and that the Catholic religion is the only efficient barrier against despotism, the only protector of the rights of the people; hence the Jesuits were first banished, then the other religious orders, then the Bishops and secular clergy were persecuted, and finally the Catholic press was gagged. Greater signs of weakness than these could not be shown by any Government, unless by that pitiable excuse for a Government that now misrules and oppresses the fair land
of Italy. There we find the same signs of weakness with a greater amount of imbecility on the part of the king and ministers. Confiscation of ecclesiastical property by the Government—property to which the Government has no more right than we individually have to our neighbor’s farm or dwelling-house; wholesale depredation on neighboring states, persecution of the Catholic Church, especially in the person of the Pope. It is a matter of surprise that to all these acts of injustice, every one of which is a confession of impotency and imbecility, we find the press tyrannized over, and newspapers fined or suppressed whenever they dare to raise their voice against injustice or utter a political opinion at variance to those of the Government.
Lectures in Phelan Hall.
On Saturday and Wednesday last we were favored by Rev. Father Zahm with his two last Physic Lectures, the subjects being “ Dynamic Electricity ” and “ The Uses of Electricity.”	.
• In the fourth lecture, on Saturday, he described the different kinds of electricity. In the second lecture he had treated of that electricity which is produced by means of friction, which is generally known as static electricity, and familiarly known as lightning. There is also a means of obtaining electricity through chemical action. The elec-, tricity so obtained is known as dynamic electricity, owing -to its great power. The discovery of this dynamic electricity is due to Galvani, in the year 1790. Volta, in 1800,. made the first galvanic battery, which is now known as Volta’s Pile. The Pile of Volta, which consisted simply of a series of copper and zinc plates alternated, and each pair separated by a cloth moistened with some acid solution, was soon superseded by other more convenient and more powerful batteries. Many and various are the forms of the batteries since invented, but the ones most commonly used are those of Dainell, Grove and Bunsen.
This electricity, namely dynamic, can be changed into static, and this was shown by means of what is known as Rubmkorff’s coil. The lecturer then explained what is known as magneto-electricity, thermo-electricity, and animal electricity. Th e effects of all three, especially magnetoelectricity, which shows the connection between electricity and magnetism, he fully showed by experiment.	.
The fifth and last lecture had for its subject the uses, and appliances of Electricity. The greatest and most won- ; derful use of electricity is unquestionably the power it gives -man to transmit his thoughts thousands of miles with the rapidity of lightning. The older mode of receiving messages . was by means of an instrument known as the Indicator, with which we read by sight. But the custom now is to read by sound, and we use a Sounder. A late improvement is that by means of which we can transmit two and even four messages over one wire simultaneously. The second great use of electricity is in electro-plating. By means of this method we can deposit a coating of many of the metals on any object, having it evenly distributed and of any thickness. These are the two principal uses of electricity, though from it we have the greatest artificial heat and light, and it can be and is used to give a continuous and powerful motion to various kinds of machinery. ThuS'in the three last lectures we have had a clear synopsis of the first principles and prominent points of electricity. After the close of the lecture, Rev. Father Golovin closed the course in his usual happy style, and thus terminated the first course of Scientific Lectures, of which we hope to have many more;
554
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.	Personal.
—Mr. John O’Meara, of Cincinnati, was here last Tuesday.
—Mr.—Bushey, of Detroit, spent last Wednesday at the College.
—Mrs. Weaver, of Toledo, was at the College on Sunday last.
—Mr. Wm. Ryan, of Dubuque, Iowa, spent a few days here last week.
—Mrs. M. Riopelle, of Detroit, spent the first part of the week at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
—George Cottin, of ’61, is in the United States Marshal’s Office, Mobile, Alabama. George served with credit throughout the war of the rebellion.
Iiocal Items.
—The Boat Club are soon to have a picnic.
—The Philopatrian Exhibition will take place on the 9th of May.
. —The procession on the Feast of St. Mark was as in former years.	•
—The new sacristy will be ready for use in the course of a week dr two.
—Our friends are rather neglecting our Personal column ■That’s not right.
- —The bascule is the great punishment for the perpetration of bad jokes.	.
—At the College there are too many fine clothes worn ‘—out at the elbows and knees.
—The Philopatrians have their guns ready for the grand Zouave drill at their Exhibition.
—Did any one hear of a lightning-rod or patent-right man ever experiencing religion for any great length of time ?
■ —John Philip thinks it strange that the boys don’t start a game of racket. He says baseball is getting rather stale.
—There will be a meeting of the resident Alumni in the President’s room to-morrow afternoon, at half-past three o’clock.
—As the old meat-house has been torn down, the butcher is forced to takeup temporary quarters until his new house is erected.
■ —The regular evening devotions of the month of May will begin to-morrow evening and continue until the last day of May.
—Next Thursday night the dancing-master will hang up the fiddle and the bow, it being the last night of dancing this session.
—The 30th meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held April 20th. At this meeting the regular debate was held, both sides arguing well.
—The 29lh meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held April 16th. A very interesting reading was given by Mr. I. R. Sandford, of Chicago. •
—There are at present two baseball clubs in the Minim Department, with their 1st and 2d nines; three in the Junior Department, and four in the Senior Department.
—The editor made a flying visit to Detroit, Mich., where he had the pleasure of meeting a number of old friends. He would have called on others but his time was limited.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm will preach all the May sermons at St. Mary’s Academy. At Notre Dame the preachers are: Rev. P. J. Colovin, J. A. O’Connell, T. E. Walsh, C. Kelly and others.
—The Editor of the Ave Maria respectfullyrequests those who have any Nos. 4, 8 and 15 of that publication to send them to the Secretary, at the Office, as these numbers are much needed.
. —The printing-office will shortly be raised some three or four feet in order to admit more light and give better
ventilation in the press-room. We expect to have the new press running in June.
—A game of baseball was played on the 23rd between a picked nine and the Actives, resulting in favor of the picked nine by a score of fifteen to thirteen. The score is-too high for publication.
—“Arrab, then,” said Pat. “is it conundhrums ye’d have?—here’s one for you then. When is the alphabet like a maimed sojer ?” Sorra a one o’me knows; what is it ?” “ When you cut L M from it.”
—Is it maliciousness? there is a young man here who affirms that a newspaper man will publish items when he hgs the least doubt of their being true. Of course he don’t believe they would tell an out and out lie.
—“Why is it,” he said, “that we say Alexander the the Great, and Alfred the Great, and never say Charlemagne the Great ? he was as great as any of them.” Whereat the Professor smiled and the class guffawed.
—As there has not been a duck on the lake for a couple of days past, we understand that our young nimrods intend offering chromos to all ducks frequenting our neighborhood. They hope to thus induce them to come.
—We couldn’t employ that tramp printer who came along the other day. What our compositors want in the office is plenty of light, and his ears completely darkened the windows, to say nothing of the imminent danger of the flowers in the garden near by.
—It is said that lately a young lady in a village not far off got an apple in her mouth and found it very difficult to get it out. Our informant is lately from Europe and it is probable that it was a pumpkin he meant. But we thought the supply had run out this last winter.
—We have received The Scholastic Almanac for 1876, compiled by J. A. Lyons of Notre Dame. It is a neat pamphlet of eighty pages, chock full of the choicest kind of literature. To Catholics, especially, the book will be found valuable. We shall publish extracts from it in the future.—Niles Democrat.
—It is thoughtlessness, we suppose, on their part that causes some people to destroy the young trees planted lately about the lower lake; they should, however, endeavor to overcome this habit, otherwise it is entirely useless to attempt to improve the grounds. Please, now, don’t destroy any of the trees.
—The Actives have been somewhat lucky this past month. On the twelfth they beat a picked nine by twelve to twenty; on the fifteenth another picked nine, by twentyeight to ten; on the seventeenth, the second nine of the Centennials, by twenty to fifteen; and on the nineteenth, the Alpines, by forty-nine to twenty.
—As we supposed, the attack made on the University of Michigan by Dr. Sears, in the National Quarterly Review, was the result of their refusal to advertise in his disreputable periodical. This we learn from he Chronicle, of Ann Arbor. Many of the Catholic colleges have been much fleeced by him, and it is to be hoped that all will cut loose from him.
—The 31st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Thursday, April 27th. Master J. Widdicombe was elected a member. Declamations were then delivered by Masters M. Kauffman, A. Ryan, P. Tumble, J. Nelson, H. D. Faxon. E. Arnold, R. Golsen, G. Lonstorf, J. Healy, E. Raymond and E. Riopelle. J. French read an essay.
—It is forbidden for anyone to fish now on the eastern bank of the lower lakes. On account of the character of the soil of which the bank is made, all the work of two years would be lost if it were used steadily as it was last week. In a year from this time the gravel and mud will be sufficiently well mixed and hardened to make a strong bank, and then the students will be allowed to fish from it as much as they please.
—The lecture by the Rev. Father Spillard at the courthouse last Monday night was listened to with interest by all who were fortunate enough to hear him. The crowd was not so large as we would like to have seen, but there was an appreciative audience in attendance. The Reverend gentleman is a fluent and elegant speaker, and we
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
55$
think by the soundness of his logic convinced all present that Catholics were not idolaters.—Waco (Texas) paper.
—The 22d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held April 23rd. The subject debated was, “ Resolved that Oliver Cromwell in his wars -committed more atrocities than the Duke of Alva.” The speakers were: Affirmative, Messrs. T. C. Logan, W. P. Breen, R. J. Maas and J. P. McHugh; Negative, Messrs. J. H. Cooney, J. T. Campbell, A. J. Hertzog, and G. E. . Sullivan. The decision of the President was given in favor of the affirmative. Mr. John H. Cooney read a criti-’ cism on the proceedings of the previous meeting.
—A few evenings ago the six-foot gardener gathered his weeds and brushwood together just between the garden and the Seniors’ Campus, and set them ablaze. The evening was calm and pleasant, the pile of brush' and debris dry, so that in a little while a clear blaze shot up, illuminating the surrounding premises. At this juncture our friend John and another individual took the happy thought of making the bonfire answer a purpose, so they procured a lot of eggs and cooked them in the embers. After partaking of the fruits of their culinary labors they pronounced the eggs delicious.
(	—We received from the Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C. S. C.,
‘ President of St. Mary’s College, Galveston, Texas, a complimentary ticket to a grand dramatic Entertainment given by"the pupils of the College on the 27th of April. The plays produced were the “Hidden Gem” and “Handy Andy,” while music was interspersed between the acts.
.■ We would have been happy to have attended, but as we were unable to do so we hope our reverend friend will ac* cept our sincere thanks for the ticket and our wishes for his continual happiness and success. All those to whom he sent tickets were highly pleased at being thus remembered by their old and dear friend.
—The Columbians, including many old members, assembled in their hall on the evening of the 22nd, to listen to some dramatic readings by Prof. Stace, who had kindly accepted an earnest invitation. His readings were principally of a comic character, and the peals of laughter that frequently interrupted him were sufficient proofs of the Professor’s ability. Some old members were called on for declamations, but as the time was short the members only enjoyed such a treat from Mr. Otto, who spoke the “ Dying Alchemist” excellently. At the close, a vote of thanks and a hope that he would often be able to repeat these readings was given to Prof. Stace, who responded jovially.
—The following is the score of a game of baseball played on the 26th inst., between the National B. B. C. (Seniors) and the Centennial B. B. C. (Juniors). A. O’Brian, hav-• ing the best score on the winning side, got the ball:
NATIONAL.
Dechant, c..............
Connolly, p. and cap’t....
Hertzog, 2d b...........
J. Quinn, 3rd b.........
J. Cooney, 1st b........
Atfleld, s. s...........
. Robertson, 1. f.........
O’Brian, c. f...........
Cavanaugh, r. f.........
CENTENNIAL.
French, p.........
Hagan, c. and cap’t, Streit, c.f........ Roelle, 1st b...... Turnbull, l.f..... A.. Ryan, 3rd b... H. Faxon, s. s.....
Rosa, 2d b........
Hall, r. f.........
Total
Total
B.
O.
2 1
1
2 0
1
3 0
0
2 3 4
2 5
3 0 4
4
10!
Umpire, W. T. Ball.
Scorers, F. Maas and A. Widdicombe.
—From a notice of the Sunday-schools of South Bend in the Tribune of that city, we clip the following: “The Sunday school at St. Patrick’s (Cathclic) Church is held at 2:30 o’clock p. m., and is attended by an average of 100 scholars. The boys are taught in the letter of the Catechism by Brother Aristides and assistants, and instructed upon doctrinal points by Rev. Father John Lauth, the pastor in charge. The girls receive their instruction from the Sisters of the Holy Cross, of St. Joseph’s Academy. The children also receive religious instruction for about ten minutes of eich day when in attendance upon the week-day Catholic schools. The school in the Fourth ward is under the supervision of Father Peter Lauth, assisted by Brother Ben
jamin, who in turn chooses his assistants from among the scholars. The scholars number about 120, of whom probably one-half are girls, taught by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.	_
—He had been reading Swift’s “Receipt to make an Epic Poem,’ and was confident that he was equal to the task. He chose a subject which, he flattered himself, was admirably suited; and then he began the poem, which was to compare favorably with the “ JEneid.” Resolved to render all the goddesses who were wont to assist the poets propitious, he commenced thus:
“ Sing! Oh Muse I that noble youth, Whose deeds of glorious fame, Told by the praising voice of truth, Shall immortalize his name!
Sing bis talents, wondrous bright;
Sing his features fine;
His deeds of darkness, bring to light— - Sing! Oh sing! ye nine!
Sing his wanderings by the grove, Whose echoes songsters wake;
Sing the scrape from which we drove The hero of “ Black Dog Lake! ”
After this spirited invocation, he paused, awaiting the solicited inspiration, but it didn’t come. Apparently, the poetic Muse had taken a trip to the Centennial; or, more probably, did not consider the selected hero worthy of our poet’s pen. At all events she did not visit him, and as he did not think it worth while to labor, “ Musa invita” this would-be work of genius will remain, in consequence, in lamented incompletion.
—On the 23d inst. a most amusing game of baseball was played between the Quicksteps and the Centennial Lazy Nine. The former won by a score of 39 to 14. G-----------, the Captain of the Lazy Nine, in organizing it received none that ever played a game before, nor were less than six-footers. Among the distinguished players was P., who filled the dangerous position of short-stop. The first Minim who went to the bat knocked a liner near him, upon which, in great alarm, he beat a hasty retreat from the field. His nine gathered aronnd him to encourage him, but no argument on their part could persuade him to return to his post; he declared that they threw the ball at him with the bat, that it came like fire, and he wasn’t going to have his teeth knocked out; When the Lazy Nine came to the bat the centre-fielder failed to hit the ball in three strikes and was caught out by the catcher. A little boy standing near told him to run, which he did, and reached second, where he stood, sharing the base with a man already on it; while no doubt congratulating himself on his success as a baseballist, he was astonished beyond measure when the Captain told him to take a back seat, that he was “ out.” Before the game was over the same individual, in deep reflection, concluded that a piece of pie was necessary to sustain his strength; he forthwith departed to procure the same, after providing a substitute, but forgot to return. A. made a good bat, reached first, and thought he would improve on the usual way of playing by taking a short cut to third before going to second, but paid for exercising his inventive genius by getting put out. H. on. third did well, considering that a ball thrown to him by the pitcher rather swiftly went through his fingers and hit him on the forecastle. On the whole, the Lazy Nine did well, considering their size and age and the length of time they were at the business.
—Easter was observed with the usual ceremonies at Notre Dame, and great numbers were in attendance, including several from this city. The interior of the new Church, though as yet unfinished, is even now very beautiful. Prof. A. Gregori, of Italy, whose reputation as a painter is world wide, has been at work at Notre Dame for several months past, and has really just entered upon the great work before him. His paintings in the church, on either side of the mammoth organ, the one representing Peter walking upon the waters, the other Moses raising up the serpent in the wilderness, are costly and beautiful pieces, which have elicited the praise of all visitors. Though many pen pictures of these paintings have appeared in the leading papers of the country, they give no adequate idea of their grandeur. Besides these are the paintings to be placed for the Stations, between the windows, sixteen in number, only five of which are now com-
556
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pleted. They will be representations of Bible scenes, and will cost $1,000 each. Prof. Oregon will be occupied in his work at the College fully two years more, and when he- has done, the Church will be one of the finest in the United States. Hanging from the ceiling inside the chan* cel are four solid silver incense burning lamps, and one of solid gold, which latter cost $4,000. The immense organ, in good proportion with the surroundings, was purchased at a cost of $6,000, and when the organist strikes the keys, the Church and all out-doors, it would seem to one near by, is filled with music. Were there nothing else to attract, this alone would amply repay one for visiting Notre Dame. Every evening during the month of May, services will be held in the Church, affording ample opportunity for those who desire to beh old its beauty and grandeur. A. person visiting Notre Dame, no matter what his relig ious faith or belief, can but be impressed with the rare and peculiar advantages afforded for acquiring a thorough and complete education. And the kind courtesies which one receives while there, and which none but the true gentleman knows how to bestow, are as refreshing as they are gratifying and instructive. There are many things of interest in and about the place, especially the life-size portrait of the Pope and of Father Sorin, and many other rare and costly paintings, which deserve more particular mention than time and space will now permit.—Niles Democrat.
Holl of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Bearss, F. Belford, F. Brady, P. Cooney, J. Connolly, J. Cooney, T. Carroll, J. Coleman, J. Caren, J. Camphell, F. Devoto, H. Dehner, I. Dry-foos, W. Dechant, J. Dempsey, J. Ewing, L. Evers, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Herrmann, P. Kennedy, F. Keller, J. Kreutzer, W. Kelly, J. Krost, G. Laurans, E. Monohan, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, H. Maguire, S. Miller, J. Miller, H. Millen, 'P. McCawley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum,-R. McGrath, J. McHugh, W. McGorrisk, J. MeEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, Carl Otto, <1. O’Rourke, A. O’Brien, J. Obert, J. Perea, W. Pollard, L. Proud-bomme, T. Quinn, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, F. Schlink, F. Vandervannet, R. White, E. White, P. Hennessy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Arnold, T. J. Byrnes, A. Bergck, A. Burger, J. Carrer-C. Campau, W. Dodge, G. Donnelly, E. Davenport, F. Ewing, J. English, J. Foley, J. French, F. Flanagan, C. Gustine, S. Goldsberry, C. Hagan, W. Irvine,- W. Hake, F. Hoffman, A. Hatt, J. Healey, B, Heeb, A. Hamilton, M. Halley, E. Hall, H. Henkel, H, Faxon, C. Faxon, M. Katzauer, -J. P. Kinney, M. McAuliffe, J. Mosal, D. Nelson, J. Perea, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, P. F. Sehnur-rer, G. Sugg, F. Smith, W. Taulby, W. Turnbull, W. Widdicombe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. A. Campau, H. Hake, F. Carlin, O. W-. Lindberg, J. A. Duffield, Lee J. Frazee, T. F. McGrath, G. Rhodius, G, Lowrey, J. Bushey, J. Davis, J. O. Stanton. M. Gustine, P. Haney, J. Haney, W. Coolbaugh, W. Smith, W. McDevitt, C. Long, H. McDonald, J. Seeger, W. Van Pelt, C. Bushey.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1876.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Senior Year.—F. Devoto, E. S. Monohan, T. F. Gallagher, J. J. Gillen, B. L. Euans, H. L. Dehner, E. Graves, J. Caren.
Junior Year.—J. H. Cooney, N.J. Mooney, H. C. Cassidy, J. A. Brown.
Sophomore Year.—J. G. Ewing, W. P. Breen, W. T. Ball, R. J. Maas, C. Otto. J. P. McHugh, M. McCue.
Freshman Year.—A. Hertzog, G. Sullivan, G. McNulty, J. Campbell, R. McGrath, J. Cavanaugh.	'
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. W. Lindberg, T. F. MeGratb, J. A. Duffield, Lee J. Frazee, F. Carlin, R. Pleins, G. Rhodius, H. Hake, M. Gustine, P. Heron, J. Davis, G. Lowrey, P. Nelson, F. A. Campau, J. A. Bushey.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] commercial course.
H. E. O’Brien, P. McCullough, J. MeEniry, J. H. Quinn, E. Pefferman, M. Kauffman, J. D. Coleman, F. Rettig.

—The Literary Society in the Junior Department is now engaged in reading a sketch of English History. We are pleased to say that most of the Juniors show the intellectual bent of their minds by their high appreciation of this kind of reading. The following are those who gave very intelligent accounts when questioned, and also showed a great interest in looking for references: Misses M. Ewing, A. Harris, A.Oavenor, M. O’Connor, A. Kirchner, N. McGrath, N. Johnson, M. McGrath, A. McGrath, I. Fisk and L. Merritt.
• JUNIOR DEPARTMENT, APRIL 17TH.
Misses A. Cavenor*, M. Hogan*, L. Walsh*, N. Johnson*,"A. Kirchner*, D. Gordon*, M. McGrath*, M. Hoffman, E. Lange, A. Morgan, M. O’Connor, M. Ewing, A. Cullen, N. McGrath, L. Hutchinson, L. Vinson, L. Merritt, A. Harris, M. Redfield, M. Derby, N. Mann, M. Mulligan, M. Brooks, J. Mitchell, J. Holladay, L. White. M. Schultheis, L. Chilton, A. Koch, I. Fisk.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	•
Misses E. Mulligan*, J. Smith*, R. Goldsberry* M. Lambin*, J. Duffield*, M. McCormick*, C. Trull*, A. Duffield*,E. Simpson*, M. Hughes*, C. Hughes*, E. Hughes*, A. Ewing and M. Feehan, A. and L. Schnurrer*.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN STUDIES, APRIL 17TH.
2d Sr.—Misses A. Harris, M. O’Connor, and I. Fisk.
3rd Sr.—Misses M. Ewing and A. Cullen.
1st Prep.—Misses N. McGrath and A. Cavenor.
2d Prep.—Misses N. Mann, M. Redfield, A. Ewing, M. Hoffman.	.
Jr. Prep.—Misses A. Morgan, N. Johnson, L. Kinsella, L. Merritt, L. Faulkner, A. Kirchner, D. Gordon, J. Mitchell, L Mann,-M. McGrath, E. Mulligan, A. McGrath, A. Peak, M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson.
1st Jr.—Misses J. Smith, M. Fehen, R. Goldsberry, M. Lambin, J. Duffield,- A. and L. Schnurrer.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT, APRIL 25TH.
Misses A. Cavenor*, A. Harris* N. Mann*, A. Kirchner*, D. Gorden*, M. Ewing*, M. O’Connor*, M. Brooks*, M. Hoffman*, L. Faulkner*, N. Johnson*, A. Morgan*, E. Lang*, J. Kings, bury*, L. Vinson* M. McGrath, A. Cullen, L. Walsh, M. Redfield, 1. Fisk, L- Hutchinson, J. Mitchell, H. Dryfoos, M. Schul-thies, A. McGrath, J. Holladay, M. McGrath, A. Koch, M. Derby-M. Hogan, L. White.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses E. Mulligan*, M. Husrhes*, C. Hughes*, E. Simpson*, J. Smith*, M. Lambin*. J. Duffield*, R. Goldsberry*, M. Fehen*, M. McCormack*, C. Trull*, A. Duffield*, E. Hughes*, L. and A. Schnurrer*, A. Ewing.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH LESSONS.
Grad. Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Den-nebey, K. Joyce, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara.
1st Sr. Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F. Dilger, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady.
2d Sr. Class—Misses M. Walsh, L. Kelly, E. Mann, A. Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, P..Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, E. O’Niel, R. Casey, A. Heneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, M. Dailey, B. Spencer, G. Welch.
3d Sr. Class—Misses C. Morgan, H. Russel, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, B. Siler, I. Maas, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, K. Casey.
1st Prep. Class—Misses G. Youell, L. Gustine, S. Swalley, L. Moran, N. King, E. Cannon, G. Wells, M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, S. Cash, H. Hand.	.	. .
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselman, D. Loeke, M. Markey, L. Schwass, L. Leppig, F. Guiney, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett,-J. Darcy, N. O’Meara, R. Filbeck, L. Weber, A. McCormack, M. Halligan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3rd Class—Misses M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, J. Mitchell and M. O’Connor.	‘
4th Class—Misses A. Harris and D. Cavenor.
5th Class—Misses G. Welch and L. Vinson.
CRAYON.
2nd Class—Miss R. Neteler.	’ .
PAINTING IN WATER COLORS.
2d Class—Miss L. Ritchie.
3d Class—Miss R. Neteler.
4th Class—Misses J. Kreigh, A. Cullen, E. Lange, A. Koch and M Schulthies.	•'	-
OIL PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss B. Wade.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2d Class—Miss C. Morgan.
4th Class—Miss P. Gaynor.	■
.	HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses Foote, E. O’Connor, Devoto, Spencer. 2d Div.—Misses Cavenor and Riley.
2d Class—Misses Gaynor and Arnold. 2d Div.—Misses A. Dennehey, Morgan,'Byrne, E. Dennehey, Cannon. '
3d Class—Misses Kirchner, S. Edes, Bennett, A. Walsh, E. Edes, Cash, M. Walsh, King, I. Edes, Mitchell, L. Walsh, Gordon and A. Cavenor. 2d Drv.—Misses Johnson, Wade, O’Meara, Casey, Dilger, Holladay, M. and E. Thompson. •
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD^
(Of the Class of ’62)
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER FOB ALL STATES.
206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special jVttention Given to Depositions.
Swxl MnteL
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED-FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, ZDZETSTTTST, 109
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
D. W. EUSS & CO.
KEEP THE
STUDENTS HEADQUARTERS
For Meals, Oysters,
TOE	PIES, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1852.
M. W. lafer & Ita.,
Dealers in
; BOOTS JATTTD SHOES,
The Largest Retailing House in the State Corneror WWoh sa and Mgaii Sts., SOUTH BEND.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYEH LIVINTGSTO1T,
60 Wa siring ton. St.,
Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar store, ’	SOUTH BEND, IND
^^"Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
OTTO VON TESMARj
TAXIDERMIST,
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, UI.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural History, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For farther particulars address, as above.	.	mhll-tJy
The Enemy of Disease I
THE FOE OF PAIN
TO MAN AND BEAST
Is the Grand Old,
Mustang Liniment,
Which has stood the test of 40 years.
There is no sore it ivill not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being, and restored to life and usefulness many a valuable horse.	mb 11-ly.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are yon going West, North, or-Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Kailway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.	,
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SYATT HBQYYTTOTSOO,
Sacramento, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy yonr tickets by this route, and will take no other.
This popular rou'e is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-b? lasted and perfect track of steel rails, Westinghouse air brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway traveling.	.	'
I’TJIL.LAEA.IV PAEACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleeper® on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri Riv er.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	’
Marvin Hugbitt,
General Superintendent.

W. II. Stennett,
Gen’l Passenger Agent.

558
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC/
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. .
. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City i nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3 10 pm. 12 00 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	40	pm
Peoria Day Express..............••••....7	5o	pm	9	30	am
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....7 50 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 10 pm 12 00 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to Califoi’nia.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
.	Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express. .10 00 a.m.	4 00 p.m.
Peru accommodation....-............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express.......................10 00 p.m. 6 55 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
GenT Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne 8g Chicago,
. AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED T1NEE TABLE.
NOVEMBER, -1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) ’ On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
3
Trains with Through Cars to NEW YORK.
No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y
No. 6.
Pae. Exp ’ Daily.
■ No. 4.
.Night Ex Ex Sa&Su
Lv. CHICAGO..............
Ar. FT. WAYNE............ “ Rochester.............. “ Pittsburgh.............
Lv. Pittsburgh...........
Ar. Cresson.............. “ Harrisburg.............
“ Washington............... “ Philadelphia.............. “ New York..................
“ New Haven.................
“ Hartford..................
“ Springfield...............
“ Providence............... “ Boston....................
9 00 a.m.
2 25 p.m.
1 18 a.m.
2 20 “
3 10 “
10 00 p.m.
5 20 a.m
5 58 “
7 05 “
8 10 “
12 05 p.m.
6 25 “
9 10 “
4 15 “
7 35 “
11 10 “
12 40 a.m.
1 35 “
4 25 “
5 50 “
11 05 “
3 15 a.m.
6 20 “
3 10 “
6 50 “
10 49 “
12 23 “
1 00 p.m.
3 48 “ 4 50 “
4 13 “
7 45 “
9 07 “
8 05 “
11 15 “
3 36 p.m.
5 55 “
7 03 “
7 40 “ 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEHS.G. P. & T. A.
THE OLD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. "Bend, Ind.
.Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay.
'	JERRY KNIGHT, I
.	CAPTAIN MILLS, f -Proprietors.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A-ttaclied -to tlie ^National Hotel, and A d.-jacent -to tine Lake Sliore and
Mieliil^an. Sovitlierxi Depot.	.
Now. that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, X-sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mm/s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.

L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 21,1875, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.	.
9 40 a. m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo’
10 30; Cleveland3 p m; Buffalo 9 15.
IO 19 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m;
Cleveland 10 15.	'
11 55 am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 05 am.
9 19 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1 10 p w.
7 53 pm, Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 30 Cleveland 10 55 a m., Buffalo 7 pm.
4 40 p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.	,
9 40am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 4 15 p m, Chicago 6 30 am
5 9Oam, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45; Chicago 8 20 a m.
3 pm, Evening Express. Arrives at Lapcrte 3 55; Chicago, 6 30
5 43 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 45. Chicago, 8 20.
8 OO am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m, Chicago
11 30 a. m.	■
9 19 a m, Local Freight. -
J. W. CARY. Gen’I Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’I Supt. '
Michigan Central Bailway
Time Table-November 31,1875.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City., “ Niles 	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ « 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 •* 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson..'... “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 "
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9 00 a.m.	§7 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23	“	9	07 “	7 07 “
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “	8	00	“	9	40 “	7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 6 30 a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00 a.m.	§5 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56	“	8	32 “	5 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05	“	8	40	5 40 “
’Sunday excepted. +Daily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted;
„ , „	.	§Sunday only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	" GenT Sup’t, Chicago.
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
559
JANSEN, McCLURG & co,,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A-itsrx)	-
JEWELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
.	Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, S2.OO Fer Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
ROOT & SONS MUSIC CO.
OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO PURCHASERS—AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL—OFTFOREICN AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS, CONCERTINAS, FLUTES, GUITARS, VIOLINS, PICCOLOS CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS, DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS, VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRUMENTS; ALSO PIANOS AND ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN THE'LINE OF MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. A GENERAL NORTHWESTERN * AGENTS FOR THE STECKiPIANO AND STANDARD ORGAN? QUALITY GUARANTEED. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
156 STATE'ST.
^CHICAGO?
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in . Europe, win visit this city during 1876, so that this win be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten min, utes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell-specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LELDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Fdlow of the A. A. A. S, Prof Chemistry and Mineralogy.
CL H. SHEEBEH, -
Hats, Caps and Furs,
TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’Turnishing Goods, Etc., HO Michigan Street,	,
SOUTH BEND IZESTTD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing Goods, Eats Caps, etc.,
109 Michigan »t.,
SOETTET BIEmD, YJSTZDIA-JSTA--
Th®
A. McKay, Brop., JSTILKS, MICHIGAN. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
TWO BOOTS South Of Ei. Gillen’S, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA [Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Go.,
THS
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend
TheyHavethe Best Cutter in tlie City and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ IPujmishixig Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE,
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
MCDONALD,
TH2E PHOTOG-SAFHER,
■	Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK”
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY SURPASS ALL OTHERS.	'
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT & SONS
MUSIC CO.
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIG-AJST ST.
. Work done to satisfaction. Give me a call.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or drgan) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year.
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner.
Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue. ' Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on the Rhine.
Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’.
Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn. Austrian “	“
Piice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards. 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents,
. Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” ($1.50) in “Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music,. Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
Jk. nSEEW nVETTSTC EOOK;
Dictionary of MUSICAL INFORMATION.
Price S1.25. By Jolin NV. Moore.
Information----about [2,000] prominent Musicians, musical Instruments, musical Events, musical Terms, musical Theory, music Books, and everything else that one wishes to know about music, all concisely and clearly stated. Valuable book of reference. The possessor of this [and perhaps of Ritter’s History of Music, 2 Vols., ea. $1.50j is perfectly posted and inquiry-proof in musical subjects.	.
Bassilli’s -Art of SiTI^as for> years been a stan-"“S®**** a Al b vt	, dard book -n Vocal Cul_
ture. Used everywhere. Price, Complete, §4.; Abridged S3.
DZoore-s Encyclopedia of Music, $6.
Jerkins* Anthea Book. (Sb50) is a famous good book ’ of easy Anthems for .Choirs, and Tourjee’s’Chorus Choir, [2,00] is an equally good book of difficult Anthems for the same purpose.
OLIVER ZDTTSOHSr 8g CO.,
BOSTON.
J. E. DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO.
Successors to Lee &. Walker,	711 Broadway, Buff YORK.
Fhila. .
LYON & HEALY, Chicago.