Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlcturus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 21, 1877.
Number 33.
[Selected.]
Ever.
The patient gaze brings out the star, That, like an eye Set in the sky,
Its sweet light shedding from afar, At morning dawn, and still at even, The night alway, And livelong day,
Bright twinkles ever, deep in Heaven.
Thy steadfast prayer so reacheth love, That, like the star, Seeming so far,
Its glad help sending from above,
To youth’s fair dream, and memory’s smart, To griefs sad moan, And joy’s sweet tone,
Aye, burns for us, deep in God’s Heart.
T.^Howabd.
Constitutional Government.
BY JOHN G. EWING.
[Concluded.]
These then are the two kinds of Constitutional Government, their formation, and the respective rights and duties of their branches. Which is better for us to do, to retain our present irresponsible form, or to adopt the responsible one? In order to answer better this question, let us examine into the evils of both systems. In our Government, the Executive and Legislative branches are independent; in England, the true summation of their Government was given by Mr. Roebuck—“ The crown, it is the House of Commons.” As the evils of a responsible government, two are brought forward, the frequency of elections, and the subservience of the Administration to the Legislature, causing centralization of" power in the same hands. Neither of these are good and solid objections, when well considered. As to the first, the Legislature is chosen for a term of years, as long as may be wished. In England, it is elected for seven years. It of course can be prorogued or dissolved; but the average length of English Parliaments in the last century has been three and a half years, a year and a half longer than the duration of our House. An election in this country is very apt to destroy the harmony existing in the Government, while in England, on the contrary, an election always restores or maintains this harmony of Executive and Legislature. As to the second objection, it is worth still less, for in our present form of government it is a known fact that the House, in less than three years after
a change in its political faith, brings the Administration under its control, and, as a well-known example, for sixteen years back we have experienced such a centralization in the hands of the Republican party. The power of any Government will eventually become centralized, and it is better that this centralization takes place when the people desire it, and in favor of their chosen representatives. Neither does the objection of the non-intelligence of voters suffice. It is evidently far easier for a voter to cast his vote well on the questions: Shall this law for resumption or expansion pass? or, Shall we have this war or not? than to decide between two men whom he can in no way hold to any fixed course of action, further than that they will stand by a party, which can and does change in its views and opinions like the winds of heaven. Which duty, tell me, is harder rightly to fulfil ? Evidently the latter, and, therefore the objection can be returned to the objectors. These objections are the only ones that can be brought against the form of Government known as responsible, and we see how futile they are when well examined and sifted.
Let us now turn to the objections against irresponsible Government. They are the want of harmony between the Administration and the Legislature; the want of a living issue in the campaigns; and the want of purity in the civil service. The first evil, the lack of harmony and union, often exists, and of it I will give two noted and well-known examples. In 1857, the House being Republican and anti slavery, the Administration was Democratic and proslavery, and, owing to the slavery tendencies of President Buchanan and his advisers, the war of 1861 found the South armed and ready, and the North powerless and unprepared. If our Government had but been responsible, the war would have found the North as well, if not better, prepared than the South; and the war itself would have been shortened by at least two years, for, in such a case, Buchanan would have been compelled to take Republican advisers, and to have guided himself by them. The second case is that of the late President Grant. Two years ago the tidal wave carried in a Democratic House, and, if our Government were responsible, we would then have had a Democratic Administration. Instead of that we find the House battling almost in vain against the monstrous corruption of the Administration, combatting the unconstitutional and unlawful use of troops in the South Carolina, Florida, and Louisiana elections, and at last beaten in their lawful endeavors to, place in his seat a man whom the American people, by a large popular and electoral majority, decided should be President of the United States. This evil is one which evidently cannot be remedied at the same time retaining our present form of Government. The second evil, which also cannot be remedied, is the want of a
/
514
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
living campaign issue. In a responsible Government, the issue is whether a certain bill shall or shall not pass; in ours, whether a measure already decided on was rightly decided or not. When Jackson had abolished the National Bank, we voted as to whether it should have been done. When Polk had declared war on Mexico, we voted as to whether it were right. After Texas was annexed, we voted on that. After the Compromises of 1851, we voted as to whether they were right. After Grant had tried to stifle the voice of the ballot in the South, we voted as to whether he should have so done. The Republicans in the last campaign cried out that the South was not subdued, and, waving aloft the bloody shirt, they marched to expectant victory. The Democrats cried out: “ The Government is corrupt from top to bottom,” and in their turn unfurled to the four winds their motto of Economy and Reform. The only true question mooted was whether 100,000 office-holders, known to be corrupt, should march out in sad and mournful show, bewailing the lot of the poor African and the Government spoils; or another 100,000 officeexpectants, where honesty had not been trusted and was not known, should march into the tune of Economy and Reform, as exemplified in displacing the holders of office, and putting their men in for the next four years. “ Does the question now before Congress relate to the currency ? Then vote for Jones, because he is sound on the negro and the war.” That was the cry of the last campaign. It found our people in peace and quiet, if not in prosperity, and left them led almost to the brink of a bloody and cruel war. The cry of “Will you indorse the record of the Republican or Democratic party ? ” soon was changed into “ Will you vote for the Union or rebellion of fifteen years ago?” This reopened all the old issues of the war, which were buried over ten years ago, and this reopening of old issues; and the dissatisfaction caused by the evident and glaring frauds used to attain the result, nearly brought on another great national calamity by reviving civil war. We vote only on dead issues, and hence we are voting too late; our legislators are left without instructions, and no way of getting them; and legislation drifts over a Dead Sea of individual speculatiou and aimless, disorganized effort, causing legislative paralysis. A bill introduced by any member in Congress is immediately opposed by some other member, lest any member excepting himself should have the credit of first relieving the nation of a burden or disorder.
The last but not the least evil of an irresponsible Government is the want of purity in the civil service. He that cannot be held to an account will not be faithful, if it is to his material interest not to be; and to this rule there never was and never can be an exception. He who in business would appoint an agent for a fixed term of years, to do whatever he pleased, and have no way of removing him excepting by impeachment for crime, or by electing another equally irresponsible agent at the end of the fixed term, would be deemed incapable of possessing anything whatever, and would be considered deprived of sound reason. Yet such a system is our Government, and our ways and means of holding our public servants to account, which, fine in theory but naught in practice, have been well disclosed in the notorious Belknap case. The fixed term system will necessarily engender corruption, for it demands that men should be self-sacrificing: and naught but the solemn warning of a responsible Government, “ Ye know not the day nor the hour,” can in any way remedy this
great evil. I do not mean to say that in a responsible Government there will be no corruption; but that compared to the corruption of an irresponsible Government,—such corruption as we have seen in our Government for years past,— the corruption existing in a Government like England is almost nothing. The evils, as we see, of responsible Government are almost naught; those of an irresponsible one are many and great.
Now can we answer the question with which I begun my essay, Shall our Administration be rendered irresponsible or not?, The answer I would give is that it should be, for such a Government is the best, and moreover I consider that before many years we will possess this form. We should have a President elected directly by the people for the term of six or seven years, having a Cabinet responsible to the House, he however being removable only by impeachment and conviction for crime. The House and Senate should be chosen by the people for the same term; the House, however, dissolvable by the President when he judges fit. The Cabinet officers should have seats in the House, and would in fact be the leaders of the mojority in it, being governed as is the Cabinet in England. Such a government would deprive the President of the great power he now exercises, a power second to none but that of the Czar in the Christian world of to-day; and would leave him but the right of vetoing any law and dissolving any Congress. Such a Government would be far more democratic than the one we now possess, and would be a more ready and complete exponent of the popular will.
But whether we ever possess this Government or not, it will matter little unless our public men show forth better examples of probity, honesty, and rectitude, standing by principle and not by party; and, when this purity in political life of former days shall return, then we shall see our country in possession of what is better than aught else, an honest Government. God grant that this day will soon come; and God knows that when it does come it will find America as proudly advancing in the way of right, truth and justice, as she now is in that of material success and grandeur. Still another great and crying abuse to be corrected is that of party jealousy and sectional strife. We should remember that we can and must be but one people. We have the same glorious traditions of Revolutionary days, we draw our patriotism and love of fatherland from the same holy source; we possess in common the flag that waved in triumph on the plains of Saratoga and of Yorktown, and that, as proudly trusting iu its children, yet with sadness for their suffering, passed through sorrows, troubles and adversityat Valley Forge and on the banks of the Dele-ware. In fine, we can go forward and fight in the battle of life and in the struggle of nations, only as one nation, with the same fear of national defeat, with the same hope of national triumph.
The Folly of Scepticism.
The immortality of the soul is for us something of such great importance, something which touches us so deeply, that one must have lost every sentiment to be indifferent to it or care not to have a proper understanding of it. All our thoughts and actions should take ways so different, according as there are eternal goods to be hoped for or not, that it is impossible to perform any action with sense and judgment unless we regulate it by the consideration of this point, which should be our primary object in life as it will
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
515
be our last on quitting it. It is therefore our first interest and oilr bounden duty to instruct ourselves on this subject, upon which our whole conduct depends. And hence it is that I make a great difference between such as are not persuaded of this but who strive with all their power to instruct themselves in it, and those who care nothing about it and who do not even think of it. I cannot but have compassion on those who have allowed themselves to grow up in doubt of it, who look upon its existence as the greatest misfortune and who make every endeavor to get rid of the thought of it. But in regard to those who pass their lives without thinking of the soul and its immortality, and who for the only reason that they do not find in themselves the light to persuade them neglect to seek it elsewhere or to consider thoroughly whether it is one of those opinions which people receive with a credulous simplicity, or whether it is one of those which, though obscure in themselves, have nevertheless a solid and unshaken foundation, these I consider in a light altogether different. Their negligence in an affair which so closely concerns themselves, their eternity, their all, irritates one more than it moves to compassion; it astonishes and frightens one who sees it in its proper light. To him such indifference is an incongruity, a monstrosity. Nor is he led to such a conclusion through pious zeal or an over-refined spirituality, for he plainly sees that people should have a proper understanding of this matter through a principle of human interest and self-love. For this, one only needs to consider what persons who are the least enlightened see. One need not have a very elevated soul to understand that here below there is no real and solid satisfaction, that our pleasures are but vanity, that our evils are great, and lastly that death which threatens us at every instant must infallibly place us in a few years at most in the horrible necessity of being either eternally annihilated or eternally happy or unhappy. There is nothing more real than this, nor is there anything more terrible. Let us indulge in bravado as much as we wish, this is nevertheless the end which awaits the happiest or the most miserable life in this world. If we reflect on this we must confess that there is no joy in this life except in the hope of another; that we are happy only in proportion as we approach to it, and that as there will no longer be any misfortunes for those who have an entire assurance of eternity, in like manner will there be no happiness for those who have no understanding of it. It is then assuredly a great evil to be in doubt; but it is at least an indispensable duty to seek light when in this doubt; therefore he who doubts and does not seek a solution is both very unfortunate and unjust to himself. If with doubt he is tranquil and satisfied, makes profession of it, and is even proud of it, so as to make of such a state a matter of vainglory, I am at a loss to find terms to qualify such an extravagant creature. How can any real pleasure be found in such sentiments? what joy can be derived from them? They present nothing but miseries without resource. What cause of vanity can there be found in seeing oneself in impenetrable obscurity, and how is it possible that any sane person can indulge in such reasoning as this: “ I do not know who placed me in this world, neither do I know what the world is, nor what I am myself. I am in ignorance concerning all such things. I know not what my body and my senses are; and my soul, that part of myself which gives existence to my thoughts and words, reflects on everything, and on itself, is not more known to me than all the rest. I behold this frightful space of the uni-1
verse that encloses me, and I find myself attached to a comer of this vast extension without knowing why I am rather situated in tliis place than in another, nor why this little time which is given to me to live is assigned to me for this period rather than another of the whole eternity that preceded me, or of that coming after me. On all sides I see but infinities, which enclose me like an atom, and like a shadow which lasts but an instant without ever returning. All I know is that I must soon die, but what I am most ignorant of is this death itself which I cannot escape. As I do not know whence I came, so also am I unconscious whither I go; I only know that when leaving this world I will fall forever either into naught, or into the hands of an angry God, without knowing to what one of these two conditions I shall eternally be allotted. This is my state, full of misery, feebleness and obscurity. And from all this I conclude that I must pass all the days of my life without endeavoring to find out what shall become of me. Perhaps I could find some enlightenment in my doubts; but I neither want to take the pains, nor make a- step to find it; and besides treating with contempt those who are taken up with this care, I will without foresight and without fear face such a great event, and go joyfully towards death in the incertitude of my future condition ? ” Who would wish to have a man who speaks thus for his friend ? who would choose him from among others to consult with him upon his affairs? Who would have recourse to such a one in his afflictions ? and, lastly, for what end in life can such a one be destined? In truth it is glorious for religion to have for its enemies such unreasonable men, and their opposition to it is so extravagant and contemptible that it serves but to establish its principles and truths. Christian faith strives chiefly to establish these two things: the corruption of human nature, and its Redemption by Jesus Christ; and if the .persons above mentioned do not serve to show by the sanctity of their lives the truth of redemption, they serve to show in a very clear light the corruption of nature by sentiments so unnatural.
Nothing is so important to man as his future state, nothing so dreadful as an eternity of misery; therefore it is most unnatural to see men who pretend to be indifferent to their own destruction, for time without end. And these reckless people in regard to eternity are altogether different in regard to other things: they fear even the slightest losses, pains or evils—they endeavor to foresee and guard against them, but when their all-important affair is at stake they seem to know nothing about it, to fear nothing. It is something monstrous to see in the same heart and at the same time such sensibility in regard to the slightest things and such strange insensibility in regard to the greatest, the most important of all things.	.
There must be a strange perversion in the nature of man when he can bring himself to glory in such a state as we have above described; it seems as if it should be impossible to find even one who could so overturn the normal state of things. But experience shows us that there are many such, at least in appearance; for the majority of those men disguise themselves, and are not in reality such as they profess to be. There are men so blinded by selfish pride that they imagine everything should be at their dictum ; they will acknowledge no superiority, although reason tells them there is such, and hence they endeavor to make themselves and others believe that manliness consists in shaking oft" the yoke of moral obligations imposed
516	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
on them by their Creator. In this they strive to imitate such men as Voltaire, who when in health pretended independence, but when sick and fearing the anger of a just God if he died, he made a formal retractation and submission. This happening so frequently, it should not be difficult to make these blind followers of such a leader understand how much they abuse themselves in thus seeking esteem on such a false plea. This is not the way to acquire it; nay, I say that amongst persons of the world who judge wisely of things, they know that the only way to succeed in it is to strive to make oneself appear honest, faithful, judicious and capable of serving one’s friends with utility, because men naturally love only that which can be useful to them. Now what advantage can there be for us to hear a man say that he has shaken off the yoke of moral responsibility—that he does not believe that there is a God who watches over his actions—that he considers himself as the only master of his conduct, and that he thinks of rendering no account to any person of it save to himself? Does he think that by doing so he will have moved us to place thenceforward more confidence in him, or that we will expect from him consolation, counsel, or assistance in our difficulties through life ? Do such men think they cause us any pleasure by telling us that they strongly cling to the opinion that our soul is nothing but a little wind, or smoke; or that they add anything to the strength of such assertions by making them in a seemingly self-sufficient, haughty tone of voice ? Instead of pretending levity, should they not regard it as of the weightiest importance ? Instead of pretending to be proud of such indifference, should they not rather speak of it in a sad tone ? If they would reflect on it seriously, they would see that their course of reasoning and action is so contrary to good sense, so opposed to honesty, and so far absent from the manners which they look for, that they should tend rather to correct than corrupt those who might have an inclination to imitate them. And when pushed to render an account of their ' sentiments, and of the reasons they pretend to have for doubting religion, they will say things so feeble and so shallow that they will persuade you of the contrary. This is what a certain person one day said, and with good reason, to some of these would-be philosophers: “ If you continue to speak thus,” said she to them, “you will in truth convert me.”
And she was right; for who would not be horrified to see himself becoming entangled by sentiments in which one has for companions such despicable creatures ? Hence those who but feign these sentiments would be very unfortunate to constrain their natural disposition in order to render themselves the most impertinent of men. If in the bottom of their hearts they are angry not to have more light, let them not dissimulate: the declaration of the truth will not be shameful. There is no shame save in being void of shame. Nothing shows up an extreme feebleness of mind more than the knowledge that a man is without God; nothing shows more a bad disposition of the heart than not to wish the truth of the eternal promises; nothing is more cowardly than to make one’s self brave against God. Let sensible people, then, leave such impieties to those who are ill-starred enough to be really capable of them; let them be honest men at least, if they cannot be Christians, and let them recognize that there are but two kinds of persons who can be called reasonable: either those who serve God with all their heart because they know Him, or those who seek Him with all their heart because they do not know Him.
But as to those who live without knowing Him and without seeking Him, they judge themselves, by showing themselves so little worthy of their own care, as not worthy to be cared for by others; and must have all the charity which they affect to despise in order not to contemn them so as to abandon them to their folly.	P. K.
The Petrie Collection.
A writer in the Dublin Freeman, under the heading of “An Hour in Old Ireland,” gives some interesting notes on the Petrie Collection in the museum of the Royal Irish Academy. The Petrie Collection of antiquities is, he says, alive with interest and suggestion, and brings back memories of that illustrious Irishman, painter, composer, author, antiquarian, and patriot.
In the “ Strong Room ” the visitor will find the gems of the collection—the “ Tara Brooch,” the “ Cross of Cong,” the “ Bell of St. Patrick,” the “Ardagh Chalice,” the “ Dom-nach Airgid,” in which our oldest MSS. of the Gospel, said to have belonged to our Patron Saint, was formerly enclosed. The leaves of this old book have grown together, and the two parts look like brown dust heaps. The “ Cross of Cong” will soonest catch the eye. An inscription on the cross itself tells us that it was made for Turlough O’Conor, the father of the celebrated Roderick, the last of our native kings. It may indeed be fairly stated that “ no finer specimen of goldsmith’s work has been preserved in any country in the west of Europe.” The late Professor McCullagh, T. C. D., presented this gem to the Academy. The visitor will not pass rapidly from this sacred treasure, or readily yield his admiration of its beautiful workmanship.
Hard by, you see the rude bell, which in St. Patrick’s time called the Irish to the “ glad tidings of great joy.” Its cover is beneath, and gives proof of the art of the time. The “ Tara Brooch” will not fail to arrest the admiring attention, especially of the fair. The story of the brooch is now dim, but the thing itself is rarely beautiful. The “Ardagh Chalice,” of which facsimiles have been made, will start a thousand reflections. A lad digging potatoes found it in Ardagh, County Limerick. It is of white metal, adorned with gold filigree and enamel of exquisite beauty. It is composed of no less than three hundred and sixty-four pieces, held together by a score of rivets. It bears an inscription in strange letters, giving the names of the Apostles, St. Paul being named instead of Iscariot. One cannot view these curious old relics of a bygone time with indifference, and least of all with derision.
The old manuscripts in these cases will perhaps interest bibliopolists more; but there is interest for all We do not pretend to have more than suggested the measures of this Strong Room, for no cursory notice such as this could include all the beauties of this collection. Suffice it to say that there are cases of gold ornaments, brooches, bracelets and things the uses of which are not apparent. They are in great variety, of every size and every degree of richness. The visitor can indulge in his own speculation, and gratify himself with the thought that he is as nearly correct as the best of judges.
Descending to the basement, we come to the outer and the further crypt. Here are deposited the heavier and larger curiosities, stone work, old canoes, portions of the Athlone old bridge and scores of curious remains. The canoes are interesting in their way, especially the long one
THE NOTR]E DAME SCHOLASTIC.	517
which occupies the centre bench. It was formed of a single tree, and the hollow must have been fired out and then cut out. We are ashamed to say that is cut right across into eight pieces—a piece of vandalism of the moderns. It was found at the bottom of Lough 0 wel, in Westmeath, is forty-five feet long and from four to five feet wide. There are apertures in the bottom which appear to have been filled with uprights which supported an elevated deck or awning. The visitor will find old pillars and slabs covered with Ogham writing, the meaning of which he may interpret as it pleases him.
The Library is too well known to require anything like a lengthened notice. And who can describe a library? In the large room outside the Library proper, there are many very interesting collections of Irish works and translations aud copies and letterings. There are many autograph letters of men of note—of chivalrous Grattan and gentle Gerald Griffin, and blundering Goldsmith, and the fierce Flood, and the pusillanimous Tyrconnell, and the last of the vaporing Stuart kings. James writes from Edinburgh, and scrawls in French. There, too, we have a letter from the brilliant Berkeley, and an angry howl from the savage Swift. There is a chatty epistle from Thomas Moore, and a bit of his melody in words and notes. And lastly, there is a bright, cheerful, hearty, line from Brinsley Sheridan—the greatest mind that an age of wits produced. All these things one can see for nothing.”
Scientific Notes.
—The first lesson of a naturalist is to learn how to observe.
—It is a fact that there is not a single Catholic journal devoted ,to Science in the United States. Why cannot Catholic scientists furnish their co-religionists a journal of this kind ?
—Four of the greatest Theologians of this age accept the days of Moses in Genesis as so many long periods, namely: Cardinal Wiseman, Father Perrone, Father Pian-ciani, and Dr. Molloy.
—There are two books of divine origin, namely: the Bible and Nature,—with this difference the former has been reduced to writing, and can be read by any one, whilst the latter has been written in stones, in hieroglyphics intelligible only to the geologist or one who has made these a special study.	.
—We had the pleasure of seeing the other day a beautifully executed Geological Chart in the Library of St. Mary’s Academy, done by the Class of Geology of the Academy. This is a proof that even Catholic academies for the training of young ladies take great interest in scientific pursuits.
—A portion of the great meteor which passed over northern Vermont a few weeks ago is reported as found near the town of Jay, embedded about four feet in the earth. It is said t o have the appearance of iron-ore lava and soapstone, aud to weigh about two tons. Report says this is the largest aerolite ever discovered in this country.
—Father Renard, S. J., has recently been appointed Director of the Royal Museum at Brussels. The appointment is significant, as indicating the scientific attainments of the learned Jesuit. Father de Smedt, Bollandist, in a recent article in the Scientific Review of Brussels, has solidly refuted the theories recently advanced by Dr. Draper, of New York.
—Prof. Marsh some time ago read a newspaper item to the effect that there had been found near a village in Switzerland a fossil “pterodactyl” with the wings in perfect preservation. The Yale Professor knew that among all the fossils of this animal none was known with the wings preserved. He instantly repaired to the telegraph
office and sent a message to a Swiss naturalist: “Buy the new pterodactyl and send to Yale College.” The naturalist obeyed, paying for the fossil a little over $1,000. Soon after it was sold, telegrams poured in from every museum in the world—Boston, Berlin, Paris, St. Petersburg, London —asking the price, requesting photographs, etc.; but it was already on the way to the man who said “ Buy it.”
—It seems that some of the Eucalypti actually overtop the Pyramids in height. A celebrated naturalist, M. Planchon, has given in the Revue des Deux Mondes a resume of all that is known about these wonderful trees. He says that while the Eucalyptus amygdalina attains to a height of 145 to 152 meters (473 to 496 feet), the dome of the Invalides in Paris is only 105 meters high, the Cathedral of Strasbourg 142 meters, and the Pyramid of Cheops —the highest building in the world—146 meters. The Eucalyptus globulus, although not attaining to the height of amygdalina, is still taller than the California tree, the Wellingtonia gigantea. It is cultivated on a large scale at the Cape of Good Hope, the southern coasts of Spain and France, the Island of Corsica, aud especially in Algeria. In Valencia (Spain) the vulgar name for it is the Fever Tree. A few years ago a Spanish gardener visiting Paris was shown the tree as a novelty. He remarked that it was already a popular specific against fevers amongst the peasants of Valentia, and that it had even been found necessary to place a guard at the Fever Tree to prevent its being stripped of its leaves.
Art, Music and. Literature.
—M. Vasseur’s “ La Sorrentine,” a new opera bouffe, has been successfully produced at the Bouffes Parisiens.
—Eugene Schuyler’s translation of Turgeneff’s new novel, “Nov,” will be issued in the “Leisure Hour Series.”
—A brother of Sir Samuel Baker, who has been for some years resident in Turkey, has a work on that country in the press.
—Bitter’s German Life of Sebastian Bach has been translated in an abridged form by Miss Shuttleworth, and printed in London.
—D. and J. Sadlier & Co., of New York, announce that a fifth edition of O’Kane Murray’s “Popular History of the Catholic Church in the United States” is now in press.
—A letter from Vienna states that the “Walkure”has proved so successful that Herr Jauner has decided to follow it up with the other sections of the “Nibelungen Ring.”
—The revolution in the book-publishing trade so long impending, is likely to bring down the high retail prices which have ruled so many years, and thus be a public benefit.
—Mr. Gye announces for production at Covent Garden theatre a grand opera seria, “ Santa Chiara,” by his royal highness the Duke of Saxe-Coburg, a brother of the late Prince consort.
—Miss Thompson’s picture of Inkerman has been purchased by an eminent London publishing art firm for the sum of 5,000 guineas. Miss Thompson, who is a Catholic lady, is soon to be married.
—Mlle. Albani has lately received from the American artists in Paris a superb sketch-book, containing a drawing from each one of them. It is offered as a testimonial of admiration for her character and talent.
—Very Rev. Ulick J. Bourke, the distinguished Celtic scholar, and President of St. Jarlath’s College, Tuam, has just published a valuable historical work entitled, “The Aryan Origin of the Gaelic Race and Language.”
—Mr. Dante Rossetti, the founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Fraternity, believes that the habit of painting for exhibition walls is not a good one, and leads an artist to paint merely to please a vague and unlearned popular taste.
—Kelley, Piet & Co., of Baltimore, announce as having in press a volume containing biographical sketches of distinguished citzens of Maryland from colonial times to the present day. It is written by Miss Doyle of that city.
—M. Johann Strauss has left Paris, and is now at his
i'
I:
h !•
I-
» ;
J £
f
r
518
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
villa of Heitzing, near Vienna, engaged on the score of the “ Tzigane,” the definitive title of the opera bouffe intended for the ensuing winter season of the Renaissance.
—Gen. Di Cesnola has completed his work on “ Cyprus; Its Ancient Cities, Tombs, and Temples: A Narrative of Explorations and Discoveries During a Ten Years’ Residence in the Island,” which John Murray, of London, will soon bring out.
—Sir John Lubbock has a bill before Parliament “ for preserving ancient monuments,” which proposes that the British nation should take charge of all Roman and other antiquarian remains, many of which are now on private lands, and suffering swift destruction.
—Estes & Lauriat announce on May 15th a new novel by Gail Hamilton, “First Love is Best.” Another of Dau-det’s works, “Jack,” is to be issued at once. This with “Sidonie” and Ernest Werner’s “Vineta,” will form the nucleus of a new series of fiction, called the “ Cobweb ” series.
—Messrs. Macmillan & Co. have in the press a new and completely revised edition of Mr. W. H. Pater’s “ Studies in the History of the Renaissance, ” which will contain an engraving by Jeensfrom a celebrated drawing of Leonardo da Vinci in the Louvre. The book, according to the Athenaeum, will appear very shortly.
—A London paper says:—A marriage is arranged to take place between Major Butler, C. B., author of “The Great Lone Land,” and Miss Elizabeth Thompson, the'celebrated painter. A marriage is also arranged between hEr sister, Miss Alice Thompson, the author of a volume of poems entitled “ Preludes,” and Mr. Wilfrid MenuelL
—The lectures of Mr. Capes, at Oxford, on “ University Life at Ancient Athens,” are soon to be published. It is said that the striking resemblance he pictures between university life in modern Oxford and university life in ancient Athens—with its colleges, tutors, proctors, boat-races, professors and examinations—almost provokes a feeling of skepticism.
—Mr. Ruskin is now publishing iu shilling parts “ St. Mark’s Rest,’’ “ the history of Venice written for the help of the few travellers who still care for her monuments.” Mr. Ruskin, by the way, has just given his infallible opinion that the spurious Carlyle on Darwin letters “ will not eventually be among the least important of the letters of my master.”
—The London Academy treats Mr. Van Laun’s “ History of French Literature” with great severity. The omissions of notable writers are said to be as numerous as the blunders in passing judgment upon French writers who are noticed. “ Properly to expose theshortcomingsof the book,” says the critic, “ we should want the whole number of The Academy to ourselves.”
—Millais gets more money for his pictures than any other artist in England. He was born a poor boy in the Island of Jersey, and began his artistic work with an employer who gave him his board and §1.25 a week. Now he receives §10,000 or more tor painting one portrait. He is a little over fifty years old. He has a superb new house with marble stairway and fountains and carved doorways.
—M. Paulin, Paris, has just issued the fifth volume ot his modernized version of the old Arthur romances, with comments, “ Les Romans de la Table Ronde, mis en Nouveau Langage, et accompagneo de Recherches sur I’ Origine et le Garac-teredeces grandee Compositions.” The present volume contains the third and last part of “ Lancelot du Lac ” and also sketches of three other sections of the Arthur cycle. The book should interest readers of Mr. Tennyson.
—Herr Wagner will give, during May, a series of concerts at the Albert Hall, in London. He will be accompanied to England by Frau Materna and Herren Unger and Hill, the Brunnhilde, Siegfried, and Alberich, respectively of the Bayreuth “Nibelungen” cast. In the course of the “Richard Wagner Festival” series of concerts, the chief portions of “Der Ring des Nibelungen” will be performed, others of Wagner’s compositions will be given, and the concerts will be directed by Herr Wagner in person.
—As all the seats were sold out for Liszt’s concert at Vienna, the public were admitted to the last rehearsal, the
proceeds going to the indigent work-people. In return the city of Vienna has bestowed on Liszt the large gold “ Salvator medal.” The Viennese critics dwell on the piano-forte performances of Dr. Liszt as equal to those of his best period. The instrument was covered with crowns and flowers. He accompanied Mme. Gomperz-Bettelheim in the Scotch airs by Beethoven.
—Osszehasonlito irodaloratortendi lapok is the title of a periodical for the comparative study of the literatures of different nations, edited by Profs. Brassai and Meltzel, in Clausen -berg, Transylvania. It is to be in Hungarian, but will also contain contributions in any of the European Cvdtur-sprachen. One of the principal aims of the new paper is to convey information on the current literature of Hungary to foreigners, and, vice versa, of foreign works, chiefly of those that bear in some way or other on Hungarian subjects, to native readers.
—A new American novelist is emerging from the journalistic ranks in the person of Mr. Ausburn Towner, one of the editors of The Elmira Advertiser. A MS. now in the hands of Dodd, Mead & Co., for early publication, is highly spoken of as a stirring historical novel. It is called “ Che-dayne,” from the name of the hero, a border leader of Indian blood who served on Washington’s staff. The scene is laid in the Wyoming valley, when rival settlers were disputing with the bullet their title to the soil under the conflicting grants of Connecticut and Pennsylvania, and the action is said to be mainly close to the historical fact.
Books and Periodicals.
Good Morals and Gentle Manners. For Schools and Families. By Alex. M. Gow, A. M. Cincinnati, O.: Wilson, Hinkle & Co. No. 137 Walnut Street.
eWe have no hesitation, but rather take a pleasure, in commending this little work. The books of etiquette which joung people procure are generally trash. Following them transforms the young man into a polished hypocrite, educating him as they do without any regard to his morals. In the little volume of Air. Gow the author begins by endeavoring to build up firmly the moral character of the young boy; he in a few chapters lays down rules for governing his conduct in church, in the street, at table, etc. It is a book that cannot fail to do much good if taught in schools or if read in the family circle.	'
Dramas and Dramatic Scenes. Editedby W. H. Venable. D-lustrated by Farny. Cincinnati: Wilson, Hinkle & Co. 137 Walnut Street.
The compiler of this volume has shown great taste in the selections made. We have scenes from Shakespeare, Congreve, Dryden, Otway, Sheridan and the best English dramatists, though indeed we miss the names of some more distinguished dramatists who lived in Shakespeare’s time. Still we know of no better selection of dramatic scenes for representation at high-school exhibitions or for use in classes of elocution, where it should be welcomed by all teachers. In addition to the benefit derived from the representation of the scenes, this book introduces the student to specimens from the classic writers of English Literature and stimulates him to read more from the great writers of our language.
A Popular History of the Catholic Church in the United States. By John O’Kane Murray, B. S. Fourth Edition, Ke vised and Enlarged. New York: D. and J. Sadlier & Company. 1877. 648 pp., 8vo. Cloth, $2.00.
We have already spoken at length concerning the merits of this excellent work, and the fact that it has now reached nearly the end of a fourth edition is evidence that the praise so unstintingly meted out to it has not been undeserved. The book before us is in truth filled with information not to be obtained in any other single publication, and for this reason alone its popularity is richly deserved. But, in addition, its literary merits are such as to secure it the attention of the Catholic public. The Dublin Review, in a favorable notice of Mr. Murray’s book, and recommending its perusal—which is a strong guarantee of its merits—candidly acknowledges that the contents of the book are so varied that it could not even enumerate them, adding that “ every
*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
519
thing relating to the history of the Faith in the United States finds a place in it, including biographies of the most eminent American Prelates [it might have added laics also], the progress of Catholic educational institutions, and the formation of a Catholic literature.” In this new edition (a copy of which the author has kindly sent us), seven new biographies, a number of notes, and many pages of valuable and interesting matter have been added, thus greatly enhancing the value of the work. We notice also that the pages relating to Notre Dame have all been revised, which will make this new edition more interesting to our friends both here and elsewhere. We are pleased to learn that a -fifth edition of this popular book is now in press.
The April number of the American Gatholic Quarterly Review opens with an able article entitled “The Church and the Princes of Europe,” from the pen of Rev. Father The-baud, S. J., in which the writer offers a retrospect of a considerable part of the Church’s history in its conflicts with the rulers of Europe. Mr. John Gilmary Shea, the veteran Catholic writer of the United States, tells us what our country owes to James II. Mr. Shea embellishes every subject he touches, and as a consequence this article is in all respects readable and entertaining. Father Bayma, S. J., gives us a second article on the Public School Question, reviewing the lecture of Mr. Abbott, of Boston. As this is a question of the greatest importance, we read the article of Father Bayma with the greatest interest. General Gibbon, of the United States Army, gives an account in graphic style of the expedition sent out last summer against the Sioux Indians, and its sad ending. “The Red Man Gauged by his Speech” is the title of Rev. Edward Jack-er’s article. To all lovers of linguistic studies it will be welcome, but to those like ourselves it will be pretty hard to get over such words as “kigayasayamiewosawasoniyawiw-asaskuteniganabiskumisisibaniwawok," which means “ the old little golden church candlestick once in your possession.” The editor, Very Rev. Dr. Corcoran, gives us a learned review of a stupid book written by one John Schulte concerning Infallibility. The editor also gives us the concluding article—a very readable one—on the Immortality of the Soul, in response to inquiries made with reference to Prof. Paley’s article in the last number. The book-notices, which conclude, as usual, are carefully and impartially written. Altogether, the Review maintains the high character of which the first number gave every evidence. Hardy & Mahoney, 505 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa, are the enterprising publishers. Subscription, $5 per annum.
—Few things are impracticable in themselves; and it is for want of application, rather than of means, that men fail of success.—Rochefoucault.
—No less noble an animal than the royal eagle is employed by the Kirgisians, a chivalrous and warlike tribe in Southern Siberia, for assistants in hunting the higher species of game found in the praries of the vast Mongolian desert. Caught when still an eaglet, the noble bird, carefully nourished and trained, becomes so attached to his master that he returns to him like a hound. When hunting, the Kirgisiau sportsman, mounted on a superb charger, carries tne eagle upon his hand, resting on the saddlebow. The bird’s head is covered with a cap. As soon as a fox or wolf comes in sight, the cap is removed, the bird soars high in the air and soon beholds his prey. Swift as lightning he pounces upon it, seizing its back with its sharp claws. But master fox or squire wolf does not surrender without showing fight. Furiously he turns his head to dig his sharp teeth into the body of his merciless foe. But the eagle knows what he is doing, and with one grasp of his sharp claws he destroys the eyes of his victim, whicfc virtually decides the combat. But woe to the eagle if h» misses the right moment, since in most cases his own life is the penalty of his mistake. In like manner deers, stags, and antelopes become the prey of the king of birds. The Kirgisians are in every respect worthy of such a valiant companion. They are fearless horsemen, and even their children, when they are scarcely old enough to walk, are able to keep their seat on the backs of the wildest steeds. This hardiness and intrepidity is worthy of the descendants of Tamerlane.
—The useful encourages itself: for the multitude produce it, and no one can dispense with it; the beautiful must be encouraged; for few can set it forth, and many need it.—Goethe.
—The great Egyptian monolith known as Cleopatra’s Needle, which formerly stood in Alexandria, but now lies half buried in the sand, is to be removed from its bed and taken across the sea. The vast stone pillar was years ago presented to the British Museum by the Pasha of Egypt; but its immense weight, 279 tons, has hitherto been considered by engineers to be an insuperable obstacle. The Needle is a solid shaft of stone, 60 feet high. It is now to be removed from Alexandria to England, and the following account of the method to be adopted is given by the London Times:—“ The sand is to be cleared away and the obelisk set square parallel with the existing sea-wall. An iron cylinder, finished off to a chisel edge, with sufficient diaphragm to give it strength, is to be constructed round the obelisk, which is to lie in the long axis of the cylinder, and to be wedged and caulked where it passes through the diaphragms so as to divide the cylinder into water-tight compartments. The cylinder is to be ninety-five feet long by fifteen feet diameter, and will have a draught of nine feet of water when afloat. All being riveted water-tight, it will be rolled into the sea and across the sandy bed of the water, till it floats. It will then be turned over, and the man-holes at the top opened and about thirty tons of ballast to keep the ends vertical, so as to act like stem and stern. It will then have two bilge keels, a rudder, light spar deck, mast and lug sails attached and be provided with an anchor and good chain cables, and if necessary, a pump in case of leakage. The cylinder ship will then be fit to go to any port of the world with its freight, and in any weather. The cost of this operation will amount to about $15,000. The obelisk in its case will be towed over during the summer months and laid aside the Thames Embankment on a platform properly prepared for the purpose, and lifted high enough to clear the parapet, and the bilge keels and other additions being stripped off, the cylinder will be rolled to the proposed site and then stripped off the obelisk, which will lie ready to be elevated to its pedestal, an operation which will be simply effected by means of a few balks of timber and two small hydraulic rams. The whole cost is not to exceed $50,000, and that of the obelisk at Paris is said to have been $400,000.”
—Rev. Marie Louis Lorton, lately deceased, related the following incident which happened to him when visiting Italy. The Rev. traveller was with a friend in the Church of St. Ambrose, at Milan. At the same time, a family of strangers, consisting of a gentleman of a tall and commanding figure, two ladies and several persons in attendance were visiting this ancient basilica, upon the threshold of which Saint Ambrose fearlessly resisted the entrance of the mighty Emperor Theodosius, as a punishment for the massacre of the citizens at Thessalonica. The foreign traveller found this act of episcopal authority simply outrageous. “This fact fully explains,” said he, “why Theodosius was an Arian.” Such a mistake was considered by my friend and myself too important, to be passed by in silence. “ Pardon,” said we, “ Theodosius was not an Arian he was, on the contrary, a most fervent Catholic, but Saint Ambrose gave him this great lesson, because he had grievously sinned by his cruelty, when he ordered 7,000 citizens of Thessalonica to be slain.” “ And yet,” replied the stranger, “Theodosius was an Arian, for did not the Catholics after his death cast his ashes to the winds.” “ Pardon,” said we, “ this tact is not historical; far from profaning his tomb, the Catholics have always regarded Theodosius as a very pious prince and a generous protector of the Church. You mean, perhaps, Theodoric King of the Ostrogoths, who lived in the following century. He was an Arian.” “ Oh yes, that is right, I meant Theodoric.” Here the stranger took his leave rather ungraciously, and after having slipped a few gold pieces into the sacristan’s hand departed. Hardly were we alone, when the sacristan hastened to call us. “ Gentlemen! do you know that you have been speaking to Prince Frederic Charles of Prussia, who arrived here yesterday on his way back from Rome. You have seen with him his wife and his mother, the sister-in-law of the Emperor William.”
ft
>1
1
520	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUto iuiu
Notre Dame, April 21, LS77.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should tattr it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Advantages of Studying the Classics.
Any one, especially an inexperienced person, when endeavoring to enumerate the great and various advantages accruing from the study of the classics, finds himself “ walking on dangerous ground,” dangerous inasmuch as he deals with a subject which should not, in justice, be treated lightly. However, we have only to take a short glance at the nations which, as nations, have long since passed away, but the memory of which still remains deeply graven on the grateful hearts of men. To look at the genius of these nations, at their forms of government, at their brilliant and unexcelled literature, at their unequalled military exploits, and their brave, determined rulers and commanders, makes us thankful for the example they have left recorded on the scroll of time. Let us first take a brief historical glance at Rome, noble, beautiful Rome, which for so long swayed the universal sceptre, the insignia of her terrible power over almost every nation then known. Behold her literali—her Virgil, portraying in such beautiful words the trialsand exploits of noble heroes; Horace in rapturous verse immortalizing both himself and the subject of his graceful theme, and then, turning into the field of satire, inveighing with the power of his mighty pen against vice and the detestable follies of his time. The Roman historians take second rank to none. There is Livy, pure and terse; Tacitus, brief and coucise. As for orators and statesmen, where have we a better example of a great and eloquent man than in Cicero, the philosopher and talented orator, zealous only for the public good, and striving not through ambition but a laudable endeavor to put down all corrupt and vicious customs, as is exemplified in his terrible denunciations and invectives against the profligate Cataline, who thought to incite treachery into the hearts of those as corrupt as himself. Last, but not least, let us take one of her military leaders, the brave and great Julius Casar, who by his glorious conquests brought the Roman state to a height of fame never before
reached. As a general, equalled in our humble opinion by none of ancient times, his military glory was but little more renowned than his brilliancy in statesmanship, oratory and literature. Selfish and ambitious, even in his j death he leaves an example long to be remembered.
{ We know not which should be more admired, Rome or stately old Greece, so sublime and prolific in literature; Homer, the brightest star in her literary firmament, sweet in song, and sublime and terrible in the description of events connected with the siege of Troy; Thucydides, the historian of the Peloponnesian War, describing in his own beautiful style events which have since been nearly acted over in the French Revolutions; her great philosophers, Plato, Socrates, and Aristotle, displaying great wisdom and urging many doctrines which have been adopted by modern philosophers; the two great lawgivers, Solon and Lycurgus, prescribing laws for Athens and Sparta which were productive of great good, and which, while they were kept, held these countries in a happy and tranquil state. Greece produced Demosthenes, the greatest or at least one of the greatest of orators, whose bursts of eloquence have ever surprised the world. The fame of the Grecian generals is eclipsed by the glory of very few. Philip of Macedon, a great commander himself, and father to the conqueror of every nation then known, the great Alexander. Hosts of others almost equally illustrious could be named, but we have already been too long in coming to our subject. But taking even the few mentioned, can anyone help admiring them as he reads their lives and hears recounted their illustrious deeds ? And where can this be so well done as in their own languages ?
The only so-called argument which can be urged against the study of the classics is brought forward by persons totally ignorant of their study, and is that the study of the classics produces no results either practical or beneficial. They lean only say this who have but a remote idea of what the classics are, and have probably in their schoolboy days read just enough Latin and Greek to disgust them, wherefore the motto, “A little learning is a dangerous thing” might apply here. The classics must be thoroughly studied to be appreciated, and their benefit is then felt. Whoever heard a man really skilled in the classics say that no benefit was derived from this knowledge? All the most learned men are well versed in classic lore.
In enumerating a few of the advantages to be derived^ from classical studies, first comes the immense amount of historical knowledge one may acquire from their study. Then their efficient help in understanding our own language, which is mostly derived from the Latin and Greek, the works of the Fathers of the Church, which are all written in this language, besides many philosophical and rhetorical treatises, and the frequent occurrence of sentences taken from ancient authors in all well-written works. The only way we can understand them is by knowing the classics, since translators only mar their beauty, as is illustrated in the translations of the works of Cicero and Demosthenes. Their effect is double when read in their original language. All the great orators of our times endeavor to emulate Cicero and Demosthenes, and by zealous study of these two eloquent men strive to attain greater art. Our. poets study the ancient ones thoroughly. These are only minor considerations when compared with the great practical benefit to be gained by studying the classics, namely the vast amount of political knowledge that may be acquired.
We can see the similarity existing between many politi
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	521
cal events of old and those of our own times. Greece though much smaller in territory, was the aucient Europe. It was as long in forming and has undergone as many and like changes. Athens first was the greatest state, but fell by its own tyrannical oppression; and contemporary with it, though not as great; was Lacedaemon, whose greatness was swallowed up by its many disgraceful acts. By violating its treaty with the Thebans, the latter were roused to a pitch of fury, and Epaminondas and Pelopidasled them to victory. Their glory was unrivalled until the death of their-two brave readers, when, plunging into excesses, they became an easy prey to Alexander the Great. Sparta, Achaia, Thessaly, and others, were at different times the greatest of ‘ the Greecian states. The-same has been the case in Europe. Macedon was considered barbarous, and-.only the royal house considered Grecian, but at length she-became one of the first of states. .The same was the case witilRussia’ until late years, when she began to take the lead.; The events described in the History of the Peloponnesian War were nearly the same as those which occurred in the first French Revolution, where the different factions arose, the people against the nobles. All Greece was thrown into commotion, and they had their secret societies similar to the Communists, which inspired terror into the hearts of all. Aristotle argues against this communism in his treatise on Politics in a way unexcelled, and brings up what are.now standard philosophical arguments. His ideas concerning the disadvantage of Communism are the' same as those of modern philosophers.	*
Julius Caesar found Rome turbulent, but by his admirable laws he quieted the state, and laid the foundations of the future glorious Empire.- After his death, Roman affairs re lapsed into their old state, until, after an interval, Octavius as his successor ascended the throne and again brought the affairs of state to rest. Our Napoleon found France in much the same state of-disquietude, and gradually taking the reins of power, created an empire. His banishment threw France into a disturbed condition until Napoleon III took his seat on the throne.
Our civil laws have their beginning in the laws of Rome, which have endured, though perhaps not in their original form, through many ages. A student of the classics can see this similarity by reading the works of Livy, Cicero, and many others. In truth it cannot be said that it is of no benefit to study the literature of nations, with forms of Government, manners and events, so nearly analogous to our own State. Men must study this literature in order to increase their political wisdom. By emulating the good examples, and profitting by the bad, we may become wise and follow what is good, and avoid what is evil. It will not do for us to know that certain events and changes did occur, but we must know what caused these changes, and what laws governed them, and this thorough knowledge can only be gained by studying the classics. From what little we have said, it will be seen that the study of the classics is very important.
— —	■	■ MB"	■
The Polished Calumniator.
There are plants which are not only most beautiful to be hold, which have all the appearance of harmlessness, but which yet contain the most deadly poison. Their attractive form has been the cause of the death of many an incautious person. Botanists, when describing these plants, point out their noxious effects, warning all of the terrible penalty
that awaits those partaking of them. There are also, unfortunately, plants of another kind and far more injurious than those described. A description, in fact, would scarcely suffice, as it requires a keen eye to penetrate their deceptive appearance. Yet a few hints as to their form and habits will do no harm, and may perhaps put some people on their guard against them. To lay aside all figures therefore, the poisonous plants I have reference to are polished calumniators. I will here give a description of one of this class, and for the sake of convenience will call him Smith.
Smith possesses all the external characteristics of a perfect gentleman. He is well dressed, has had a good education, knows whole books on politeness and good manners by heart, is quite a conversationalist, is a member of a fashionable church, and possesses the rare art of pleasing people. He Is generally estimated as an upright man; the men think him a good fellow, whilst the ladies call him a nice young man. Yet notwithstanding this array of good qualities, this general opinion, I must pronounce him a most dangerous man, a great evil-doer. This may seem a rash judgment at first, but a careful scrutiny of his conduct will convince all of the truth of my assertion.
Smith pretends to esteem true merit wherever he can find it, to hide faults rather than reveal them. But in reality he cannot bear to see true merit when possessed by others; he would not even notice another’s virtues if his pride and jealousy did not attract his attention to them. It would please him to be better than all others, but his heart is too wicked to entertain a desire to surpass them by true virtue. Therefore he seeks to lower them by slanders and calumnies. A contemptible occupation! and yet not so contemptible in the eyes of the world. It must be borne in mind that Mr. Smith does not use the ordinary means of calumniating. Oh no! he is too shrewd for that; under the cloak of dissimulation he does his vile deeds, and society is too much blinded by the glitter of his polished exterior to fathom him. All his knowledge, all the powers of his intellect are set in motion to attain this object. Poor, deceived society, as a reward, gives him the name of a judge of morals, of a shrewd and wise man!
One of his methods of calumniating is the eulogy. He avoids all slanderous expressions, and when blaming people, he uses the mildest terms; but it is not by words alone, that he expresses his injurious opinions. No, by the tone of his voice he says what he really means. A peculiar expression of countenance, a knowing look, a downcast eye, a knit brow, an artful gesture—all these calumniate more than words.
To-day the company is praising Brown’s skilfulness, and none is more talkative than Smith. He expatiates on Brown’s merits, to show that he possesses the rare virtue of being able to value and admire the latter’s prerogatives in a disinterested manner. “ I,” continues Smith, “ I am much indebted to his good judgment, and it grieves me the more when people reproach him because of his extreme kindheart-edness, his leniency.” Here he pauses. Seriousness and displeasure are depicted on his features and make the hidden reproaches evident, whilst a certain throwing back of his head, which seems to excuse them, confirms the suspicions in the minds of those present. He continues to praise the • good sense, the knowledge, the politeness of Brown, but he says uot one word more about his kind heart “ Yes,” he says at another time, “ Mr. Jones is really an obliging, a sincere man; in this regardl have had opportunities of knowing him. Though not a man of great learning, he is honest, and hon
522
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
esty is worth more than learning; and if he is not equal to his position, as they say, that is not his fault. ’Tis tnie that the bear in the fable, who wished to do his friend a service and incautiously smashed his head, was a dangerous friend; for all that he was sincere, and sincerity is a great virtue. The good man 1 ” This he utters in rapid, ambiguous tones. He is asked what the real fault of Mr. Jones is. -He looks at the questioner and appears not to understand, thus answering the question in the most malicious manner, well knowing that more will be added in the minds of others than he dared to say. “ No doubt,” says Smith, when some are praising a certain clergyman’s oratory, “ he speaks excellently, and he deserves the high position that has been assigned him. He is almost another Bossuet.” After delivering a panegyric on Bossuet, whereby he does not fail to show his own eloquence, he continues with a “ Suf,” and stops. “ Well, Mr. Smith, what ails you ? why don’t you continue?” “Oh, nothing ! But, even Bossuet had to bear the reproach of having an insatiable ambition, and of being covetous; for who can suppose that great men have no faults ? ” Robinson, an author, has won the applause of the world, and won it justly. Smith’s selfish heart can find no fault with his abilities, except that he is envious of them. “ This author,”, he says, “is my favorite, and who would not read hims He writes as well for the intellect as for the heart, aatThe applies himself with such assiduity that he has nearly lost his health thereby, so people say. It is an injustice that the Government does not. place him above want. Great geniuses should never be obliged to write merely for money, and sacrifice themselves for the sake of gain. What a disgrace to the country!” Thus, with this patriotic lament, he makes his favorite author one who is greedy of gain, and his much-lauded works the offsprings of a hungry stomach. He is asked his opinion on the abilities of a certain pianist. “ You will please excuse me from criticizing,” he replies. A very innocent reply, indeed, but it proves most damaging to the reputation of the pianist. Another asks him what kind of a musician T-----is. “ Oh! he is excellent,” is his answer. Quite a compliment to Mr. T.; but why does Mr. Smith utter the last word in such a peculiar manner?
Interspersing his conversation with appropriate maxims is another favorite weapon of Smith’s. He has such a number of them at his command that one is tempted to suppose he committed them to memory like his rules of syntax. These maxims he artfully introduces wherever he can; these, are the ramparts behind, which he carries on his cowardly attacks, behind which he thinks himself secure.
Smith, a master of his profession, possesses still finer artifices than those already mentioned. He always manages to have his calumniating insinuations follow immediately after words of praise. To-day he lays the plan of ruining Jones; but weeks, nay months elapse before we see its development. To-day he is lavish with his praise of Jones, but after he has gained people so as to believe in his disinterestedness, he crushes him with one blow. Sometimes he turns the conversation upon certain persons whose faults are partly known, and is silent as soon as others have taken the office of calumniating upon themselves. Meanwhile -he continues to encourage the conversation by smiling occasionally, pretending indifference, and merely giving a knowing-glance or a shake of the head. This pantomime slanders and calumniates more than all the outspoken words of the rest of the company combined. He aggravates the effect by an occasional “How!” “What!”
“Indeed!” “You don't say so!” uttered with the proper expression. This gains him the name of a just man, of a judge of morals, whilst in reality he is an envious slanderer, a base calumniator, a being who should really rank lower than the robbers in the Book of Ecclesiasticus.
Such is the character of Smith; such is the character of hundreds of slanderers and calumniators, who do more harm under the cloak of hypocrisy than the greatest criminals at Sing Sing. They carry on their dark practices unknown to the world, unknown to the victims themselves; and it was not exaggeration when I said that it required a keen eye to pierce that cocoon of false sincerity and justice with which such characters surround themselves. Careful observation, however, will teach us to recognize them. That this may be done the more readily, I will mention a clue that will lead to their discovery, namely: “They say.” “They say” or, “People say” is their common authority for their calumnies. Avoid them.
Personal.
. —Daniel M. M. Collins, of ’59, is practicing law in Phila-Melphia, Pa.
—Guy Woodward (Commercial), of ’75, resides in Mt. Vernon, Ohio.
—Charles F. Johnson, Esq., of Jersey City, was here this last week.
—H. C. Allen, M. D„ of ’68, has a large medical practice at Clinton, Mo.
—Thomas Nelson) of Chicago, spent a day or two with' us this last week.
—Anthony W. O’Mally. (Commercial), of ’61, is living in Ashton County, Wisconsin.
—Edward Fisher (Commercial), of ’69, is book-keeper for Brown & Maliy, Nashville, Tenn.
—H. P. Morancy (Commercial), of’69, is in a large1 commercial establishment in Memphis, Tenn.
—Joseph Hemann (Commercial),of ’65, is cashier in the Bank of Hemann & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Rev. Richard Shoftis, at present Chaplain at St. Mary’s Academy, is the only graduate of ’49, now alive.
—Mrs. Bassett, of Toledo, O., has been at Notre Dame this last week, visiting her brother, Prof. Edwards.
—John P. Rogers, of’68, is practicing law at Pittsburgh, Pa. Mr. Rogers was married something over a year ago..
—Schuyler C. Miller (Commercial), of ’71, and wife visited Notre Dame last week. Mr. Miller resides in South Bend.
—James Wilson (Commercial), of ’70, and Laurence Wilson, of ’69, are in business with their father at Trenton, N. J.
—Of the different Directors of Studies at Notre Dame, five are now dead, viz.: Revs. F. Cointet, N. H. Gillespie, J. M. Dillon, P. Dillon and A. Lemonnier.
—De Forrest Davis (Commercial), of ’61, is now proprietor of the International Hotel, Kalamazoo, Mich. The National Hold Reporter informs us that he has provided each and every room in his house with a rope ladder to be used in case of fire.
—Mr. Henry C. Watterson, who for the past two years has been secretary of the Scholastic and the Ave Maria Offices, has left Notre Dame for the purpose of entering another business. We can recommend him as an excellent ahd trustworthy business man.
—We had the pleasure of a call lately from the esteemed pastor of Santa Cruz, Cal., Rev. Joachim Adam, who in company with Rt. Rev. Bishop Moreno is now on his way to Europe. Rev. Father Adam is not only known as a zealous and untiring missionary, but also enjoys considerable repute as a writer, having contributed many interesting articles from time time to the columns of bur esteemed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
523
contemporary the “ Ave Afaria.'' Among these are an interesting “ Sketch of the Early Catholic Missions in California,’’ which in itself would make quite an interesting little-volume, “Pilgrimages to Our Lady of Monserrat,” etc. The Rev. Father returns to his native country, Spain, after an absence of many years, where his parents still reside; thence he goes to Rome, and, probably, will make a short detour to the Holy Places at Jerusalem. The increased facilities lately given travellers will enable him to do this in a very short period of time, after which he will return to devote himself with renewed energy to his devoted flock at Santa Cruz. We wish the Rev. Father a happy journey and hope he will not forget us at the holy shrines he will visit.
Local Items.
—Prof. Stace has begun his Class of Geodesy.
—We intend having our editorial rooms fixed up nicely.
—The frames for the new Stations are being made in Chicago.
—The Columbians intend giving a literary entertainment in May.
—The Junior Orchestra furnished excellent music at the Columbian banquet.
—The double-windows have all been taken down from the College building.
—The Philopatrians will make their first public appearance this year week after next.
—There were quite a number of entertaining games of baseball played this past week.
—Work in the new church has recommenced. It is intended to finish it up this year.
—The “ Irresistable ” spent several hours this last week trying to kill a loon by stoning.
—The second nine of the Young Americas beat the Quicksteps on the 18th by a score of 17 to 14.
—The bill of fare for the Columbian banquet, printed at the Scholastic Office, was neat and tasty.
—The evening recreations have now begun. To say that they are enjoyed would be unnecessary.
—Mr. Bonney will soon begin his weekly visits to take photographs of the classes, societies, clubs, etc.
—The disciples of Isaac Walton had excellent luck last Wednesday. They all brought back long strings of fish.
—The “Inimitable” defines the lower regions as “an usurpation of volcanic heat.” Bathe his head in ice-water.
—The spring work of the gardeners and those who take charge of the park around the lakes has begun in good earnest.
—We don’t see anyone engaged in putting up a new pier on the upper lake yet. Who will see to it that a new one be built?
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Mrs. E. O. Seymour, of Chicago, for specimens donated to the Cabinet of Natural History.
—Bro. Peter has again charge of the garden. He had charge of this same garden twenty years ago, and it looks like old times to see him at it again.
—Vespers to morrow are of the Patronage of St. Joseph, page 138 of the Vesperal, with Commemorations of the Sunday, page 89, and St. George, page 141.
—In order to have the full score of a game of baseball reported, the tallies must be under twelve. If the nine innings are not played the full score will not be printed.
—The Lemonnier Boat Club launched their crafts on last Wednesday. Navigation has now commenced. The crews will be chosen shortly and the regular evening practices will be begun for the race in June.
—The Minims went fishing on Wednesday, for the second time this season. They found the sport more interesting than on the first occasion, and succeeded in landing about three dozen in a little over an hour.
—Mr. Bonney made the first of his regular weekly visits
to Notre Dame last Wednesday, when quite a number of people were photographed. Societies should take advantage of this, and have photographs taken at once.
—We learn that the members of the Lemonnier Boat Club intend putting the bank of the lake in the vicinity of their boat house in good order. The sooner it is done the better. The bank needs some improvement.
—The Secretary of the Lemmonnier Boat Club will send us the names of the crews who are to take partin the June races in a week or two. The race this year, we have no doubt, will be more exciting than any previous one.
—We recommend to the attention of our students in French the following couplet which we take from Pomeroy's Democrat:
Pas de lieu Rhone que nous.
—The 30th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philpma-thean Association took place on the 15th mst. Declamations were delivered by A. J. Burger, M. B. Kauffman, J. Healy, A. Widdicombe, C. Clarke, F. McGrath and F. Cavanaugh. Mr. 0. Lindberg read an essay.
—The following are the positions of the 2d nine of the Excelsiors: R. J. Golsen. 1 b. and Capt.; C. J. Clarke, 2 b. Treasurer and Secretary; J. E. Hagerty, c. and Field Director ; J. W. Stewart, p.; G. V. Sampson, 3 b.; Otto Lind- -berg, s. s.; Jno. Mosal, 1. f.; F. C. Cavanaugh, c. f.; C. P. Cassidy, r. £
—It is a well-known popular belief that if it rain on Easter Sunday it will rain for four succeeding Sundays. Some think that there is no credit to be given to this popular belief from the fact that it was not borne out this year; but they forget that Easter Sunday falling on April Fool Day had the privilege of fooling us a little.
—The 26th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held April 14tb. The following subject was debated: Resolved—That whiskey is more injurious to health than tobacco. On the affirmative were J. B. Patterson, G. B. Saylor, F. Schlink; negative: J. B. Proud-homme, J. Fitzgerald and W. Turnbull. T. H. Quinn read an essay.
—The Scientific Association gave an entertaining Exhibition in Phelan Hall on the evening of the 18th. The opening address was made by Mr. Carl Otto, and short lectures on Crystallography and Optics were delivered by Messrs. H. C. Cassidy and W. T. Ball. Mr. Mooney gave a graphic account of Rip Van Winkle, with illustrations by means of the lantern.
—The first term of the Notre Dame Circuit Court commenced to day, in Room No. 13, Judge Tong presiding, T. C. Logan Prosecuting Attorney, J. D. McIntyre Clerk, J. Perea Sheriff. The case in progress as we go to press is a criminal one—State of Indiana, vs., Joseph Blank on charge of grand larceny. T. C. Logan and E. Arnold, Attorneys for State; J. J. Quinn and George Gross council lor defense. The jury consists of Jno. Ewing, N. J. Mooney, H. C. Cassidy, W. P. Breen, C. Otto, W- T. Ball. State’s witnesses , are J. P. Quinn, and P. Tamble. The witnesses for the defense are F. Hastings, E. White, and F. Maas.
—The Columbian Literary and Debating Society had a grand banquet in Washington Hall on Tuesday, the 17th. They had oyster soup, and macaroni, and water-cresses, and fried oysters, and roast turkey, and roast beef, and sliced tongue, and boiled ham, and fried potatoes, and chicken-salad, and stewed tomatoes, and chow-chow, and pickled cucumbers, and cranberry sauce, and lemon pie, and apple pie, and mince pie, and preserved peaches, and floating-island, and sponge-cake, and chocolate cake, and cocoa cake, and oranges, and figs, and apples, and mixed candies, and almonds, and filberts, and French coffee, and chocolate and tea, and many other good things. Among the invited guests were Rev. President Colovin, Rev. Father Zahm, and a number of the Faculty. When the edibles were disposed of, or as much of them as could be, one of the members, on behalf of the Society, read an ad-1 dress to the worthy President of the Society, Prof. Edwards. At the end of the address he gave to Rev. Father Colovin a gold-headed cane, which he desired the President of the College to present to Prof. Edwards in the name of
624
TSE KOTEE SAME SCSOLASTIC.
J	*
the Columbians. Father Golovin in presenting the cane spoke briefly and earnestly, to which the Professor answered in a short speech. Father Golovin then spoke to the Society at some length, complimenting them on the success they had achieved during the past year. Rev. T. E. Walsh was then called upon and spoke for some time. The evening was enjoyably spent in dancing, etc., the music being furnished by the Junior Orchestra. We congratulate the Columbians on their success.
—On the 15th inst. a game of baseball was played between the Excelsior and Juanita Baseball Clubs. At the end of the 7th inning the game closed, the Juanitas coming out victorious with the following score by
INNINGS:
—In a match game of baseball,’played on the 18th, between the 2d nine of the Excelsiors and the 2d nine of the Mutuals, the former were victorious by a score of 14 to 13. The following is the score by innings :
—We call attention to the advertisement of Boland’s i ' aromatic bitter wine of iron which appears in this issue. ? The remedy acts as a tonic, invigorating the whole system, / and restoring vitality to all the organs weakened by disease or over-work. It nourishes the blood, revives the energies, allays nervousness, and neuralgia, and is especially beneficial in cases of sick headache, dyspepsia, and all derangements of the stomach. Persons of sedentary habits, and those troubled with sleeplessness, mental depression, or indisposition to exercise, will derive great relief by its use.	J
Women who suffer from ailments incident to feeble and	*
delicate constitutions, by taking the Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron, will dispel the languor which constantly torments • them, and restore color to their faded cheeks. It is an infallible cure for fever and ague, and for all diseases engendered by miasmatic influences. The ingredients of which this preparation is composed are such as are prescribed-by the best physicians for the maladies mentioned, and are compounded by an experienced druggist. The thousands who have used the Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron can best testify to its merits. It is pleasant to the taste, and has none of the nauseating qualities peculiar to medicines containing tonic properties. Many families, having once used it, now consider it an inseparable adjunct of the household. The Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is prepared only by James Boland, druggist, No. 53 Clark street (opposite the Sherman House), Chicago, Ill. Price §1 per bottle, or $9 per dozen. Ask your druggist for Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron, and take none other.
—An exciting game of baseball came off on Sunday last between the second nine Mutual and the second nine Excelsior Baseball Clubs. Much good playing was done on both sides. The following is the
score :
2d mutual.	R.	0.	2D EXCELSIOR.	R.	o.
Bell c 		3	0	Hagerty, c		1	2
TTngfin p	.......	....	1	2	Stewart, p		1	2
TJnnnpllv R R.		....	0	3	Sampson, s. s......		3	0
T^^yjinldRj 1 b -	-		2	1	Golsen, 1 b		1	2
Taulby 2 b 		1	2	Clarke, 2 b		2	2
RnphnijS b	-	...	2	1	Mosal, 3 b		1	1
Pnthort 1. f .............	1	2	Brady, 1. f				0	3
(ribbons c f . ..........	1	2	Cavanangb, c. f.		1	1
Wolf, r. f		1	2	Cassidy, r. f		0	2
Total		12	15	Total		10	15
the Mutuals winning the game by a score of 12 to 10. Umpires—W. A. Widdicombe, Otto Lindberg and J.
McTague.
. Scorer—F. W. Phelan.
—The following is the score of the first championship game between the Excelsior and the Star of the East Baseball Clubs:
EXCELSIOR.
O. R.
STAR OF THE EAST.
O. R.
BoU of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who dur -	’
ing the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. ’
J. Burke, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, E. Davenport, W.
Dechant, J. Ewing, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, T. Garso, J. Kinney,	>?
F. Keller, J. Kuebel, W. Keily, J. F. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, V. McKinnon, J. McEniry, W. McGorrisk, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, J.
Proudhomme, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Sehlink, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof, T. McGrath.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A Bergck, T. Barry, W. Brady, J. A Burger, A J. Barger, J. Boehm, C. Clarke, G. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, J. Carrer, W. Champlin, J. English, C. Faxon. L. Garceau, P. Gibbons, J. L.	,
Healey, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, C. Johnson, R. Keenan, M.
Kauffman, F. Lang, Chas. V. Larkin, A. Miller, E. Moran, R. Mayer, J. McTague, W. Nicholas, John Nelson, T. Nelson, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. Pleins, F. W. Phelan, C. Peltier, R. Price, J. Reynolds, J. Rothert, S. Ryan, H. Rogers, J. Rogers, K. Scanlan, G. Sampson, J. Schoby, J. Stewart, W. Taulby, C. Taylor, W. Vander Heyden, N. Vanamee, C. Van Mourick, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, F. Rheinboldt, F. Carroll.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson, P. Heron, R. Pleins, J. Seeger, Geo. Lowrey, G. Rhodius, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, J. Scanlan, E. Carque-ville, C. Reif, A. Coghlin, G. Hadden, C. Kauffman, H. Riopelle, A Rheinboldt, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, W. Coghlin, F.	‘
Gaffney, C. Long, H. Kitz, A. Sehnert.	•
W. Ohlman, c..........
J. English, 1. f......
M. Kauffman, 2 b......
R. Price, r. f........
G..Sugg, 1 b..........
E. Moran, c. f.........
J. Phelan, 3 b........
C. Larkin, p..........
N. VanNamee, s. s.....
3
3
2 4
5
2
2
3
3
2 P. Hagan, p.............
2 A. Schmidt, 1. f........
3 A Belcher, c............
1 J. Quinn, lb............
0 B. Hinds, 3 b...........
1 W. McGorisk, r. f.......
2 F. Maas, s. s...........
0 A. Hamilton, c. f.......
0 E. Sugg, 2 b............
Total..............   2711	Total.................
2 2
4 0
3 1
3 0
3 0
2 2
3 0
27 8
INNINGS:
Umpire—A. Hertzog.
Scorers—J. Healy and G-. Lonstorf.
Class Honors.
[In the following list afe given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.
FOR MONTH ENDING APRIL 12TH.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Seniors—J. G. Ewing, C. Otto, W. T. Ball, N. J. Mooney,-H. Cassidy.
Juniors—W. Breen, J. Coleman, J. McHugh.
Sophomores—A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, J. McEniry, W. Dechant.
Freshman—H. Maguire, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn; P. Tamble, F. Maas, F. Hastings, J. C. O’Rourke, A Burger, T. McGrath, J. F. Larkin, J. Montgomery.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey, P. Nelson, P. Heron, R. Pleins, G. Lambin, C. Reif, W. Coolbaugh, W. McDevitt, G. Hadden, W. Cash, J. Scanlan, A. Coghlin, E. Carqueville, W. Coghlin, F. Gaffney, H. Riopelle, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, J. Inderrieden, A. Rheinboldt, C. Long, H. Kitz, Jos. Inderrieden. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
525

THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall, M. Walsh, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneherry, A. Reising, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, E. Forrey, E. Pleins, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, M. Dunn, M. Pomeroy, J. Burgert, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, H. O’Meara, K. Martin, C. Ortmeyer, M. Usselman, I. Cooke, S. Rheinboldt, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Walsh, M. Cravens, A. Harris, E. O’Neil, H. Russell, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, A. Cullen. M. Schultheis, D. and A. Cavenor, G. Breeze. B. Siler, L. Tighe, A. Koch, K. Gibbons, M. Hungerford, L. Brownbridge, L. Wier, C. Thayler.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH
STUDIES.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall.
1st Sr. Class.—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neill, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A. Reising.
2d Sr. Class.—Misses H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, A. Cullen, E. Lange, E. Thompson, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson.
3d Sr. Class.—Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorn, E. Forrey, A. Wooden, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, E. McGrath, M. Dunn, B. Siler.	.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Tighe, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, H. O’Meara, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, C. Ortmeyer.
2d Prep. Class.—Misses M. Dsselman, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie, N. Johnson, L. Brownbridge, S. Rheinboldt, L. Forrey, L. Weier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr. Class—Miss Mary Ewing.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Ewing, A. Morgan, D. Gordon, L. Walsh and M. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—C. Correll, A. McGrath, L. Chilton, I. Mann.
Jr. Prep. Class—L. Cox, F. Fitz, J. Kingsbury.
1st Jr. Class—L. Vannamee and N. Hackett.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT, APRIL 8.
Misses M. Ewing, C. Corrill, M. Mulligan, A. Morgan, A-Kirchner, D. Gordon, L. Walsh, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, J. Kingsbury, and M. McFadden.
Minims—M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee, L. Ellis, A. Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty, E. Wootten, 100 par excellence. Miss E. Mulligan.
April 15.
Misses A. Kirchner and C. Corrill 100 par excellence. Misses MEwin°-, A. Morgan, A. McGrath, F. and J. Sunderland, D. Gordon, L. Walsh, M. Redfield, M. Mulligan, L. Chilton, J. Kingsbury and M. McFadden.
Minim—Misses E. Mulligan, M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee, L. Ellis, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts and E. Wotten’
—The little girls forming the “Literary Society” in the Junior Department deserve an honorable mention for the attentive interest they take in the reading selected for the meetings. Last Wednesday evening the Misses A. Ewing, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, D. Gordon and L. Chilton did credit to themsleves and the entire class by their prompt and bright answers to the questions proposed.
M. Livingston & Co.,
.	ABE TZEJIZE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Send.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH SEND, IND.
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Tn-diana in the interests of the Irish race, will be furnished at
One Year -	-	-	- ■ $1 50
Six Months -	-	-	-	90
Three Months	-	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
A H rpRR
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, IND.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5	00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass 0. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. AU inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Rev. A. GRANGER, O.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
JAMES BONNET
THE FHOTOG-RAFHER
Comer Michigan and Washington Sts.,
SOUTH ZBZEZETZD, HTSTZDIA-ZUTA—
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together wifh a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
34 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
526
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attornevs at Law.
SPEER «St MITCHEEE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G-. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Beal .Estate Agent, Boom No. 2 Arnold's Block, South Bend, Ind.
mHOMAS 15. CLIFFORD, [of "621 Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJSTNEVG- & HOGAN [D. J. Bogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Boom 26, Ashland Block, N. fi. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney aT Law, Notary. Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MIEIj ARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
\A 7 IJLZLT A NT J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Booms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69 —Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Beading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Erlce 25 cts., postpaid..
Orders should he sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
-	GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; Cleveland 9 45.
11 59 a m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10 p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.	,
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am; Cleveland, 7 (5 am; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4, 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 pm, Chicago 6 30 am.	'
5 38 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20 p m.
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend. Ind.
W eekly Newspapers.
TELE CATHOLIC COX.TTlM[BrA^lN.pub'ished
weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A V JtJ M ATtTA., a Catholic journal devoted to the
Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.5o.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
■Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE NOTRE UA.ME SCHOLASTIC, Published weekly during term time at Notre Dame, Ind. Terms, $1.50 per Annum.
TECE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chae. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74 • $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiue, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpBCE BOND HOTJeSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON ECOTJSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found, at the Matteson.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
A. CATHOLIC JOTRNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS H, AM MARY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned.
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author oe “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
One Year................................................2	50
Five Years.............................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)........20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered. Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
KEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News. Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	527
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET, OHIOAG-O, ILLIJSTOIS.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARI’S ’BUS LINE I
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Msiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
f. S HICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving colleciors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Mineral" on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1.500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox
50 inbox
100 inbox
100
200
300
Crystals and fragments. Students’ size, larger...
§ 50
1 50
$1 3
§1 50 | § 1
6 I 5 .... 1 10
Amateur's size, 2J4 in. x 114.	____
High School or Acad. size,2i£x3% in .‘shelf specimens | 25
College size, 314x6 in., shelf specimens .... |	500
§ 2 10 25 50 100
§ 3
25
50 100 300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of .Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 31, 1875.
		•Day	•Kal.	itAtlantic	t Nigh
	’Mail.	Express.	Accom.	Express.	Express
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	4 00 pan	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles .	9 02 “	12 09 pan	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson. ..	2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express.	12 40 a.m	4 52
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	6 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 CO p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 pm
“ Jackson....	0 40 “	12 32 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago.	7 30	8 00 “	10 20 *•	6 30 '•	8 00 »
INiles and Sontli Bend Division. .
GOING NORTH.		
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. 7 15 p m. §9 06	a.m.	§7 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 23 “	' 9 07	4b	7 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 00 “	9 40	44	7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.		
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m. 4 20 p.m. §8 00	a.m.	§5 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56 “	8 32	14	5 32 “
Ar. South Bend- -7 15 “	5 05 “	8 40	• 4	5 40 “
’Sunday excepted -	tDaily.	tSaturday and Sunday excepted
§Sun<iay only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
ZE1. ZMZZE"5rZEZE?>, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE’S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-ly
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.	•
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST-, ODjosite SUerman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Price, for Pints, $7.50 per dozen. $84 per gross.
TOWLE & BOEER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS I TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, dTIC^G-O, •	•	• TJLUIITOTS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.	.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy
528	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska; California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
. Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all.points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its	.
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
. CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.’
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern,' Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of aU cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 345 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 131 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 63 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W.. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KA^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depci, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. '
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H.., and Louisiana, Mo......4	00	pm	13	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 13 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	30	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gem^upt J. Charlton,£Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
^ONDENSED TIME TABLE
DEC. 10,1876.
- TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side).
On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOT1NG WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, ' Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.30 p.m. 13.40 a.m. 3 05 “ 447 “ 6.50 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 1350 p.m. 3.33 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	3.00 p.m. 3.14 “ 555 « 7.43 “ 9.55 “ 1030 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 13.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 935 “ 10.45 “ 1.30 p.m. 3 45 “ 7.30 “	5.40 p.m. 7.40 “ 9.35 “ 13.10 a.m. 3 30 “ 7.30 “	10.35 p.m. 11.53 “ 105 A.M.	•<•••••••
Lima,					
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive			3.35 “ 5.49 “ 9.30 “	• -	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.’
Chicago,	Leave	10.40 P.M.	8.20 a.m.	5.35 p.m.	
Plymouth,		3.40 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.45 “	
Lima,		8.55 “	4.05 “	1.39 * m.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.20 “	250 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “			
Crestline,	Leave	13.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 A.M.
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	500 “	6 50 “ ’
Orrville,		3.33 “	9.38 “	658 “	915 “
Alliance,		4.10 “	1115 “	8.55 “	1120 “
Rochester,		6.22 “		1106 “	
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	3.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “


Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	■
F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A.