The Scholastic.
.	pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS,
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 13, 1873.	Number 3.
Another Trip.
Mr. Editor : I must begin by informing you that having derived much amusement as well as instruction from your
Vacation Trip ” which forms the first article on the first page of the first number of the present volume of the Scholastic, I am moved to rush precipitately into “vacationtrip” literature myself, and give some account of my vagaries during that usually hot, dull and unprofitable period of the scholastic year.
Having heard of the cholera, I set forth, like a knight of a more chivalrous age, to beard the lion in his den. The headquarters of the monster were said to be'in Nashville. I went thither; the monster fled at my coming. I found his last victim expiring. Nashville is a pretty place, and enjoys a perpetual spring. Those who are misled by this expression to expect a continuance of the vernal season will, however, find their expectations disposed of in a very summary manner before the sun enters Leo. The spring is a chalybeate. Lheard of cholera in Chattanooga, but having failed to find it in Nashville, I deemed that chat a nugatory rumor also, and returned to Indiana, where at last, in Fort Wayne, I found the collar a standing nuisance. It was ruff. And how it raged! Going to the Cathedral, and trying to subside into that pious and recollected state of mind necessary for the due performance of my religious duties, my nervous system was completely upset by seeing Queen Elizabeth, or something very like it, sailing m ijestically up the aisle and making a profound and sweeping genuflectory gyration before entering her pew. But speaking of our Cathedral, are you aware that its long-promised steeples are built at last? Or at least they are in course of erection; for so I left them. I hope they will prove incentives to devotion rather than Wayne-glory, but at p1 esent, all I can siy is, that if you ask a resident how high they are, he is liable to tell you anything up to 2,500,000 feet; and if j ou doubt his assertion he will say he means above the level of the sea, or something else. Some of them relieve the exuberance of their exultation by ascending to the summits. Alas for human nature 1
We often seek advancement when there’s no advantage there;
The bear that climbs the highest pole is not the polar bear: We madly go ballooning up,—discover nothing new;
But find that distance does not lend enchantment to the view. But the pertinacity with which the Waynites aspire to celestial things is purty nasty indeed. Their idea of such things may be inferred from a decoration on the panels of one of their principal restaurants on the Court House square. Where two angels are seen bringing in what, from its supporters, we must suppose to be a heavenly banquet, in which bologna sausages, cheese and lager beer form prominent features. The cheese is painted so naturally that you can smell it half a block off. I learned a good deal about watches, etc., in Fort Wayne. There are some things about
them quite peculiar. When a watch has a second hand for instance, it is generally a third hand, and a watch with a second hand is not necessarily a second-hand watch. But being thoroughly incompetent to cope with the cholera as I found it in Fort Wayne, and being moreover of a cantankerous (can’t-anchor-as; i. e., restless) disposition, I dismissed that metropolitan city and went west out on the wild and trackless prairie, where the prairie-chicken flieth and the sportsman mourneth over his bad luck. Don’t ask what I shot. That is a delicate question, and one calculated to shatter my nervous system if obtruded too abruptly upon me. I’m getting to be an old man now and I can’t stand as much as I could once. Besides, September has now come, and there are matters of weight to be attended to; the Sun is about to enter Libra, and Libra therefore must not be regarded as a Spring Balance. We knew a man once who imprudently bought a Spring Balance on the 31st of May, and the following day he lost his equilibrium. There are a great many kinds of Balances besides -the constellation Libra. When you balance to your partner calisthenically, you generally swing or cheat; but when you cheat your partner in balancing the ledger, you ought to swing for it, but you don’t in this humanitarian age. We met a man Friday (please punctuate this so as to preclude all suggestivness of Robinson Crusoe) whom we asked if he had seen Schuyler Colfax in South Bend. He said he hadn’t, but he had seen Ben weighed in Mishawaka.	.
Au expeditious way of balancing your Cash Book consists in poising the volume on the tip of your left ear, and maintaining it thus suspended in mid air by a judicious management of your centre of gravity. September is as good a month as any other to get married in, and a good wife is a great blessing, provided she knows how to govern her tongue. But I find, Mr. Editor, I am straying away from my subject, although my subject itself was of a somewhat straying nature. But I have now given you sufficient details—I know you are as fond of details as the nigger that used to kill hogs for our family. He used to put salt on ’em, and eat ’em—so I conclude, wishing you a happy career through the present volume of the Scholastic, and many future ones.
Your old friend, Collar A. 1
Blanchard Jerrold is engaged, with the special sanction of the Empress Eugenie, on “The Life and Times of Napoleon III,” the first part of which, illustrated with portraits, etc., from the family collection, will appear about the end of the year.	-'
“Do you think I am a fool ?” a violent man once asked the late Rev. Dr. Bethune. “ Really,” replied the Doctor, “I would not venture the assertion; but now that you-ask my opinion, I must say that I am not prepared to deny it.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The St. Joseph Valley.
BY CALLEEN.
There’s not in this wide world a valley more sweet, Not even “ Avoca,” where bright waters meet, And mingle their music beneath the soft smile Of shamrock and daisy on Erin’s green isle, Where poets and bards have chanted the song Till over the ocean its echoes prolong In musical numbers, but ’tis not more blest Than our lovely valley that sleeps in the west.
’Tis some fifty years since the good father came From whom this bright valley deriveth its name, On his mission of love, the Gospel to preach, And untutored minds of the red men to teach. His feet were the first of the white race to tread This vale in wild grandeur and beauty outspread— By our sparkling river his prayers arose, And peacefully now here his ashes repose.
But wonderful changes since then have occurred, Where the howl of the wolf and panther were heard; New sounds have awakened, new sights meet the gaze, Which would, were he living, the red man amaze. Where once stood his cabin and wigwam of old
" Nice houses, large orchards and farms we behold— The most lonely haunt of the dark forest dell Re-echoes the sound of the church-going bell.
From off the bright waters to childhood endeared, His birchen canoe has long since disappeared;
No longer his pibroch is borne on the gale— Dark man of the forest, your fate we bewail! The brave pioneer, with herculean toil Has levelled the forest and cultured the soil, Till for abundauee of fruit, grain and flowers, There’s no other region more noted than ours.
It is not that-nature has lent to the scene Her choicest of treasures and smiles so serene That makes this bright Eden to me seem so dear, But ’tis that the home of my childhood is near. It was here I received the sweet lesson of truth, From a dear mother’s lips, in the days of my youth. The deep-trodden pathway, each rock, hill and tree, Are all dear mementos of childhood to me ;
Oh, the last ray of feeling and life must depart, Ere the love for this valley shall fade from my heart.
St. Joseph Valley, May 1873.	— Niles Democrat.
Religion the Basis of True Education.
We have not space to reproduce the entire oration of Mr. J. J. Fitzgibbon, which was delivered before the Alumni last Commencement Day. The following extract will show not only the spirit of the oration, but also the able manner in which Mr. Fitzgibbon treated the subject :
“ But let us test the theory of secular education by the laws of reason and philosophy. There are three elements in the nature of man—his moral, intellectual, and physical powers. His moral nature, embracing the sovereign faculties of the soul—reason, free-will, conscience, the undying aspiration for immortality, should not be allowed to, remain in darkness, but should be developed to its fullest capicities and illumined by God’s religion and'laws. The drawing out, the training, the disciplining of the physical and intellectual qualities of man, is at best but a partial education, and nar
rows the scope of his mental vision to a very limited range of inquiry and investigation. The mind may be wholly concentrated upon the natural and exact sciences, and a proficiency and a deep knowledge of them may be acquired. But will such an education be complete when the sciences of the moral world—philosophy, theology, psychology— which have for their object man and God, are excluded or entirely neglected ? Certainly, the moral sciences, in the plan of general and higher education, must have the supremacy, as their study embraces a knowledge of man, the laws of his being, his origin and destiny, inculcates upon his mind the unchanging truths of the unwritten laws which are anterior to all civil codes, being promulgated by the Almighty and engraven upon the heart of every man born into the world. A knowledge of these sciences schools the mind in first principles, in essential truths, in the laws of reason, and gives to it that most superior, that highest order.of intelligence, that breadth and grasp of understanding so necessary to the true comprehension of all social, political and civil questions. For are not the fundamental principles of government founded upon God’s immutable laws, upon the unchanging truths of religion—natural and revealed ?
Yes, gentlemen, and the nearer that a system of government is fashioned upon moral principles—the jue gentium— the natural laws, the closer does it approximate to the beau ideal of perfect legislation, and the higher plane has it reached in the grand scheme of human progress. Again, it is from the fruitful source of the moral sciences that the poet, the orator, the journalist, the statesman and the justiciary, the men in whose hands are placed the destinies of society and nations, receive those lessons of truth and wisdom, that knowledge of the passions and affections of the human heart, so essential to the true culture of all, and without which no man can lay claims to ripe and profound scholarship. With his mind enriched by the moral sciences, the poet, who possesses the highest endowment bestowed on man—the creative power—can instruct as well as delight mankind; the orator, whose mission is to destroy error and injustice, and employ his gilts in behalf of truth and equity, can arouse generous passions, persuade the will and convince the reason in favor of a noble or just cause; the journalist is well qualified to discuss those questions of politics and sociology upon which he is daily called to pass judgment, to influence and form public opinion; the statesman has a profound conception of the sacred and inviolable rights of man, and knows the laws which should be erased from the statute-book and those that should be enacted the better to secure peace, order and liberty to society ; the justiciary, who should resemble, as near as mortal man is permitted to resemble, the J udge of judges, is thoroughly competent to discharge the grave and responsible duty of meting out justice, unbiassed and impartial. Religion is to education what the soul is to the body, what justice, patriotism and liberty are to a government—its controlling, living and saving principle. As the magnifying power of the telescope aids the astronomer in discovering new worlds measuring the distances of the planets, and demonstrating the laws that govern them, so the human intellect, when aided and directed by religion, has its capacities and powers immeasurably strengthened and enlarged to penetrate into new fields of inquiry, to attain knowledge of the moral world which is as limitless as the universe.
1
THE SCHOLASTIC.
1®
£
Some philosophers whose names are now in the months of men as leaders of modern thought, would turn the human mind wholly to the study of the inferior world, to investigate the laws that govern it, and discover by experiment and induction the causes that produce the phenomena and regulate thefforces of nature. The great purpose of life, they say, is to overmaster the physical nature of the world, u.ifold its secrets and utilize its elements for the benefit and . material prosperity of the race. They would chain the soul to the earth, and confine all its longings, its aspirations and its hopes, to the pleasures, the enjoyments a :d luxuries, which the treasures of the world affords. But neither theundisputi d possession of all that our motherearth yields, nor the knowledge of the material world, can satisfy the cravings of the human heart, nor appease the uadetinable longings of the immortal soul. As the sun, in the planetary system, is the central focus which regulates and controls the unchanging course of the other heavenly bodies in their revolutions through space; so religion, which is the centre in the sphere of truth, is that great luminous body which assists and guides the human intellect to understand and comprehend all knowledge, all science, without wandering out of its orbit into darkness and error. Rudimentary and philosophical education, like the portrait, the features, the lineaments; the soul of which has not been transferred to the canvas, but the mere outlines sketched, is, therefore, necessarily incomplete without its fundamental principle, which is religious culture.’’
Jobbery in School Books. -
Several of the Western States are giving us the advantage of important and valuable experiments in legislation. The experience of Illinois in dealing with the questions of minority representation and the railroad tariffs cannot fail to be of benefit to other States, however it may result at home. The equally important question of the common schools is just now receiving great attention in Indiana. Among other provisions of the law providing fora complete leorganiz.ition of the educational system of the State, it is ordered that no text-book adopted by a County Bard shall be changed within three years from the date of such adoption, except by unanimous consent of the members of such Board. The fact that such a provision seems necessary indicates clearly enough the extent to which the County Boards have already been made instruments of unscrupulous jobbery in the matter of school books. Throughout the country the complaint of parents and tax payers is universal. The S :hool Boards form almost everywhere petty rings of corruptionists who set themselves up for sale to the highest bidder among the agents of publishing houses. A gentleman of education and integrity, recently elected Mayor of a prominent city, says that he was astonished on taking possession of his office to find that positions on the School Board were more eagerly sought for among the small political strikers than any others. Men who could scarcely read and who had no incomes hustled for the privilege of serving their country without salaries in these places. The Mayor delayed a little while in making his nominations, and was waited on by agents of several publishing houses to learn what his intentions were. “We have no one to recommend,” they said frankly, “but would like to make the parties our friends.” The object of the candidates was to sell their influence to the publishers
and the object of the publishers was to have the schools conducted solely with reference to the number of their books which the children could be made to buy.
This sort of swindling has attained proportions which are scarcely credible. In many places the grading and subdivision of the courses of instruction have been carried so far that a child must have a new book for every few months’ progress in any particular study. The common rules of arithmetic are scattered through half a dozen volumes. A few years ago, four common-school readers were considered sufficient. Now, under the pretense that a scholar should not he a’lowed to become familiar with the text he is reading, theseriesisstretebingout indefinitely. New studies are continually being added to the course. Branches only fitted for advanced classes are made ridiculously elementary for the youngest children, merely to increase the demand for school books. The smallest urchins are sent staggering off to their schools with more books than they can well carry, each containing a homoepathic diluton of a single idea. It would not be so bad if there were any permanence in the text-books adopted. There is after all very little difference in merit between the different grammars, geographies and arithmetics. But often before the dog’s ears have proceeded half-way through the leaves of a book, the teachers, the committeenjen and the publishers come to an understanding and an entirely new series is forced upon the school. Sometimes the same publisher launches a new batch from his shop, by means of his relatjons with the local authorities. Sometimes a new publisher supplants him with the board and clears the desks and satchels for his own wares. The trade has thus become enormously profitable, and the corruption of course increases correspondingly. The Sentinel, of Indianapolis, says that agents from fifteen houses are now “raiding” the County Boards of Indiana; andamemberofaBoard never goes to the post office without a cart to bring, back his correspondence with publishers. When we regard the erudition aud the judgment of the average county politician who fills the offices, we can have little difficulty in imagining what classof considerations would most strongly appeal to him in his vote on a question of adopting or retaining any particular line of text-books.
The provision we have quoted from the Indiana law is merely a tentative step, to see if some barrier cannot be opposed to this flood of petty and vexatious corruption. The improvement is a very little one, but it is in the right direction. If schools are compelled to use the same books for three years it will diminish during that time the opportunities of stealing, and at least give many of the books a chance to get worn out. Everything which is done t6 lessen the profit and perquisites of the Boards will of course relieve the pressure of the loaferish candidates, and help to that degree the character of the whole system. It is so bad at present in many regions that any change can hardly be for the worse, and we hope that the Indiana experiment may be so successful as to encourage some similar action in other States.—3Few York Tribwne.	•
In an editorial on the horse-disease, the Congregationalist suggested that it might be well to sit at the foot of a hone and learn humility. “Just so,” says the California News* : Letter; “sit down at the hind feet of a mule, and if he don’t -humiliate you, pull his tail and tickle the inside of his legs with a stable fork.”
THE SCHOLASTIC.
20
t
Published every Week during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All connnnnicatrons should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
•	TEBM8:
Oneyear..............;........................$1	00
Single copies (hets.) of the publication can be obtained at the Stn-(fonts’ Office.
- Ducks are scarce.
. ’Rah for the M’nims!
Are the Societies organized?	.
The grapes are fast disappearing,
;We give the list of students this week.
Ale quiet and serene on the Croquet ground.
Wednesday the 10th inst. was a splendid day.
The slate roof on the Laundry building is finished.
The dust is a foot deep on the road to South Bend. More of less.	•
Both the Senior and Junior Departments are filling up rapidly.	.
The new brick house west of the old church has reached its second story.
Basebald is doing a good business in broken thumbs and disjointed fingers.	*
Mr. Shickey has invested in a new omnibus which will soon j>e ready for the road.
Rev. M. Mauge, of St. Vincent’s, near Fort Wayne,paid a visit to the College this'week.
. • We have been shown some beautiful models of stained glass windows for the new church.
Father Spillard went to Lafayette last Monday, to be present at the marriage of Prof. Tong and Miss Ball.
Many items of interest have to be omitted this week on . account of the list of Students which, according to custom, we publish in the Scholastic.	’
The diminutive Bucephalus from St. Joseph’s Farm makes the fastest time of any equine around about. The ponies look on his fast ways with disgust and disapprobation. ‘
!0ue thanks to Rev. Father Corby for invitation to the laying of the corner-stone of the new church. We hope thp Rock of Cashel may bring cash all-sufficient to finish the edifice from the foundation to the top of the steeple.
We hope Me. may soon be able to tear himself away from the beautiful valley of the Hock Hocking, and betake himself to the smooth and silvery lakes of Notre Dame. We hear nothing of the boats on the lake since he left.
We have not yet heard the Band, but we feel perfectly at ease and our mind is devoid of all anxiety on the subject, as we have been assuredby the efficient leader, J. H. Gillespie, that he has some first-class players to begin the year with.
.Our attention has been called to the extraordinary neatness of the northern apartment in the house opposite the Post Office. We may perhaps eulogize it in befitting terms sometime in the not distant future; but at present we do not feel able to do it full justice.	____
A cursory view of some splendid engravings of the old Cathedrals of E .gland has given us a clearer idea of the magnificent specimens of architecture built by Catholic England,and now used by the By-Law Established Church -than we ever had before;—indeed, looking at them in I succession through the glass that makes them appear their	.	/
natural size, one has a more complete conception of their 4 number and grandeur than if one were to visit them singly, . scattered all over England. We expect to have a more leisurely view of them, and in case we do we shall take notes.
It is health-provoking and invigorating to read about our much esteemed and well beloved confrere, Collar A., issuing forth, like Arthur or any other Knight of the Round Table, on the square, to grapple with the collar or anything else that might chance in bis way. We agree with him in his rambling- remarks on September, and we could exclaim with the poet: “OEustace! remain steadfast and stationary and thou shalt find a staysail in some Anastasia to help thee on in the crustaceous.ways of life J”
As for details given, of which we confess we are fond, we merely press them and then preserve them in our columns, having no need to follow our colored brothers’ plan of adding salt, as our correspondent- always seasons them sufficiently with the Attic article—though he does live no higher than the third floor—and we would make a pretty pickle, indeed, wAe we to attempt to meddle with them.
List of Students, September 2, 1873.
Harry Faxon, Clarence Faxon, Lee J. Frazee, Frank Frazee, Edward De Groote, Frederick Van De Mark, Frank Ewing, John Ewing, Neal Gillespie Ewing, Charles Green, William Green, Daniel Green, Andrew Murphy, Thomas Hooley, Frederick Carlin, Nathan Mooney, Bonifacio Baca, George J. Gross, Anthony Mooney, Celestine Villeneuve, Charles A. Berdel,, Charles J. Frank, James A. Browne, Everett Graves, Maximus Bastarache, Adolph Kreichgauer, Michael Casey, John Casey, Bernard Casey, Denis A O’Connell, Thomas Reid, Wiliam Lawless, W. J. Converse,'
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Portsmouth, Ohio. .
Portsmouth, Ohio.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Louis, Missouri.
Lancaster, Ohio.
Lancaster, Ohio.
Lancaster, Ohio.
Chicago, Illinois.
‘'Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Albany, New York.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Amboy, Illinois.
Fort Stanton, New Mexico. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Green Bay, Wisconsin.
Indianola, Texas.
Chicago, Illinois.
Brooklyn, New York. Brownsville, Texas. . San Antonio, Texas.
Buctouche, New Brunswick. Paris, France.
St. Louis, Missouri.
St. Louis, Missouri.
St. Louis, Missouri;
New York city.
Chicago, Dlinois.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Chicago, Illinois.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
George V. Burbridge, John E Porter, J. H. Falvey, George Hart-, Morton Burge, Andrew Hess, Ch nient Hiss, Frank Thalmann, Charles E. Freese, Frank Hoffman, C. W. Welty, Michael McCormack, John F. Dale, John McGrath, James Delvecchio, John Cassella, Wm. F. Birch, H. F. Randolph, Mariin Allen, Thomas D. Flanagan, Michael D. Brady, Henry L. Dehner, Owen Corcoran, Joseph B< egan, Chiistian Burger, Michael J Kinsella, Joseph A. Hitchler, Charles.W. Walter, C. M. Proctor, Janus Dwjer, Carl Otto, Gordon Hopkins, Albert E. Hopkins, Henry Hoerber, Joseph E. Sugg, George F. Sugg, Julius Golsen, Ralph’Golsen, Colly Clarke, George Frauenknecht, John Gairity, Henry Fack, Augustus Schmidt, George Cuunea, Porter Johnson, Louis Burridge, Charles E. Bowman, James Van Dusen, John Dojle, Louis Loser, H. T. Small, H. Pl Small, Andrew Boman, Antoine Martineau, F. A. Sweeger, Henry Zuber, George F. McNulty, Alphine Barth, Clement Gamache, B. L. Samm, John D. Wilson, E. L. Ratigan, John Trabbic, L. McCartney,
Alton, Illinois.
Louisville, Kentucky. Winniinac, Indiana.
L ike View, Illinois Nashville, Tennessee. Wheeling, West Virginia. Wheeling, West Virginia. Wheeling, West Virginia.
Wheeling, West Virginia. Wheeling, West Virginia. Wheeling, West Virginia. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee.
Alton, Illinois. Louisville, Kentucky. Louisville, Kentucky. Louisville, Kentucky. Greensburgh, Indiana. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Nashville, Tennessee. Cascade, Iowa.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
. Fort Wayne, Indiana. Reading, Pennsylvania. St. Joseph, Iowa. Louisville, Kentucky. Fort Wayne, Indiana. Elkhart, Indiana. Ottawa, Illinois. Havana, Illinois. Chesterton, Indiana. Chesterton, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. . Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois.
Morris, Illinois.
Benton Harbor, Michigan. Benton Harbor, Michigan. Benton Harbor, Michigan. Benton Harbor, Michigan. Champaign, Illinois. Waverly, Iowa.
- Westville, Indiana. Westville, Indiana. Wanatah, Indiana. Oconto, Wisconsin. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Alton, Illinois.
South Bend, Indiana. South Bend,Indiana. Hillsdale, Michigan. Hillsdale, Michigan. Spring Wells, Michigan. Erie, Michigan.
Fort Wayne, Indiana, y
John Rider, Frank Morass, William G. Martin, Logau D. Murphy, James Girard, William Ames, I«aac Dryfoos, Nathan Dryfoos, Williain Van’t Woud, Louis Van’t Woud, John Kennedy, Stephen Kennedy, Patrick McBride, Charles E. Lane, Theodore Sauvegeot, Frank Stamm, William Meyer, John M. O’Brien, Benjamin Eu ms, Thomas Pugh, Robert C. Pugh, Edjvard Stichtehoth, Florian Devolo, Charles Walsh, John E. O’Brien, John Morehead, 'Lee Sanders,
John Kelly, Edward F. Davis, John Potter, Chauncey Nichols, Frank H. Buter' X Valentine Hansen, Charles M< yer, John F. Soule, E. McCuniff, M. McCuniff, George N< sler, Joseph McManus, Oliver J. Tong, Malcolm L. Keeler, Antonio J. Baca, John Mulligan, Frank Peril, Jerome Lynch, - John Daley,
Peter Daley, Frank Matthews, Frank O’Brien, Harvey Miller, John Burnside, Bradley Hersey, William McGuirk, Charles A. Kreiter, William P. Appleyard, Thomas Hansard, Henry Cassidy, J. F. Rudge, Thomas A.‘ Daily, John O’Donnell, William Darst, James Minton, Edward S. Monahan, John, D. McIntyre,
Fort Wayne, Indiana. Gross Point, Michigan. Saginaw, Michigan. Pinckneyville, Illinois. Mount Morris, Michigan. Fremont, Ohio.
Fremont, Onio.
Fremont, Ohio.
Chicago,Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois. Youngstown, Ohio. Youngstown, Ohio. Youngstown, Ohio. Albion, Michigan. Wheeling, West Virginia. Wheeling, West Virginia. Portsmouth, Ohio.
Hartford, Connecticut.
Watseka, Illinois. Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati,Ohio. Cairo, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
' Kewanee, Illinois.
South Bend, Indiana. Battle Creek, Michigan. Youngstown, Ohio. Kalamazoo, Michigan. Kalamazoo, Michigan. Benton Harbor, Michigan. . Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Michigan City, Indiana.
Wanatah, Indiana. Fort Madison, Iowa. Georgetown, Colorado. Georgetown, Colorado. Siginaw City, Michigan. Kalamazoo, Michigan. South Bend, Indiana. Union, Michigan.
Las Vegas, N. Mexico. -Bertrand, Michigan. Chicago, Illinois. Indianola, Iowa.
Niles, Michigan. Niles, Michigan. Chicago, Illinois. Burlington, Iowa. Chicago Illinois. Belvidere, Illinois. Belvidere, Illinois. Niles, Michigan.
Toledo, Ohio.
Lansing, Michigan. Youngstown, Ohio. Youngstown, Ohio.
Youngstown, Ohio. Somerset, Michigan. Niles, Michigan.
Peoria, Illinois.
Alpena, Michigan. Louisville, Kentucky. Grand Rapids, Michigan.
25	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Charles A. Lewis, Harry Middleton, James B. Crummey, George W. Crummey, Edward Kmim, -John Choice, John H. Lyons, Charles 0 Connor, Albert Cnuikilton, John F. Kelly, Richard T. O’Connor, Albert K'ch, L >uis Goldsmith, Thomas McNamara, William C. Linberger, John M. Bennett, Albert Kramer, Frank Wittelsberger, William P. Breen, Thomas F. Gallagher, Nathan Vanamee, Thomas Monahan, William A. Schultheis, Thomas Rourke, James M. Crummey, Edward F. Dunne, James D. Callery, Victor Phelan, Philip Corbet, John R. Mullin,, Charles Campau, Samuel Cottrell, ' Willihm Fitzgerald, Patrick O’Brien, James Caren, Edward L. Ayres, John L. Mullin, Ji sef>h Buchanan, Jesse Buchanan, John S. Gregory, Thomas Hunt, Christian Stucker, Henry Ackhoff, William T. jBall, {Samuel A. Marks, Joseph E. Marks, Frederick Hubert, Patrick O’Meara, Albert S. Marshall, Charles Flanagan John Nelson, Daniel Nelson, A. H. Mitchell, Chauncey Hale, John Dalley, William H. Hughes, Belfield Le Fevre, F. J. St. Aubin, ' F. C. St. Aubin, Robert W. Staley, Albert Fossler, Charles W. Spears, Alfred Horne, William W. Gaar,
Chicago, Illinois.
South Bend, Indiana. • St. Paul, Minnesota.
St. Paul, Minnesota. ‘ Hastings, Minnesota.
St. Paul, Minnesota. St. Paul. Minnesota. St. Paul, Minnesota. Defiance, Ohio.
St. Paul, Minnesota.
St. Paul, Minin sota. Cleveland. Ohio. Cleveland Ohio.
Dexter, Michigan. San Jose, Illinois. Emden, Illinois. Detroit, Michigan. Detroit, Michigan. Fort Wayne, Indiana. . New York, City.
Elkhart, Indiana South Bend, Indiana.
Detroit, Michigan. " Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Waterville, Wisconsin. Broadhead, Pennsylvania. Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Anderson, Indiana.
Cicero, Indiana, South Bend, Indiana. South Bend, Indiana, St. Louis, Mis-souri. Cnicago, Illinois.
'Columbus, Ohio..
Chicago, Illinois. -Central City, Colrado.-Huntington, Indiana. Huntington, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago,Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois. “
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois. East Saginaw, Michigan. Delmar, Iowa.
Grand Rapids, Michigan. St. Paul, Minnesota, Sorinville, Indiana.
Sorinville, Indiana.
Chicago, Illinois.	•
Elkhart, Indiana.
Lincoln, Iowa.
Peoria, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Detroit, Michigan. Detroit, Michgan. St. Louis. Missouri. Grand Rapids, Michigan. Morrison, Illinois.
M»ul evideo, South America. Richmond, Indiana.
Harry Canoil, Charles J. Dodge, William W. Dodge, William J. Clarke, John O'Connor, Charles O’Connor, Edward O’Connor, John M. Lambin, Henry F. Caike, F. X. G’dd'berry, S. B. Goldsberry, James J. Qu;nn, Jo' n P. Quinn, J. Edgar Wood, Daniel O'Donnell, Philip O’Mahony, M. O’Day, William A. Obion, Edward H. Halpin, William McMahon, Thomas Ghegan, Denis J. Hogan, William E. Keenan, Horace Keenan, Lloyd W. Hatch, M. Bourke, James Bourke, Willie J. Van Pelt, William Alien, John Maley, William Botilger, Thomas H. Grier, • Patrick Hennessy, ’ Thomas F. Gallagher, ^Jobn J. Gillen,
L. E. Marantette, Edward McS weeny, John Cullen, _ James D’George, Frank A. Egan, -Lowry J. Beard, /John R. McDermott,
David F. Glickauf, Edward P. Cleary, . Frederick Miller, Louis Busch Matthias Jeffreys, Thomas J. Culliton, Dennis Gorman, Patrick J. Cooney, Otto W. Lindberg, Herbert C. Bartows, Thomas B. McDonough, James E. Devine, John G. Hooper, John Egan, John H. Francis, William E. Francis,
• James A. Murphy, Charles G. Furer, * James Dore, Joseph P. McHugh, Daniel T. McGinniss, Bernard McGinniss,
Chicago, Illinois. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington, Iowa. . Columbus, Ohio.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago,'Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois. Lafayette, Indiana. New York city. New York city.
Tolono, Illinois.
T<>lono, Illinois.
Sivana, Illinois.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Lake Forest, Illinois. . South Bend, Indiana.
Columbus, Ohio.
Toledo, Ohio.
C< dar Rapids, Iowa.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Adamsville, Michigan. Notre Dame, Indiana. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, Illinois. ' Chicago, Illinois.
Michigan City, Indiana. La Crosse, Wisconsin. Geneva, Wisconsin.
South Bend, Indiana. Lynn, Massachusetts. Lawrence, Massachusetts. Mendon, Michigan.
Oil City, Pennsylvania.
Lafayette, Indiana. • New York City. ' Nashville, Tennesee.
Lexington, Kentucky. Galveston, Texas.
Chicago, Illinois. /
Chicago, Illinois.
Richton, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois.
Pinckney, Michigan.
Chicago, Illinois.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Cleveland, Ohio.
New Orleans, Louisiana. Boston, Massachusetts.
Ottawa, Illinois. ' Dexter, Michigan.
South Bend, Indiana.
Sorinville, Indiana.
Peoria,- Dlinois.
Peoria, Illinois.
Streator, Illinois.
Woodstock, Illinois.
Hennepin, Hlinois. Lafayette, Indiana Ottawa, Illinois. -Ottawa, Hlinols. ./
THE SCHOLASTIC.
23
John L. Brennan. James H. Ward, Augustus Thomas, Mac Caldwell Joseph Berry, Josiah S. Hedge, John R, Hedge, John F. Burnham C. Burnham, George Amann, Henry Quan, Charles H. Bardsher, James A. Wood, John F. O’Counell, P. H. Obermiller, William D. Kelly, James Smith, Louis Smith, Richard Norris, Ingold Schermerhorn, Patrick O’Sullivan, Louis P. Best, James E. Kelly, Harry W. Walker, James E. Hogan, John F. Wolfe. Thomas J. Murphy, John Fielding, Philemon Lilly, James Lonergan, Charles Rugar, Charles Reynolds, Michael Foley, Henry W. Sbhilt,
Alton, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois.
Toledo. Ohio Pilot Grov$, Indiana. Lo-itant, Illinois.
<Tiffin, Ohio.
Tiffin, Ohio.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Milwaukee, Wisconsin' Chicago, Illinois Castelia, Ohio.
Chicago, Illinois. Alton, Illinois.
Toledo, Ohio. Muskegon, Michigan. Cleveland, Ohio.
Cleveland, Ohio. • Cinciunati, Ohio. Delphi, Indiana. Laporte, Indiana. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Joliet, Illinois.
Chicago, Illinois. Joliet, Illinois.
Garfield, Illinois. Ravenna, Ohio. Streator, Illinois. Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Batavia, Illinois. Lafayette, Indiana. Lafayette, Indiana. Duntou, Illinois.
Bremen, Indiana.
Entered to date, 326.
We take the following from.the Lafayette, Ind.. Courier: “The event of the gay world.yesterday was the Tong-Ball wedding at St. Mary’s. Professor Lucius G. Tong, of the Chair of Commercial Law in the University of Notre Dame, and Miss Bridget Ball, daughter of James Ball, Esq., were the high contracting parties. The attendants were Miss Maggie A. Ball, daughter of Owen Ball, Esq., Miss Maggie F. Ball, sister of the bride, with E. R. Wills and James F. Edwards, of South Bend, as groomsmen. Rev. D. J. Spillard, Dr. C. J. Lundy, Miss Maggie Coquillard and Miss Mattie Shirland, of St. Joseph County, and Rev. Father Walter, of Crawfordsville, were among the invited guests. St. Mary’s was crowdi d long before the arrival of the bridal party. The church was brilliantly lighted. The fair bride has been for several years the leading soprano of the choir, and in compliment to her the choicest gems of music were selected for the occasion. After the prelude, the Magnificat was sung, followed by the Gaude Virgo in the best of style. The choir is composed of Mrs. S. M. Ball (prima donna), Mrs. Thomas Ball, Miss Campbell, Miss Ahern, Mr. John Ball, Mr. Rodgers and Professor Moore.
“The Benediction followed, accompanied by the music of the 0 Salutaris and Tantum Ergo. Dr. Hallinan delivered a brief, but impressive address, setting forth the inviolable sacredness of the marriage Sacrament and the uncompromising hostility of the Catholic Church to the loose and-demoralizing system of divorce. The marriage ceremony
was very impressive. After the wedding came an elegant entertainment at the residence of the bride’s parents. The wedding presents were numerous and costly. The music and dancing were continued until after midnight, when the bridal party took their departure for an extended wedding tour. May they be very happy.”
In the Memoirs of Baron Stockmar, by his son, a descrip-, tion is given of the Royal Household of Queen Victoria. Tne way of How-not-to-do-it, which we have remarked in some households on this side of the Atlantic, is brought to a state of perfection in the Royal Household, which elicits our profound admiration. If a pane of glass, or the door of a cupboard in the scullery, unites the Bann, requires mending, it cannot be done without the following process: A requisition is prepared and signed by the chief cook, it is then countersigned by the clerk of the kitchen, then it is. taken to be signed by the Master of the Household, thence it is taken to the Lord Chamberlain’s Office, where it is authorized, and then laid before the Clerk of the Works under the Office of Woods and Forests; and consequently many a window and cupboard have remained broken for months.
SAINT MARY’S ACADMEY.
St. Mary’s Academy, Sept. 10, 1873.
The present session opened under the most encouraging circumstances. The arrival of our venerared Father General and beloved Mother Angela (Superior), from Europe on the 3d inst., created such joyful excitement that even the new pupils seemed to forget their homesick feelings and catch the spirit, of cheerfulness and joy that pervaded । he house.
• Mother Superior was accompanied from Europe by about thirty young ladies who have come to join the Institute, devoting themselves as Religious to the sei^icf of God and. the instruction of youth. She also brought with |ier m my gems of art, scientific apparatuses, geological specimens, rich and rare books, and altar decorationsj-^in fine a great collection of elegant articles with w^icn ’to enhance the ad-vantages and attractions of St. Mary’s, and increase in its pupils a pure and refined tast e for the se-thetic: Among the articles for the School of Design are chbice engravings and photographs from the best masters, particulary in Christian art. Also exquisite models of illuminations, point lace and ecclesiastical d.signs.. Ina few.weeks there will be forwarded to St. Mary’s, from Paris, life-size marble statues of Our Lady of Lourdes, Mater Admirabilis, and Sc. Cecilia— also plaster casts of the masterpieces from choice statuary in the Gallery of the Louvre by Fra Angelica, Perugino and Raphael. Mother Superior has visited the most excellent Academies in England, Ireland and France, and culled from each whatever was calculated to improve the present programme of studies or advance the pupils of St. Mary’s in the fine arts.
Classes commenced on the 2nd, and have.continued regularly notwithstanding the constant arrivals of new pupils, for they.drop into rank with such ease as to occasion no interruption. The list of pupils will be published next week. The number already exceeds 170, and many more are on the way, or detained for some weeks by different circumstances. The present session promises well in every
1
24
SCHOLASTIC.
way, and all look forward with cheerful, hopeful hearts, to a rich reward for their sacrifice of home associations and
the labors of student life.	“
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
A€TU»S ARRANGEMENT.
®lte "JUe
A Catholic Journal', particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God Published weekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the .rear.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years $5. in advance.
For Lyear, $3, in advance.
Single copies. 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Av* Manta for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-fivo copies of the Ave M aria for $50. in advance.
The postage of the Ave Miru is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in. advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	.Editor AVE MARIA,
Noire Dame, Indiana.
HJIVEfiSITT OF KOTEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1811, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, it is easy of access from ail parts of the Uuited States.
TERMS: Matriculation Fee, --------	$5 00
Board, Bed and Jedding, and Tuition < Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German Italian, Spanish. Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-	- * -	-	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	--	10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	2 00
Drawing. -	---	------- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $>; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, ertra, -	-	.	-	-	-.-	-	-	-	35 00
Payments to be -made invariably in advance.
Class Rooks, Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; ths Second Oti th 1st of February?
For further particulars, address
Ssv. A. LBiaOlVNIBR, C.S.C.
President.
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGIZINE.
TEIRTT-TWO PAGES EVERT MONTH.
$1.00 PER A-TVIVUM:.
Premiums for Clubs.
Send for a Specimen of
Which will be read through and through by every member of the family, young and old.
Volume V begins with January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending One Dollar to the Editor, REV. WILLIAM BYRNE, Crusader Office, Boston, Mass.
NILES i SO UTH BEND KB.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. I Arrive South Bend, - " 7 30 a.m
“	9 35 a.m I	“	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.5-i p.m. I	“	“	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.4<i a.m. I Arrive Niles, -	-■ 9.20 a.m
“	“	11.45 a.m. “	12 25 p m
“	“	.6 30 p.m. I • “	. T.io p m
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. | Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. I “ .	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, A^ent, South Bend.
tJVRAINS nowleaveSoutb Bend asfollows
	GOING	EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.		Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a.m
At	“	12.25 p. m.	•*	-	“	4 05 a. m
♦c	“	9.15 p. m.	“	“	135 p. m
<c	“	12 35 a.m.	“	•'	5 30 p. m
	' “	8.2-1 p. m.	Runs to Elkhart.
I*	“	4.35 p. m.	
	GOING	WEST.
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.
"	“	2 55 a m.
“	“	5 00 a. m.
“	“	6 05 p m.
“	“	6.37	a. m.
“	“	8.20	a. m.
Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m “	“	6.50 a.	m
“	,	“	8.20 a.	m
“	'	“	9.40 p.	m
“	“	10.30 a.	m
“	“	12.30 p.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.	’ ■
For full details,-see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
43“ Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes aster than South Bend time.
J. H DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio. > CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent. J W. Cart, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, ricket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolciiard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING. To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger,8.58a. m.; 10.46a.m.; 9.25p.m
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48 a. m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
Chicago Alton ano St. Louis Line
Sft RAINS-leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad Up ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via'Maiu Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)-
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo. •
ARRIVE.
♦8:00 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m, ♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
(7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
+9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. + Ex cent Saturday. 1 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	' CHICAGO
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TBA0K EAILB0AD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m i Arrives at New York 1130 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m • “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	•*	9.00 p m |	“	“	n.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, AssistantSnperintendenf, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEK8. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh. -
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦ Second day. '	•’
“ The only solid joy is that which virtue brings.”