
Berated tn the interests nt the Students,
“LABOR OMXIA VINCIT.”
Volume V.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 20, 1872.
Number 20.
ERIC; or, Little by Little.
A Tale of Roslyn School.
BY FREDERIC W. FARRAR, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
I»jLltT SECOND.
CHAPTER III.
“THE JOLLY HERRING.”
Velut iinda supervenit undam.—Horace.
‘‘ The Anti-muffs request the honor of Eric Williams’ company to a spread they are going to have to-morrow evening at half-past four, in their smoking-room.”
A note to this effect was put into Eric’s hands with' much empressement by Wildney after prayers. He read it when he got into his study, and hardly knew whether to be pleased or disgusted at it.
He tossed it to Duncan, and said, “ What shall I do?”’
Duncan turned up his nose, and chucked the note into the fire.
“ I’d give them that answer, and no other.”
“Why?”
“ Because, Eric,” said Duncan, with more seriousness than was usual with him, “ I can’t help thinking things have gone too far lately.”
“ How do you mean ?”
“ Well, I’m no saint myself, Heaven knows; but I do think that the fallows are worse now then I have ever known them,—far worse. Your friend Brigson reigns supreme out of the studies; he has laid down a law that no work is to be done down stairs ever under any pretence, and it’s only by getting into one of the studies that good little chaps like Wright can get on at all. Even in the classrooms there’s so much row and confusion that the mere thought of work is ridiculous.”
“ Well, there’s no great harm in a little noise, if that’s all.”
“But it isn’t all. The talk of nearly the whole school is getting most blackguardly; shamelessly so. Only yesterday Wildney was chatting with Vernon up here (you were out, or Vernon would not have been here) while I was reading; they didn’t seem to mind me, and I’m sure you’d have been vexed to the heart if you’d heard how they talked to each other. At last I couldn’t stand.it any longer, and bouncing up, I boxed both their ears smartly, and kicked them down stairs.”
As Eric said nothing, Duncan continued, “ And I wish it ended in talk, but—"
“But I believe you’re turning Owenite. Why, bless me, we’re only school-boys; it’ll be lots of time to turn saint some other day.”
Eric was talking at random, and in the spirit of opposition. “ You don’t want to make the whole school such a muffish set as the Rosebuds, do you?”
There was something of assumed bravado in Eric’s whole manner which jarred on Duncan exceedingly. “ Do as you like,” he said, curtly, and went into another study.
Immediately after came a rap at the door, and in
walked Wildney, as he often did after the rest were gone to bed, meerly slippinghis trousers over his night-shirt, and running up to the studies.
“Well, you’ll come to the Anti-mufis, won’t you?” he said.
“To that pestilential place again?—not I.”
Wildney looked offended. “ Not after we’ve all asked you ? The fellows won’t half like your refusing.”
He had touched Eric’s weak point.
“Do come,” he said, looking up in Eric’s face.
“ Confound it all,” answered Eric, hastily. ‘Yes, I’ve no friends, I’ll come, Charlie. Anything to please you, boy.”
“ That’s a brick. Then I shall cut down and tell the fellows. They’ll be no end glad. No friends! what.bosh! why, all the school like you.” And he scampered off, leaving Eric ill at ease.
Duncan didn’t re-enter the study that evening.
The next day, about half-past four, Eric found himself on the way to Elian. As he was starting, Ball caught him up and said:
“ Are you going to the Anti-mufis ?”
“ Yes; why? are you going too?”
“ Yes; do you mind our going together ?”
“Not at all.”
In fact, Eric was very glad of some one—no matter who—to keep him in countenance, for he felt considerably more than half ashamed of himself.
They went to “ The Jolly Herring,” as the pothouse was called, and passed through the dingy beery tap-room into the back parlor, to which Eric had already been introduced by Wildney. About a dozen boys were assembled, and there was a great clappingas the two new-comers entered. A Ion table was laid down the room, which was regularly spread for dinner.
“Now then, Billy; make haste with the goose,” called Brigson. “ I vote, boys, that Eric Williams takes the chair.”
“Hear! hear!” said half a dozen; and Eric, rather against his will, found himself ensconced at the end of the table, with Brigson and Ball on either hand. The villanous-low-foreheaded man, whom they called Billy, soon brought in a tough goose at one end of the table, and some fowls at the other; and they fell to, doing ample justice to the equally divided banquet, while Billy waited on them. There was immense uproar during the dinner, every one eating as fast, and talking as loud, as he could.
The birds soon vanished, and were succeeded by long rolly-polly puddings, which the boys called Goliahs; and they, too, rapidly disappeared. Meanwhile beer was circling only too plentifully.
“ Now for the dessert, Billy,” called several voices; and that worthy proceeded to put on the table some figs, cakes, oranges, and four black bottles of wine. There was a general grab for these dainties, and one boy shouted, “ I say, I’ve had no wine.”
“ Well, it’s all gone. We must get some brandy —it’s cheaper," said Brigson; and accordingly some brandy was brought in, which the boys diluted with hot water, and soon despatched.
“ Here! before you’re all done swilling,” said Brigson, “Eve got a health: ‘ Confound mufis and masters, and success to the antis.’"
“ And their chairman,” suggested Wildney.
“And their chairman, the best fellow in the school,” added Brigson.
The health was drunk with due clamor, and Eric (ridiculous and meaningless as he thought the toast) got up to thank them.
“I'mnot going to spout,” he said; “but boya must be boys, and there’s no harm in a bit of fun. I for one have enjoyed it, and am much obliged to you for asking me; and now I call for a song.”
“Wildney! Wildney’s song,” called several.
Wildney had a good voice, and struck up without the least bashfulness:
“ Come, landlord, fill the flowing bowl Until it does run over 1
Come, landlord, fill,” etc.
“Now," he said, “join iu the chorus!” The boys, all more or less excited, joined in heartily and uproariously:
“ For to-night we’ll merry merry be! For to-night we’ll merry merry be! For to-night we’ll merry merry be I To-morrow we’ll be sober 1”
While Wildney sang, Eric had to think. As he glanced round the room at the flushed faces of the boys, some of whom ho could not recognize in the dusky atmosphere, a qualm of disgust and shame passed over him. Several of them were smoking, and, with Ball and Brigson heading the line on each side of the table, he could not help observing what a bad set they looked. The remembrance of Russell came back to him. Oh, if Edwin could have known that he was in such company at such a place! And by the door stood Billy, watching them all like an evil spirit, with a leer of saturnine malice on his evil face.
But the bright little Wildney, unconscious of Eric’s bitter thoughts, sang on with overflowing mirth As Eric looked at him, shining out like a sunbeam among the rest, he felt something like bloodguiltiness on his sonl, when he felt that he was sanctioning the young boy’s presence in that degraded assemblage.
Wildney meanwhile was just beginning the next verse, when he was interrupted by a general cry of “ cave, cave.” In an instant the room was in confusion; some one dashed the candles upon the floor, the table was overturned with a mighty crash, and plates, glasses, and bottles rushed on to the ground in shivers. Nearly every one bolted for the door, which led through the passage into the street; and in their headlong flight and selfishness, they stumbled over each other, and prevented all egress, several being knocked down and bruised in the crush. Others made for the tap-room ^but, as they opened the door leading into it, there stood Mr. Ready and Mr. Gordon! and as it was impossible to pass without being seen, they made no further attempt at escape. All this was the work of a minute. Entering the back parlor, the two masters quickly took down the' names of full half the boys who, in the suddenness of the surprise had been unable to make their exit.

2	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And Eric?
The instant that the candles were knocked over, he felt Wildney seize his hand, and whisper, “ This way; all serenefollowing, he groped his way in the dark to the end of the room, where Wildney, shoving aside a green haize curtain, noiselessly opened a door, which at once led them into a little garden. There they both crouched down under a lilac tree beside the house, and listened in-tentty.
There was no need for this precaution; their door remained unsuspected, and in five minutes the coast was clear. Creeping into the house again, they whistled, and Billy coming in, told them that the masters had gone, and all was safe.
“ Glad ye’re not twigged, gen’lemen,” he said; but there’ll be a pretty sight of damage for all this glass and plates.”
“Shut up with your glass and plates,” said Wildney. “ Here, Eric, we must cut for it again.’’
It was the dusk of a winter evening when they got out from the close room into the open air, and they had to consider which way they would choose to avoid discovery. Thejr happened to choose the wrong, but escaped by dint of hard running, and Wildney’s old short cut. As they ran they passed several boys (who, having been caught, were walking home leisurely), and managed to get back undiscovered, when they both answered their names quite innocently at the roll-call, immedi-tely after lock up.
“ What lucky dogs you are to get off,” said many boys to them.
“ Yes; it’s precious lucky for me,” said Wildney. “ If rd been caught at this kind of thing a second time, I should have got something worse than a switching.”
“Well it’s all through you I escaped,” said Eric, “ you knowing little scamp.”
“ I'm glad ofit, Eric,” said Wildney, in his fascinating way, “ since it was all through me you went. It’s rather too hazardous though; we must manage better another time.”
During tea-time Eric was silent, as he felt pretty sure that none of the sixth form or other study boys would particularly sympathize with his late associates. Since the previous evening he had been cool with Duncan, and the rest had long rather despised him as a boy who’d do anything to be popular; so he sat there silent, looking as disdainful as he could, and not touching the tea, for which he felt disinclined after the recent potations. But the contemptuous exterior hid a selfreproving heart, and he felt how far more noble Owen and Montagu were than he. How gladly would he have changed places with them! how much he would have given to recover some of their forfeited esteem!
The master on duty was Mr. Rose, and after tea he left the room for a few minutes while the tables were cleared for “ preparation,” and the boys were getting out their books and exercises. All the study and class-room boys were expected to go away during this interval; but Eric, not noticing Mr. Rose’s entrance, sat gossiping with Wildney about the dinner and its possible consequences to the school.
He was sitting on the desk carelessly, with one leg over the other, and dending down towards Wildney. He had just told him that he looked like a regular little sunbeam in the smoking-room of the Jolly Herring, and Wildney was pretending to be immensely offended by the simile.
“ Hush 1 no more talking,” said Mr. Rose, who did everything very gently and quietly. Eric heard him, but he was inclined to linger, and had always received such mild treatment from Mr. Rose, that he didn’t think he would take much notice of the delay. For. the moment he did not, so Wildney began to chatter again.
“ All study boys to leave the room,” said Mr. Rose.
Eric just glanced round and moved slightly; he might have gone away, but that he caught a satirical look in Wildney’s eyes, and besides wanted to show off a little indifference to his old master, with whom he had had no intercourse since their last-mentioned conversation.
“Williams, go away instantly; what do you mean by staying after I have dismissed you?” said Mr. Rose sternly.
Every one knew what a favorite Eric had once been, so this speech created a slight titter. The boy heard it just as he was going out of the room, and it annoyed him, and called to arms all his proud and dogged obstinacy. Pretending to have forgotten something, he walked conceitedly back to Wildney, and whispered to him, “ I shan’t go if he chooses to speak like that.”
A red flush passed over Mr. Rose’s cheek; he took two strides to Eric, and laid the cane sharply once across his back.
Eric was not quite himself, or he would not have acted as he had done. His potations, though not deep, had, with the exciting events of the evening, made his head giddy, and the stroke of the cane, which he had not felt now for two years, roused him to madness. He bounded up, sprang towards Mr. Rose, and almost before he knew what he was about, had wrenched the cane out of his hands, twisted it violently in the middle until it broke, and flung one of the pieces furiously into the fire.
For one instant, boy and master—Eric Williams and Mr. Rose—stood facing each other amid breathless silence, the boy panting and passionate, with his brain swimming, and his heart on fire; the master pale, grieved, amazed beyond measure, but perfectly self-collected.
“Afterthat exhibition,” said Mr. Rose, with cold and quiet dignity, “ you had better leave the room.”
“Yes I had,” answered Eric bitterly; “there’s your cane.” And, flinging the other fragment at Mr. Rose’s head, he strode blindly out of the room, sweeping books from the table, and overturning several boys in his way. He then banged the door with all his force, and rushed up into his study.
Duncan was there, and remarking his wild look and demeanor, asked, after a moment’s awkward silence, “ Is anything the matter, Williams ?”
“Williams!” echoed Eric with a scornful laugh; “yes, that's always the way with a fellow when he’s in trouble. I always know what’s coming when you begin to leave off calling me by my Christian name.”
“ Veiy well, then," said Dunean good-humoredly, “ what’s the matter, Eric?”
“Matter?” answered Eric, pacing up and down the little room with an angry to-and-fro like a caged wild beast, and kicking everything which came in his way; “matter? hang you all, you are all turning against me, because you are a set of muffs, and—’’
“Take care!” said Duncan; but suddenly he caught Eric’s look, and stopped.
“—And I’ve been breaking Rose’s cane over his head, because he had the impudence to touch me with it, and—”
“Eric, you’re not yourself to-night,” said Duncan, interrupting, but speaking in the kindest tone; and taking Eric’s hand, he looked him steadily in the face.
Their eyes met; the boy’s false self once more slipped off By a strong effort he repressed the passion which the fumes of drink had caused, and flinging himself on his chair, refused to speak again, or even to go down stairs when the prayer-bell rang.
Seeing that in his present mood there was nothing to be done with him, Duncan, instead of returning to the study, went after prayers into Mon
tagu's, and talked with him over the recent events, of which the boys’ minds were all full.
But Eric sat lonely, sulky and miserable, in his study, doing nothing, and when Montagu came in to visit him, felt inclined to resent his presence.
“ So!” he said, looking up at the ceiling, “ another saint come to cast a stone at me! Well! I suppose I must be resigned,” he continued, dropping his cheek on his hand again; only don’t let the sermon be too long.”
But Montagu took no notice of his sardonic harshness, and seated himself by his side, though Eric pettishly pushed him away.
“Come, Erie,” said Montagu, taking the hand which was repelling him; “ I won’t be repulsed in this way. Look at me. What ? won’t you even look? Oh Eric, one wouldn’t have fancied this in past days, when we were so much together with one who is dead. It’s a long time since we’ve even alluded to him, but I shall never forget those happy days.”
Eric heaved a deep sigh.
“I’m not come to reproach you. You don’t give me a friend’s right to reprove. But still Eric, for your own sake, dear fellow, I can’t help being sorry for all this. I did hope you’d have broken with Brigson after the thrashing I gave him for the foul way in which he treated me. I don’t think you can know the mischief he is doing.”
The large tears began to soften the fire of Eric’s eye. “ Ah!” he said, “ it’s all of no use; you’re all giving me the cold shoulder, and I’m going to the bad, that’s the long and short of it.”
“ Oh, Eric! for your own sake, for your parents’ sake, for the school’s sake, for all your real friends’ sake, don’t talk in that bitter, hopeless way. You are too noble a fellow to be made the tool or the patron of the boys who lead,’ while they seem to follow you. I do hope you’ll join us even yet in resisting them.”
Eric had laid his head on the table, which shook with his emotion. “ I can’t talk, Monty,” he said, in an altered tone; “but leave me now; and if you like, we will have a walk to-morrow.”
“Most willingly, Eric!” And, again warmly pressing his hand, Montagu returned to his own study.
Soon after, there came a timid knock at Eric’s door. He expected Wildney as usual; a little before, he had been looking out for him, and hoping he would come, but he didn’t want to see him now, so he answered rather peevishly, “ Come in; but I don’t want to be bothered to-night.”
Not Wildney, but Vernon appeared at the door. “ May I come in ? not if it bothers for, Eric,” he said gently.
“Oh, Vemy, I didn’t know it was you; I thought it would be Wildney. You necer come now.”
The little boy came in, and his pleading look seemed to say, “Whose fault is that?” ,
“Come here, V erny;” andEric drewhim towards him, and put him on his knee, while the tears trembled large and luminous in the child’s eyes.
It was the first time for many a long day that the brothers had'been alone together, the first time for many a long day that any acts of kindness had passed between them. Both seemed to remember this, and, at the same time, to remember home and their absent parents, and their mother’s prayers, and all the quite half-forgotten vista of innocent pleasures, and sacred relationships, and holy affections. And why did they see each other so little at school? Their consciences told them both that either wished to conceal from the other his wickedness and forgetfulness of God.
They wept together; and once more, as they had not done since they were children, each brother put.his arm round the other’s neck. And remorse-, ful Eric could not help being amazed, how, in his cruel heartless selfishness, he had let that fair child
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
go so far, far astray; left him as a prey to such boys as were his companions in the lower school.
“Eric did you know I was caught to-night at the dinner?”
“ You!” said Eric, with a start and a deep blush. “ Good heavens! I didn’t notice you, and should not have dreampt of coming, if I'd known you were there. Oh, Vernon, forgive me for setting you such a bad example.”
“ Yes, I was there, and I was caught.”
“Poorboy! but never mind; there are such a lot that you can’t get much done to you.”
“It isn’t that I care for; I’ve been flogged before, you know. But—may I say something?”
“ Yes, Vernon, anything you like.”
“ Well, then,—oh, Eric! I’m so so sorry that you did that to Mr. Rose to-night. All the fellows are praising you up, of course; but I could have cried to see it, and I did. I wouldn’t have minded if it had been anybody but Rose.”
“ But why ?”
“ Because, Eric, he’s been so good, so kind to both of us. You’ve often told me about him, you know, at Fairholm, and he’s done such lots of kind things to me. And only to-night, when he heard I was caught, he sent for me to the library, and spoke so firmly, yet so gently, about the wickedness of going to such low places, and about so young a boy as I am learning to drink, and the ruin of it—and—and" His voice was choked by sobs for a time,—“and then he knelt down and prayed for me, so as I have never heard any one pray but mother; and do you know, Eric, it was strange, but I thought, I did hear our mother’s voice praying for me too, while he prayed, and"— He tried in vain to go on; but Eric’s conscience continued for him; “andjustashe had cesed doing this for one brother, the other brother, for whom he has often done the same, treated him with coarseness, violence, and insolence.”
“ Oh, I am utterly wretched, Verny. I hate myself. And to think that while I’m like this, they are yet loving and praising me at home. And, oh Verny, I was so sorry to hear from Duncan how you were talking the other day.”
Vernon hid his face on Eric’s shoulder: and as his brother stooped over him and folded him to his heart, they cried in silence, for there seemed no more to say, until wearied with sorrow, the younger fell asleep; and then Eric carried him tenderly down stairs, and laid him, still half-sleeping, upon his bed.
He laid him down and looked at him as he slumbered. The other boys had not been disturbed by their noiseless entrance, and he sat down on his brother’s bed to think, shading off the light of the candle with his hand. It was rarely now that Eric’s thoughts were so rich with the memories of childhood, and sombre with the consciousness of sin, as they were that night, while he gazed on his brother Vernon’s face. He did not know what made him look so long and earnestly; an unconjectured foreboding passed over his mind like the shadow of a summer cloud. Vernon was now slumbering deeply; his soft childish curls fell off his forehead, and his head nestled in the pillow; but there was an expression of uneasiness on his sleeping features, and the long eyelashes were still wet with tears.
“Poor child,” thought Eric; “dear little Vernon; and he is to be flogged, perhaps birched, to-morrow.”
He went off sadly to bed, and hardly once remembered that he too would come in for certain punishment the next day.
A Pious but uncultivated judge closes a sentence with the following touching reproach: “ Prisoner at the bar, nature has endowed you with a good i education and respectable family connections, instead of which you go prowling round the ■ country stealing ducks.”
Astronomy—No. 12.
A SYNOPSIS OF ITS HISTORY.
Herschel also made the attempt; his labors led to the discovery of a physical connection between the bodies composing double stars, but he did not succeed in establishing a parallax.
In 1837, Professor Bessel applied this method to determine the parallax of the double star 61 Cygni; this is a small star of the sixth magnitude. Bessel repeatedly measured this star from two others in its neighborhood, both of them very minute. He observed them when practicable for three years; the distance was measured by means of a splendid heliometer which Fraunhofer of Munich had lately executed for the observatory of Konigsberg. It appeared that in January of each year the distance of 61 Cygni from one of the stars of comparison was one third of a second less than the mean distance, while in June it was one third of a second greater than the mean.
This effect is precisely such as should be produced by the motion of the earth about the sun. These observations are considered as settling the
Until recently, astronomers had been unable to measure the distance of a single fixed star. The parallax arising from the motion of the earth in its orbit even for the nearest fixed star which had been examined, remained concealed among the small errors to which all astronomical observations are liable. Nevertheless, it was agreed among astronomers that no star visible in northern latitudes to which attention had been directed manifested an amount of parallax exceeding a single second of an arc. An annual parallax of one second implies a distance of about twenty million of millions of miles, a distance which light, travelling at the rate of 192,000 miles per second, requires three years and a quarter to traverse. This being the inferior limit which the nearest stars exceed, it is not unreasonable to suppose that among the innumerable stars which the telescope discloses, there may be those whose light requires hundreds, perhaps thousands, of years to travel down to us. What a wonderful idea these reflections give us of the immensity of the universe, and of the power and omniscience of the great Creator and Director of so stupendous a system!
The division of the stars info constellations is of remote antiquity, and for a general recollection of the great features of the heavens these arbitrary names and associations must greatly assist the memory. It is also usual to describe particular stars by their situation with respect to the imaginary figure to which they belong, as Spica Virginis, Cor Hydra, etc., or, more commonly at present, by the letters of the Greek alphabet, which were first applied by Bayer in 1603, and in addition to these by the Roman letters, and by the numbers of particular catalogues. Stars are also divided into particular classes or magnitudes according to their apparent brightness, from one to six; the latter class is barely visible to the naked eye; all others are called telescopic stars. The whole number of stars visible to the naked eye in the northern hemisphere is about 2,500.
One of the first objects of a student in this science should be to make himself acquainted with the names and situations of the most conspicuous stars and constellations, in doing which he will be greatly assisted by having in his possession a globe or an astrograph, and a good telescope mounted on a tripod stand so as to be portable.
The difficulty of measuring by direct meridional observations a quantity so minute as the parallax of the stars, has led astronomers to try a system of differential observation susceptible of far greater accuracy.
This method was first proposed by Galilleo two centuries ago, but it does not appear that he ever attempted to reduce it to practice. Sir William
long vexed question of parallax. In 1841, Prot Bessel received the gold medal of the Royal As-tromnical Society of London, for this important discovery. The parallax of 61 Cygni, is .348 sec., making the distance of this star from the sun .592,000 times the- radius of the earth’s orbit,—a distance it would require light more than nine years to traverse. The observations of M. Peters at the observatory of Pulkova, with the grand vertical circle of Ertel, which is 45 inches in diameter, reading by four microscopes to one-tenth of a second, confirmed the above observations.
M. Huygens attempted to determine the distance of the stars by making the aperture of a telescope so small that the sun through :t appeared no larger than Sirius, which he found to be as 1 to 27.664_jf his diameter as seen by the naked eye; so that were the sun’s distance 27.664 times as much as it is, it would then be seen of the same diameter as Sirius (Canus JUajorus, or the dog star), and hence, supposing Sirius to be a sun of the same magnitude with our sun, the distance of Sirius will be found to be 27,664 times the distance of the sun, or 345 million times the earth’s diameter.
Dr. David Gregory investigated the distance of Sirius by supposing it to be of the same magnitude as the sun, and of the same apparent with Jupiter in opposition. Cassini, by comparing Jupiter and Sirius, when viewed through the same telescope, inferred that the diameter of that planet was ten times as great as that of the star, and the diameter of Jupiter being fifty degrees, he concluded that the diameter of Sirius was about five degrees. Supposing then that the real magnitude of Sirius is equal to that of the sun, and the distance of the sun from us 12,000 diameters of the earth, and the apparent diameter of Sirius being that of the sun as 1 to 384, the distance of Sirius becomes equal to 4,608,000 diameters of the earth. The methods of Huygens, Gregory and Cassini are however conjectural and precarious, both because the sun and Sirius are supposed of equal magnitude, and also because it is supposed the diameter of Sirius is not determined with sufficient exactness. Sirius, the brightest star in the heavens, being 324 times as bright as an average star of the sixth magnitude, known, par excellence, as Pulchra Stella, the “ Beauti-[ ful Star,” and about which so much has been i written, was upon tbe meridian of Notre Dame , and South Bend, Indiana, and Niles, Michigan, the I sixth of January, 1872, at 11 o’clock, 35 minutes, P. M. Its right ascension is 6 hours, 29 minutes, 38 seconds, and its north polar distance one hundred and six degrees, thirty-two minutes, forty three seconds.
By certain photometric comparisons recently made by Messrs. Clark and Bond between the star Vega {Alpha Lyrice) and the sun, it has been shown that if the latter body was removed to 133,500 times its present distance, it would send us the same quantity of light as the star. But the nearest star (AipAa Centauri) is more than 200,000 times as far from us as the sun, and Vega about six times as far as Alpha Centauri. Hence the sun, if removed to the distance of the nearest star, would shine only as a star of the second Magnitude; and if removed to the mean distance of the stars of the first magnitude, would appear as a satr


of the sixth magnitude, and be just visible to the naked eye. It would therefore seem that the sun, magnificent luminary as it appears to us, is actually one of the smallest or least brilliant of the stars.
The division of the stars into consteHations is very ancient, being known to the most early authors, whether sacred or profane. In the book of Job the names of some of them are mentioned. Witness this passage, “ Canst thou restrain the sweet influence of the Pleiades, or loosen the bands of Orion T” The same may be said of the oldest . among the heathen writers, Hesiod and Homer. This division of the ancients took in only the vis-
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ible firmament, or so many of the stars as came under their eye, and were grouped or represented by certain figures or images to assist the imagination and memory to conceive or retain the number, order, and disposition of the stars, and perhaps ' also to distinguish the virtues they attributed to each respective constellation. It is impossible to state positively by whom, or by what race of people the twelve signs of the Zodiac were named.
Thales the Milesian was acquainted with them 600 years before Christ. Alexander the Great found records in Babylon extending back 1903 years. Father Gauble found them on the Chinese records extending back to the most remote ages of the world. These names and figures were evidently of Chaldean origin, carried East after the confusion of tongues. Philolaus, Eudoxus, Callip-pus, Antolycus, Hypparchus, Pythagoras, Ptolemy, ali found them established before their time. We must then be content to use them as we find them; but we allude here more particularly to the twelve zodiac signs. Many others were also located, but it is chiefly to the Almagest of Ptolemy we are indebted for all that is known of this the most ancient and exalted science that has ever occupied the human miud.
In the lists of constellations, we find in the Almagest, besides those of the Zodiac, twenty in the Northern and sixteen in the Southern hemisphere known in the times of Ptolemy; eight others were named by Hevelius in 1690, while about ten were named by Bayer, in 1604, and others by different astronomers; in all there are one hundred and nine constellations, in all of which every star that can be observed by the most powerful telescope is mapped and numbered with great care and correctness.
The discoveries that have been made in the science of astronomy within the present century have been of more importance in obtaining an extended and correct knowledge of the starry heavens than had been gathered in all previous time. To trace its rise and progress in the United States alone would require too much space, but it would be improper if at least a passing glance were not taken at it before closing up this series.
It may be said that the first astronomical movement in the United States was the sending by the American Philosophical Society of three different sets of astronomers to observe the transit of Venus across the sun, in June, 1769. A reflecting telescope was selected by Dr. Franklin, in London, made by Bolland. These observations were very successful. For fifty years afterwards no efforts were made to establish a permanent observatory in the Union. The recommendation of John Quincy Adams in his first annual message, in 1825, to Congress was received with ridicule; so much so, that Congress, in 1832, passed a resolution that no observatory should be established at the expense of the government.
In 1828 Mr. Sheldon Clark, of Boston, gave §1,200 dollars towards purchasing a telescope for Yale College. It arrived in 1830. The return of Halley’s comet was discovered with this glass, by Professors Loomis and Olmstead, weeks before it was seen in Europe. This success brought promptly before the people the necessity of having properly organized observations with powerful instruments, It was resolved to establish a first-class observatory at Cambridge. In 1836 Prof Hopkins, of William’s College, Massachusetts, erected an observatory in which he placed a Herschelian telescope of ten feet focus; the circle for right ascension was one foot in diameter, the declination circle was thirty inches in diameter, both made by Mr. Phelps, of Troy, N. Y. In 1852 Mr. Amos Lawrence, of Boston, presented to this observatory a fine refracting telescope with an . aperture of seven inchesand a focal length of nine and a half feet; it was made by Mr. Clark, of Boston.
In 1836 the Western Reserve College, at Hudson, Ohio, deputed Professor Loomis to England to procure the requisite instruments for an observatory. He returned in 1837 with an equatorial telescope, a transit circle and a clock. He controlled the proceedings of this observatory for some time, pursuing a regular course of observations which compare favorably with others taken at Greenwich, Edinburgh and Hamburg.
In 1838 the observatory at the High School, Philadelphia, was established. Tne equatorial telescope by Merz and Mahler of Munich is of eight feet focal length, and six inches aperture with clock movement. The meridian circle is by Ertel of Munich. The cost of the instruments amounted to §4,175	J. F.
^|otre ^ame Scholastic.
Published every Weeh during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editors Seno-lastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year................................... $2	00
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students1 Office. * S.
There is some talk among the Students of organizing a military company.
“Mrs. Slocum’s Boarding-House,” will be opened some time after Easter.
Rev. Father Condon, S.S.C., fromNew Brunswick, arrived at Notre Dame last week.
The report of the St. Edward’s Literary Soiree was handed in too late for publication this week.
The Two-penny Gazette, we understand, will reappear next session. It will be under a new management.
The written Examination will take place on the 23d and 25th inst. The oral Examination will immediately follow, and last during the 26th, 27th, 29th, and 30th.	\
, The Constitution of the Society known as the “Thespian Cadets” has been approved by the College authorities. The Cadets are now recuperating, and expect to make things lively the remainder of the year.
The Minim Department has received an increase of members, and is in a flourishing state. Nowhere in the United States is there a school for young boys so admirably conducted as the Minim Department at Notre Dame.
. Mil John Duffy, of Watertown, Wisconsin, an old Student of Notre Dame, accompanied by his bride, called at the College last Wednesday. His friends were highly delighted to see him in his new state, and hope that it will be for him, as well as for his accomplished partner, the perfection of earthly happiness.
A Mission will be given in Watertown, Wisconsin, bj' Rev. Father P. P. Cooney, S.S.C., assisted by Rev. Father P. Lauth, S.S.C.,and other Fathers from Notre Dame. The mission will begin next Sunday. We hope that it will be as successful as those already given by the same Fathers in Valparaiso, Laporte, Elkhart, and Lowell.
Among the visitors who were present at the Literary Soiree, we noticed Rev. Father Condon,
S. S. C., Mr. McMahon and lady, Miss Kate Shea, of Milwaukee, Miss Nora McMahon, Prof. Howard and lady, Prof Ivers and lady, Mr. Brady, of Chicago, Miss Lillie Towle, Miss Lina McMichael, and Mr. A. R. McMichael, of Mishawaka.
The want of a large Hall, immediately connected with the College building, is the cause that many entertainments, which could be held there and enjoyed by all, are held in the Parlor of the College, where only 100 persons about can be present. It is expected that some time or other a large Hall will be secured iu one of the wings, yet to be added to the present main building.
The Order of the Holy Cross is about to establish itself, at the request of the Right Rev. Bishop Henni of Milwaukee, in the flourishing city of Watertown, and the mission to be given will serve as a prelude to the definitive installation of the
Fathers in the large English speaking congregation of that city. The Order of the Holy Cross has also purchased near the city limits a large tract of land and a commodious house with a view of possibly establishing a school or a college there.
The members of the Saint Edward’s Literary Association cannot but feel proud of the compliments bestowed upon them by the Very Rev. President in his remarks to them, viz., that such a fine Literary Exhibition should have been given in Washington Hall, rather than in the Parlor, where only a limited number of persons could be present. The Saint Edward’s would have been delighted to please all their friends and well wishers on this last occasion. They hope to have this pleasure on the night of the 16th of May, which is the one appointed for their Annual Public Literary Exhibition in Washington Hall.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
. January 5.—T. P. White, J. G. Bowen, P. O’Meara, J. T. Smarr, M. Foley, F. P. Leflingwell, J. J. Kinney, M. Mahoney, M. Keeley, T. J. Badeaux.
January 12.—J. D. McCormick, J. McGlynn, T. F. O’Mahoney, P. J. O’Connell, J. B. Zimmer, W. J. Clarke, J. B. Comer, J. Dehner, S. Baldez, T. Hansard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
January 5.—W. Meyer, M. McCormack F. Egan, E. S. Monohan, Sidney Ashton, W. Morgan, O. Walterman, T. Stubbs, O. Owill, J. Carr.
January 12.—J. Rumely, W. P. Breen, R. Sage, J. McHugh, W. Kelly, G. Roulhac, E. Howland, C. Berdel, F. Arantz, E. Milburn.
D. A. C., Sec.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
January 13t7r.—W. Dee, E. Raymond, J. Griffin, T. Nelson, F. Huck, J. O’Meara.
Honorable Mention.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Christian Doctrine (1st class)—E. DeGroot, A. McIntosh, P. Gall, W. Dee, G. Voelker, A. E. Dasher, J. Porter, C. Walsh, J. O’Meara, T. Nelson, S. McMahon, J. Griffin, H. Porter.
Programme of the Esamination, And Synopsis of the Matters in which each Class will be Respectively Examined.
classics.
Philosophia Moralis—1st. Tractatus de Methodo ; 2d. Tractatus de Certitudine—usque ad capitulum de Certitudine experientiaa.
First Greek Class—Bullion’s Grammar, the Verbs; Arnold’s Prose Composition, (15 exercises) from42th to 60th; Plato, Apology (25 chapters); Crito.
No Examination of Second Greek Class this session.
Third Greek Class—Eight chapters of the first book of Xenophon's Anabasis; two books of Homer, (first and second) omitting the catalogue of the forces; Verbs, regular and irregular; Syntax as far as §162 of Kuhner’s Grammar; Kuh-ner’s exercises (first to thirtieth, inclusive).
Fourth Greek—Matter studied during the first session: Kuhner’s Elementary Greek Grammar, from the beginning to Contract Pure Verbs (page 100); Arnold’s First Greek Book, from the beginning to page 59; Mitchell’s New Ancient Geography, from the beginning to page 52; Anabasis, book I, sixth chapter.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Fifth Greek—Text-hook, Wettenhall’s Grammar, Class has seen to Verbs in JZi; also has translated the Greek text in Ollendorff’s Reader to page 120.
First Latin—Cicero de offlciis, 23 chapters; Juvenal, 1st and 10th satyres; Harkness Composition, whole book.
Second Latin—Text-book; Livy, first book; preface, and twenty chapters of the text; no review; Bullion’s Latin Grammar; in Harkness Composition 80 pages.
Third Latin—Prose Composition, 49 exercises; Cicero’s Orations: First against Catiline; for Archias and for the Manilian Law not reviewed; Horace’s Odes: First book, 22 odes, not reviewed.
Fourth Latin—First book of the jEneid, and 317 verses of the second; 20 first exercises of Arnold’s Latin Prose Composition; Prosody, first part, 13 rules; section VI, notions of versification between page 81 and 90; scanning of Virgil; Grammar, questions on declensions and Verbs.
The Fifth Latin Class has translated in Virgil four “Eclogues,” and two hundred lines of the first book of the “ Georgies;” in Arnold’s Latin Prose Composition thirty exercises; in Grammar, Etymology and thirty-one rules of Syntax have been learned.
Sixth Class of Latin—Two books of Ctesar (first and second); Syntax (Bullion’s) as far as §137 (52 rules); 23 exercises (1 to 28) of Arnold’s Second Latin Book.
Seventh Latin—In Bullion’s Grammar, all the Declensions and Conjugations. In Exercise book forty chapters.
Eighth Latin—Harkness’ Latin book, from page 6 to page 97 included; declensions of Nouns, Pronouns, and Adjectives; conjugations, active voice. No review.
English Literature—From Chaucer to Pope.
First Rhetoric—1st. Section on taste; 2d. Consideration of language; 3d. Style.
Second Rhetoric—Text-book, Hart. From “ Diction” to the end of “Verification.”
SCIENCES.
Chemistry—Barker’s, to page 166.
Physics—Gunot’s, to page 259.
Botany—The first twelve lessonsTn Gray’s Manual.
Mineralogy—The Structure and Physical Properties of Minerals in Dana’s Manual.
Geology—The Lithological Geology and the Historical Geology up to the Carboniferous Age cf the Paleozoic Time in Dana’s Text-book.
Physiology—The first nine Chapter’s in Dalton’s Treatise.
Zoology—The Class of Mammalia in Tenney’s Manual.
Modem History—From Augustus to Constantine, not reviewed.
Trigonometry—The whole subject, in part reviewed.
Geometry—The last five books; also the miscellaneous exercises.
Second Geometry—Loomis’ Plane Geometry. Reviewed.
First Algebra. Robinson’s University—Pages 216 to 325 inclusive.
Second Algebra: Robinson’s New University— From the beginning of the Treatise to “Simultaneous Equations contaning Quadratics,’’ omitting theoretical demonstrations.
Third Algebra: Robinson’s Elementary—To Involution. Reviewed partly.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Matter gone over in Book-keeping during the first session, 1871-72.
First Class—Commercial Law, in “Parson’s Laws of Business,” to page 233. Book-keeping— three months’ set, embracing buying and selling merchandise on private account and on account of others. Buying and selling the same on joint account. Importing and exporting on private account, on account of others, and on account of
ourselves and others in company. Buying, selling, remitting, collecting, discounting, accepting and paying bills of exchange. Complete set of banking, steamboating, railroading, and joint stock company books. Exercises in practice of drawing up of forms and making out negotiable paper. Definitions in text-book.
Second and Third Classes—Definitions in textbook, page 11 to page 17, inclusively; pages 33 and 34, commercial definitions, viz., notes, drafts, checks, receipts, etc. Rules for goods sent and received on consignment. Actual practice in illustration of the use of auxiliaries. Five sets of Book-keeping worked out. Memorandums in text-books, pages 39, 52, 74,124,125. Retailing by double entiy.
First Arithmetic (Sr.)—Robinson’s University, pages 259—369, inclusively.
First Grammar—The whole of Bullion’s English Grammar. Analysis and Parsing.
Second Class of English Grammar. Bullion’s Analytical and Practical—Etymology reviewed from previous year. Syntax as far as Punctuation. Exercises corrected.
Third English Grammar (Sr.)—Text-book, Bullion’s School Grammar. Class has seen Orthography, Etymology and Syntax. Prose parsing.
Fourth Grammar (Sr.)—Etymology.
First Grammar (Jr.)—The principal and special rules of Syntax were studied and reviewed by the members of this class during the session. “ Parsing and Composition Exercises” were used for parsing. Compositions were also written once a month by the members of the class.
Second Grammar (Jr.)—This class commenced in Etymology, went through it in Bullions Analytical and Practical Grammar., and partly reviewed it. Used for parsing exercises the sentences given under the Rules at the end of Etymology.
Third Grammar—To be examined from the beginning as far as Conjugations of Verbs in Bullions Common School Grammar.
Fourth Grammar (Jr.)—Bullion’s Common School Grammar. From lesson first in Etymology to page 35.
Fifth Grammar (Jr.)—From the beginning to the relative pronoun.
Second Class of Arithmetic—Robinson’s Higher Arithmetic; from the beginning of Fractions to the end of Insurance.
Third Class Arithmetic—Robinson’s Progressive Practical; all through Compound Numbers. Reviewed.
Fourth Arithmetic (Sr.)—Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division of Whole Numbers, Common Multiple, Common Divisor to Addition of Fractions.
First Arithmetic (Jr.)—Robinson’s University; pages 259, 293 inclusive, pages 298 to 301, 303 to 318, 321 to 324, 328 to 335.
Second Arithmetic (Jr.)—The members of this class reviewed Fractions and Compound Numbers during the first two months of the session Commenced in Per centage in the beginning of November, worked to the end of Interest and made a slight review. The class may be examined from page 205 to 246.
Third Arithmetic (Jr.)—Commencing with Fractions page 86 and ending page 195.
Fourth Arithmetic (Jr.)—Robinson’s Progressive Practical. Studied Common Fractions. Reviewed.
Fifth Arithmetic (Jr.)—Rudiments. From beginning to page 70.
First Geography—Mitchell’s Geography and Atlas. All of the United States.
Second Geography (Jr.)—Matter studied during the first session. Mitchell’s New Intermediate Geography, from the beginning to page 33, omitting pages 14 and 15.
English Spelling (Sr.)—First Division. Textbook, Willson’s Speller, Webster’s Primaiy Dic
tionary—in Dictionary letter “A, B” and part of “ C.” Spell—give part of speech—define.
Second Class—Same matters as the first.
First Orthography (Jr.)—This class may be examined in Willson’s Larger Speller1 Dictation exercises from “ Northends Exercises ” were used in the class during the session.
Second Division of first Orthography—Class from beginning to page 125.
Second Orthography (Jr.)—Through Willson’s Speller.
Third. Orthography (Jr.)—Willson’s Speller from beginning to page 126.
First Reading (Sr.)—Fifth Metropolitan Reader, 300 pages. American Elocutionist, selections.
First Reading (Jr.)—Fifth Metropolitan Reader, 400 pages. American Elocutionist, selections.
Second Reading (Jr.)—Metropolitan Fourth Reader, and Fredet’s Ancient History.
Third Reading (Jr.)—Third Metropolitan Reader, 150 pages.
LANGUAGES.
First French—Fasquelle’s Course, from lesson. 50th, to 100th. Regular verbs. Lemons de Littera-ture Franfaise, lesson 1st to 6th, and lesson 22d on La Fontaine.
Second French—Fasquelle’s Course, from the beginning to lesson 37th. Study of the auxiliary verbs, and the four regular conjugations.
First German (Sr.)—Woodbury’s New Method, 60 lessons. Grammar, to page 419.
Third German (Sr.)—Ahn’s Method, 70 exercises. Grammar, to page 419.
Fourth German (Jr.)—Ahn’s Method, 4o exercises. Syntax, declensions of nouns and adjectives,
Second German (Jr.)—Woodbury’s Grammar, page 323 to page 403. Exercises, from the beginning to page 95. Adler’s Reader, from the beginning to page 57.
Third German (Jr)—Ahn’s Exercise Book, 53 exercises. Ahn’s Grammer, from the beginning to page 30. Ahn’s Reader 15 pieces.
MUSIC.
The Examination in the Department of Music will be postponed till June, according to the usual custom. A concert will be given in Washington Hall, on the evening of the 31st inst., by the musical Students, assisted by the musical Societies of the College.
DRAWING.
During the Examination time, there will be an Exhibition in the Studio of the works of the Students belonging to the above class.
The Societies and Clubs are invited to remit to the Prefect of Studies, for publication in the Scholastic, their statement for the first session of 1871-72.
Damon and, Pythias. x
As most of our readers are already aware, the members of the Thespian Society will play, on the evening of February 22d, the drama of “ Damon and Pythias.” This drama was written by John Banim, the author of the celebrated “Tales of the O’Hara Family.” It was revised by Richard Lalor Shiel, and from this circumstance the authorship of it was for a long time attributed to him. It was given to the public, for the first time, on the night of the 28th of May, 1821, at the Covent Garden Theatre.
Leigh Hunt, speaking of the reception of the play, says he “ never witnessed a more successful one * * * * The interest is strongly excited from the first, and increases to the last.”
Another critic says: “Macready as Damon was in the highest degree impressive. His last scenes with Hermione, with his freedman, and with his friend at the scaffold, formed as near an approach as we ever saw to tragic perfection. The last, when he rushes on, is terrific and sublime.”
Everybody knows the story of “ Damon and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pythias" as told by Valerius Maximus. By Banim the story has not been greatly altered. The following is the outline of the play, taken from an English edition of “ Pamon and Pythias":
The timid and corrupt senate of Syracuse having chosen for its president Philistius, the creature of the military dictator Dionysius, the latter sees, in that choice, the speedy realization of his daring and ambitious views. He instructs Procles, one of his readiest tools, to gull the multitude by divination; and when Damocles, another minion, reminds him of his former degradation from power, at the appeal of Damon,
“The Pythagorean,
Who hangs out his austerity for sale. In frowns, closed lips, and pithy sentences,” the tyrant threatens to visit his opponent, at some future period, with the full measure of his revenge. Instigated by the gold of Dionysius and the eloquence of Procles, the soldiers storm the citadel, and possess themselves of its arms and treasures. As they are returning, laden with spoils, and headed by Procles, they encounter Damon, who reproaches the “ obstreperous traitors and denounces Dionysius. Procles, burning with rage, brands him for a liar and a traitor, and commands the soldiers to hew him to pieces: which they would have done, but for the opportune entrance of Pythias, who stands between the assassin and his friend. For his sake, being a warrior like themselves, Damon is spared; and then Pythias acquaints him with his affair in Syracuse, which is to espouse Calanthe; and Damon, though troubled in mind, and brooding over a variety of concealed plans for his country’s liberty, promises to be present at the nuptials.
The sudden flight of the Carthaginians at the very mention that Dionysius and his legions were in arms against them, is urged by Philistius to the senate, not only as a reason why they should pardon his unconstitutional attack upon the citadel; hut also, that they should resign their functions, and crown him king 1 Dionysius had taken the wise precaution to have his armed soldiers and satellites posted around the senate-house, so that when Damon comes to take his seat among that once august assembly, he is rudely Obstructed. He however forces his way, and demands if to this scandalous proposition, “ Are all content P’ Finding his impassioned appeals to the expiring patriotism of his degraded countrymen grow dangerous, Philistius abruptly dissolves the senate, and the abject slaves do homage and kneel to Dionysius as their sovereign ! This crowning servility drives Damon to the highest pitch of exasperation. He rushes on the regal tyrant to stab him, but is foiled in the attempt. For this he is condemned to die I
The bridal guests are assembled in the temple of Hymen; the hymn is solemnly chanted; and the betrothed are about to pronounce their mutual vows, When Luculius enters hurriedly, and whispers the bridegroom. All changes to consternation and mystery I Pythias, haggard and terrified, and deaf to the tears and remonstrances of Calanthe, departs with Luculius.
Damon has implored of Dionysius the respite of six short hours, that he might see his wife and child before he dies. This has been sternly refused. Pythias appears at this trying moment, and demands to be led to the king. The king enters, accompanied by Damocles. Pythias throws himself at his feet, and offers to become hostage for his friend. Astounded at the strange offer —for Dionysius believes not in friendship!—he grants the request. Damon is released; and Pythias, loaded with Chains, is conducted to his dungeon.
In that dungeon he is visited by Dionysius in disguise, who informs him that the tyrant has despatched an armed force to intsreept Damon, on his return. He offers him life and liberty; and introduces Calanthe and his aged father, Nicias, as the companions of his flight. But neither woman’s love, nor paternal affection can shake the settled purpose of Pythias to abide the issue—
“Yet would I live, Bat not dishonor’d!”
Damon arrives in safety at his villa; and his interview with Hermione and his child is pathetically described. The anxious, watchful eye of the former discovers the emotion that trembles within him—
“ Damon, thy cheek, Thy Bp is quivering—art sick, or grieved With some discomfiture!”
He relates the brief story of his condemnation to death; and the rare friendship of Pythias. “Thou
shall not return!” cries Hermione. But if Pythias was resolved to die nobly, rather than live dishonored, Damon partakes the stem resolution of his friend, and departs; calling Luculius to bring forth his steed— Damon.	Where’s my horse ?
Luc.	When I beheld the means of saving you
I could not hold my hand—my heart was in it, And in my heart, the hope of giving life And liberty to Damon; and--
Damon. Goon!
I am listening to thee!
Luc. And in the hope to save you
I slew your steed !
“ Six poor minutes only!” are left for the return of Damon, when the prison gates are flung open, and Pythias advances towards the scaffold, around which are assembled Calanthe and her mother, Arria, Damocles, Procles, the executioner, and guards. Dionysius, still in disguise, hovers, like an evil spirit, round the fatal scene. Hope is now lost for ever; and Calanthe takes a last farewell of Pythias. Suddenly a shout is heard!—
“ By the gods,
A horse, and horseman!”
Damon rushes in. He has kept his most holy vow to friendship! and in the agony of his joy, falls insensible upon the scaffold 1	'
After a brief explanation from Damon, as to his perilous delay, Dionysius, advancing between the two friends, throws off his disguise, and pardons the condemned ! “ I see,” cries the converted tyrant,
“ The glorious spark which the Eternal One Struck from Himself into the soul of man. Blaze up in such excelling majesty, It awes, while it illumes my heart.”
“ Forrest,” says a writer in the American edition of the drama, “ has made the part of Pamon essentially his own. Nothing can be more intensely exciting in the way of acting than his frenzy when he finds that his freedman Luculius has slain his horse, with a view of saving his master’s life. As he seizes upon the trembling culprit, with the words,
“ ’Tis only far as yonder yawning gulf—
I’ll throw thee with one swing to Tartarus ”— and bears him off the stage, he seems abundantly able as well as disposed to carry his threat into execution. The closing scene, where he appears in season to rescue Pythias, is also one unsurpassed in energy and effect.”
The play has been altered so as to be played by male characters alone. In making this alteration, it was not necessary to change any of the essential parts of the play. "We have no donbt but that the Thespians will bring it out in a manner which will do credit to each member individually and to all as a Society. The moral of the play is such that no one can find the least fault with it on that score. The parts have all been given out, and the rehearsals will soon commence.
Classical Studies. //
It seems almost a work of supererogation to say anything in praise of classical, studies. Their use and the benefits that accrue to man from a diligent study of them, have been so ably stated by men whose dicta in matters of education is, or should be, absolute, that little else can be said, unless we reiterate what they have said. And here where they have been taught with success for years, we would be stating well-known and trite reasons should we speak at any length of the utility of these studies.
But we would say a few words to those of our friends who seem to think that all their studies should be brought to bear upon what they consider the most important thing in this life—making a fortune. In new countries hard work, without the aid or assistance of much book learning, will by itself make a fortune. But when a country has ceased to be new, then the means of acquiring this fortune do not lie within the grasp of every one. He who has knowledge alone has the power of grasping these means. The uneducated man who acquires a fortune is then the exception,
not the rule. The merchant is then a man of education. Now what is an education? Is it to be able to say that twelve and twelve are twenty-four ? Is it to be able to keep a set of books—to know when to debit and when to credit certain amounts ? Is it to be able to read over the editorials of our pet newspapers, and to form our ideas and judgments from their perusal? ‘We think not. Is it confined to a knowledge, very slight, of one or two or more ’ologies? I say slight, because this knowledge must be slight, ndeed, unless we have some knowledge of the aucient languages. No; education means a knowledge of those things which are at the foot, which are the foundation of all learning—of those things by means of which, with some study, all science and all learning is opened to us.
Now what studies are they which lie at the base of all learning? Are they not the classical studies? Would you understand fully and thoroughly your own native tongue, you must have a knowledge of Latin and Greek. Would you acquire a knowledge of philosophy, you must have recourse to Latin and Greek. Would yon understand the almost hidden mysteries of nature, which disclose themselves at the “ open sesame ” of science, a knowledge of Latin and Greek is of the greatest assistance. How can you read the orations or speeches of our own great orators with any profit unless you can also understand the classical allusions and similes which so frequently occur, unless we have studied the classics.
But man should not look merely to the acquiring of a fortune in this life. Passing by, for this time, the chief concern of his life, his salvation, has he not other things to accomplish besides making money ? Man, as a rule, must have some pleasure, he must take a little recreation; even St. John the Evangelist amused himself by playing with a pigeon. It is recreation which gives us the renewed strength to enter upon our serious work. Now the question of “ How shall I recreate myself?” is often a very puzzling one. After a man has passed his youthful years away, he cannot do it with bat and ball and other sports. And, besides, these violent out-door recreations are not those which give us the keenest pleasure—the followers of “ muscular Christianity ” to the contrary, notwithstanding. The most subtle pleasure is that which we feel mentally when we have taken in the thoughts of the great authors, when our minds comprehend the beauties of some masterpiece of literature or. art. All literature, all art, is impenetrable darkness to him who is unacquainted with the works of those giants who lived in the far-off ages of time. A knowledge of the religion, of the manners, of the customs, of the thoughts of antiquity, is the lamp that lights up the darkness and enables us to appreciate much of the loveliness, the grandeur and the sublimity of the works of man. This classical knowledge will always be for the possessor not only of much actual use, but also a rich field from which to take much that will give to him his needed recreation.
There should be more privileges given to the classical students here at Notre Dame, and we hope to see the day when our Classical Department will number more students than the Scientific, the Law, the Medical and the Commercial Departments all combined.
The other morning the Notre Dame Comet Band favored all residing about Notre Dame with some very choice and excellent music. Good music is a rare treat at any time, and we hope that the Band, which plays nothing but good music, and plays this good music well, will often favor us with its strains of harmony. We do not wish to be partial in our praise of the individual members, but the Bass Solo was executed excellently well We don’t see how we could get along without the Second Bass—it helps to “Phil” up so.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Choir.
The object of our Choir being the promotion and maintenance of genuine church music, it is placed under the patronage of St. Gregory: hence the name of St. Gregory’s Society given to the members as a body.
The officers of this Society are: President, Director, Censors, Secretary, Treasurer, and Librarian.
The President is one of the Fathers of the Community.
The Director is an able musician, well versed in the style of church music. His duty is to teach the members their different parts, to preside over the rehearsals, and lead the Choir in the church.
The Censors are members of the Choir, whose duty it is to see that every one attend the rehearsals and behave with propriety in the Choir.
The Secretary keeps a faithful record of the various transactions of the Society.
The members are admitted by the President, after a due examination by the Director of the Choir.
For the sake of decorum, and in accordance with the spirit of the Church, the members wear the cassock and cotta in the Choir, and attend public service in the church on Sundays and holy days.
The Director of the Choir, with the approbation of the President, has the privilege of selecting, either from among Professors of the University or the Students of the vocal class, a few honorary members whose services he may deem available. These honorary members, although invited to wear the cassock and cotta in the church, are not required to do so.
For obvious reasons this Society cannot be governed like other Societies whose sole object is science or literature. It is a singing Society, and not a speaking or debating Society, and its object is too holy and sacred to be abandoned to the whims of chance and circumstance.
The ordinary meetings, therefore, of the members of the Choir are the rehearsals, presided over by the Director of the Choir. The President of the Society, however, will call a meeting when he has some communication to make to the members.
In these special meetings the Society proper is represented; for, although identified with the choir to a certain extent, it is, however, distinct from it, its object being to maintain and promote the style of Church music, and secure the good behavior of its members in the Church, where the choir is called to carry on this great object in practice. The Society, therefore, when presided over by its President, is the St. Gregory’s Society; but is simply the Choir of St. Gregory’s Society when under the immediate control of its Leader.
It is so far from our mind to give up the St. Gregory’s Society, that in case the present members would discontinue their membership, we would replace them by other members able and willing to sustain us iu the maintenance of the style of music we have adopted in our church. The modifications we have made in regard to the regulation of the Society only simplify its mode of action, and tend to benefit botli the Choir and the Society itself by giving the Choir a greater facility to carry out the spirit of the Society, and to express more perfectly the beauty of Palestrina music.
The members of the Choir once duly admitted are not at liberty to leave when they like, neither will they be dismissed except for bad behavior, for their examination by the Director of the Choir previous to their admission is a sufficient guarantee of their aptitude to sing in the Choir.
It is our ■wish to maintain the little library opened for the benefit of the members of St. Gregory’s Society. In case, however, the members would not be willing to continue the work, the small entrance fee of fifty cents w’ould be done away with.
With these few remarks we dismiss the subject, and confidently hope that our young readers will understand now the nature of the modifications we have made in the rules of St. Gregory’s Society, and see that they only tend to secure its success and realize its expectations.
What students will pass the better examination in February—those forming the first nine of the Star of the East or those forming’ that of the Star of the West ? Here, young base-ballists, is opened to you a field of rivalry more honorable than any you can find on the play ground. Which will be “whitewashed” at the examination?
Sodality of the Holy Angels.
At a meeting of the Sodality of the Holy Angels, held January 17th, 1872, the following persons were elected officers for the second session of the Scholastic year of 1871-72.
President—Rev. A Granger, S.S.C.
Director—F. C. Bigelow.
Vice-President—Herbert Hunt.
Secretary—Joseph Rumely.
Treasurer—William Jleyers.
Censor—Marmaduke Weldon.
Librarian—Michael McCormack.
Ass’t Librarian—William Kelly.
Jos. Rumely, Sec.
New Publications.
The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader, for the use of Colleges, Academies, and Schools. By J. A. Lyons, A. M.; with an elaborate introduction on Elocution and and Vocal Cultuer, by the Rev. M. B. Brown, A. M. Philadelphia: Butler & Co., 1873. 12mo.
“ Orator fit—the orator is made,” runs the adage, and if it be true, this text-book will show any one how to become one. We believe, however, that oratorical power is mainly a natural gift, and that in its absence no amount of elocutionary instruction will make one more than a correct pleasing speaker. But whether oratory is natural or acquired, the need of instruction and guidance remains the same. The greatest of orators have been those that devoted to study and practice of oratory the closest attention and the strictest observance of rule and gesture.
Hence we welcome any effort, however humble, to help students in learning to deliver a speech, declaim, or read well. We leave the reader to judge, therefore, how cordial and thorough is the w’elcome we give to Mr. Lyons’ “Reader” on discovering that, in addition to a perfect selection of subjects for elocution, the book contains a scientific treatise on Elocution and Voice Culture, written by a reverend gentleman who evidently is thoroughly acquainted with the laws of speech and sound. He treats elocution first from a physical, and next from an {esthetic standpoint, the second part being devoted to an exhaustive treatise on voice culture.
The examples for rhetorical reading and declamation are, in the main, selected from recent speakers and writers, thus avoiding the hackneyed themes with which the older rhetorics are filled.
Pieces that could offend political or religious feelings are carefully excluded, and though Catholic oratory is prominent, it is not in controversial or polemic form. We bespeak for this text-book a hearty reception from all educators who can appreciate its merits. The publishers have spared no pains to issue the book perfect in typography, engravings, and binding.—Catholic liecord.
The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader. By Joseph A. Lyons, A. M. Philadelphia: E. H. Butler & Co.
This is a work intended for the use of Colleges,
Academies and Schools, and it possesses many advantages that lift it considerably above the average of such publications. The first hundred pages an occupied with an introduction by Professor Brown, of the University of Notre Dame, explanatory of the principles of Elocution and Voice Culture. It is eminently practical in character, and is more calculated than most essays on the subject we have seen to promote an easy and natural style in the student. Engravings illustrative of gesture accompany and admirably supplement the text. The selections which follow occupy over three hundred pages, and are excellent in themselves, being drawn from the works of the best English and American writers, and unusually varied, every style of declamation, taste and ability being provided for. Great care has been taken to eliminate in all cases any passages against which objection on the score of indelicacy or partisan warmth could be taken. A fine portrait of Daniel Webster is given as a frontispiece.—Philadelphia Inquirer,
The American Elocutionist. By Joseph A. Lyons. Philadelphia: E. Butler & Co.
This handsome volume treats of the material and the method of Elocution. The material is new, and much that will strike the fancy is to be found in its pages. Material, however, is to be found everywhere. That which is truly unique and valuable is the introduction and elaborate treatment of Vocal Culture. By far the most neglected branch of school elocution is the training of the voice, and we are glad to find a sensible and exhaustive article on it Gesture is not forgotten, and the force of attitudes is illustrated by numerous full-length engravings. We commend the work as one eminently calculated to bring out the' powers of young speakers. The purchaser win find it in all respects satisfactory.—Philadelphia Age.
SAINT BABY’S ACADEMY.
Sr. Mary’s Academy, 1 January 17, 1872. )
We are happy to acknowledge the recept of some very fine ornithological and geological specimens, sent from the Smithsonion Institue, as a contribution to the Museum at St Mary’s. Such contributions are highly appreciated and most gratefully welcomed.
As the time of Examination draws near, youthful faces assume a very solemn expression. Intense thought and deep anxiety are pictured on the countenances of the sedate Seniors, and even the gay Juniors and merry Minims look as if they belonged to the Serious Family. But there is really no reason for such serious anxiety, for if the past be a criterion of the future the diligent students have nothing to fear, and those few, who have been constitutionally tired, during the term, may, by an energetic effort, agreeably surprise their friends and teachers.
The arrival of those long-expected Mexican ponies has created quite a sensation in juvenile circles at St. Mary’s. The Juniors and Minims are everlastingly grateful to Very Rev. Father General, for his generous kindness in furnishing them with such agreeable means of enjoying themselves. Each pony will no doubt prove a pleasant hobby which the Juniors and Minims may safely ride, for at present “Ponies” seem to be the topic of interest, even beyond the promised sleigh ride which is to recreate the pupils after the fatigues of the Examination.	Respectfully,
Stylus.
TABLES OF HONOR.—SR. DEP’T.
January It—Misses E. Brandenburg, E. Wade, B. Wade, N. Hunt, M. Luzen, EL Miller, E. Drake, L. Pfeiffer, J. Valdors, K, Manzanaures, N. Vigil, C. Germain.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HONORABLE MENTIONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Kirwon, M. Shirland, M. Tuberty, M. Dillon, L. Marshall, A. Clark, A. Borup, K. McMahon.
First Senior Class—Misses N. Mast, M. Lange, A Shea, A Todd, K. Haymond, M. Lassen, K. Brown, B. Crowley.
Second Senior Class—Misses L. Duffield, N. Duffield, E. Plamondon, L Reynolds, F. Butters, A Piatt, E. Bollins, L. Wuest, J. Coffey, J. Millis, C. Woods, A Woods, L Logan, H. Tompkins.
Third Senior Class—A Lloyd, L Wilder, M. Prince, B. Devoto, S. Johnson, L Taylor, B. Beynolds, L Edwards E. Culver, M. Leonard, J. Walker, M. Wicker, L. Bichie, T. Donahue, C. Davis.
First Preparatoiy Class—A Emonds, M McIntyre, H. McMahon, A St Clair, A Hamilton, N. Sullivan, J. Walsh, B. Gaffney.
Second Preparatoiy Class—Misses M. Mooney, H. McLaughlin, A Conahan, F. Moore, M. Pin-ney, J.' Judy, A McLaughlin, Bose McIntyre, IL Goodbody, A Standard, Dora Willey, Libbie Eutzler, M. Kelley.
Third Preparatoiy Class—Misses M. Boberts, J. Hupp, C. Byer, L. Buehler, B. Schmidth, M. McWillis.
First French—M. Shirland, L. Marshall, J. Forbes, G. Hursh, M. Kirwan, A Borup, N. Gross.
Second French—L. West, J. Kearney, M. Kearney, K. Haymond, M. Wicker.
First German—A Clarke, Sr., M. Dillon, L. Pfeiffer, E. Bollins.
Second German—M. Faxon, V. Ball, J. Millis, B. Wile.
First Drawing Class—Misses Daisie Green, A Emonds, A Woods, J. Millis.
Second Drawing Class—Misses Nellie Sullivan, L. Harrison, F. Butters.
Errata in the “ New Year’s Greeting.”— You put “ 1871 ” for 1872. You left out the line Who have enriched, the golden ages, from between the lines May all the wisdom of the sages With eloquence or learned pages
You put in the arrivals “Carrie Buger” for Carrie Buyer.	Yours, sorrowfully,
Styles.
Dr. Guthrie, in a recent address, told a very suggestive story to this effect. A friend of his, Questioning a little boy, said to him: “ When your Cither and mother forsake you, Johnny, do you know who will take yon up r’
“ Yes, sir,” said he.
“And who?”
“ The police,” was Johnny’s answer.
UNIVERSITY 0E NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
.Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in i860, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States
TERMS:
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months, --------	150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, -	--	--	--	--	-10 00
Instrumental Music, - -- -- -- 12 50 Use of Piano, - - - • - - - - - 10 00 Use of Violin, --------	-	2 00
Drawing, ---------- 15 00 Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - - 5 00
Graduation Fee—Com’l, $5 00; Scient’c, $8 00; Class'!, 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the Col-
lege are charged, extra,	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationary, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the Second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Very Bov. W. CORBY, S.B.C.,
President.
Tlio "A. VIE JUCAItIA»»'
A Catholic Joubnax, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published weekly at Notre Dawe University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of tbeChurch.
TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance.
For 2 years. in advance.
For 1 j ear, $3, in advance.
Single copies, 10 cents.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25, in advance.
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $45, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Mafia for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Mabia is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—-either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber's post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARIA,
Notre Name, Indiana,
^AINT HOARY'S JUaDEMY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
MOTHER M. ANGELA, Superior,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
OLD, RELIABLE AND POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE WEST. (See Classification of Railways by Board of Railway Commissioners.)
The Shortest, Best and Quickest Route
FROM
CHICAGO TO ST. TiOTTIS,
"Witlioixt Change of Cars.
STRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Lonisi-. ana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m,
*9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
t6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. |7:15 a.m.
+9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. £ Daily. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Time, only 11 Honrs.
The only Line running Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars between Chicago and St. Louis.
Close Connections in St. Louis for all points in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado and California. The Direct Route and the only axl rail route to Memphis, Vicksburg, Mobile, New Orleans, and all points South.
Avoid a long Steamboat Transfer of Tweney-Five MHes, and changes of Cars by taking this Route.
Pullman Palace Cars run on this Route only from Chicago to New Orleans, with but one change.
Louisiana, Mo., New Short Route, Chicago to Kansas City via Chicago & Alton and North Missouri Kailroads, passing through Bloomington and Jacksonville, 111., and crossing the Mississippi at Louisiana, Mo.
The best Short Route, from Chicago to Kansas City without change of Cars.
Close Connections in Union Depot, Kansas City, with all Western Roads for Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and California, and in Chicago with trains of all Eastern roads.
Elegant Day Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars run through from Chicago to St. Louis and Chicago to Kansas City	___
WITHOUT CHANGE.
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Care on all day Trains.
The only Line running these Cars between Chicago and St. Louis, and Chicago and Kansas City.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
SUMMER ARRANGEMENT.
fTUtAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 28 a. m.
M	“	12.22 p. m.
“	u	9.20 p. m.
“	“	12.35	a.m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 5 05	p.	m. I
“	u	3.15	a.	m. |
M	“	4 30	a. m. I
"	“	5122	p	m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 210 a. m “	“ 11.00 a. m
w	“	2.00 p.m
«	“	5.30 p.m
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m “	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	7.20 a. m
“	“	9.20	p.m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company's posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
£5* Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland^ C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
Jno. Dbsmokd, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago, Ulj J. W. Cary, General Ticket Agent Cleveland, Ohio.
C. Morse, General Passenger Agent, Chicago, Illinois.
M. B. Brown, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
A. J. White, Freight Agen^ South Bend,
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a. m., and 7:30 p. m» Freight, 4:05 p. m.
Going South—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m., and 6:20 p. m.
Freight, 4:50 a. m.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and, New York without Change.
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington City.
ON and after June 1,1871, the 9 p.m. train from Chicago arrives in New York at 11.30 a.m. the second day, hour in advance of any other route ; with corresponding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Sundays. .
The 5.15 p.m. train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6.41 a m. the second morning, 1% hour in advance of any other line. This train has an elegant Silver Palace Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia and New York without change.
The 9 a.m. train from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with Pullman Palace Cars attached. Through between Chicago and New York, without change, 3*4 hours in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line offers this andvautage.
Trains from Chicago to Clevelanow Crestline and “ Bee11 Line, connecting at Cleveland with trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office, (>5 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot, corner Madison and Cana! Streets, Chicago,
9 HOMAS L. bCOTT, President,
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Ass’t Sup't, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNLR, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYEK8, Gen'l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Ag't, Chicagv.
DUNBAR’S
BETHESDA MINERAL SPRING WATER, OF WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN.;
COL. D'UNBAB, Director and General Manager'of the Bethesda Springs, of Waukesha, Wisconsin, has opened a depot for the sale of this wonderful water at 139 Dearborn street, Tribune Building, Chicago, Dli-nois. The efficacy of this water in cases of Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, Chronic Diseases of the Liver, Bilious Affections, Diseases of the Kidney, and its associate organs, Dropsy, and Gouty Swellings, is unsurpassed.
It was this water that re-estabfished Chief-Justice Chase’s health.
Call or scud for Circulars. Testimonials of cures. Directions how to use the water accompany each package sold.
RICHARD DUNBAR,
139 Dearborn st., Chicago, Or EDWARD P. DUNBAR, at the Springs.
v5nl