@lje ^cljda^ttc ^ear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE T>ATVm.
fmhil to th <|fnterjesitsi 4 the JtHiUateh
“ LABOR OMNIA VTEYCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEESITY OF NOTES DAME, IND., OOTOBEE 24, 1868. ~ No. 8.
COMMERCIAL EDUCATION.
The subject of education seems, now more than ever before, in this country, to form the topic of conversation among those interested in the real welfare of their children.
The parent is no longer content to send his son to a common school, nor is the son satisfied with a mere knowledge of the primary branches usually taught in such schools.
The increase of colleges and the facilities for attending them have opened a ready way to education, and now affords advantages little thought of a quarter century ago.
That collegiate education is appreciated, is manifest from the large attendance at all the colleges.
The course of studies in such institutions generally embraces those branches which prepare the student for a professional career.
Only one who has completed a thorough course is considered a worthy member of his profession.
There are many great and learned men, men who have rendered signal service to their country, who have not enjoyed the advantages of a college education, nevertheless, these are the greatest advocates of collegiate training; they have felt the want of the advantages now enjoyed, and appreciate the utility of colleges, and hence recommend them as the best means for obtaining a sound education. .
The progress of the country, consequent on the increase of population, and the development of large sources of trade and commerce, demand not now professional, but commercial men.
It must be admitted that we are emphatically a commercial nation; we have the most ample resources from which to draw the wealth which gives stability to the government.
Our steam navigation, railroads, banks, magnetic telegraphs, etc., are unsurpassed by any other nation.
The qualifications for business or the pursuits for which we are so noted, require a course of study similar to that of the professional man.
It is frequently said, that such matters as pertain to business should be learned in the counting-room or store, in actual business, and that college is not the place.
Suppose the lawyer or physician should argue in this manner, and defer their necessary professional studies, waiting until they should have something actual to perform, as a court trial, or the healing of a patient? This would be rather an awkward predicament, but a parallel case with the commercial man who should neglect his studies on the plea of waiting for actual business.
One who intends devoting himself to mercantile pursuits, must have the necessary education; he must learn those things which appertain to business, and hence the necessity of a separate school or department for this purpose.
No species of information can be more valuable or more necessary than that which is calculated to enable the student to comprehend his proper position in the business community, and give him a correct idea of what a business man should be, as well as to ground him in the principles of a commercial education. That commercial education should be somewhat unpopular, because much quackery has been practiced by so-called commercial colleges, is not surprising.
Without stopping to inquire what evils have thus been produced, suflice it to say that equally as much quackery is and has been practiced by colleges proper.
Diplomas in classical are about as cheap as in commercial colleges; however, the ignorance of the graduate is not brought out so much as it must invariably be in the commercial graduate. No
58
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
sooner is he upon threshold of active business than equation of payments, equation of accounts, annuities, partnership, alligation, to say nothing of simple interest, are prepared to give him a battle. If he fails, he is at once pointed out with scorn as a commercial graduate. The ability of the classical graduate is not thus severely tested, his success mainly depends upon his keeping quiet, but this is not the nature of a business man.
Commercial- studies are indiscriminately condemned by literary characters as common enemies to education, simply because they associate such studies with some preconceived idea of business and notion of unpoetic bales, boxes and barrels.
Now, as we stated in the beginning, that the subject of education is generally discussed, we wish to say a word upon the choice of education, or rather what kind should be pursued.
We have in this college three distinct departments, viz., classical, scientific and commercial.
The choice depends upon the career the student proposes to follow in after life. The selection, with the aid of advice from his parents or friends, is comparatively easy for the student. Once selected, the course should be scrupulously followed ; the mind will thus be disciplined in the method of studying, and as the student progresses, will be amply repaid for his application by the pleasure he necessarily receives from study.
It is very difficult, if not impossible, to do two things at once, especially when the things are diametrically opposed as in the case of the classics and book-keeping.
If a student is in the commercial course it is presumed that he is fitting himself for that pursuit ; hence, everything not absolutely requisite in the course is foreign to his purpose. The same may be said of the other departments.
A fair knowledge of the primary branches, reading, writing, grammar and arithmetic, should precede the choice in either department; the ■student can decide from his proficiency in these which course he is best calculated to pursue.
L.
Purity.—Young ladies should guard themselves against undue familiarity, however innocent. Purity, that blushes unconsciously, like the summer rose, is the guardian angel of maiden life.
Lost, somewhere between sunrise and sunset, two golden hours, each set with sixty diamond minutes. No reward is ofiered, for they are lost forever.
iS. — HIGHER.
The rolling seasons sweep along In. varied, rapid, ceaseless song Like music of the heavenly spheres, Unheard by grosser earthly ears.
But in the glowing dreams of fancy’s hours, The favored spirit joins Celestial powers, And mingles in the pure, bright visions seen Afar beyond where mortal senses glean,
Creation’s hidden melodies
Arp free to her as summer’s breeze, And order meets her raptured eye Where dire confusion seemed to lie.
. The chance-wrought months, that formed a broken chain Are seen in circled beauty meet again, Each one a link of loveliness so fair, So fit, that beauty never seemed but there.
The golden ones, the russet bright, The glittering glance of crystal white, The pleasing rays of emerald mild, In turn delight sweet fancy's child.
Borne by the press of crowds, we glide away, Till glad, rich time seems but a common day, And beauty fades before the careless eye, And sounds of joy are born to faint and die.
The gifted spirit sees in tears
The wasted wealth of golden years, The powers of high immortal mind To thoughtless rounds of earth confined.
Shall we aspire to feel the lofty thought
Enrich the soul with pleasures never wrought By common joys ? Or sliall we walk the round Of meaner minds, where trifling toys abound ?
The spirits of the great and good, Who with the beautiful have stood And breathed on earth of heavenly air, Bid us walk forth to meet them there, Our nature, God-like formed to look above, Bids us arise to seek a nobler love, Bids us advance to taste celestial food, And while on earth come nearer to our God.
■	ex.	•
St. Edward’s Day at St. Mary’s.
To tell the truth,—which we always do, even when writing about school exhibitions, though some writers seem to think that, for the sake of the dear little boys and girls, they are allowed to stretch a point,—to tell the truth we do not like to write an account of the celebration of a festival day.
For the main features of any festival, look over the account of any of the thousand-and-one you have at hand in the newspapers of this year or last year or ten years ago,—and you have them.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
59
For particulars of any festival, change the names and date in the above mentioned accounts, —and you have them.
Evidently there is no reason to write an account every year.
On the other hand all the friends of the young ladies now at St. Mary’s would, we are sure, like to know what was done and who did it this year. The Programme, published in The Sholastic Yeab, last week, gives that information in clear and concise terms. As to how it was done, we say in general terms “ excellently.” If you ruthlessly keep on questioning, and corner us up by wanting to know how each one did her part, and indignantly tell us that if we can’t tell you that we are not fit to write about it at all, and ought to let some body else write who knows how to do an exhibition up well, we humbly “ acknowledge the corn,” in fact, we cannot object to the corner.
Did you ever see the Girondolal You have? sky rockets, Roman candles, fire-crackers, pop-guns and what not, blazing away at a terrible rate for . ten seconds or so, and your eyes dazzled by lights red, white, blue, green, and a great many more colors than we can write the names of here?—Well, do you pretend to say that you could give us an account of how each individual sky-rocket did its part ? how much higher in your estimation the one with a big green star and seven little blue stars went than the one with a blue star and seven little green stars went? Do you mean to tell me that you could tell me how much louder one fire cracker cracked than another fire cracker cracked ? But we are getting warmed up with the fire works—. . . We coolly presume,—on resuming our writing after a space of five minutes,—that negative answers have unhesitatingly been given to our two last questions. Very well; on that presumption, on our part, how can any one presume to ask us to say how each young lady did the part assigned her, when we were conscious all the evening only of a number of bright, healthy, young ladies of gentle manners and modest deportment, doing, in an unpretending manner, their best to honor the patron of Father General. All we can say is that all did well.
We might it is true find fault—and we would, if we had anything to find fault with; but we haven’t. We used up our ammunition last week by firing off the only little pop-gun of an objection that we could find. We mean the position of the harps. We like to hear the harp,—we like
to hear the piano too, when well played upon— and it is well played upon at St. Mary’s, at least whenever we have had the pleasure of listening— but we also like the harp, and we couldn’t hear it. ’Tis true, as was remarked to us, that shows they were perfectly in accord with the pianos, and that the young players made no false notes, otherwise we would have heard the discord,— but, again, we say we would like to hear the harps, without obliging the young ladies to make discordant notes. However, to do our best we shall avail ourself of the Programme and of some notes taken by a discriminating friend to help our memory, and enter somewhat into particulars.
The Entrance March, on harps and pianos; as far as our ears remember, the pianists played well and we heard them; the harps, doubtless, were played well, but we did not hear. It is unnecessary for as to harp any more on that subject,— and we might as well observe once for all, that both the vocal and instumental music gave evidence of the thoroughness of the teaching and the proficiency of those who sang or played.
The addresses were well read and not too long. The play, by the Juniors and Minims, which is always a charming feature in St. Mary’s enter" tainments, and as prominent as the well formed nose of a beautiful face, was not a play, in the dramatic sense, but a conversation carried on by some dozen or more little girls, with as much abandon as if they were in their play-room. .The subject of their conversation was, what each would like to be, and the decision as to which had made the best choice was left to Father General. As he made no decision, we cannot pretend to say what be thought, but we know that the “ Grandmother ” brought us over to her side unanimously. The play of Coaina, as our readers already know,.is taken from the beautiful story by Mrs. Dorsey, in which are related the sufferings of an Indian maiden. We were much pleased with the manner the story was dramatized. All the most important incidents were brought out without any male character being placed on the scene; the dialogue was sprightly, and Coaina was not continually in tears, nor lamenting over her lot from the beginning to the end of the drama. The only objection we have to the play—not to the manner it was played—was the death of Altontinon;—when a person dies of cholera in a play it should be done behind.the scenes. However we are no playwright, and know’ not what the exigencies of the subject may demand
60
THESCHOLASTIC YEAR.
of a dramatize!. As for the manner Miss Livingstone played the part of Altontinon we transcribe a note of our discriminating friend; he notes down opposite Miss Livingston’s name “Executed her part excellently.” Two other prominent characters of the story are fully brought out in the play, viz.: the heroine, Coaina, and Winona, Coaina’s cousin and Altontinon’s daughter. In regard to Miss Medille who personated Winona, our notes tell us that she “played very well her difficult role of an aspiring but conscience-stricken belle,” and of Miss Carr, they say that she “ has a very fine, clear and distinct articulation and finely played the beautiful part of Coaina.” Another character merely alluded to in the story is brought prominently out in the play, to make up for the absence of Father Etienne, and called Madame Bouelle,• of the part and of Miss Foote who personated Madame Bouelle, our friend notes: “Her part admirable in itself was admirably rendered.”
Now we might go on ever so many pages and note other young ladies, if we took into account the manner they acted; but as their parts in the play were of less importance, all their power could not be brought forth. We noted several secondary parts taken by young ladies who could well represent the very first.
• At the end of the entertainment Very Rev. Father Sorin made a few remarks to the young ladies, who seemingly not satisfied with the quantity—although they could not but have been so with the quality—called upon Fathers Provincial, Corby and Hallinan; the rev. gentlemen gravely responded in appropriate terms, whereupon, at the early hour of seven P. M., the entertainment closed.
We return our thanks to the good Sisters from whom we received an invitation to the feast; and sincerely hope they may celebrate many Saint Edward’s days with their numerous and worthy pupils.	U- C.
Correction.—On page 56, No. 7, of The Scholastic Year—1st column, 8th line,—the word “us,” should come after the verb “please" and not after the verb “sec.” By correcting this error made by the printer, our readers will find that the sense of the whole paragraph is changed.
The minds ov the young are easily trained; it iz hard to git an old hop vine to travel a new pole.—Josh, Billings.
Self-Control.
BY AN OLD CONTRIBUTOR.
I behold two strong horsemen with restive steeds; Thq one holds a tremulons rein, Whilst the other charger, as onward he speeds, Frets and chafes ’neath his rider in vain.
. The first horseman seen, ere his race is half run, Is thrown with a merciless force,
And trampled to death, whilst the second has won The fair prize at the end of the course. • t v-cJtAx.
0, thus ’tis^Passion when held in control; Whilst reason restrains her and guides, ’Tis the beautiful energy nerving the soul, Who triumphant in virtue abides.
But Passion unconquered by Reason, and Truth, Is a steed with demoniac power,
To dash and lay waste all the glory of youth, And to blast each bright hope in the flower.
Tie master of self , then whate’or may betide, . Thou hast won the rich guerdon of joy,
Nor the waves of misfortune, nor breakers of pride, Can the peace of thy sojourn destroy. •
Excelsior.
Such is the name of a beautiful work on Politeness and. Education, due in part to the pen of our modest and. learned friend, Professor T. E. Howard, A. M., and in part to that of “ R. V. R.,” a lady of great talent.
A synopsis of the work has already been given in some preceding number of The Scholastic Year, and. from it the reader of our paper may have formed an idea of its usefulness as well as of its originality. From actual perusal we think it is a work superior to any other on the same subject, and that none teaches politeness in a more polite and gentle way. It is fresh all through, and draws the reader on without effort or feeling of wearinesss. We presume on the kindness of the publishers of The Scholastic Year to corroborate our words by publishing the first lines of the first chapter, entitled Life:
“Life is a-journey, man a traveler. Some find a pleasant road, others a dreary one; while to most men the journey is neither cheerful nor sad. At times the sun shines out brightly, the breezes freshen, the dews glisten, and the whole world spreads before us, a banquet of beauty. Anon, dark clouds cover the earth like a pall; cold, wet winds creep over us ; and the sorrow of death seems to fill the land. Again ’tis hard matter to tell whether cloud or sun rules the hour.	.	•
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	61
Such is the day; what of the people? In our childhood scarce any attend us bu^the most familiar friends—fathers, mothers, brothers, and sisters. And happy we, if even they are with us. Many a one begins this journey, stepping from the cradle with not a soul to guide him. Soon, however, new faces are seen. Neighbors drop in. The world widens as we advance. Strangers become our playmates on the way. Stranger hands grasp ours, stranger eyes peer into our faces, and stranger voices whisper in our ears. , Some look kindly upon us; the gentle soul wells up in the mild eye, and we believe them good. More seem dark and moody ; the abrupt voice, flashing eye, and swift hand, seek terrible vengeance for a trifling wrong. And yet an act, a word—nay, even a glance, will sometimes disarm their fiercest anger. Who are wholly good ? Who are altogether wicked ? How shall we judge this people? Can we pass along our journey, without harm to ourselves, doing some good to those we meet on our way ?
My young friends, we are all traveling this journey of life. Which of us is too well prepared? Is there any one who has nothing to learn, so as to make the road a safe one for himself? Many of those who travel with us are cer-.tainly dangerous persons. Robbers lie in wait for us all along the route, ready to take our most valuable treasures. Thieves and pickpockets .chat pleasantly with us, and wait a chance to steal the jewels most precious to our souls. Liars are there to take away our good name; and criminals of every grade stand waiting to trap us each with his own particular wickedness. It would be a hard matter to guard ourselves against so much wrong, if we knew our enemies by sight; how much more so, when it is scarcely possible to tell the good from the bad <”
Politeness is such a valuable ornament, one so rare and yet so pleasing, that those who possess ’it like to meet it and behold it, to speak of it and portray it in their own person.
• Such a book as “Excelsior,” will therefore prove a dear friend to the polite student, and afford him agreeable moments between the hard - study hours.
, * t
Times of general calamity and confusion have ever been productive of the greatest minds. The purest ore is produced from the.hottest furnace, . and the brightest, thunderbolt is elicited from . the darkest storm.
CoiZLZEGHEJ BtJH.1L.ETEV.
Arrival of Students at IV. Dame.
October 20th.
John Korb,	Shermantown, Ohio.
Tables of Honor.
■ Senior Department—Oct. 9th.
B. Vocke, M. Carney, J. M. Grier, O. Mosely, H. H. Schnelker, G. M. Webb, N. Wrape ,0. M. Wenger, J. M. Montgomery.
Junior Department—Oct. 9th.
D. Bland, J. Krauth, Z. Vanderveer, P. Tienan, H. O’Neill, H. Hug, E. Wile, C. Hutchings, J. Kline, A. Scheefer. ’
Senior Department—Oct. 16th.
T. Lappin, H. Schnelker, M. S. Ryan,T. Johnson, D. J. Diemer, J. B. Roberts, T. O’Neil,T. Kinsella, J. Heery, J. Leunig.	~	'
Junior Department—Oct. 16th.
M. Clark, C. Duffy, J. Mulhall, L. Billings, L. Hilsendegen, C. Walters, G. Redfield, W. Dugdale, F. Spencer, F. Dwyer, C. J. Hamblin.
Minim Department—Oct. 16th.
G.	Berry, 0. Campau, H. Fosdick, G. J. Gross, N. Watson, J. Wison.
Honorable Mention.
The Prof, of Natural Science reports satisfactory progress by the Students of the Classes of Zoology and Geology. However, he finds it difficult, at such an early day, to determine—even approximately—the respective merits of the talented and diligent young men following those - Classes. Still, the results of a composition made by them on the matters thus far studied, and other indications, would show that the following students somewhat excel:
Zoology.	' '
H.	B. Keeler, E. V. Donhoff, A. Reilly, D. A. Clarke, F. Crapser, I. Buddeke, J. Zahm, J. Dickinson.
.	Geology.
D. A. Clarke, F. Crapser, I. Buddeke, J. Dickinson, C. Hertich, R. L. Akin.
I
62	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Honorable Mention (Continued).
Drawing.
J. Broderick, E. Bahm, A. Hemsteger, D. Egan, N. Mitchell, H. O’Neill, D. J. Wile.
Instrumental Music.
Flute:—B. Heffernan, Z. Vanderveer.
Violin:—F. W. Ingersoll, A. Menard, J". Rumley, 31. Foote, J. Staley, J. McGuire, C. Hertich, B. Vocke.
Piano:—A. Hemsteger, G. Kahman, F. Obert R. Staley, E. Lafferty, A. Wetherbee, S. Dum, H. H. Schnelker, J. Eisenman, 0. Sage, F. Nicholas, J. Ryan, F. Bulger, J. Vocke, J. Crevoisier, 0. Wenger, A. O’Reilly, D. Cooney.
Brass Band:—D. W. Coonce, J. Page, N. Mair-hoffer, H. Wrape, W. 31. Bird, F. W. Green, W. H. Sangster, C. E. Sage, C. Sage, 31, Hite.
Choral Union.
Soprani.—V. Hackman, B. Heffernan, C. Hutchings. Alli.—J. Crevoisier, F. Nicholas, M. Foote. Tenori.—F. Ingersoll, T. Morancy, I. Buddike. Bassi.—J. Garhartstine, P. AIcKeon T. Akin, J. Garrity, T. Vocke. --------------------------------
Competition in. the 1st and 2d Arithmetic, Junior Department.
For the past two weeks the columns of Tin: Scholastic Year have been so crowded with matter that we had to postpone till now the report of the competitions which have taken place in some of our interesting Junior Classes of Arithmetic.
It is well for our readers to know that if they were ever invited to witness one of those intellectual strifes and see the swift handling of pencils and chalk; the long mute blackboard becoming alive with figures; and hear the quick reply of the impatient youths just through with their problems—for we must inform them of the fact, that promptness, as well as accuracy, are requisite for honorable mention;—if such was the good luck of our readers, we would compliment them for it. and we feel sure that the hour passed with our young Newtonians and Euclids, or with our Atlantics and Unions, would be an hour of pleasure and real interest	'
The First Class of Arithmetic, whose excellence dates a year back when it was yet the Second Class, had a competition between its two divisions, the members of which are, respectively:
Euclids—J. F. Ryan, captain; R. Brouhgton, V. Hackman, A, Cabel, D. Egan C. Marantette, A. Hemsteger and F. Nicholas.
Newtonians—M. Brannock, captain; G. McCartney, J. Broderick, L. "Wilson, R. Staly, W. Clarke, P. Cochrane, N. Mitchell and C. Tierney.	.
In the oral competition, Messrs. J. Ryan, R. Broughton, V. Hackman, E. O’Bryan, D. Egan, and F. Nicholas, answered perfectly on the Euclid side. Messrs. R. Staley and N. Mitchell, alone, upheld the honor of the Newtonians.
For promptness of execution and accuracy in the solution of the examples given in Robinson’s Practical Arithmetic, page 212 and following, examples in Commission: No. 12—D. Egan,
V.}Hackman, M. Brannock and E. O’Bryan, deserved the greatest credit. No. 7.—G. McCartney, E. O’Bryan, F. Nicholas and C.
Tierney. @	.
Examples in Profit and Loss.—Case I—No. 1.—V. Hackman, G. McCartney, M. Brannock and A. Cabel. Case H—No. 15.— J. Broderick, J. Ryan, R. Broughton and R. Staly. Case HI— No. 9.—V. Hackman, E. O’Bryan and R. Broughton. Case IV— No. 8.—E. O’Bryan, F. Nicholas, R. Broughton and V. Hackman.
Examples in Interest,—No. 12.—E. O’Bryan, J, Ryan and R. Broughton. No. 23—E. O’Bryan, V. Hackman, A. Hemstager and C. Marantette. No. 23.—J. Broderick, G. McCartney, and E. O’Bryan.
Although the whole Class had to perform these examples, and in fact very near all the members succeeded in working them, still according to promise we have kept record of the four best students only. It will be easy for each division to recognize its own, and see on which side the glory of the day stands.
In the Second Arithmetic Class the competition between the “Atlantics” and the “Unions” was decided, after a sharp contest, in favor of the latter under Captain J. Nash. The members of the victorious division are: J. Nash, Captain; J. McGuire, J. Rumely, H. Hayes, M. Ody, J. Ward, M. Wellington, J. Orb, C. Walter, P. Tinan, J. Rhem, H. O’Neil, D. Bland and A. Celia.
This excellent Class bids fair to rival the First at some future day. Tn both Classes reigns a true spirit of serious application} with a thorough discipline which reflects great credit on the teachers—Bro. Joseph of the First Class and Bro. Benjamin of the Second Class.
-------mo-------
Saint Aloysius Philodemic. .
Editor Scholastic Year:—The sixth regular meeting of St. Aloysius Philodemic Literary Society was held on Tuesday evening, 20th inst. The question, “Resolved that the Banish, ment of Napoleon to St. Helena was Justifiable” was debated by Messrs Fitzpatrick and Morancy on the part of the affirmative, and Messrs Reilly and Carney on the negative. The debate was ably conducted, the gentlemen rhowing clearly by the manner in which they handled the question that they had exercised considerable care in preparing themselves and in the selection of their arguments. The president, after summing up the arguments brought forward by both sides, gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. Declamations then followed, Mr. Moriarty reciting “ Spartacus to the Gladiators ” in a remarkably fine style. Webster’s “Power of Eloquence” was well rendered by Mr. Zahm-An Essay on “ The Brain ” was read by Sir. Denhoff. To say it reflected credit on the gentleman, showing in its composition a thorough knowledge of the subject, conveys but a slight idea of its merits. To be appreciated, it must have been heard. The office of vice-president being d eclared vacant, the members proceeded to elect one, which resulted in the unanimous choice of Mr. "W. A. "Walker.
After the reading of the Two-Penny Gazette, a little sheet edited by the members of the Association, the meeting adjourned.
Our reports do not appear as frequently as last year in The Scholastic, from the fact that we do not wish to trespass too much upon the limited space of your excellent little journal. Our friends will be pleased to learn that the Association is in a flourishing condition and has now every prospect of holding its position as one of the first societies in the University. This is said without intending to make any invidious distinctions, because Dame Partington says, “ distinctions are odorous."
Cob. Secretary.
St. Cecilia Philomathean.
The fourth regular meeting of this Association was held on Sunday evening, Oct. the 4th. After the usual preliminary business of reading the minutes, appointment of readers, &c., Thos.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
63
Arrington passed through the ordeal of reading for membership, in a manner that gained for him a unanimous election.
Following this came an Essay on “Early Attachments,” well treated by Master Wilson, and also several declamations given in the usual happy style of the members of this society. A few remarks upon the proceedings of the evening were then made by the President, and the meeting adjourned.
Two subsequent meetings have since been held—the first (fifth regular) on the 11th inst. At this a motion was brought before the house to elect officers to fill the vacant positions of Vice-President of the Dramatic department and Corresponding Secretary. Accordingly Masters McCarthy and Mahoney were nominated as candidates for the Secretaryship, and votes been taken, resulted in a majority for Master Mahoney. Master P. O’Connell was then proposed for the remaning office, but that gentleman de" clining to accept the nomination, it still remains vacant. A committee was now appointed by the President, consisting of the following young gentlemen: Masters Ryan, Coppinger, McCarthy, Wilson and Foote, to write and present, in the name of the Association, a letter of congratulation to Very Reverend Father General on his patronal feast. Master Burdell was then elected a member of the Society, and the appointment of essayists concluded the proceedings of the evening.
The next (sixth) regular meeting took place on the evening of Sunday, the ISth. This was the eveinng appointed fer the debate mentioned in a previous issue, but on account of important official business, it was postponed for one week. In the mean time, we feel assured from our knowledge of the young gentlemen composing this Association, that the opportunity afforded them by this postponement to strengthen their arguments, and bring in all their reserve force, will not be lost.
■	Michael Mahoney,
Cor. Secretary, -------•«*------
Saint Edward’s Literary.
The fourth regular session of this Association was held on Tuesday evening, Oct. 20tb, at which the question “Resolved that the hope of reward is a greater incentive to exertion than the fear of punishment” was discussed on the affirmative by Messrs H. B. Keeler and J. P. Rogers, (the latter having volunteered to take the place of Mr. T. W. Ewing, who was unavoidably absent), and on the negative by Messrs T. O’Mahony and D A. Clarke. Mr Keeler opened his argument with a concise statement of the question, showing the nature of exertion, both physical and mental, and the relations which exist between the two; he then proceeded to show the different manners in which the mind, which is the principal agent in exertion, may bo influenced by external causes, and demonstrated by close logical deductions and historical facts, that the hope of reward is a more efficient cause in exciting the mind to active exertion, than the fear of punishment. Mr. O’Mahony, adopting substantially the statement of the question and the general principles relative to exertion and the influence of the mind as an agent, proposed by Mr. Keeler, endeavored to prove that the fear of punishment stimulates the mind to exertion more effectually than the hope of reward. His arguments were sound and forcible, but from a slight misconception of the question, referred rather to the fear of danger and suffering generally than to the fear of punishment. Had his argument been directed strictly to the point in question it would have been difficult to determine which side had gained the victory. Mr. Rogers, though not prepared to take a principal part in the discussion, still corroborated the arguments of Mr. Keeler by some happy illustrations. Mr Clarke, laboied under the same difficulty as Mr. O’Mahony, as to the nature of the question, yet his arguments, considered in themselves, were very good and strictly logical. All things considered, it was a good debate and conducted with considerable spirit. We are all en-debted to the young gentlemen engaged in it for a pleasant and profitable evening.
At this meeting it was also determined to resume the exercises of the Mock Court, to be held semi-monthly. Pro£ Colovin, an experienced lawyer, was then elected an honorary member of the Association, and president of the “Court” department. The St. Edward’s colors are now at “ mast head,” and our prospects for a prosperous and pleasant literary voyage during the present year are unusually cheering: made virtute is onr motto.
Reporter.
BASE-BALL.
A return match of base-ball between the Excelsior first nine and the Star of the West second nine was played Wednesday, September 33d, and rasulted in the defeat of the former club, as may be seen by the following score:
pos I	Star of tho West. |	o. | k. | pos | Excelsior	|				o-l	R
c	Coppinger,		1	6	P	Vanderveer,		3	2
p	Bulger,		1	6	> c	Beakey,		4	1
s s	Foot, 		a	3	S 8	Nash,;		3	2
1 b	Wetherbee,		0	1 i	lb	Cabel,		3	
2b	Clarke,		6	2	2b	Nicholas		3	0
3b	Deehan,		3	4	3b	Klein,		3	
1 f	Hayes,		2	O	I f	Mulhall,		3	1
c f	Dooley,		0	5 1	c f j	Pfeiffer,.			...	3	2
r f	Pearce, 		4	3 !	r f	Doherty,			o
Total,-----------2~ 35 Total,-----------------27 15
Ti me of game-------.
Innings—1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Star of the West—10, 6, 3, 0, 8. 2, 0, 1, 5. Total, 35. Excelsior—3, 1, 3, 1, 3, 0, 4, 0. Total, 15.
Umpire—David Wile of the S. W. B. B. C.
f M. Mahony for the Excelsior. -scorers— |JAlber « « star of the West. Foul fly catches—Star of the West, 8; Excelsior, 8. Foul bound catches—Star of the West, 8; Excelsior, 7. Foul fly muffs—Star of the West, 2; Excelsior, 3. Foul bound muffs—Star of the West, 3; Excelsior, 4. Fly catches—Star of the West, 2; Excelsior, 8. Fly muffs—Star of the West, 2; Excelsior, 8. Passed balls—Star of the West, 11; Excelsior, 9. Wild throws—Star of the West, 2; Excelsior, 3. Left on bases—Star of the West, 0; Excelsior, 0.
The batting of both clubs was very good. In the Star of the West, Messrs. Coppinger and Bulger distinguished themselves; and in the Excelsior, Masters Nash and Thompson played well. The fielding of both clubs was all that could be desired. All this will be vouched for by those who witnessed the games.
At a meeting held Sept. 30th, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
Whereas, our kind Director, Bro. Florentins has presented us with a magnificent ball, and has, also, been exceedingly generous to the club, even for this short period of four weeks; be it
Resolved, that the most heartfelt thanks of the club are due to him, and that we hereby tender them, and that he may rest assured that the club shall do their best to recompense him as far as possible, in the way of gentlemanly behavior; and—
Resolved, a copy of these resolutions be published in The Scholastic Year.
--------•»--------
Orchestral Music.—We had a delicious entertainment last Sunday evening, in the college parlor, from our excellent Orchestra under the leadership of Prof. Max Girac. We return to him and the members of the orchestra our sincere thanks for the two hours of pleasure which we passed listening to their symphonies. The applause of fifty or more listeners told sufficiently how their music was appreciated.
64	THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
JFaINT ^ARY’S ^CADEMY.
Satnt Many’s, October 20, 1868.
Arrivals.
Sept. 31st—Miss B. Gardner, Albion, Mich.; Oct. 15th—Miss T. and M. Vanhorn, Louisville, Mo.; Oct. 17th—Miss M. Ogle, Greenville, Ind.
Honorable Alention.
October 12.
Graduating Class: Misses L. and L. Tong, E. Longsdorf, EL Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, KL Cunnea, M. Toomy, F. Hosmer and J. Hines.
First Glass Sr. : Misses A. Carmody, A Cunnea, A. Radin, A. Mulhall, N. Tabor, O. Brady, E. Kirwan, M. Morrill, N. Tracy, M. Claffey, E. Ewing, R. Mukautz, M. Johnson, M. Alexander, E. Carr, M. Walton, L. Lewis, L. McMannon and C. Bertrand.
Second Class Sr.: Misses S. Thomson, E. Bland, R. Rettig, C. Foote, L. Ingersoll, E. Lindsay, L. English, L. Leoni, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, N. Thomson, A. Heckman, S. Gleeson, N. Wilder, L. Chouteau, W. Corby and A. Walker.
Third Class Sr.: Misses F. Butters, E. Plamondon, A. Boyle, N. Simms, E. Ruger, M. Kirwan, E. Scott, A. Fulwiler, J. Wiley and S. Beebe.
First Preparatory: Misses K. Robinson, S. O’Brien, A Lyons, F. Stevens, J. Gettings, M. Foote, E. Cooney, M. Rumley, M. Cochoran, E. Darst, M. Lassen, S. Coffee, L. Barnett and M. Henry.
Second, Preparatory: Misses J. Davis, A. Mim-mick and K Zell.
Third, Preparatory: L. Blaizy, M. McClune, E. Ritter, K. Kline and J. Davis.
First Preparatory: Miss A. McCenney.
Second Preparatory: Misses A Woods, M. Durand and A. Boyles.
Third Preparatory: Misses A. Metzger, M. Letourneau, A. Robinson and B. Myers.
First Glass Jr.: Misses L. McNamara, A. Byrne, M. Moon, F. Taylor and B. Fensdorf.
Second Glass Jr.: Misses B. Wilson, M. Vaughn, EL Fulmer, S. Garrity, M. Reynolds andR. Carroll.
Tabic of Honor, Sr.
Misses M. Walton, L. McManmon, M. Edwards, K. Cline, G. Gleeson, K. Kent, A. Fulwilder, L. Blaisy, F. Stevens, J. Gettings and M. Rumely.
Honorable Mention.
October 20.	•
Graduating Class :—Misses L. and E. Tong, E. Longsdorf, K. Livingston, A Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea, M. Toomey, F. Hosmer and J. Hines.
First Class Sr.:—Misses A. Cunnea, A. Radin, A. Mulhall, N. Tabor, 0. Brady, E. Kirwin, M. Morrill, N. Tracy, J. Dobson, M. Claffey, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, R. Mukautz, A. Darcy, M. Johnson, M. Alexander, E. Carr, L. Lewis, C. Bertrand and C. Davenport.
Second Class;—Misses K. Medille, S. Thompson, E. Bland, C. Foote, L. Ingersoll, L. English, L. Leoni, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, M. King, N. Sherburn, N. Thompson, A. Heckman, N. Wilder, L. Chouteau, K. Carpenter and W. Corby.
Third Glass :—Misses M. Tuberty, A. Boyles, J. Chesebro, N. Simms, E. Ruger, M. Kirwin, M. Sherland, S. Beebe and R. Joslin.
First Preparatory:—Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, A. Lyons, M. Foote, E. Cooney, E. Darst, M. Lassen, J. Lonegan, S. Coffee and E. Henry.
Second Preparatory:—Misses J. Davis, A Mim-mie, N. Burridge, BL Zell and E. Simms.
Third Preparatory :—Misses J. Denny, J. Davis, C. Hoeber, M. Clune, E. Ritter, A. Matthews J. Byers.
First French Glass :—Misses C. Livingston, L. and E. Tong.
Second French Glass :—Misses A. Mulhall, M. Sherland and M. Alexander.
First Drawing Class:—Misses A. Carpenter and E. Carr.
Second Drawing Class:—Misses E. Cooney, and ~ M. Alexander.
Instrumental Music, First Class:—MissE. Longsdorf.
Second Class :—Miss C. Foote.
Vocal Music, First Division:—Misses C. Davenport, A. Mulhall, E. Longsdorf and K. Medill.
Second Division :—Misses M. Sherland, N. Le-onrand N. Wilder.
General Class :—Miss C. Foote.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses M. Letourneau, A. McKinney, L. McNamara, A. Metzger, E. Fensdorf, M. Duran, R. Meyers, C. Forman and R. Conall.
Honorable ATeirtioii.
Second Preparatory:—Misses L. Niel and M.
Bader.	.
First Class:—Misses A. Longley, A. Byrnes and M. Moon.
Second Class :—Misses B. Wilson, B. Henry, A. Streobly, M. Vaughn, A. Garrity and M. Runolds.