The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEF^ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI. 1 UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME, IND., SEPT. 28, 1872. Number 3.
The Old. House far Away.
The wild birds warble, the silvery rills
Sing cheerfully around the spot,
And the peaceful shade of the purple hills Falls dim. on my mother’s cot;
Its windows are low, and its thatch is low, And its ancient walls are grey;
O, I see it 1 I love it, where’er I go, The old house far away.
The little clock ticks on the parlor wall, Recording the passing hours :	_
And the pet geranium grows rank and tall, With its brilliant scarlet flowers ;
And the old'straw chair, so cozy and low, Where mother sat knitting all day,
O, I see it! I love it! where’er I go, ■ The old house far away.
Dear mother I how plainly I see her now, Reclining in that old arm-chair, .
With the sunsetresting upon her brow, That was once so smooth and fair;
With her crimpled border white as snow, And her once dark hair now grey ;
O, I see it 1 I love it I where’er I go, In that old house far away !
Not all the treasures the world affords,
The riches of land and sea,
Nor all the wealth of earth’s proud lords
Can blot from my memory
The roof that sheltered each dear, dear head, And the humble floor of clay,
Where the feet I loved were wont to tread In the old house far away!
Fiction.
“ Truth stranger than Fiction ” is a common expression and seems to imply an antithesis between fiction and truth. But fiction—we speak only of works of genius—is nothing more than truth in a more elevated form than usually falls under our observation. The works of the painter and the sculptor are fictions, as well as the dreams of the poet. But the paintings and statues of great masters exhibit to us forms of human perfection higher than those we meet with in daily life—higher than any we should probably ever meet with from the cradle to the grave. These glorious works of art—these sublime fictions—so far from being untrue—reveal to us the truer and more perfect humanity.
Now let us compare some well-known fictitious tale— some nursery story, if you will—for in these nursery sto-.
lies that are common to all countries and ages, lurks many a spark of the universal genius of mankind—say, then, that we compare “ Cinderella ” with a mathematical axiom. “Things that are equal to the same thing are equal to each other,” proclaims Exact Science. “Very true,” assents Pure Reason, delightedly; “now I feel I have something to build upon.” And after a whole science has been built up on the axiom, and Pure Reason has accepted it all unhesitatingly, Experience. steps in and shows us that things never are “ equal to the same thing ”—she has examined every created thing that can fall beneath the perception of the senses, and reports no two alike—in vain, the proverb “ as like as two eggsif the eggs were alike, the chicks produced from them would also be alike, which. Experience proves is not the case.
On the other hand, what depths in the human heart are opened up by the simple tale of “ Cinderella”! What human soul that has lived and suffered has not realized the desolate state of the maiden sitting among the ashes, transformed into sudden joy by the advent of the supernatural messenger bidding her attend the banquet of the Great King? The older we grow the more we feel the fidelity of the picture. There are living truths in this little fiction as far above the cold abstractions of what is called science, as the dome of St. Peter's is above a modem “ Mechanics’ Institute.” And if such is the case with regard to a foolish nursery tale, what shall we say' of the sublime fictions of the poets—of the Labors of Hercules— the exploits of Perseus—the adventures of Psyche—and the other gems of classic art ?	.
Let it be well understood that we speak only of such fictions as are truly works of genius, and not of the heaps of trash which under the name of fiction are mere appeals to the erotic sentiments, and are the pestilence of modern literature. The name of the author is not always a warrant for the value of the fiction. Ovid, in his Metamorphoses, has given us, in poetic shape, some of the most instructive fiction that ever issued from the human brain—fiction sparkling with the pearls of truth in every line. In some of his other works he has scarcely been a benefactor to humanity. Legendary tales of unknown authorship, like those antique statues unearthed by accident or antiquarian industry, frequently bear all the marks of genuine fiction, and truth to nature. But an essay on this subject would carry me far beyond the limits assigned to the present article.	J.
According to the last census there are in the United States five millions of children, of school age, who never attend school. .
This certainly shows that there is room for improvement'
 -- . ... ----------- ------
V,
16	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Lying and Liars.
Candor and sincerity are indeed rare virtues, and the dearth of them made the Psalmist say: Omnis homo mendax.
True, everyone is not a liar in the fullest sense of the word, but as truth is one and indivisible it can suffer no increase or decrease; consequently every exaggeration or diminution, no matter how small it may be, is a violation of truth, and becomes a lie in consequence.
■ Lying is such a degrading and odious vice that no greater insult can be offered to a man than to call him a liar, and there is none he will so quickly resent.
A liar is detestable everywhere and lying is held in abhorrence by everyone who has a spark of probity in his heart.
There are many people not less guilty, who use such equivocations as induces you to believe one thing while they mean another, or they wall promise to do something which they haven’t the faintest intention of doing. They will speak of you in the most uncharitable and slanderous manner and the very next time they see you will pretend the greatest possible affection and esteem. Such duplicity is simply diabolical, and yet it is common among people who make great pretences to virtue and integrity.
The distinction of white and black lies is made only by those who are adepts in. using both kinds. Every lie is black, and no one is justified in telling one even to save the world.
Most people are not clever enough to be good liars; to lie so that every story may be plausible and every statement consistent requires no small amount of tact, and a good memory besides.
Like ingratitude, lying is such" a detestable vice that no one was ever found who would acknowledge himself . guilty of it.	.
Lying is the mother of many vices, and is generally found in company with her children; if you discover anyone to be a liar you may.suspect him of being a thief as well.
If you would preserve your good name, if you value the oveand respect of your fellow-men, be truthful and sincere or a lying tongue is an abomination in the sight of God and man.
Now, to the uncultivated, the enactment of laws regulating their literary diet, may seem to be tyrannical. They may aver that -what they read concerns no one but themselves. Even if this were true, it would not be a justification of bad literature, or give them the right to injure themselves. No one is allowed to commit suicide, no matter how much it may suit his taste, and in order to prevent him from perpetrating such a deed the civil law will take proper steps. Such a person forgets, if he ever knew, that he is a member of society, not living for'himself alone, but bound by social laws, and obliged, by taking proper care of him-sdf, to contribute his share to the general welfare of which he partakes. -
People complain not when inspection laws are passed to secure their food against adulteration or poison. When hey behold the legal inspector seize a can of chalk and water marked milk, and empty its vile contents into the street, they pronounce the judgment just. How careful they are about their corporal food! How soon they will cease trading with a firm that is suspected of deceit in this matter I	-
Should there be no solicitude for the food that is to nourish the mind and heart? It is a horrid mistake to suppose that the mind needs no solid nourishment, or that it is very immaterial upon what it is fed. The mental faculties are formed and developed by what is read. This ■ is so evident that it would be folly to attempt its demonstration. A man becomes a mathematician, historian, physician, lawyer, or orator, by studious application to works treating of these sciences. Is a man going to become a Christian or a good citizen by constantly perusing works subversive of all morality ? Most assuredly not. Then, as we are so careful of our corporal food, we should, for reasons as much stronger as the soul is superior to the body, be watchful of the mental.
Hence, we can understand why, even in this free land, the civil law prohibits the sale of books and periodicals that are manifestly obscene or injurious to public morality. Of course, it does not constitute itself judge of all literature or morality, for that would be assuming unwarrantable powers, but it does and must take cognizance of literary productions which true Christianity condemns as evidently tending to social dissolution. None but the vicious will object to this.	'
'. Dangerous Literature.
There is -unfortunately, a very prevalent notion that, in this free land, a person may read whatever is published. Liberty is made to mean a license to do what one pleases, regardless of law; hence, literature of a very offensive description is freely published and just as freely devoured.
That this idea of liberty is very erroneous, is easy of demonsta • ion to those whose reasoning powers have not been vitiated by passion. It is not true that, under any government, monarchical or republican, the subjects are allowed to do as they please; for the admission of such a principle would be the ruin of all governments. Subjects must act according to the law, and it is the law that secures them liberty, or the enjoyment of their rights. If there were no evil in the world, then the phrase, “ do and think, read and write as j ou please,” would be intelligible; but the fact is that soc’al order requires laws to regulate our actions both men-al and physical.
Honesty the Lest Policy.
[From an old student.]
Sandusky, Ohio, Sept. 20,1872.
Very Rev. E. Sorin—Dear Father: I send the inclosed item, not because I feel proud of the position named, but for the benefit of your students. You are well aware under what circumstances I came to your institution over twenty-five years ago, at the age of twenty-four, with no means to speak of, and with little knowledge of the English language. At your place I acquired, during the two years that I remained with you, some knowledge of the English language, which I have been improving ever since; and through this, with the good examples and instruction, which I have been very careful to, adhere to, I have obtained the important position to which I have been appointed..	, .
Tell your students that ! made it a point after leaving
THE SCHOLASTIC.	.
your much-loved place never to tell a lie nor harm any one. It was for a long time up hill business, but I was satisfied that it would win, and it did (not so much financially as otherwise); but had my education not been so limited I should have made better progress as to the latter point.	-
Do not forget to tell my friends and your students that although I have been partially successful in this world, yet I never saw the day I was so happy a man as I was when under your charge. The happiest days of my life I spent with you.	Your obedient servant,
.	L. Cable.
[The following is the item to which Mr. Cable refers in his letter, and which explains itself.]
THE THIRD NATIONAL BASK.
This association was fairly organized on Monday and Tuesday of this week; first by the election of a Board of Directors by'the stockholders, and by the election of the officers. The following are the names of the gentlemen comprising the same: Directors—Lawrence Cable, Jacob Engle, Peter Gilcher, Philip Graefe, C. F. Schoepfle, H. J. Dunahoe, and Geo. J. Anderson.
The officers are Lawrence Cable, President; Peter Gilcher, Vice President; and Geo. J. Anderson, Cashier. The building now being fitted up for the new bank is on the north side of Market street, near Columbus avenue, and opposite the post-offi:e. The location is a good one for the business, and the building will be ready for occupation about the middle of October. At the meeting held for the election of officers, Mr. Cable, the President elect, addressed the Directors in the following remarks:
“ GENTLEsrEX:—In accepting this office of trust, let me state to yon that I deeply feel its duties and responsibilities, and that I should hesitate to accept this were I not encouraged to think that, with such a board of directors, composed of men whose ability and integrity is unquestioned, I hope to be able to perform the duties of this office in such a manner as not to give cause to the stockholders nor to yourselves to regret your action in placing me in this responsible and honorable position. Hoping that our course of action may be of such a nature as to make it agreeable to ourselves and profitable to the stock holders,! now thank you for the honor conferred upon me.”
He was followed by Mr. Anderson in a few words appropriate to the occasion of the projecting of this new enterprise.
Mr. Anderson has left for Washington to complete the matters necessary for the commencement of business at once, or just as soon as the building is in condition to do so.
[Young men, reflect on the contents of the above letter, and be convinced that industry and a straightforward course is the only sure road -to honorable success in life. We know Mr. Cable personally—his letter is no idle boast.—Ed. Scholastic.]
A schoolmaster gave out one morning as a reading lesson to his first class that portion of the “ Merchant of Venice ” in which the “ pound of flesh” scene occurs. The reading finished, he asked the. class what Shylock meant when he said, “ My deeds upon my head.” “ Well,” said the tallest boy, “I don’t know unless he carried his papers in his hat.”	-
.Govern your thoughts when alone, and your tongue When in company.	■
Age of the Presidents.
General Grant is one of three of our Presidents who have passed their fiftieth birthday in the highest place an American can reach, the other two being Mr. Polk, who entered the office about seven months before he was fifty years old, and Gen. Pierce, who became President in his forty-ninth year. General Washington was in bis fifty-eighty year when he became President. John Adams was in hissixty-second, Mr. Jefferson was in his fifty-eighth, Mr. Madison in his fifty-eighth, Mr. Monroe in his fiftyninth, John Quincy Adams in his fifty-eighth, General Jackson in his sixty-second, Mr. Van Buren in his fiftyfifth, General Harrison in his sixty-ninth, Mr. Tyler in his fifty-second, General Taylor in his sixty-fifth, Mr. Fillmore in his fifty-first, Mr. Buchanan in his sixty-sixth, Mr. Lincoln in his fifty-third, and Mr. Johnson in his fiftyseventh year.
General Harrison was the oldest man ever elected to the presidency, and General Grant is the youngest. Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and John Quincy Adams, were all in their fifty-eighth year when they entered the presidency, and Mr. Monroe completed his fifty-ninth year only fifty-five days after he became President, and Mr. Johnson was in his fifty-sixth year when he succeeded President Lincoln.
Four Presidents went out of office in their sixty-sixth year, namely, Washington, John Adams, Jefferson and Madison. President Jackson was the oldest of all our retiring Presidents, as he went out of office only eleven days before the completion of his seventieth year. Mr. Buchanan left office fifty days before he became seventy years old. The President who lived longest was John Adams, who died in his ninty-first year. The next oldest was Mr. Madison, who died in his eighty-sixth year. Mr. Jefferson died in his eighty-fourth year, Mr. John Quincy Adams in his eighty-first year, Mr. Van Buren in his eightieth year, Gen. Jackson in his seventy-ninth year, and Mr. Monroe in his seventy-third year. The youngest retiring President was Gen. Pierce, who went out of office not quite four months after he had completed his fifty-second year.
Mr. Polk retired in his fifty-fourth year, and died inlittle more than three months later, at the age of fifty-three years, seven months and thirteen days, youngest of all our Presidents in death.	•
There is a man in Iowa so penurious, that, when shelling com, a kernel flew into a wood-pile, he removed seven cords of wood to find it. A neighbor standing by dropped a kernel near where the searcher was looking; but, when he found it, he said, “ You can’t fool me with that small kernel; the one I lost was a large one.” •	-
A bareheaded, barefooted little boy astonished a worshipping congregation in a Massachusetts town on a recent Sunday, by rushing into church and exclaiming, “ Where’s my papa ? the pigs are out!”	’
A Kentucky editor says a neighbor of his is so lazy that when he works in the garden he moves about so slowly that the shade of his broad-brimmed hat kills the plants.
“ Hell is paved with good intentions.” — Spanish Proverb.	.	■
20
THE SCHOLASTIC,
The
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTHE DAME UNIVERSITY. '
Rev. M. B. Brown, C. S. C., - - ----Editor.
All communications should, be sent to Editor Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana.
• TERMS:
One year............................$2	00
One session (5months)..../........   j	25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Stu dents’ Office.	'
Facts and Figures.
The Number of students entered up to the 25th inst. was SCR. There are 145 in the Classical and Scientific Courses'; 68 are in the Latin Classes, and 32 in Greek (the difference results from the fact that Greek is not studied' in the first year of Latin); 77 remain in the preparatory classes.
’ The number entered for the Commercial Course was 134 ; of these 60 passed the required examination, and were admitted to the Classes of Book Keeping, leaving 74 in the preparatory classes.
Numbers and ability are certainly not wanting, and with persevering industry on the part of our students the classes of the present year will compare favorably with those of past years.
“When Can Z Graduate?”
This is a question frequently asked by students, and those who ask it expose themselves to no small disappointment in many cases, in consequence of the answer which they are liable to receive. For instance, a student in the Second or Third Class of Latin asks his Professor how soon he can graduate—naturally he will be told two or three years, as the Professor takes it for granted that he is equally advanced in his other studies. Were the same student to ask the Professor of Mathematics how soon he can graduate he might just as naturally be told five years.
Hence, to obviate all future difficulty on this point, we give here, for the benefit of all concerned, the only answer that can be given to the above-mentioned question—it is this: You can graduate when you have mastered in a satisfactory degree' aS the studies prescribed in the course in which you hope to take degrees. Any other answer than this is liable to result in disappointment if relied upon.
Even should a student be equally' advanced in all the prescribed studies, it is still impossible to say that he will graduate in a certain definite number of years, because no one can say that he will be successful in his studies each year. All that can be said is, that his prospects for graduating, in so many years, are good,—that is, provided he gives satisfaction in his studies each year.
Here another mistake, not unfrequently made by students, occurs to our mind in connection with this subject. This is the mistake of supposing that because they attended a certain Class one year, they, as a matter of course, pass to the next higher Class the following year.
This is surely a serious error of judgment. The right of a student -to pass from a lower to a higher grade in any study does not and cannot depend on his having passed a certain time in the grade from which he wishes to ascend, but on bis having mastered the studies taught in that grade. Hence a student, to establish his right to advancement must give evidence of having done all that could be reasonably expected of him in the Class from which he wishes to rise.
Therefore we would say to our students, and to all who need the hint: If you wish to go into a higher class, after a certain time, do your duty faithfully now. Do not trouble your minds with prospects for the next five or six years, but do well the work which you have on. hand at present, and your success will be assured, if you are destined to succeed at all.
Notes by the Way.
A new play-hall is being built for the Minims.
Father Carrier is engaged in fitting up a new Laboratory.
Dr. C. J. Lundy occupies the position of Physician to the University, and resides in the College.
The Choir is now in good order again. Prof. Von Weller will restore it to its former standard of merit.
Bro. Francis Xavier has received a new invoice of religious articles—pictures, crucifixes, etc.
The Seniors'are now listening to Irving’s “Life of Washington,”-which is being read in their refectory.
The grove by the boat-house has beefi cleared of shrubs, weeds and rubbish, and looks splendid.
Tm?, “ hedge fences ” on either side of the main avenue should be trimmed. We are personally interested in their appearance.	■
The old fence behind the Church has been torn down and replaced by a more substantial2 one. The road has been made several feet wider too.
We learn from the Waukesha Plaindealer that hundreds of invalids have regained their health at the Bethesda Mineral Springs of Waukesha, Wisconsin.
Pro. Macafferty, of Racine College, has been engaged to give a Course of Elocution at Notre Dame. The Classes opened on last Thursday, and will continue four weeks.
Mr. Pine/of South Bend, has just completed the fresco, work on the President’s reception-room. He is evidently a master in this department, and we hope that the proper authorities will not fail to have him do the grand parlor in like manner.
Recreation at table, which is so much appreciated by the students, is to be given at dinner on Wednesdays and Sundays. Those deafening shouts which were wont in former times to characterize the opening of these occasions have ceased.
Professor Macafferty gave a reading on Monday evening, introductory to the opening of the Elocution Classes. His wonderful flexibility of voice and powers of impersonation won universal applause, and aroused a decided enthusiasm for elocution as the large Classes organized next day proved.	.	'
4
SCHOLASTI.C,
21
Soil of Honor,
Arrivals. -
.	September 20, 1872.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.]
'	■	SENIORS.
F. H. Bates,	C. A. Berdel,	H. Beckman,
P. J. Cooney,	H. C..Cassidy,	W. J. Clarke,
B. L. Dorsey,	J. E. Devine,	F. B. Devoto,
C. J. Dodge,	W. W. Dodge,	B. W. Drake,
J. C. Eisenman,	T. D. Flanagan,	B. J. Gorman,
J. J. Gillen,	E. B. Gambee, -	E. G. Graves,
J. E. Hogan,	E. Halpin,	J. Harrington,
C. M. Johnson,	T. F. Keenan,	C. M. Karst,
J. E. Kelly,	W. J. Lucas,	J. McGlynn,
E. Morancy,	D. E. Maloney,	E. S. Monahan,
J. W. McAllister,	T. J. Murphy,	J. L. Noonan,
P. O’Meara,	P. J. O’Connell,	T. J. Renshaw,
J.M. Rourke,	H. N. Saylor,	J. J. Smith,
E. L, Spitley,	G. Stack,	R. W. Staley,
G. D. Tobin,	S. F. Valdez,	T. P. White, ’
C. W. Walter,	H. W. Walker.	
	JUNIORS.	-
W. Breen,	F. Bauer,	G. Berdel,
F. Cronin,	J. Caren,	W. Dexter, ■
J. Dore,	F. Egan,	■ H. Enneking,
R. Golsen,	J. Golsen,	L. 0. Hibben,
H. Hunt,	E. Holt,	A. Kleine,
J. Lynch,	F. McOsker,	T. McGee,
J. Mullarky,	S. Marks,	J. Marks,
J. McGrath,	E. Milburn,	F. Miller,
W. Meyer,	V. McKinnan,	J. McHugh,
J. McDermott,	H. Nlrdlinger,	D. O’Connell,
J. O’Connell,	W. Pollard,	J. Quill,
A. Reid,	C. Ruger,	J. Stubbs,
D. Salazar,	J. Shanks,	N. Vanamee,
S. Wise,	J. Wanbaugh, .	H. Zuber.
J. F. Edwards, Secretarg.
Eddie C. Knowles, Augustus T. Chapoton, William A. Chapoton, John D. McCormick, A. W. Taggart, Frank Chase, Levi Burridge, John Hooper, John McGinnis, .
. Bonifacio Baca, Louis P. Campau, William McMahon,. William Gavitt, Joseph Minogue, Joseph Langenderfer, Walter Ranstead,
Seneca, Kansas.
Detroit, Michigan. -
Detroit, Michigan. Lancaster, Ohio.	.
Zanesville, Ohio,
• Chicago, Illinois.
Benton Harbor, Michigan.
South Bend, Indiana.
Ottawa, Hlinois.
Fort Stanton, New Mexico.
Detroit, Michigan.
Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
•Evansville, Indiana.
Chicago, Illinois.
New York City, New York. • Terre Coupee, Indiana.
Personal,
Class Honors,
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned' every fourth week, conformably to the fol’ lowing arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modern Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]
'	FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER, 20.
Bro. Irenaeus is teaching in Fort Wayne.
Prof. Lyons made his usual trip to Chicago last Wednesday.
Mr. F. C. Bigelow has gone to Memramcook, New Brunswick, with Very Rev. Father Lefebvre.
Rev. P. P. Cooney has returned from Watertown, Wis., and reports all well and prosperous in that interesting locality.
Rev. Father Golovin is now with Father Corby in Watertown. Mr. Tighe, Brothers Marcellinus and Gabriel are also of the Watertown delegation.
Rev. Father P. Louth has just arrived with his companions. He is looking exceedingly well, at which we rejoice.	'
We regret that Master H. Quan was obliged to return home on account of illness, and hope he will soon be well and back with us. '
We caught a passing glimpse of Mr. J. Dillon of Chicago, .last Sunday. He-looks as natural as when he was a boy at Notre Dame.	.	,
I	'	.
A Union Ticket Office for South Send,
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Senior Class.—E. B. Gambee, • D. J. Hogan.-	.
Junior.—T. P. White.
Freshmen.—J. Eisenman, C. W. Walter, T. J. Murphy, J E. Hogan, C. Berdel. .
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Senior Class.—P. O’Connell.
Sophomore.—W. J. Clarke, R.	.
Staley, L. Hayes, D. Maloney, Sophomore.—W. Dodge.
C. Dodge.
Freshmen.—E. G. Graves, Boyle, E. S. Monahan.
j
New Church.—The walls of the new church are complete, except those of the steeple. It already has an imposing appearance, and will when finished add not a little to enhance the beauty of the place.
Mr. E. L. Abbott, of South Bend, formerly proprietor of the St. Joseph Hotel, is engaged canvassing ,for the signatures of the citizens of South Bend and vicinity with a view to establish a Bailway Union Ticket Office in the latter city. The undertaking is praiseworthy, and already fully seconded by hundreds of influential citizens. Several cities of no greater importance than South Bend enjoy already the privilege of such a ticket office. We hope that Mr. Abbott will meet with approval from the liberal managers of the various railroads. So far as we are concerned we think that such a ticket office is. much needed, and hope that the enterprise will prove successful in the
'hands of Mr. E. L. Abbott.	'
A reporter writing up a wreck at sea, said that no less than thirteen unfortunates bit the dust.	'
22	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Society Reports.
THESPIAN SOCIETY.
The Thespians have reorganized and are preparing for the 13th of October. At a recent meeting the following officers were elected:
Practitioner—T. F. O'Mahouy, B.S.
President—T. L. Watson.
Vice-President—D. E. Maloney.
Recording Secretary—J. C. Eisenman.
Corresponding Secretary—E. B. Gambee.
Treasurer—H. W. Walker.	-
After the election of officers, several gentlemen, after conforming to the requirements of the Association, were admitted to membership. -E. B. Gambee, Cot'. Sec.
Notics of Publication;
Prof. Lockyer’s “Elements of Astronomy.”—The American edition of Lockyer’s “Elements of Astronomy,” just published by D. Appleton, & Co., ably supplies the want of a practical treatise on Astronomy, which has long been felt. It is at once clear, practical and compressed, though containing all the new discoveries in this branch of science. The many fine cuts with which the book is illustrated gives it an additional charm. Prof. Lockyer is a member of the Astronomical Society of London, and is one-of the most distinguished astronomers of our day. We sincerely recommend this excellent text-book, which we now use in preference to any other.
We have received from Messrs. D. Appleton & Co. the Educational Record for 1872. It.contains much interesting matter for teachers, and is illustrated with several fine engravings. A list of the school and college text books published by the Appletons is appended.
. Salmagundi.
■ Don’t steal soap.
Where is Maud ?
The pears are apparently scarce.
The lakes always have the blues.
TftE church is progressing rapidly.
. Bagshaw died a miserable death.
. “ Idleness is the rust of the soul.”
, “ Does your brother like cheese ?”
“ Sand-burrs ” are stickers, surely.	.
“ Slow and sure” is the motto of oxen.
A grave mistake—burying a man alive.
The.big bell preserves a sullen silence.
The Junior ball-alley has a plank floor.
- Chemistry is to have a new apartment.
■ Peaches have been very plenty this year.
The roof of the College is undergoing repairs.
The ranks are fast swelling. New arrivals daily.
. The Seniors’ promenade has been “levelled up.” “ Sin can alone the freeman make a slave.”—Dante.
A “drive-well” is being sunk in the Juniors’ yard.
Overcoats were in great demand last week.
Two trees in front of the College are pining away.
When is a man al ways in pain ? When he is a king.
The Juniors’ gymnasium has a floor, as has the Minims.
Jones wants to know who could have takenhis umbrella?
At what time of day was Adam created ?—A little be-	"
fore Eve.	,
“Shave your whiskers with the. scissors,” says a youngster.
The ruins of melons are to be seen on every side; great1	1
is the destruction thereof.
The weather has been propitious to the chills: we were agoing to say that a rainy season had begun.
“Is Cats to be Trusted?” was the subject of an essay by
Artemus Ward.
More of the old students are returning than usual, and are preparing for earnest work.
The ground around the Exhibition-Hall has been raised.
Tuesday' and Saturday are two auspicious days, because in Ulis diebus the sick( ?) are healed.
There should be iron railings at the sides of the steps in front of the College.
Somebody eat half a water-melon and complained that he felt a “ little indisposed.”	_
The yard at the back of the house is being cleared up.
Who will say it didn’t need it?	.	.
Two cats made “ night hideous ” in a certain quarter, one night last week.	.	,	. -
Mosquito bars are said to be a sure preservative against small-pox.
“Not to enjoy our being is to be ungrateful to the	'
Author of it.”
Why is the figure nine like a peacock? Because it’s noth- . ing without the tail.
Think, thank, thunk, were once given as the principal parts of the verb to think at an examination of. young grammarians.	.	-
“ If ye have anything to say, say it; and if ye haven’t, howld yer jaw,” was the way in which an Irishman called • a meeting to order. J
In a sermon upon the baseness of base-ball, the preacher warming with the occasion, asked, “ Would a dying sinner -	\
play base-ball on his death-bed?”	•
An Irishman’s blessing: “ May your path through life always be flowery, and may you live to eat the hen that ‘ will scratch on your grave.”	.
True.—One of the students, while engaged in a game of	1
ball the other day, underwent a sudden transformation
and became like “ an earthen vessel,”—a pitcher.	.
A certain gentleman asserts that he attended school • seven months last winter. A long winter that! Three • months suits us.
It is remarked that some individuals are prone to lead . j the ranks when going to meals, but on all other occasions	"
love “ to bring up the rear.”	i
A certain young man went to two balls’in one evening.	J
THE SCHOLASTIC.
23
The second was when he came home, and the “ old man ’’ called the dances.
The climate of a certain Western State is said to be so healthy that if you cut your finger you have only to hold it out-doors in the air a while and it is healed.
We hear the Minims are to have their new play-hall fitted up; and with lunch every day, who wouldn’t be a Minim?
We have heard nothing relative to the Standard, the Gem, and the Owl. Did last session behold the alpha and omega of their publication ?
The rhinoceros of a travelling circus refused to dance the other day at Red Bud, ID., and showed his displeasure in many ways. It is said this moral beast neither smokes nor chews.
A small farmer in a remote part of the countiy refused to buy a sewing machine. He said that he sowed his wheat out of a bucket.
An Irish coroner, in remarking on the great mortality of a certain winter, went 'on to observe that “ there are a great many people dying this year who never died before.”
An inquiring citizen of Madison, Ind., thrust his fingers into a horse’s mouth to see how many teeth he had. The horse closed his mouth to see how many fingers the man had. The curiosity of each was fully satisfied.
A young man on the street, being charged with being lazy, was asked if he took it from his father. “I think not,” said the disrespectful son; “father’s got all the laziness he ever had.”
CrotalidxE.—Whilst walking in the garden by the music hall, Bro. Ferdinand saw and secured a young rattlesnake, which he succeeded in putting alive into a bottle. While thus secured, though not a perfect, it is a very interesting specimen.
Blockaded.—The road behind the new church, leading through the vineyard to St. Mary’s, has been blockaded, so that .travellers are obliged to pass by the other fork of the road. No doubt the blockade will soon be removed.
Ie we are properly informed, the “ study-hall faculty ” will not be organized this year. We cannot give the particulars as to the whys and wherefores. The affairs of this honorable body were never disclosed, but kept as they should be, to themselves. Others may copy.
It is true that persons inclined to lead the ranks to dinner are just as apt to have the Spring-fever in the FaU as in the Spring. It is the only disease that has effectually baffled the skill of physicians. A “ hickory-sprout ” once most effectually cured us.
A colored man was once asked why he did not. get married. “ Why, you see, sab,” said he, “ I got an ole mudder, and I had to do fur her, you see, sab, an’ ef I didn’t buy her shoes an’ stockins, she wouldn’t get none* Now, ef I was to get married, I’d have to buy dem tings for my wife, an’ dat’ud be taking de shoes ’an stockin’s right out er my old mudder’s mouth.”
A broom with a heavy handle was sent as a wedding gift to a bride, with the following sentiment:
“ This trifling gift accept from me, Its use I would commend;
In sunshine use the brushy part, In storms the.other end.”
SAINT MART’S ACADEMY.
Saint Mary’s Academy, September 22, 1872.
ARRIVALS.
Cairo, Illinois.
Cincinnati, Ohio. Chicago, Illinois. Toronto, Canada. Toronto, Canada. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Burlington, Iowa. Joliet, Illinois. Joliet, Illinois.
Muskegon, Michigan. Muskegon, Michigan. Huntington, Indiana. Joliet, Illinois..
Laporte, Indiana. Chicago, Illinois, Chicago, Illinois..
Miss M. Lyons, “ M. J. Riley, “ K. Casey, “ A. Church, “ E. L. Orton, “ A. Lynch, “ R. McKeaver, “ N. Foote, “ N. Langdon, -“ A. Smith, “ M. Lange, “ E. Lange, “ L. Scheiber, “ M. J. Layfield, “ L. Forrester, “ R. Hooley, “ G. Hooley,
TABLE OP HONOR—SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, D. Green, M. Comer, L. Black, A. Lloyd, M. Quan, B. Reynolds, L..Ritchie, B. Grace, I. Tucker, R. Finley, C. Creveling.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class.—Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, M. Lassen, A. Mast, A. Shea, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, J. Walker. • ■.	- -
First Senior.—Misses M. Kearney, A. Clarke, V.Ball, I. Reynolds, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spiers, D. Green, L. West, G: Crapser, M. Comer, L. Black.
Second Senior.—Misses A. Lloyd, M. Princei, I. Wilder, M. Quan, B. Reynolds, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, L. Daly, B. Grace, J. Tucker, K. Finley.
Third Senior.—Misres C. Creveling, N. Ball, G. Walton, E. White, J. Fanning, A. Keelme, A. Clarke, L. Weinreich, M. Riley, J". Noonan.
First Preparatory.—Misses A. Hambleton, M. Roberts, J. Walsh, E. Wade, B. Wade, R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, K. Miller, E. Crawford, F. Rush, M. Quill, N. McAuliffe, L. Ritchie, E. Ives, A. Reid, M. Roberts, E. Quinlan.
Second Preparatory.—Misses E. Burney, M. Holcomb, H. Newton, A. Eby, K. Hossler,.J. Connors, M. Dillon, A. Stockton, S. Smith, S. Chenoweth, I. Hatch,. M. White L. Hull, D. Simmons, L. Beckman.
Third Preparatory.—Misses J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. McMahon, A. Monroe, A. Tucker, M. Lyons, H. Miller.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Senior.—Miss E. Richardson.
First Preparatory.—Misses L. Tinsley, M. Faxon.
Second Preparatory.—Misses E . Parker, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelley. .
Third Preparatory.—N. Vigil.
First Junior.—M. Brown, M. Walsh, J. Thompson, B. Hessler, A. Noel, A. Burney.
Second Junior.—A. Paulsen, B. Pfeiffer, E. Jackson, E. Lappin, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, K. Bolton, D. Allen, E. Hessler, M. Lowry.
Third Junior.—Misses M. Hughes,JC. Hughes, N. Lloyd
24
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Advertise in The Scholastic.
We have concluded to take a limited number of choice advertisements this year, should our business friends conclude to patronize us in this department.
This arrangement, however, will not interfere with the reading matter, as we propose printing the advertisements on a separate sheet, to serve as a cover to the present Scholastic. This will be done as soon as a sufficient number of advertisements are secured.
ADVEHTIStXG RATES.
1 page....-......;....§150	i % column............§	30
1 column............... 80	% column.............. 18
14 column.............. 59	11-1G column.......... 10
Advertisements for a shorter time than one year, at proportionate rates. Address Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
WOOD’S HOUSEHOLD MAGAZINE.
AGENTS may learn something greatly to their advantage and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing
Wood’s Literary and Art Agency,
Newburgh. New York.
UKIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1S66, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad,
it Is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	--	$500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	--	--	-- 10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	200
Drawing, -	-------15 GO
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, ----------	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C.S.C.,
President.
OLD. RE LI AB EE AND POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE WEST.
(See Classification of Railways by Board of Railway Commissioners.)
The Shortest, Best and Quickest Route
FROM
CHICAGO TO SAINT LOUIS,
Wl t lionl; Change of Cars.
CWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad.-ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
t6:30 plm.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
ARRIVE.
*8:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*9:40'a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
E7:15 a.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
WITHOUT CHANGE. Time only 11 Hours.
The only Line running Pullman Palace Sleeping .Cars between Chicago and St. Louis.
Close Connections in St. Louis for all points in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado and California. The Direct Route and the onlv all rail route to Memphis, Vicksburg, Mobile, New Orleans, and all points South.
Avoid a long Steamboat Transfer of Tweney-Five Miles, and changes of Cars by taking this Route.
Pullman Palace Cars run on this Route only from Chicago to New Orleans, with but one change.
Louisiana, Mo., New Short Route. Chicago to Kansas City via Chicago & Alton and North Missouri Railroads, passing through Bloomington and Jacksonville, DI., and crossing the Mississippi at Louisiana, Mo.
The best Short Route, from Chicago to Kansas City, without change of Cars.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
The only Line running these Cars between Chicago and St. Louis, and Chicago and Kansas City.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
PEOSILVASIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
SUMMER ARRANGEMENT.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend as follows: GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 1130 a. m.	Arrive at Buffalo 4.25 a. m	
“	“	12.53 p. m.	<c	“	4.30 a. in
“	“	9.18 p. m.	cc	“	2.00 p. m
“	“	12 35 a. m.	Ct	5.25 p. m
“	“	8.50 p. m.	Ct	“	6.50 p. in
GOING	WEST.	
Leave South Bend 4 30	p.	m.
“	“	3.15	a.	m.
“	“	4.40	a.	m.
“	“	5 28	p	m.
“	“	G.35	a.	m.
Arrive at Chicago 8.00 p. m “	“	6.50	a.	m
“	“	7.25	a.	m
“	“	10.00	p.	m
“	“	10.30	a.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
jgy- Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than Sonth Bend time.
J. H. DEVEREUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
JNO. Desmond, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago, HL
J W. Cary. General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
C. Morse, General Passenger Agent, Chicago, Illinois.
E.	C. Oviatt, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
A. J. White, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING. To Lafayette and. Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights. G.39 a. m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.4G a. m.: 9.25 p. m.
Freights, 1.00 a.m.; 4.48a.m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without' Change.
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington City.
ON and after June 1, 1872, the 9 pm. train from Chicago arrives in
New York at 11.30 a.m. the second day, 1^4 hour in advance of any Other route ; witii corresponding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Sun-mys.
The 5.15 p.m train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6 41 a m. the second morning, 1J4 hour in advance of any other line This train has an elegant Silver Palace Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia aud New York without change.
The 9 a.m. train from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with Pullman Palace Cars attached. Through between Chicago and New York, without change. 3% hours in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line offers this advantage.
Trains from Chicago to Cleveland via Crestline and “ Bee ” Line, connecting at Cleveland with trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at- Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office, 65 Clark Street, and at the .Passenger Depot, corner Madison and Canal Streets. Chicago.
THOMAS L. SCOTT, President
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Ass’t Sup’t, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F.	R. MYERS, Gon’lPass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.
I