Votre Dame Scholastic.
Dlsce quasi semper vleturus; vlve quasi eras morltiurus. -
Volume XIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 21, 1881.
Number 35.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.	F. W. Bloom, ’81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.	H. C. Simms, ’83.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.	W. H. Arnold, ’82.
W. B. McGorrisk, ’82.	R. E. Fleming, ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.	J. P. O’Neill, ’83.
Wild Flowers.
BY A. M. KIRSCH.
“ ’Tia now that the white violets steal out, the spring to greet. And that among his longed-for showers Narcissus smiles so sweet Tis now that lilies, upland bom, frequent the slopes of green, And that tire flower that lovers love, of all the flowers the queen, Without an equal anywhere in full-blown glows;
Thou knowst it well, Zenophile! Persuasion’s flower—the rose.
Again returning spring has decked the earth with flowers; on the mountain, in the forest, by rocks, and where the brooklets flow, everywhere kind nature has strewn the earth with her living gems. Ask the breeze and he will tell you that he has
“ Slept in the lily’s fragrant bell;
Kissed the rose in its blushing pride, Till his breath the dew from its lips has dried; ----stolen away, on his silken wing, The violets scent in the early spring.
----hung over groves, where the citron grows, And the clust’ring bloom of the orange blows.”
In this beautiful month, the fairest of the year, nature extends to all a most cordial invitation, to consider for a moment her little wonders on the mountain, on the hill and in the dale. Let us accept this kind invitation and wander to yonder bank of a rippling brooklet, where clustered around its edges are the favorite children of kind Mother Flora. Let us contemplate the beauties and delicacies of things most lovely and fair which God has given to man for his enjoyment.	.
“Beautiful gems! that on the brow of earth
Are fixed as in a queenly diadem:
Though lovely ye, and most without a name, Young hearts rejoice to see your buds come forth ' As light erewhile into the world came.—
I love ye all.”
Here, then, we have arrived in a most delightful spot. And what is the flower that greets us first? Its name is not poetic; it is the simple and unassuming “liverwort.” You see it everywhere, looking at you with its beautiful deep blue dyes, wondering why all the rest of flowers are
not of its own color. You may know this flower by its peculiar-formed leaves, which are three lobed, and all radical except three leaflets, which form an involucre just below the flower, and taken by inexperienced botanists for the calyx of the flower. Close by the side of this you may see one that is not very much different in the eyes of a botanist,—in fact, it belongs to the same family, and nearly the same kind; it is the rue anemond. Its small white flowers are very delicate, and are all arranged in an umbel on the top of the stem. Side by side with it grows the blood-root,—a very sanguinary name for such a delicate flower. This flower has secured the name of blood-root from the color of the juice found in all parts of the plant; the flower itself is of the purest white, and is solitary on the flower-stalk which rises from the root; the leaf, which is always only one, is rounded and variously cleft Here and there in the grass are seen the flowers, which “ allure to their group the wise ones, who bow to that virtue which seeks not the praise of the crowd ’’—the violets. Tnere are many species of violets, of which the pansy, or “Johnny-jump-up,” is the most extensively cultivated in gardens. Some people would think that violets should be all violet in color; but this is not so: there are some white, others yellow, and some blue. The three most common wild violets are the viola cucuHata and viola pedata, or the “ common blue violet ” and the “the bird-footed violet,” and besides these the yellow violet, known by the common name of downy violet.
Early in spring may be found the two interesting plants of toothwort and bitter cress, both belonging to the cress family. But by far the most beautiful flower of early spring is the trillium, with its three wide-spreading green leaves, and above those three smaller sepals, enclosing, as if for protection, the three large snowy-white petals, ruffled on the edge, and painted with most delicate lines of pink down to their very base; it is indeed such a very vision of loveliness as must be seen to be fully appreciated and understood. Side by side with the latter grows the trillium grandiflorum, or “white-wake robin.” It is not so handsome as its peerless sister, but yet it is not less in teresting to many, and there are not a few lovers of flowers that would, champion its beauty. It has a few qualities that make it far superior to other flowers.
“ Short is the rose’s bloom: another mom Will show no rose, bnt in its stead a thorn.”
As other flowers grow older, they decay and gradually lose their splendor; but this “trillium” grows prettier with the advancing days of its bloom. In its early stage, it is robed in the purest white; after a time, this cheery little being, for reasons unknown, blushes all over with a beautiful rose-pink color. This flower is sometimes called the wild lily; and since it is so lovely in its simplicity, it
554	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is not without good reason that we are commanded by Him “ who doeth all things well ” to “ consider the lilies.” But what is more lovely than the “ spring beauty,” so true to its name? I doubt whether among all the fair children of spring there is one more delicate in texture and growth. See it, with its drooping head, as it reclines against a weak blade of grass, its own tiny stem scarcely strong enough to support itself! But it is much more lovely. Its petals are simply wonderfully woven. There is nothing more delicate in texture or color. Gazing fixedly at it, a person would imagine that now and then a light rose-colored blush suffuses the pale cheeks of the lovely flower, mak. ing it still more charming. It was first discovered by Clayton, in Virginia, and named accordingly C'layionia Virginica.
“Beautiful nurslings of the early dew, Fanned in your loveliness by every breeze.
Hove ye all!”
Already the “ trailing arbutus,” epigaa repens, has made its appearance, some two miles north of the College. Its flowers seem to be'made of pure white wax, and the perfume they emit is so rich that their presence may be discovered almost a mile off. A few days ago, I met in my rambles the beautiful and interesting “ painted cup.” This is a most curious plant. What people generally take for the flower are but the scarlet-colored leaves of the spiked blossoms, which are so thick on the stalk that they completely hide the real flowers.
A marsh is a sacred place to a botanist; for there he always meets most interesting objects for his study. Here is the home of the blue-flag, the brilliant “cardinal flower,” the “ swamp culla,” etc., etc.
“Beautiful flowers! to me ye fresher seem
- From the Almighty hand, that fashioned all, Than those that flourish by a garden wall; And I can imagine you, as in a dream, Fair modest maidens, nursed in hamlets small.
I love ye all! ”
Perhaps some of my readers have never read L. H. Sigourney’s “ Lady Flora’s Poetry ”; therefore, I will give one of its most interesting passages:
“Themodest Clematis appeared as a bride,
And her husband, the Lilac, ne’er moved from her side.
Though the belles giggled loudly, and said: ‘ ’Twas a shame For a young married chit such attention to claim;
They never attended a rout in their life, Where a city-bred man ever spoke to his wife.’ Miss Peony came in quite late, in a heat, With the Ice-Plant, new spangled from forehead to feet, Lobelia, attired like a queen in her pride,
And the Dahlias, with trimmings new furnished and dyed; Aud the Blue-Bells and Hare-bells, in simple array, With all their Scotch cousins from island and brae;
Ragged Robins and Marigolds clustered together, And gossiped of scandal, of news and the weather;
What dresses were worn at the wedding so fine;
Of sharp Master Thistle and sweet Columbine;
Of the loves of sweet William, and Lily the prude, Till the clamor of Babel again seemed renewed.
In a snug little nook sat the Jessamine pale, And that pure fragrant Lily, the gem of the vale; The meek Mountain-Daisy, with delicate crest, And the violet, whose eye told the heaven in her breast; And allured to their group were the wise ones, who bowed To that virtue which seeks not the praise of the crowd.
But the proud Crown-Imperial, who wept in her heart That their modesty gained of such homage a pari, Looked haughtily down on their innocent mien,
And spread out her gown that they might not be seen. The bright Lady-Slippers and Sweet-Briers agreed, With their slim cousin Aspens, a measure to lead ; And sweet ’twas to see their bright footsteps advance, Like the wing of the breeze through the maze of the dance. But the Monk’s-hood scowled dark, and, in utterance low, Declared, "Twas high time for good Christians to go.’ A song was desired, but each musical flower Had ‘taken a cold, and ’twas out of her power’;
Till sufficiently urged, they broke forth in a strain Of quavers and trills that astonished the train. Mimosa sat trembling, and said, with a sigh, ‘ ’Twas so fine, she was ready with rapture to die.’ And Cactus, the grammar-school tutor, declared, ‘ It might be with the Gamut of Orpheus compared ’;
Then moved himself round in a comical way, To show how the trees once had frisked at the lay. Yet night-shade, the metaphysician, complained That the nerves of his ear were excessively pained!
‘ ’Twas but seldom he crept from the college,’ he said, ‘ And he wished himself safe in his study or bed.’ There were pictures, whose splendor illumined the place, Which Flora had finished with exquisite grace; She had dipped her free pencil in nature’s pure dyes, And Aurora retouched with fresh purple the skies.
So the grave connoisseurs hastened near them to draw, Their knowledge to show, by detecting a flaw. The Carnation her eye-glass drew forth from her waist, And pronounced they were ‘ not in good keeping or taste ’; While prim Fleur-de-lis, iff her robe of French silk, And magnificent calla, with mantle like milk, Of the Louvre recited a wonderful tale, And said ‘ Guido’s rich tints make Dame Nature turn pale.’ The Snow-drop assented, and ventured to add His opinion, that ‘ all nature’s coloring was bad ’; He had thought so, e’er since a few days he had spent To study the paintings of Rome, as he went To visit his uncle Gentiana, who chose His abode on the Alps, ’mid a palace of snows;
But he took on Mount-Blanc such a terrible chill, That ever since that he’d been pallid and ill. Half-withered Miss Hackmatack bought a new glass, And thought with her nieces, the Spruces, to pass; But Bachelor Holly, who spied her out late, Destroyed all her plans by a hint at her date.
So she pursed up her mouth, and said tartly with scorn: ‘ She could not remember before she was born.’
Old Jonquil, the crooked-backed beau, had been told That a tax would be laid upon Bachelor’s gold;
So he bought a new coat, and determined to try The long disused armor of Cupid so sly; Sought for half-opened buds in their infantine years And ogled them all, till they blushed to their ears. Philosopher Sage on a sofa was prosing, With dull Doctor Chamomile quietly dozing, Though the Laurel decanted, with eloquent breath, Of heroes and battles, of victory and death. Farmer Sunflower was near, and decidedly spake Of ‘ the poultry he fed, and the oil he might make ’ ; For the true-hearted soul deemed a weather-stained face And a toil-hardened hand were no marks of disgrace. Then he beckoned his nieces to rise from their seat, The plump Dandelion and Cowslip so neat.”
—Joel Taylor, the oldest letter-carrier in the United States, died on May 8th, at Manchester, N. H., at the age of 63 years. He began to carry letters in 1849, and with the exception of four years, carried them continuously until his death.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	555
Thomas Carlyle.
[At a time when nearly all the magazines and papers of the land are running over with fulsome adulation of one who, although possessing singular talent as a terse and observant writer, was not in any sense of the wrnrd a very great man, it was a relief to come across such a sensible critique as that of Margaret F. Sullivan in The Dial, and we laid it by for reproduction. Carlyle in his own household was like a half-tamed bear, although in a measure happy in the possession of an angelic wife whose patience was equal to the strain which her husband placed upon it; as a writer, be was gifted with a poetic talent above the common, which displays itself throughout his writings and gives a pleasing aspect to what was positively ugly. Uncouth in manner, Carlyle’s writings possess a ruggedness, a poetic ruggedness not often met with. To us, Carlyle was readable,—nothing more; we never doted on him, or hung upon his sentences as we would occasionally upon those of Emerson, whom Carlyle in some respects resembles. We found Carlyle often deceptive in his representations, and having once lost confidence in him the charm was broken. But it is not our intention to write a critique of Carlyle; were we to do so we would undoubtedly be set down as harsh and unjust, so we will give one milder than what ours would be, and superior to anything which we could have written.] -
Critic, historian, poet,—light-giving to the uttermost point of the distance reached by his rays; gruff and growling, from the first day of his career to the last,—the constellation of the Great Bear may be said to have disappeared from the heavens of English literature.
It is a little too soon to say so calm a thing of this tempestuous man as that he who attempts to construct a theory of opinion for him will find Carlyle himself the great obstacle in the road. The reflections of his unique luminousness is yet bright on the clouds that have begun to gather between this world and him; and it is difficult to anticipate the tranquil comment of those whose eyes will be undimmed^by the glare of his living brilliancy. Yet it is true that the reputation of Carlyle has reached and passed its highest point. The dramatic eccentricity of his life and conduct has given him a larger place in the attention of his contemporaries than his writings will secure from those who will read them freed from that spell. Doubtless it is audacity to venture such an assertion; the grounds for it lie in the relation which consistency of convictions holds to permanent rank in literature and, therefore, to permanent reputation.
The prominence which a figure has in the age in which its life is productively active is no assurance that its place is not to be vacated for another equally aggressive, which will come forth from the future. This generation has constantly judged Carlyle not only by the startling sensationalism of what he had already said about men and events, but by its own piquant anticipation of what he was likely to say about things and personages to come. The element of piquancy will be wanting in the future criticism of the man and his thought. His books will be read as are those of all others who have written and passed away.
The present judges thought largely by its costume. The early Eastern kings whose richness of royal robes deceived their subjects into the belief that they were monarchs of all the globe, have scarcely left names upon the stones which proclaim their impotency to oblivion. The appar
ently immense fame which Carlyle has enjoyed during his long life has been acquired too much by the costuming in in barbaric magnificence of many series of thoughts whose gorgeous and fantastic adornment was well designed to ’ blind his age into a delusion concerning their real value-There is a constitutional hidden consumptiveness in the thought of Carlyle upon every topic on which he has written; and the disease will not be perceived by those who have read only a portion of hrs writings. Carlyle was so truly and unconsciously a poet that he never detected the difference between rhetoric and reason.
He is the greatest’ rhetorician the English language can boast. His logical sense was so feeble and spasmodic in its vitality that it is generally inefficient. The vast scope of his imagination, the minuteness, the vivacity, the grace, the beauty, the force of his fancy, made him unmindful of the objective in affairs and in ideas. He saw what he supposed were facts;—they were only visions. He elaborated what he dreamed were coherent systems of opinion in religion, in statesmanship, in philosophy; his dreams were so bright, so graphic, so picturesque, that he never woke up from one except to enter upon another. The strange phenomenon has been presented from time to time of the partisans of antagonistic schools of politics and theology claiming him with equal energy as their own. Nor was this spectacle without warrant. Whatever dream was upon the fancy of Carlyle, he dreamed with the intensity of genius absorbed in its creative consciousness; and so extraordinary were his powers of depiction that he has left testimony exceedingly persuasive to almost every creed held by mankind.
He derided evolution; he sneered at what he called the pretensions of modern science; he esteemed practical scientists as highly as the venders of medical nostrums; yet, when the eye of his fancy turned towards the demonstrations which science has coaxed from the clod and torn from the rock, he was so true a poet that he paid unconscious homage to what a moment before he had reviled. “ All science,” he says, “ swims as a mere superficial film.” Of the creation, “atheistic science babbles poorly. . . with scientific nomenclatures, experiments and what-not, as if it were a poor dead thing, to be bottled up in Leyden jars and sold over counters ” ; then, ceasing to be critic, and yielding again to the true instinct of the poet, he says in the same essay,—‘ The Hero as Divinity’—Let us consider it very certain that men did believe in Paganism; men with open eyes, sound senses, men altogether like ourselves ; that we, had we been there, should have believed it.” Thus does he confess, as poet, the whole essence of the hypothesis on which modern science rests;—the hypothesis of heredity, environment, and the absence of what in theology is meant by God’s grace. Yet we need go only to the essay on “ The Hero as Priest ” to find Carlyle talking as positively about the grace of God as if he felt it stream from the throne on high into his own quickened heart. He is writing of Martin Luther. “ It must have been a most blessed discovery, that of an old Latin Bible which he found in the Erfurt library about this time. He had never seen the book before. It taught him another lesson than that of fasts and vigils. Luther learned now that a man was saved not by singing Masses but by the infinite grace of God; a more credible hypothesis. He gradually got himself founded as upon a rock.” There are almost as many inconsistencies as assertions here. Did not Carlyle know that the Bible teaches
556	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the lesson of fasts and vigils ? Had not Luther been seeking the grace of God by singing Masses ? And who but a poet would find it possible to speak of the Bible as a rock? Has it not been the sands on which all conflicting sects have been shifted upon one another ?—the quicksands in which thousands upon thousands of honest minds have sank to rise no more from skepticism and doubt ? But the poet in Carlyle had the vision of Luther before him; the rhetoric of Carlyle carried him along into unconscious and inevitable inconsistency while making his vision apparent to others.
If we return to his essay on “ The Hero as Divinity ” we shall find, however, that he was not a Lutheran—although that term is vague enough,—nor an evangelical in even a vaguer way, but a Pantheist. “ Worship,” he writes, “is transcendent wonder,”—that is mere rhetoric;—“ wonder for which there is now no limit or measure ”; that is worship. “ To those primeval men, all things and everything they saw exist beside them were an emblem ”—this is a specimen of Carlyle’s supreme contempt for rules of grammar,—“ of the Godlike, of some God. And look what perennial fibre of truth was in that. To us, also, through every star, through every blade of grass, is not a God made visible, if we will but open our minds and eyes ? ” On this and similar passages the accusation of pantheism lies against Carlyle; but it is surely meagrely sustained. Precisely what he believed as to the origin or destiny of man, it is impossible to affirm for him, since he did not affirm it for himself; but the passage quoted is not theology, it is only poetry. Wordsworth has written dozens of such fancies; but he loved the ritual of the Anglican Church, and never forgave Frederick William Faber for abandoning it.
The social origin of Carlyle, and the conditions which walled his youth frowningly about, had much to do with the peculiar constitution of his mind. Persecution has crushed everything, except piety and prejudices. The law of moral and intellectual descent is far from established, and its advocates claim too much for it; but Carlyle is one of its witnesses. His blood had the heat of the covenanters in it; in his bone was the grit of the Presbyterians who had prayed on the side of the mountain cliff while the king’s soldiers levelled their arms from the opposite side of the chasm. From this sturdy stock he did not inherit reverence enough to become a minister; and, unlike many ministers who are able to reconcile a secret, gradual deliquescence of heterodox faith with an open annual increase of orthodox salary, he hurt his pious parents to the soul by refusing to be ordained after going through the preface to the holy state. If education had thus cooled the ardor of his devotion, there was enough fire left in its ashes to make him dislike avowed atheism, and to enable him to hate valiantly all other creeds. The waning spirit of his humble and God-fearing forefathers resided in him; it had suffered considerable modification under influences of speculation and analysis; and what it lost in theology of the old, grim, persevering type, it gained in poetical feeling.
The poetry of his nature suffused everything upon which his eyes fell. That he was once“gemal in soul, is clear from his essay on Burns; but the long, dismal, discouraging wait he had outside the front door of the world’s consideration embittered his kindliness and made his sublime egotism take on a fixed aspect of derision and contempt towards his fellow-men. When fame came to him at last, he was somewhat in the position of Johnson after Chesterfield had undertaken to become his patron in order to secure
the dedication of his dictionary. While Carlyle was begging the friendship of men, he failed to get it; after he had conquered their admiration, he might ask, as Johnson did, whether a patron was he who, when a man was struggling in the water, refused to stretch forth a hand to save him, but after he has reached dry land, embarrasses him with help. Had success come to Carlyle earlier, he would perhaps have escaped from his own narrow self-introspection and walked abroad in the free and healthy world, seeing things as all men see them who are not morbid, and sympathizing with the aspirations of mankind for expansion and advancement.
The want of this sympathy will be injurious to his later fame. There are to be no more surprises from his wonderworking pen. He is done astounding all writers of English with a style, in lucid moments the best, and in fitful convulsions the worst, in our literature. He will be read hereafter less for his blazing pictures of revolution, less for his marvellous idealisms of strong and wicked men into heroes and divinities, less for his gigantic power of pictorial sketches of character,—all false, yet all symmetrical and self-consistent in their untruth;—than for the simple essence of pure moral truth in his writings. And what will the slowly accumulating judgment of the future be ? Is it rash to characterize it? Will it not be that he did not feel any difference between rhetoric and reason ? That he did not perceive that poetry is not fact ? That he was incapable of writing history because he had too much imagination, and unconsciously confounded his own personality with that of the chiefs whom he selected as sitters for his frames ? And, the essay on Burns aside, what one of all his books will the heart of mankind lay closely to itself and cherish? He has aggrandized the mean, the vicious, the brutal. He has spent the noble genious of his faculties in robing splendidly some of the most ignoble figures in history. He has affronted the truest feelings in the un spoiled human soul by mad arguments against brotherhood and equality before God and kings. His sneers have been poured over the best proceedings of humanity; his sinister smiles have cast a glow upon what the instincts of humanity sicken at. The almost delirious advocate of sheer force as the worthiest thing in the world, his sanity has sometimes been questioned by irritated flippancy, which has not reflected that there is so much difference between reason and rhetoric that half the people who read never discover it.
Carlyle is the greatest inventor of half-truths the world has become acquainted with. He has made more epigrams and wittier ones than any other man. The witty half-truth is bewildering and fascinating because of its wit; but the forgotten half of the truth is sure to overtake and expose it.
—The “ Reliques ” of Father Prout can never possess a wide or general popularity. He must depend for the endurance of his fame upon a few curiously quaint songs of his own, and translations from the French, chiefly from Beranger; though even on this field, when he comes into competition with Thackeray, he is left far behind. His best things will be treasured and admired like those collections of quaintly, sometimes grotesquely, precious snuffboxes of the days in which he wrote.—E. R.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	557
Art, Music and Literature.
—Angelo Newman, the Leipsic manager, has purchased the exclusive right of performing the “ Nibelungen Tetralogy ” in France, England, America and Russia, until the year 1886.
—The manuscript of “ St. Agnes’ Eve,” and of several other productions of the poet Keats, are owned by Dr. Valeriani of Rome. The “ Eve of St. Agnes ” is written on long thin paper and contains many changes and variations.
—Rubenstein’s “Tower of Babel” is described in the London World. - The drama, it says, represents the tower almost completed, and Nimrod boasting of his power to enter heaven and unravel the secrets of creation. Abraham warns him of his folly and is thrown into a furnace, only to be led out by a quartet of angels. Nimrod again makes his boast, Abraham once more defies him, and Nimrod orders him to be thrown from the tower. As the soldiers are about to bear him to the top the tower is shattered by a stroke of lightning and falls. At this point the music is said to be purposely filled with discordant fifths. Double and triple choruses are introduced, a chorus of celestials, one of mortals, and one of demons. The music is cumulative, it grows in its striking effects until it reaches this climax which ends the sacred opera. That which the critic thinks will tell most seriously against the work is the absence of a female solo, and, in consequence, of romantic interest.—Musical Record.
Scientific Notes.
—The Journal of the Franklin Institute says the materials for making every description of fictile ware are found widely distributed in the United States. In 1766 American clay was imported by England. Trials of it by Wedgwood turned out so well that he made arrangements for a regular supply from Ayor, in the country of the Cherokees, about three-hundred miles from Charleston. In 1768 a cargo of Carolina clay reached Liverpool, and the trade became general in the Cherokee and Pensacola clays, Wedgwood apparently giving preference to the latter In 1745 an American had shown Cookworthy specimens of kaolin and petunze found in Virginia, and samples of the wares made from them. The final practical effect of Mr. Cookworthy’s association with the American was the foundation of the English porcelain industry. One hundred, and thirty-two years later the country from which the suggestion came is importing kaolin from that which received it. The clay of Woodbridge was known before the revolution. The soldiers at Perth Amboy called it fuller’s earth, and used it for cleaning their buck-skin breeches.
—Charcoal as an agent for the purification of water not only holds back coloring-matters and decomposes and partially retains most mineral salts and gases, but it absorbs and detains the most varied organic compounds, nitrogenous and non nitrogenous. Claude Bernard first demonstrated its important power of absorbing albumen, a power which increases with the quantity of the latter, with the time of contact, and with the concentration of the liquid to be filtered, and which is more important as the arrested body is held so firmly as not to be removed by solvents. One especial drawback of charcoal is its ready saturation with impurities, so that it requires to be revived or freed from the retained matters, or if this is impracticable, to be renewed altogether. As a substitute for charcoal, various substances have, therefore, been proposed, and among those spongy iron. Dr. L. Lewin has subjected spongy iron to elaborate experiments which show that, when used as a filter, it neither decomposes nor holds back nitrogenous substances in such a manner that they may not be washed out again. The filtrate in one kind of experiment contained numerous bacteria. Odors of putrescent matter were but slightly removed by spongy iron, and plumbiferous waters underwent very little improvement through contact with it.
Exchanges.
—The High-School Bulletin, Lawrence, Mass., is a new exchange to our table, although having reached the eighth number of its second year. This high-school bulletin doesn’t fall far in ability and tone below the level of some of the so-called college organs—the mere mention of which fact is suggestive.
—The Georgetown College Journal for May is, we think, an improvement on its immediate predecessors. “Loq-uax at the Bar ” enlivens it not a little; but if “ Miriam’s” communication had been inserted it would be doubly interesting. “ Ah! ” has taken his fair competitor at a disadvantage. He should give her a chance to vindicate herself and let the public judge for themselves.
—The Western Home Journal, Detroit, Mich., has met with such prosperity that it has had to move into new and more commodious quarters. Mr. Savage, the editor, now has his editorial rooms and printing-office on the second floor of the Post and Tribune building, front, and with the change promises further improvements in his excellent paper—in which we wish.him success and a large patronage.
—The editors of Rouge-et-Noir, the handsome and ably edited paper published by the students of Trinity College, Toronto, entertain hopes of soon being able to issue their paper monthly, instead of quarterly, as it is now. Rouge-et-Noir gives excellent poetry, classically written essays, and has an exchange editor equal to any with whom we have become acquainted, not excepting those of the Williams Athenaeum, The University, College Message, etc. .
—Tke Berkeleyan for May is a good number. It seems journalism and bugology or entomology are slightly at loggerheads in the University of California. “ Short Characterizations of Favorite Authors” is well written, and shows acquaintance with many of the standard authors. “ Charlotte Bronte’s ‘ Jane Eyre ’ ” is the title of the second essay of the number, which we have not had time to read. The exchange department is sensible and spicy.
—The Detroit Free Press, the famous organ of The LimeKiln Club, objects to some of the ideas advanced in a late editorial of the Scholastic—namely, the propriety of giving the cold shoulder and no pennies to papers that seize every opportunity of vilifying you whether you deserve it or not—the New York Hendd, for instance. The Free Press calls it “ boycotting,” but gives the Scholastic credit for recommending this measure in a very mild form. Call it by what name you will, Mr. Free Press, the propriety of such a measure, under the circumstances mentioned, cannot be called in question.
—The Watertown Gazette wag continues his homoeopathic doses to the Watertown folk. His latest advice is: “If you don’t want to be robbed of your good name, don’t have it engraved on your umbrella.” Among the news items are the following: “The old lady who mended her husband’s trousers with a potato-patch is now smoothing her hair with the comb of a rooster,”—“ In Montreal, Canada, ‘ bangs ’ are regarded as too ‘ loud ’ for decency.” We thought he had quit banging the “bangs”. He says Adam was born a little before Eve; how comes he to know at what time Adam was born? he wasn’t there, and if he were, he would have fo rgotten it long ago.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic prints a weekly issue of 960 copies. Whew I What iron-clad intellects they, must have in Indiana to assimilate such a mass of solid food. A single copy of the Scholastic would be enough to permanently derange the digestive apparatus of any high-minded and intelligent goat, to say nothing of thinking bipeds.—Amherst Student.
We were not aware before that the digestive apparatus of the high-minded and intelligent goats of Amherst was so weak, and we are now too near the close of the college term and our term of editorship to think of compounding a suitable pabulum for their dyspeptic stomachs. Spring is at hand, though, and they may go to grass. We hope our successors will provide some soft gruel and Irish moss for the Amherst kids, next year.
—Wabash is the only Indiana college that is not co-educa-tional.—Dartmouth. This item is still going the rounds of the college press, although Wabash has for some time been a coeducational institution.—Notre Dame Scholastic. Not very long,
558
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
however:—i. e. this happy ( ?) culmination is still prospective. —Lariat.
Glad to hear it, Lariat; may it ever be thus—for the benefit of the female sex more than any other. We hope, however, that none of the latter will, in the mean time, ’ suffer for want of opportunity to obtain a higher education. | We regret that we made the mistake. Notre Dame is set > down as a co-educational college too, although it is far from being such,—St. Mary’s young ladies’ Academy being a good mile from here.
—The Carroll Institute Gazette—a copy of which we have seen for the first time—is published by the Carroll Institute, of Washington, D. C. It is neatly gotten up and handsomely printed. The number before us contains no less than two odes on " Spring,” and alihough they are very short—short as pie crust—we fear they will lie heavily on the editorial stomach until one or two odes on “ Autumn Leaves” or “Beautiful Snow” come to its relief. We learn from the Gazette that an old graduate from Notre Dame’s classic halls (and where class-sickness now prevails to a fearful extent in anticipation of the coming exam.) has been a former secretary of the Institute. This is Alfred W. Arrington,—who is now practicing law somewhere in the West. Col. Dallas, who is well and favorably known here, was the second President of the Institute. Come again, Gazette, even if you do have Spring poetry.
—The College Mercury. No. 2, (we cannot bring ourselves upto the ordeal of putting the alphabetical string of letters necessary to distinguish this from the Ricine Mercury, so will put it No. 2 when we mention this one) has in its last number one of those racy college stories that have lately made their appearance. It is entitled “ Stubbs’ Stag.’b We enjoyed the “Stag ” amazingly in the reading —much more than poor Stubbs did in the reality; but as it is “Tobe continued”—too bad!—we have to wait a month for the finale before we can speak at greater length of it The editorial department contains the following notice:
“ Our readers will notice that we have dropped the advertisement of the “ Only Lung Pad ” Co., of Detroit, Mich. We have it from good authority that they are fraudulent. They pay no attention to bills.
Now we may expect to see the bare-backs wilt—welted they should be.
—The Pennsylvania University Magazine for May is full, as usual, of college news and well-written editorials on college matters, athletics preponderating. It has an article in favor of moot-courts, but comments rather severely on the sleepy way in which they seem to be conducted at U. of P. The annual bowl-fight seems to have been a stirring affair, with nothing discreditable happening, but it seems to us that such things as mathematical bonfires, cane-rushes, and bowl-fights savor not a little of the dark ages of college life. The exchange editor comments unfavorably—and justly, we think—upon the uew kind of exchange department adopted by some college papers, consisting, not of critiques on the various exchanges, but of short articles taken from them. Extracts giving the cream of news, or the sentiment of a well-written editorial, certainly leave no room for objection, but an exchange department consisting entirely of extracts leaves something wanting. Many benefits accrue from the old system of exchange notes, and we agree with The University Magazine that it possesses “ too many advantages for us to lightly throw it away. One of the greatest is that it affords a very good means of communication between college papers. And until the establishment of the Associated College Press it is by far the best means.”
—The Princetonian editors have given their valedictory and stepped down and out. Happy editors! Poor we have to run the editorial mill a month longer. Two interesting extracts are given from Weld’s “ Travels in North America and Canada during the years 1796-7, showing what an English traveller thought of Princeton, and William and Mary’s College, in those early times. Of Princeton he says:
“Twelve miles from Trenton stands Princeton, a neat town, containing about eighty dwellings in one long street. Here is
a large college, held in much repute by the neighboring states. The number of students amounts to upwards of seventy; from their.appearance, however, and the course of studies they seem to be engaged in, like all the other American colleges I ever saw, it better deserves the title of grammar school than a college. The library, which we were shown, is most wretched, consisting, for the most part, of old theological works, not even arranged with any regularity. An orrery, contrived by Mr. Rittenhouse, whose talents are so much	■
boasted of by his countrymen, stands at one end of the apart-	|
ment, but is quite out of repair, as well as a few detached	I
parts of a philosophical apparatus, enclosed in the same glass	j
case. At the opposite end of the room are two small cup-	J
boards, which are shown as the museum. These contain a	i
couple of small, stufled alligators, and a few singular fishes, in	i
a miserable state of preservation, the skins of them being tat-
tered in innumerable places, from their being repeatedly ' I tossed about. The building is very plain, and of stone; it is one hundred and eighty feet in front, and four stories high.”
Aud of William and Mary’s :
“The college of William and Mary, as it is still called, !i stands at the opposite end of the main street; it is a heavy	j
pile, which bears, as Mr. Jefferson I think, says, ‘a very close	;
resemblance to a large brick kiln, excepting that it has a roof?	j
The students were about thirty in number when I was there;
from their appearance, one would imagine that the Seminary	{
ought rather to be termed a grammar school than a college.	j
The Bishop of Virginia is President of the college, and has	;
apartments in the buildings. Half a dozen or more of the	5
students, the eldest about twelve years old, dined at his table	1
one day that I was there; some were without shoes or stock-	I
ings, others without coats. During dinner they constantly	|
rose to help themselves at the sideboard. A couple of dishes of salted meat and some oyster soup formed the whole of the dinner. I only mention this, as it may convey some little idea of American colleges and American dignitaries.
The editors of The Princetonian add:
“ Mr. Weld unfortunately did not extend his travels .to New England. Had he done so, his work would doubtless afford equally interesting information m regard to the other American colleges at the close of the last century.”	,
—The Clionean Argus, a neatly printed eight-page paper, hailing from the Tennessee Female College, comes to us with a modest request to exchange. The Argus publishes a Roll of Honor,—a sensible idea, we think, although a dangerous one to the peace and welfare of the Argus. Some persons that we wot of, and who entertain a very high opinion of their own merit and their own judgment, are so modest that they could not bear the »; sight of their names on a Roll of Honor; they are so good in their own estimation—this latter class—that a . prayer-book is in their sight but as a child’s bauble, and	I
the Bible and the prophets are empty in comparison to	1
the inspiration they have locked up in their craniums;
they are magnanimous too—this latter class—so magnani- { mous that a proposal to confer a college honor or degree ; upon one of their number would be scouted as an indignity unless the entire college—Seniors, -Juniors, Sophs, Freshmen—all—have a like honor conferred upon them, there and then; Napoleon’s Cross of the Legion of Honor would have been spurned with contempt by one of this number, and looked upon as an insult to the whole army;
but then Napoleon and college Presidents may not know that when God created man He reserved a special lump of slime to make the anti-Roll-of-Honor man, and that without any incentive to emulation or reward all people of this class rise above the highest level of honor; no matter what the circumstances—whether they be in the field, I the cabinet, the pulpit, in the bank or treasury, at the bar
or on the bench—the integrity of these men—and women—	|
is beyond dispute; they never abscond with funds or em-	1
bezzle securities of any kind, and the reason so much of	I
this work is done is because the anti-honor men are kept	J
out of offices of trust and don’t get a chance to run things.	I
We would advise The Clionean Argus to drop the Roll of	I
Honor if it would make friends of this powerful simon-pure party. To tell the truth, we would not take a cent’s worth oi stock in their pretensions, and believe them to be arrant humbugs, and the “special-lump” story to be a fraud, but we advise our little visitor to be on its guard or it will be run down by these Don Quixotes. Turning to the Argus again: those “ pet ” names look horrible in print, and some of them are particularly objectionable.
In Europe, and especially in England, the printing of diminutives is looked upon as vulgar, among the better
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	559
class of society; however much we may like them in the family circle, we do not think them nice in print. Come again, Argus.
—We have let the Niagara Index alone for some time,— on account of its exchange man, of course. He abuses everybody, and is never more delighted than when he achieves cheap notoriety by receiving abuse in return. By general consent of the editors of the college press he has been nicknamed the “ Hyena,” “ Index Fiend,’’ etc., but we consider him merely a blatherskite—nothing more. How he got into a seminary is a mystery; his profession is evidently the Bar, and if he succeeded in getting into his normal sphere he would soon find himself on the Bench—at full length. Whether he will ever succeed in mounting the woolsack is an open question. But in any event, the seminary is no place for him. He is there like a fish out of water. We have avoided the Index on account of this exchange editor. Whatever of good may be in the paper—and there is much that is excellent in it—loses its savor through his insane ravings, which cause the Index to be looked upon more in the light of an organ of wild Comanche Indians than the organ of a seminary. The exchange editor’s element is beer and smoke, and as he hasn’t these at the seminary he draws them to him in imagination. He can scarcely write a paragraph without alluding to his favorite subjects. In the last number he attempts a half-witted criticism upon our answer to the College Courier, but before he undertook it he had to bring in the stereotyped “ cheap malt and antiquated hops ” when commenting on the Queen's College Journal. Thus fortified, he begins to rant about us and others, in his usual style. He attempts to “ smile a joke,” but with an overdose of the Canadian beverages before the “joke ” the latter is but a sorry specimen of antiquated bloated utterance. We pity the Index's misfortune in pitching upon such a fellow to run its exchange department. He disgraces the institution and the paper. It is no wonder that those who study or have studied at the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels feel ashamed of the Index, and no sooner is it mentioned than they frame an apology for their Alma Mater by saying that the paper is run by a ring, and is in nowise a representative of the institution. All the odium rests, we suppose, upon the exchange department, for we have seen nothing else in the paper that they could be ashamed of. But that they are ashamed of it is a fact; we have had it from one of themselves, a young gentleman that would do honor to any educational institution. We take this means of dealing with the insane criticism upon ourselves, for we would not stoop to argue with the exchange editor of the Index, or any of his ilk. He seems to possess no judgment except upon beer and tobacco. He reminds us of a certain class of men—if they can be called such—a disgrace to their profession and a stumbling-block to all with whom they come in contact, of whom it may well be said that it were better they had never been born. Why such a man is tolerated in a seminary or upon the Index is a mystery to us. If somebody will do him the favor to have him kicked out, or at least stop his bloated utterances, they will confer a benefit upon the institution. We feel sure that a second issue of a paper containing such matter as the exchange department of the Index would not be tolerated at Troy, St. Charles’, or Mount St. Mary’s.
—The New York Tablet has been one of our most regular exchanges this year, and a welcome one to many, containing much news and instructive reading-matter. The Tablet is a stout upholder of the Republican party, and in this it differs from most of our Catholic exchanges. It has been thought by some that Catholics are, in a way, compelled to support the Democratic party; but this is a great mistake, and the stout advocacy of the principles of the opposite party by the Tablet, one of our oldest Catholic papers, should convince such people that it is a mistake. This, too, in New York city, one of the most thoroughly Democratic cities in the United States. The Catholic Church is wedded to no party; the members of our communion are free to support whichever side they please, or which pleases them. It is true that the Know-Nothing outrages some years ago forced Catholics to support those who would not countenance the unprincipled proceedings set on foot against them, but since that time party lines have undergone a great change and there is no longer any reason
why Catholics, as such, should support one party more than another. It would be a great deal better, we think, that papers which are professedly organs of Catholic opinion should take the strictly independent course in politics that their religion calls for, and thus prevent the partisan bigotry that is likely to result from their connection with one party or the other. The fact that there is now in existence in this boastfully free country a secret oath-bound organization, professedly Republican—but really anything that will serve its purpose—whose sworn object is to keep Catholics out of office and to make war against Catholic schools and convents, does not tend to draw Catholics more closely to the Republican party, but it is to be hoped that this oath-bound organization has only a very limited power and is not countenanced by manly Republicans, if by any. In fact, we are sure that the latter is not the case. It would be a sad comment on our boasted freedom of conscience if it were. Such an organization is despicable in the extreme, and no person who is a freeman in the true sense of the word would have anything to do with it. Its members are slimy “ snakes in the grass,” fitting objects for contempt, and enemies of true republican principles. We see by the papers that a branch of this detestable league of vipers has been lately formed in Canada, in Toronto, where its members are spoken of as “gentlemen.” No gentleman would connect himself with such a slimy set of—“snakes in the grass.” The nominal partisanship of Catholic papers gives these vipers in human shape an excuse for allying themselves—or rather of hiding themselves—under the wings of the political party against which Catholics are said to be arrayed, but which really has some of its most staunchest supporters among Catholics. We hope the Republicans will denounce this nest of vipers, of whom they have no need, and who do them more harm than good. The Tablet is now publishing a story from the pen of D. P. Conyngham, LL. D., who, as we see by the University Catalogue, received his degree here. “Rose Parnell, the Flower of Avondale,” is a story of ’98, and shows up some of the many horrible atrocities perpetrated on the Irish under the Penal Laws^
CoHege Gossip.
—The Harvard Bicycle Club has over seventy riders.
—Yale claims the best college orchestra in the country.
—The bonded debt ofthe University of Virginia is $80,000.
—It costs over $200,000 per annum to support the Harvard library.
—Harvard, following Queen’s, has raised her pass-mark from 33% to 40 per cent.—Ex.
—In the English University boat race, Oxford defeated Cambridge by fully four lengths.
—Columbia College has an endowment of $5,000,000, and an annual income of $325,000.
—President McGraw of the Detroit Medical College has sent in his resignation.—University.
—The University of Pennsylvania has conferred the degree of LL. D. upon President Garfield.
—Rushes seem to be the order of the day at -Yale, and hazing is no more a thing of the past at Cornell.—University.
—The students of Virginia University are lamp “ mashers.” The editor of the Virginia University Magazine ga.ve the “ mashers” a severe cudgeling in the issue for April.
—The Acta Columbiana lately described one of the editors of the Yale Courant as lying with one ear folded under his head as a pillow, while with the other he waved off the flies from the ceiling. The consequence is that the Yale papers no longer exchange with the Acta.
—Two students of Phillips Andover Academy were caught on the 13th inst., while in a private house, with burglarious intent, and one was fatally shot by the owner of the property. The one who was killed was studying for the ministry. Other robberies in the vicinity have been traced to them.—College Rambler.
560
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, May 21, 18S1.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent It a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum. IPostpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The Virginia City, Nevada, Chronicle, gives some disgusting particulars of the brutal treatment of the male and female inmates of the State Orphan Asylum in that city. The Chronicle informs us that girls, ten years of age, were most unbecomingly punished in presence of the whole school, boys and girls. The children finally rebelled, and an investigation was called for; although the directors and teachers had positively forbidden the children to speak to anyone, the brutal conduct of the teachers finally became known. This thing of co education, at any age, is wrong in principle, and must produce seriously bad consequences. In the present case, the director, Mr. Mill, and his teachers, Miss Harris and the rest, have shown themselves utterly disqualified by this exhibition of brutality to hold their position in the asylum any longer, and should themselves be sent to a reformatory or to the penitentiary.
Mb. Editor:—In your last issue, we noticed a communication from a correspondent who is evidently wrong in his conculsions. He dilates on lunches, picnics, and banquets with a view of calling attention to alleged abuses with those given at Notre Dame. From his remarks, it is quite evident that he is not master of the situation which he attempts to describe; otherwise he would not have drawn so freely on his imagination. He says, “Among the many favors which, in our judgment, are asked for, and, by some means or other, obtained much too frequently, we will content ourselves for the present with mentioning extra lunches.” Can this wise individual inform us of the number of extra lunches given during the year ? We can safely say that he cannot. We will take great pleasure in informing him of the num.
ber of these extras, and the “ means ” by which they were obtained. There have been less than two lunches or banquets a month during the past three years. We remember the time when they occurred from two to three times a week. Since September, three lunches have been given: one to each of the three different associations that conducted the entertainments on St. Edward’s Day, Washington’s Birthday, and St. Patrick’s Day. These lunches were to compensate for the suppers lost by those who took part in the plays. From time immemorial, it has been the laudable custom of giving some slight refreshment after a rehearsal. This refreshment now takes the form of a cup of coffee and a crust of bread. The substantial parts of all other lunches and banquets were purchased in town by the members of the associations, and paid for by them. There are one or two associations in the house whose members have never had the energy to get up a banquet of any kind, neither have they paid one cent for society purposes. We have no doubt that your correspondent is a member of one of those organizations, in consequence of which the spirit of censure has taken full possession of him. The baseball clubs have been given no lunches. On one or two occasions the Directors of the clubs gave the weary boys their supper an hour earlier than usual,—surely this cannot be called giving them a lunch.
From your correspondent’s manifest ignorance of local affairs, I surmise that he has not long been a student here. He says: “ We look over the grounds but see not a single monument, however unpretending, erected; etc., etc.” The poor fellow must be sadly in need of a pair of spectacles; otherwise he could see some sixty or seventy trees of various species growing in St. Aloysius’s grove, planted there by the Cecilians, Columbians, and individual students. Near the grove he can find a costly monument, erected to the memory of a devoted Director by the ever generous Philoma-theans. Let him visit the church, and he will be shown two or three gold chalices, an elegant gold ciborium, and other articles, presented by the associations of former years. Let your correspondent enter Cecilia Hall and he will find any number of pictures, statues, etc., placed there by the members of the Philomathean and Philopatrian Associations. The “ groups which the President of the Cecilians annually hangs up ” are paid for by the Society, and not by the President. Let your correspondent visit the Columbian Club Boom and he will find two costly oil-paintings, and other decorations, purchased for the Hall by the members. Only three months ago the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, organized but two short years, purchased a magnificent marble memorial—which may be seen in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart—at a cost of one hundred and ten dollars. And still your querulous correspondent fails to see monuments, etc. Ask him to call at the Seniors’ study-hall, and he will be shown three large pictures, presented by the baseball clubs of former years. Had your correspondent been here before the “ big fire,” he could have found pictures, busts, tablets, and memorials, without number, in the studies, class-rooms, club rooms, and chapels, presented by the College societies. We will not speak of the watches, medals, cains and carriages given, as tokens of esteem, to loved members of the Faculty by the literary and religious organizations. All the decorations, and many of the necessary articles, found in the old College Chapel were gifts from the confraternities. The Por-tiuncula Chapel still possesses a rich antependium donated by the Holy Angels’ Society
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	561
Before your correspondent ventilated himself on the sanctuary lamp, he should have posted himself with regard to the amount collected by the Junior Confraternity; for, before your correspondent’s article appeared, a sufficient amount had been collected to make the purchase of the sanctuary lamp certain. We hope that he doesn’t think of attributing to himself the success of this laudable fenter-prise. We can assert, on the authority of an old attaches of the University, that there have never been more generous students at Notre Dame than those who now compose the Junior department. We can assure your correspondent that there are a thousand-and-one avenues leading to the head and heart of these generous boys besides the one passing “through their stomach.” On the shelves of the Lemon-nier Library are displayed whole rows of books presented by the students. How many have been placed there by your corres pondent, or through his efforts ? What mark of zeal has he (or the society of which he is a member) left here to perpetuate his memory ? It is unreasonable in him to attempt to speak about what has been done here for forty years, when he is not posted on what has been done since the rebuilding of the College, less than two years ago Had your correspondent confined his remarks to a certain society, and to the time he has been connected with that society, then we would have nothing to say about his uncalled-for article. In conclusion, we would advise this young man not to interfere with the workings of societies, until he knows what those societies are doing.
—Last Tuesday evening, the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association gave their ninth Annual Entertainment, in Washington Hall, before a large audience: and right here let us say that it was a success. The first thing that their neatly-printed, red-tinted, programme called for was the opening march by the N. D. C. Band. It is unnecessary for us to say that the march was well played; for the Band’s reputation for excellent playing is too well established to need any encomiums from us. We can, however, but compliment Prof. Paul on the success with which his never tiring efforts to bring the Band up to the high standard attained by it in other years have been crowned. The -University Orchestra, as usual, satisfied everybody, and well earned the applause given it at the conclusion of each overture. The Choral Union was a long time in getting ready; but when once they had fairly begun their song and chorus, the impatience, caused by their dilatoriness, was dispelled by their excellent singing. Herrick’s “Indian Revenge” was well declaimed by that young gentleman, with that rich, clear -voice of which he is the happy possessor. Everyone seems to have been charmed with “A handful of Earth,” so sweetly sung by Master L. Florman. We heard a Professor, who has long been connected with this University, say that Florman’s singing on Tuesday evening was'the best he had heard in Washington Hall for fifteen years. We can but say that we were extremely well pleased with the young gentleman’s singing. Music by the University Orchestra terminated the first, or preparatory part of the evening’s Entertainment, and then the fun commenced.
Part second was opened by “ Honesty is the Best Policy,” a comedy in one act,—the roles in which were taken by Masters Herrick, Sells, Heffernan, Florman, Livingston
and J. Devitt. Herrick, as “Erastus Steele,” could not have been surpassed, so true was he to the spirit of his part. Before the comedy terminated, “ Erastus ” learned that it was much more pleasant to be a private citizen, in some humble occupation, than a wealthy, ostentatious man, with the title of “ Public Benefactor.” “ Harry,” his son, personated by Master Harry Sells, gave the “ old Governor ” some pretty sound advice on the “ P. B.” business: going so far as to call his sire a “ public humbug,” and receiving for his pains a severe tongue-lashing from the old gentleman. “ Solomon Longface,” met with a warm reception from “ Erastus,” who did not seem inclined to contribute anything towards purchasing clothes-pins and lines for “poor washerwomen,” in whose behalf the sympathetic “ Longface ” had come. “ Bobby Simpson,” a lubberly boy, found an excellent personator in Master Sammy Livingston, who soon learned that a change in one’s name, or an addition to it, will not always produce a mutation in fortune. “ Bobby ” asked “ Erastus ” if he was not pleased that he had changed his name to “ Bobby Erastus Steele Simpson,” whereupon “ Erastus ” called him a grinning monkey, and forcibly ejected the now thoroughly-frightened “ Bobby ” from the room. “ Cyrus Caucus,” (a Townsman of Steele’s), L. Florman, thought that he would surely obtain a handsome sum from the old gentleman, inasmuch as he had come as a special delegate from the town in which “ Erastus ” first saw the light of day. But, though “Erastus ” was very happy to see a person from “ old Skillet-ville,” he could not be persuaded that a one-thousand dollars’ donation to that town was necessary to convince its inhabitants that he still entertained friendly feelings towards the place of his birth; consequently, “ Erastus ” soon invited the representative of Skillet-ville to leave tracks with heels towards the door. By this time, “Erastus” had got worked up to that pitch of indignation which prognosticated nothing good for the next one who would come to see him. Alack-a-day for “Erastus” ! With a loud bang at the door, in stepped “Barney Hoolan” (a Ben-Butler man), J. Devitt, who felt the necessity of having more commodious quarters “for himself, the old woman, and the childers,” and wished “Erastus ” to be a little beneficent towards him, to the tune of a few hundred dollars with which to erecta new house. “ Erastus ” had already resolved to put a stop to this influx of money-seekers,so he made at “Hoolan” like an infuriated bull; but “ Hoolan ” was not to be put off thus without making an impression on “ Erastus ” so he made for him in good shape, and had soon administered a sound drubbing to the “ Public Benefactor.” Devitt took his part well, keeping the audience in one continued outburst of laughter to the close of the comedy. This play was followed by a French song from L. Gibert, which seemed to please all who understood that language. Geo. Schaefer then came upon the boards and, in manly words, eloquently spoken, took a firm stand for boys’-rights. If boys’ rights were held up to public view all over the world as Master Schaefer exhibited them on this occasion, the women’s-rights’ agitation would soon dwindle into insignificance.
Then came a farce, in which the “ Editor’s Troubles ” were well depicted. Harry Dunn, as “ Lemuel Foozle ” the Editor, was a fair sample of the average newspaper man —without money or means, but full of fight. E. Cullinene, “Patrick O’Connor Dunlahey,” got more than he bargained for in purchasing Dunn’s interest in the Misha-
562
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
waka Banner: he was made the receiver of several severe castigations, which had been intended for Dunn, but which that wide-awake editor managed to escape by throwing up the editorial quill in time. “William Shadow,” F. Dorsel, was a good specimen of the printer’s “ devil,” and a good-sized shadow. L. Gibert, “Palmer”; J. Flynn, “ Jim Bloodsoe ” ; G. Haslam, “ Pinchpenny ” ; S. Livingston, “ Chawley,” entered into the spirit of their respective parts with vigor, and largely contributed to the success of the farce, and to the pleasure which it afforded the audience. Then came the “ Drill of Herrick’s Raw Recruits,” with excellent drill music by Start’s famous Brass Band. Much merriment was caused by their awkwardness in going through the drill. When the commander would say “Present arms!” they would all rush to him with their guns, etc. We thought, however, that the good thing was spoiled in being over-done.
After music by the Band and Orchestra, the third, last, and principal part of the evening’s Entertainment began. It consisted of “ The Rightful Heir,” a melodrama in three acts, arranged for the Philopatrians. “ Prince Rudolph, a Presumptive Heir,” found an able representative in Master A. Rohrback, who played his dark role in Tom Keene style; we were more than pleased with Rohr-back’s rendition of his part—a very difficult one on the whole. G. Schaefer, as “Edmund, the Rightful Heir,” won the sympathy of the audience from the outstart; and, by the almost perfect personation of his part, took away no small share of the honors of the evening. J. Willie Start, “ Oberto, an Honest Agriculturist,” was true to his role in every particular, and won the applause and admiration of all present. The same might be said of “ Elvino ” (son of Oberto), A. Browne; “ Stanislaus” (King of Sarmatia), F. Wheatley; “Starow” (a villainous confidant of the Prince), J. Bennett; “ Kalig,” J. Kelly; and “Molino,” M. E. Herrick; all of whom played their roles in a highly satisfactory manner. The minor parts of the drama were successfully taken by Masters H. Devitt, J. L. Heffernan, G. O’Kane, G. Haslam, E. Cullinene, D. C. Smith, L. Gibert, J. Whelan, A. Schiml, F. Prenatt, J. Flynn, and H. P. Dunn.
The Epilogue, spoken by G. Schaefer, was short and witty.
Although at times, during the play, there was a momentary hesitancy on the part of the actors, yet when we take into consideration the fact that this was the first appearance in public of many of the young gentleman, and that, moreover, the Society is composed chiefly of the younger students of the Preparatory department, we feel inclined to pass over in silence the few defects which here and there occurred, and congratulate the Philopatrians and their worthy director, Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, on the success of their ninth Annual Entertainment.
President Corby made the closing remarks, thanking the young actors for the pleasure which they had afforded him, and complimenting them on the brilliant manner in which their Entertainment had passed off.
—William Black, the novelist, is a painter, chiefly in water colors. He is living at Brighton, where he and Bret Harte are much together. Black is not a society man, and is very reticent, except with intimate friends.
Personal.
—B. Claggett, ’80, is in business with his father at Lexington, Ill.
—J. Hermann, ’79, is attending a business college at his home in Des Moines, Iowa.
—L. Montedonico, ’70, is in business with Messrs. A. Vaccaro & Co., Memphis, Tenn.
—Peter Nelson (Prep.), ’79, is attending Bryant & Stratton’s Business College, at Chicago, Ill.
—J. Guynn (Prep.), ’79, (champion handball-player of Prep, dept.) is at Beloit College, Beloit City, Wis.
—A. B. Mergentheime, ’79, is clerking at Stewart’s large dry-good establishment on Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill.
—Rev. Thos. Scully, a distinguished ecclesiastic of Boston, spent Tuesday and Wednesday at the University.
—Jno. J. McEniry (’78), Osborn, Ill., paid a flying visit last Monday to his brother, M. J. McEniry, Senior department.
—F. X. Zeis (Prep.), ’79, is attending Bryant & Stratton’s, at Chicago, where, he says, he intends to finish his education.
—Wilard Smith (Com.), ’75, holds the responsible position of book-keeper for the Lake Shore & Michigan R. R., at Chicago, Ill.
—Mr. M. Mohan, Englewood, Ill., called at the University last Monday to see'his son, Master J. Mohan, Preparatory department.
—Mr. and Mrs. Jno. Rea, of Chicago, were here during the past week visiting their son, Master Wallie Rea, Minim department.
—Rev. P. Kollop, C. S. C., departed for Cincinnati last Sunday evening. He will be connected with St. Joseph’s College in that city.
—Bro. Daniel, of South Bend, has the thanks of the Director and members of the Staff for a kind invitation and complimentary tickets to the entertainment to be given by his pupils in Good’s Opera House, next Tuesday evening.
—Among our visitors during the past week were: J. M. Doyle, Buffalo, N. Y.; W. Carroll, Boston, Mass.; A. Smith and lady, and W. E. Stewart, Elkhart, lud.; C. W. Cortright and lady, New York city; L. O’Brien, Nora De Frees, Mrs. C. W. Otto, Abbie Peffer, Mrs. Jno., and Master W. Deffenbaugb. South Bend; Thos. Beahan, Iowa; H. Rea and lady, A. K. Tcppnu, Chicago, Ill.; W. C. Edwards and lady, Plymouth, Ind.; Chas. W. Otto and lady, Boiling Springs, Pa.; Geo. L. Deffenbaugb, Lapivai Agency, Idaho Terr.; A. Keatz, Toledo, 0.; Miss Nellie Robinson, Green Castle, Mich.; Miss Jennie Milton, Three Rivers, Mich.; and S. S. Terry and lady, Rochester, N. Y.
Local Items.
—And still the bicycles come.
—“ The big one isn’t bad-looking.”
—Guy Woodson is steadily improving.
—Bro. Charles is at his post once more.
— Wasn’t J. Willie immense, Tuesday evening?
—T. F. Clarke will represent the Academia on Society Day.
—The Cecilians will appear in ’public on the 9lh of June.
—C. C. Echlin has purchased a handsome little printingpress.
—The intrepid “Barebones” still pursues his daily avocation.
—The “ Staves ” are about to purchase some costly badges.
—Red lights by the wholesale at the Philopatrians’ Exhibition.	.
V
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
563
—Many South-Benders were present at the Exhibition Tuesday evening.
—D. C. made a first-class-looking darkey at Tuesday evening’s Entertainment.
—The 9th Annual Entertainment of the Philopatrian Association was a success.
—Master Willie Hanavin, Minim department, has our thanks for favors received.
—The regular semi-monthly meeting of the Staff was held last Wednesday evening.
—The “Hedgehogs” were completely given away at Tuesday evening’s Entertainment.
—Gibert’s French song took the audience by storm at Tuesday evening’s Entertainment.
—Master H. Me'z, Minim department, is one of the heaviest batters in the Active B. B. C.
—A Rohrback will represent the Philopatrians, and W. Arnold the Thespians, on Society Day.
—D. C. can say more things in an hour than any individual at Notre Dame. Eii, Professor?
—The Band furnished excellent music during the championship game last Wednesday afternoon.
—The Philopatrians have certainly good reason to feel proud of their orpheonic representative, Master L. Florman.
—There will be a meeting of the Resident Alumni, in-the President’s parlor, at one o’clock to-morrow afternoon.
—T. F. Clarke and B. Smith made the two heaviest bats during the championship game last Wednesday afternoon.
—The N. D. U. Band was in South Bend, Saturday evening, furnishing music for the fair at St. Joseph’s Church.
—No baseball games in the Preparatory department last Wednesday. The Preps, are evidently suffering from spring-fever.
—The Chicago delegates have returned, and are loud in their praise' of the hospitality extended them in the Garden City.
—It is just about time for Bonney, the photographer, to put in an appearance. Several of the societies are anxious to get “shot.”
—The handballists of the Junior department avail themselves of the cool evening recreations to indulge in their favorite pastime.
—Master J. Livingston, brother of Sammv, of the Prep, department, attended the Philopatrian Exhibition last Tuesday evening.
—Guy Woodson’s name was on the programme of the Philopatrians’ Exhibition, but Guy was unable to assume his refe on account of sickness.
—In the game between the “Buckeyes ’’ and “ Hoosiers,” Wednesday last, H. Metz and D. Taylor made the heaviest bats, and H. Snee the best catch.	.
—The Minims return Brother Albert their best thanks for the beautiful picture of Very Rev. Father General which he has presented to the department.
—To-morrow, 5th Sunday after E ister, Ulissa Parvulo-rum will be sung. Vesners of St. Michael, p. 196. Next Thursday, Ascension, jllissa Regia will be sung. Vespers, p. 91.
—We omitted making mention of the address in our editorial on the Philopatrian Entertainment. It was an excellent piece of composition, and was well read by Master Rohrback.
—How is it tbaf, contrary to the custom of former years, none of those beautiful duets, which were wont to stir the’ soul to devotion, are sung at the evening exercises for the month of May ?
—Rev. J. O'Keeffe and Bro. Simon, C. S. C., took a large party of Juniors to the St. Joseph Farm last Wednesday. They were hospitably received and entertained by Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C.
—Who will see to the repair of the stairs in front of Phelan Hall? Doctor Neyron says that he will have a
fractured leg to attend to for somebody if those stairs remain in their present condition.
—The Chicago delegation were enthusiastically received tat the University and St. Mary’s Academy on their return from Chicago. Sugg’s oration at the Convention is spoken of in terms the most flattering.
—Messrs. Rhodius and Brown were acolytes-in-chief;
C.	C. Echlin and J. Nester, light-bearers; and Master George Tourtillotte. leader, at the High Mass celebrated by Rev. Father Stoffel, last Sunday.
—The Juniors disposed of about ten gallons of lemonade, Sunday afternoon, despite the unexpected change in the weather. We like to see young gents, encased in heavy overcoats, drinking that delicious beverage.
—It is well worth one’s time to visit Bro. Albert’s Art Studio. There may be seen specimens, excellent specimens, of what students can accomplish by close application under the direction of a skilful artist.
—The sewing-machine, which was among the prizes at Polack’s donation, was drawn by M. Buckmeier, of the Manual Labor School, and not by a student of Notre Dame University, as some of the South-Bend papers had it.
—Where is the large silk flag, purchased by the old Continental Cadets and left here as a memorial of their organization ? Prof. Lyons has on exhibition in his Society-hall a costly American fl isr, purchased by the Associations of ’72.	"
—The members of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Asso-. ciation tender a unanimous vote of thanks to Very Rev. Father Corby; Rev. Fathers T. E. Walsh, J. O’Keeffe, and the Editor of the Scholastic for kind favors during the past week.
—The Lemonnier Library—small in its resuscitated form —is being rapidly filled with books. All the shelf-room is now occupied, and half of the floor is covered with books. The directors are now petitioning for a more commodious apartment.	.
—Those desiring the services of a first-class tonsorial artist should not fail to call on Mr. Commiskey, successor to Mr. Condon. He employs none but first-class assistants, and can, therefore, unhesitatingly guarantee perfect satisfaction to all customers.
—At the 26th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association, held Thursday, May 19th, the thanks of the Association were tendered to Professor J. F. Edwards; Bros. Leander, Lawrence, Simon, and Paul for favors at their last Entertainment.
—Mester Frank H. Grever, of the Staff, has been chosen by the members of the Junior Archconfraternity to represent them on Society Day. They could not have made a belter choice, as we are certain that Frank will represent them in a highly creditable manner.
—Class of Ancient History—Professor: “Mr. P.-------------, What do you think of ancient Persia when compared with other nations of the same period?” Mr. P.----------------: “Very little. She has handed down to us no monuments of her greatness; if she has, they’re all gone.” (Roars.)
—Query: How was it that three hours were required by the St. Joe Farm excursionists, last Wednesday, to reach the University after leaving the St. Joe? Some say it was because of the very poor horse flesh employed, while others assert that the excursionists took the wrong road—got lost.
—Very Rev. Father General examined his Elocution Class last week. While expressing his satisfaction at the ' progress made by some members, he said there were others who needed to pay more attention to the cultivation of their voices, and to a clearness and distinctness of pronunciation before they could reach the standard he wished to see them attain.
—The Associations, while grateful for the many courtesies extended them by the College authorities, desire us to state that by far the greater part of all expenses connected with the getting up of a banquet, etc., have been paid by laying an extra tax on each member. Moneys derived from entrance and monthly fees are not invariably devoted to a big “ blow out;” such moneys are devoted to legitimate Society purposes.
—The Minims are to have Very Rev. Father General s

564
TfHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
grand dinner at the end of the month. Eight Rev. Bishop Dwenger, who promised the small boys that he would come and fill up the place of the fiftieth Minim, writes to his nephew Josie that “he will be at Notre Dame at the end of the month of May, and enter legally as a Minim the first day of June, paying five dollars entrance fee, and thirty dollars tuition for the month, because, at any cost, he must secure that the Minims shall have that dinner.”
—The artistic drawing pupils have shown a commendable industry, and some of them have made remarkable progress since the beginning of the second session. Almost every week new specimens are finished and exhibited. Among those most deserving of honorable mention for application: and progress are Edward Piper, B. F. Smith, and L. Proctor, of the Seniors; and E. Orrick, B. Fieming and H. P. Dunn, of the Juniors. We trust that their nthusiasm for this study will remain unabated for the remaining few weeks of the scholastic year.
—Where are the silk embroidered memorial tablets placed here years ago by the Confraternities to perpetuate their memory? Where are the tableaux containing the names of the Holy Angels’ Sodality, formerly to be found in the hall of St. Aloysius’s Scholasticate ? At one time, it was the custom for the Philodemics to show their zeal for Alma Mater by contributing their Society fees to buy books for the Library. In the President’s drawing-room is to be seen a fine large terrestrial telescope, . from the firm of Solomon & Co., Dublin, presented to Father Corby by the Pnilodemics.
—“Raminagrobis,” writes a correspondent, “whose disappearance was accounted for in so many strange ways, is around again. The Minims did not exile her, because they feared that Very Rev. Father General would use her as a puzzle at Ihe examination, as was stated in last week’s Scholastic. If the Editor, or anyone else, imagines that the Minims are not a match for the Kilkenny cat, let them call gon Very Rev. Father General, who examined them in arithmetic last week; or let them go to the Rev. Director of Studies who, at his last monthly visit, said that some Minims would be fit for the first arithmetic class in the College when they are transferred to the Junior department next September.”
—There was a large attendance at Washington Hall, Notre Dame, last evening, to witness the ninth annual exercises of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society. Prof. J. A. Lyons had general charge of the Entertainment, and it is not necessary to state that everything passed off satisfactorily under his efficient management. The prominent features of the evening were a melodrama, “ The Rightful Heir”; a one-act comedy, entitled “Honesty is the best Policy,” and a farce called “The Editor’s Troubles.” The students who assumed the characters in these entered into them with a spirit that brought them merited applause. The Entertainment was agreeably and judiciously interspersed with vocal and instrumental music.—South-Bend Tribune.
—Our young disciples of Apollo have not yet caught the spiing-fever. They have no time for that, judging from the activity with which each one labors at his examination piece. Several of these pieces are perhaps a trifle too difficult; still the young aspirants deserve credit for their courage and desire to aim at what is high and classical. Of overtures, we will only mention Webex’s “Freislutz,” piano solo, to be played by A. Homan; Weber’s “ Jubilee,” violin and piano, by A. Dick and A. Homan; Auber’s Crown of Diamonds, violin solo, by F. Grever; Auber’s Le Macon, violin and piano, by F. Dorsel and G. Schaefer; Bellini’s “Romeo and Juliet,” flute and piano, by F. Fischel and L. Florman. Besides these there will be a number of brilliant fantasias, etc. We can safely promise a rich treat to those who will attend the examination of this branch of the fine arts in June.
—The lecture delivered in the rotunda last Saturday evening by Prof. Unsworth is spoken of in the highest terms of praise. We are sorry that a scarcity of chairs prevented us from forming a part of the distinguished audience; we were not the only one that considered himself too weak to stand for a full hour, no matter how interesting the lecture might be, for we noticed that several did as we
—left. Now, it’s not that there are not a sufficient number of chairs at the University to seat every student at Notre Dame, but it’s simply owing to unpardonable carelessness on the part of those whose business it is—or which they assume to be—to attend to this matter. By actual count, we learned that only ten chairs were found, where twenty-five or thirty were needed. That such a mistake may be avoided in future, we suggest that a committee be appointed whose duty it shall be~to see that everybody desirous to hear a lecture, or any thing of a like nature, be accommodated with seats.
—The first game for the championship of the University was played on Wednesday afternoon between the Juanita and Star of the East B. B. Clubs, bn the grounds of the former, in presence of a large concourse of people. The game was a close and exciting one until the sixth inning—the score then being 5 to 5—when O’Connor was obliged to retire from behind the bat on account of sore hands. This destroyed the Juanitas’ chances, and gave the Star of the East the game, by a score of 14 to 8. In connection with this, it might not be out of place to say a word or two concerning the ungentlemauly deportment of a few swells who manage to club together in some corner of the Campus and make it a point to vociferously cheer whenever a favorite chances to stop, throw, or catch a ball. It is well enough to applaud when there is something worthy of applause; but we condemn this unmannerly and uncalled-for applause at every commonplace play made by a “ chum.”
—On the afternoon of the 15th inst., a game of baseball was played between the 2d nines of the Juanitas and Star of the East B. B. Clubs, on the grounds of the former, with the following results:
STAB OF THE EAST.	0.	R.
W. Browne, c		9,	3
Fishburne, p		4	1
J. Browne,’ s. s		3	0
J. Baker, 1st b		3	1
Thornton, 2d b		3	1
Tracy, 3d'b		3	1
Garritty, 1. f		9	9,
Steis, c. f.		0	2
English, r. f		4	a
Total				24	it
Marlette,...............
Mathers,................
Zettler,................
Johnson,................ Healey,................. Zahm,................... Brehmer,................ Taggart,................ Nash,...................
JUANITAS.
O. R.
3
3
4
4
4
3
2
2
1 1 0 0 0
1 1 0 0
Total...............27	4
INNINGS:
Star of the East. ..
Juanitas...........
—The Lemonnier Library Association returns grateful thanks to Mrs. F. Mann, of New York, for the following gifts: The Poetical. Works of Mrs. Felicia Hernans, Boston, 1848; Irish Odes and Other Poems, by Aubrey de Vere; British Catholic Poets, by George Hill; Poems, Patriotic,Religious, Miscellaneous, by Rev. Abram J. Ryan (Father Ryan), Balt., 1880; The Bloodstone, by Donald MacLeod, N. Y., 1853; Pynnshurst, his Wanderings and Ways of Thinking, by Donald MacLeod, N. Y., Chas. Scribner, 1852; Devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary in North America, by Rev. Xavier Donald MacLeod, N. Y., Virtue and Yorston; Father Oswald, with an autograph of Cardinal McCloskey; Christmas Nights’ Entertainments, or the Pastor’s Visit to the Science of Salvation, by Don John Palafox, Bishop of Osma; The Book of the Holy Rosary, by Rev. Henry Formby, London, Burns and Oates; Trials of a Mind, by L. Silliman Ives, LL. D.; Questions of the Soul, by Rev. I. T. Hecker, Appleton & Co., 1855; Macaulay’s England, Vol. II; Questions, by I. T. Hecker; Sermons, Lectures, and Speeches delivered by his Eminence Cardinal^ Wiseman, During his Tour in Ireland; The Invitation Heeded, Stone; Calista, by Cardinal Newman; The Jesuits, by Paul Feval; The Comedy of Convocation in the English Church, in Two Scenes, edited by Archdeacon Chasuble, D. D.; My Mother and I, by the author of John Halifax Gentleman; A Brave Lady, by the same author.
—On Wednesday forenoon a closely-contested game of baseball took place between the “ Buckeyes ” and “ Hoos-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTI.
565 '
JEFFERSONS.
iers,” Minim department, the former captained by G. Tourtillotte, the latter by D. O’Connor. The Editor of this paper was honored by being called upon to act as Umpire. As may b6 seen from the following score, the “ Buckeyes ” .were the victors:
“buckeyes.”	O. R.	“hoosiers.”	o.	B.
Tourtillotte, Capt. s. s....	4 1	D. 0 ’Conner Capt. 3d b..	5	1
D. Taylor, c		3 2	Droste, c		a.	1
Molander, p		4 1	Van Mourick, p.		3	1
Snee, 1st b			T. McGrath, 1st b		3	0
TT. Metz, 3d b		2 1	Echlin, 2d b		4	0
Dwenger, 2d b		4 1	Zrisarri, s. s		ot	2
Moroney, L f		2 1	C. Metz^ c. f		2	3
Nester, c		3 1	Hanavin, r. f		2	0
Ruppe, r. f.		2 1	Chaves, L f		2	0
				
Total		2712	Total		27	8
'INNINGS:
O’Donnell, c...........
Campau, p..............
Hanavin, r. f..........
Frain, Istb............
Bender, 2d b...........
C. Metz, 3d b..........
C. Droste, 1. f........
Tourtillote, s. s......
Thompson, c. f.........
4
4
4
2
2
3
2
3
3
R.
1 0
0 2
2
1 2
1 0
9
WASHINGTONS.
O. R.
“ Buckeyes.”
“ Hoosiers.”
—A lively game of baseball was played on the Minims’ Campus on the afternoon of the 15th inst. Two picked nines, the Washingtons and Jeffersons, -composed by members of the Minim department, with the exception of G. Sugg, Senior department, who caught for the Washingtons, and H. O’Donnell, catcher for the Jeffersons. Gallagher, of the Juanitas, was the Umpire. Quite a crowd of students of all departments, and several members of the Faculty, assembled to witness what proved to be an exciting game. The clock in the steeple was just striking three when Gallagher called “ game.” The “ Washes ” won the toss, sending the “ Jeffs.” to the bat. O’Donnell opened the game with a two-base hit, but was put out in trying to steal" third. Campau retired on a foul, and Hanavin on three strikes. Sugg opened for the “Washes” by a hot-liner, which was neatly taken in by Bender; Snee reached 1st on an error by Tourtillotte, and took 21 on Moroney's corker to right; Quinn struck to Tourtill >tte, who sent it to 3d, who passed it to 2d, making a neat double-play. In the 2d innings Frain reached 1st on a wild throw by Moroney, and stole second, and scored on Bender’s 2d base hit; C. Metz went out on a foul caught by H. Metz; Bender took 3d on a pass ball by Sugg, scoring on Droste’s safe hit to left; Tourtillote reached 1st on called balls, sending Droste to 2d. All hands changed bases on Thompson’s liner into right; Droste scored on a passed bill, Tourtillotte and Thompson each getting a base on O'Donnell’s hit; Thompson was caught on too long a lead from 2d, and Tourtillotte lost his tally by endeavoring to -take advantage of the play to second. Molander, Nester, and Dwenger were retired in 1, 2, 3 order, and neither side scored again until the Gth inning, when the “ Washes ” managed to get in four runs. At the beginning of the 7ih, Frain led off with a base hit, to his credit, taking 2d on Bender’s fly to right, which Dwenger failed to hold, Metz striking out to Molander; Frain scored and Bender took third on a sky-scraper over left by Droste, who took 2d; Tourtillote went out on a fly to centre; Bender scored on a passed ball, and Thompson took his base on balls; Droste scored on a liner sent by O’Donnell to Moroney, who failed to hold it; Campau struck out. The “Washes” added five to their score in their seventh innings, owing to several poor plays by the “ Jeffs.” The eighth was a blank for both sides. O’Donnell tied the game in tbe 1st half of the 9th innings, Metz and Tourtillotte both scored. Droste went out on 3 strikes; Thompson on a fly to right, and Campau in trying^to steal 3d. Snee began the innings for the “ Washes ” by sending a scorcher to Tourtillote, which he fumbled, thereby giving Snee 1st base; Moroney struck to short-stop, who quickly gave it to 2d, who passed it to 1st making a neat double play, retiring Snee and Moroney. Quinn struck for two bases, was assisted to third by Molander’s base hit, and scored on Nester’s whizzer to right, thereby winning the game for the “ Washingtons.” Dwenger went out on a fly to right. The following is the score:
.Sugg, C.......
'Snee, p...
।Moroney, s. s... Quinn, 1st b... Molander, 2d b Nester, 3d b....
. Dwenger, r. f.. H. Metz, 1. f... .Ruppe, c. f..... I Total........
0 3
0 1
1 1
2
Total..............271
2710
INNINGS:
Umpire—Gallagher.
—The following is a programme of the Entertainment given by the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association, last Tuesday evening.-
PART FIRST.
Grand Opening March..........................N. D. U. C. B
Music.......................................  .Orchestra
Song and Chorus.............................Choral Union
Address, Salutatory..........................A. Rohrback
The Indian’s Revenge, after the battle of Portage Prairie.
M. E. Herrick and Society
Song—“A Handful of Earth,”....................L. Fiorman
Prologue................................Harry	Percy Dunn
Music..........................................Orchestra
PART SECOND.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
A Comedy in One Act.
Characters:
Erastus Steele (A Merchant) ...................M.	Herrick
Harry (His Son)..................................H. Sells
Solomon Longface (An Imposter).............J.	L. Heffernan
Cyrus Caucus (A Countryman)...................L.	Florman
Bobby Simpson (A Lubberly Boy) .............S.	Livingston
Barney Hoolan (A Ben Butler Man) ...............J.	Devitt
Song—“ La Dol’avvrge ”..........................L. Gibert
Speech—“Juvenile Oration”....................G. Schaefer
Tympano Citharoedi........................H.	and J. Devitt
THE EDITOR’S TROUBLES.
A Farce.
Lemuel Foozle (An Editor)..............................H.	Dunn
Patrick O’Connor Duniahey.....................E. Cullinene
William Shadow.........................................F.	Dorsel
Stephen Palmer.........................................L.	Gibert
Jim Bloodsoe............................................J.	Flynn
Clifford Pinchpenny.............................G.	Haslam
Chawley......................................S. Livingston
Music........................................N. D. U. C. B
A Drill of Raw Recruits, supposed to have taken place before the capture of South Bend, Maj. Herrick, U. S. A., Commanding. Music to the Drill................By	Start’s Brass Band
NO PLACE LIKE HOME.
An Interlude.
Abel Grump (A Tuxbury farmer)................G. O’Kane
Johnny Grump.......) TheRunawavs J...........H. Devitt Charley Black......f ineKunaways |...........j Whelan
Policeman, No. 329 ..........................G. Kipper
Song..........................................L. Gibert
Music........................................Orchestra
PART THIRD.
THE RIGHTFUL HEIR.
A Melodrama in three Acts, arranged far the Philopatrians.
Prince Rudolph (A presumptive heir) Edmund, the rightful heir.............. Oberto, an honest agriculturist........ Elvino, son of Oberto..................
A. Rohrback ..G. Schaefer ....W. Start ....A. Brown
566
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Basilio, Duke of Luthuauia................
Stanislaus, King of Sarmatia..............
Starow, a villainous confidant of the Prince
Courtiers.
I....
Kalig, a reduced gentleman and upright man.. Molino, good-natured villager, rather eccentric Bonafacio, royal usher.....................
Edgar..............1	...
Simon..... Reginald . Eduardo... Godfrey.... Adolpho... Utobil.... Frederico.. Adil...... Gioberto... Francisco.. Epilogue...
..Guy Woodson ....F. Wheatley ....J. Bennett ....J. M. Kelly ...M. E. Herrick ....H. Devitt .J. L. Heffernan ....G. O’Kane .... G. Haslam . ...E. Cullinene ....D. 0. Smith .......L. Gibert ....J. Whelan ....A. Sehiml ....,F. Prenatt ....J. Flynn .....H. P. Dunn
...G. Schaefer
1
Prince’s Attendants.
| Stewards. j
Tableau.
Closing Remarks.....................Very	Rev. President Corby
Music........ :...........................    .N.	D. U. C. B
Bo l of donor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exetnplarv conduct, given satisfaction to all the members of the faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. C. Adains, W. H. Arnold, W.’l. Brown, C. Brehmer, T; E. Bourbonia, W. Berry, F. J. Baker. G. E Clarke, D. Claffev, L.F. Calligari, L E. Clements, F. T. Dever, J. D. Delaney, D. English, M. B Eaton. M. L. Falvey, .1. M Falvey, M. P. Fishburne, F. J. Garritty, G. L. Hagan, W.S. Huddlestone, W. E. Hoffman, D. A. Harrington. M. T. Healey, A. Jones, W. Johnson, W. Kelly, A. Korty, T. Kavanagh, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kende), J. C. Larkin, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. J. McCarthy, J. A. McNamara. L. Mathers, J. A. McErlain, J. A. Monaghan, J. A. McIntyre, J. J. Malone. W. J. McEniry, J. Nash, G. Nester, H. O’Donnell, J. O’Reilly, E. A. Otis, A. Pimyotahmah, E. Piper, L. Proctor, B. H. Polack, W. B. Ratterman, F. J. Rettig, J. Solon, H. A.8teis, E. G. Sugg, G. Sugg, L. W. Stitzel, W. A. Schofield, B. F. Smith, A. Thornton, C. Al Thiele, E. G. Taggart, 8. P. Terry, G. S. Tracy, C. Van Dusen, W. R. Young, E. Yrisarri, A. Zahm, J. B. Zettler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. W. Ayers, P. Archer, A. A. Brown, J. Bennett, J. Boose, C. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, A. Bodine, W. Barron, A. Coghlin, W. L Coghlin, J. A. Casey, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. 8. Cleary, J. Cabel, H. Dunn, A. Dick, G. W. De Haven, J. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, A. J. Dennis, N. H. Ewing, T. F. Flynn, A. J. Flynn, J. M. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, J. Friedman, L. F. Florman, J. J. Gordon, A. A. Gal], J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, W. W. Gray, P. G. Hofiman, T. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze. J. T. Homan, J. M. Heff rnan, J. L. Heffernan, G. J. Haslam, T. D. Healy. F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A. Joyce, F. A. Krone, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, 0 C. Kollars, O. Kempb, Sam‘Livingston, H. M. Lannon, W. P. Mahon, J. M. Mohan, F. McPhillips, J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, S.T. Murdock, J. F. Martin, J. S. McGrath, F. J. McKinnon. H. W. Morse, M. A. McNulty, A. H. Malay, J. McGinn, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, G. F. O’Kane, J. P. O'Neill, D. G. Paul, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Rhodius, A. M. Rohrback, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, C. F. Rietz. J. Ruppe, W. E. Smith, A. C. Schiml, Con Schneider, J. M. Scanlan, G. Schaefer, G. A. Truschel, C. A. Tinley, E. G. Tappan, F. J. Woe-ber. Guy Woodson, T. Williams, J. W. Whalen, F. W. Wheatley.
D.	C. Smith was omitted by mistake last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Echlin, D. G. Taylor, R. E. Costello, W. T. Berthlet, M. Olds, W. F.Hanavin, J. Moroney, J. A. Kelly, P. Yriearri, A. G. Molander, J. E. Haslam, E. A. Howard. J. 8. Courtney, J. A. Frain, J. Ruppe, L. J. Young. D. L. MeCawley, J. L. Rose, W. Prindiville, D. Priudiville, E. McGrath, J. H. Dwenger, M. Devitt, J. E. Chaves, G. Price, C. Campau, E. B. Bagard, H. J. Ackerman, W. Rea, B. Powell.
Claes Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
F. W.Bloom, G. Sugg, D. Harrington, W. McGorrisk, A. Zahm, E. Orrick, C. B. Van Dusen, C. W. McDermott, F. Grever, N.
Ewing, J. Homan, E. McGorrisk, J. Osher, M. McEniry, E. Otis, H. Simms, G. Clarke F. Clarke, W. Arnold, W. J. McCarthy, T. Healy, M. Healy, J. A. McIntyre, S. P. Terry.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Droste. C. Echlin, J. S. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, H. Snee, T. McGrath, W. Berthlet, G. Tourtillotte. H. Kitz, A. Van Mourick, J. Kelly, J. A. Erain, J. Haslam, D. O'Connor, W. M. Olds, W. Hanavin, A. J. Campau, F. B. Farrelly, J. Moroney, W. Thompson, E. A. Howard, R. E. Costello, H. Metz, A. G. Molander, M. E. Devitt. W. Taylor, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, J. Ruppe, L. J. Young. J. McGrath, A. B. Bender, W. Rea, E. B. Bagard, E. McGrath, J. L. Rose. D. L. MeCawley, W. Miller, B. Powell, P. Campau, C. Metz, C. Campau, C. Young, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville.
List of Excellence.
[The siudents mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.
COLLEGIATE COURSE. ■
Latin—F. W. Bloom, N. Ewing, F. W. Gallagher, G. Sugg, A. Zahm, C. B Vandusen ; Greek—F. W. Bloom,' N. Ewing, A. Zahm, J. Homan; Moral Philosophy—F. W. Bloom; Logic— D. Harrington. W. Arnold, G. Sugg; English Composition— C F. Rietz, T. Kavanagh, W. Young, C. Tinley. H. Rose; Rhetoric—J. Homan, N. Ewing. R. Fleming, E Orrick, J. Solon; English Li’erature—C. McDermott, C B. Van Dusen; Criticism—H. S:mm», A. Zahm: Algebra—N. Ewing, J. McIntyre, Geometry—W. R Young, N. Ewing, R. Fleming, J. McIntyre; Trigonometry—J. Casey; Conic Sections—C. 'McDermott, T. Healy; Surveying—C. B. Van Dusen, S P. Terry; Calculus—A. Zahm, W. B. McGorrisk; Physiology—C. Rietz, J. McIntyre, E. Otis; Botany— C. Rietz. J. McIntyre, E. Otis; Zoology—C. Van Dusen ; Physics— --;Chemistry-----; Mineralogy— --------------------------------------; History—G. Clarke, E. Otis, J. McIntyre, J. Solon, 8. Terry, C. Van Dusen, C. McDermott, E. Orrick, G. Sugg, W. McGorrisk.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
The Great Short Route South, Southwest and West.
Hay 15,1881. Local and Through Time Table. No. 22.
Going North.		STATIONS.	Going South.	
1.4; p m. LOU “ 12 35 “ 12.14 a m. 11.42 “ 10 4t “ 10.12 “ 9.50 “ 9 23 “ 8.50 “ 8.09 “ 7.25 “ 6.25 p m.	4.20 p tn 3 35 “ 3.14 “ 2.53 “ 2.23 “ 131 “ 12 51 “ 12 30 pm. 11.50 *• 11.18 “ 10.41 “ 9.57 ** 8.50 a.m.	Arrive	Leave - - Michigan City, - - -	- - - La Porte, - -- - - Stii’wel), - - - -	- - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - -- - -	- Pern, - - - - -	- Bunker Hill, - - -- - - Kokomo. - - - - - -	- - - Tipton. - -- - - Noblesville, - - -Lv. - Indianapolis. - Ar.	9.35 a.m 10.23 “ 10 41 “ 1100 “ 1135 “ 12.27 p.m. 1.C6 “ 145 “ 2.05 “ 2 40 “ 316 •• 4 00 “ 5.00 “	8 "5 p.m 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9 42 “ l'’.2X “ 11.2Up.m 11 57 12 25 a.tr 12.48 “ 1.3) “ 2.1.7 “ 2.48 “ 3.45 “
THE ONLY LINE Running a>nnon Train out of Indianapolis for CHICAGO, Toledo, Detroit, Buffalo, Niagara Falls, NEW YORK CITY, and all Principal Points in the EAST.
Elegant Sleeping and Parlor Coaches run between INDIANAPOLIS and CHICAGO, and INDIANAPOLIS and MICHIGAN CITY.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen’l. Manager, Indianopolfs. Gen’I. Pass and Ticket Agent.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOEASTie;	567,
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame .in 1372 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWA.RDS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
,	BY MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding op Notre Dame University.
,,	JPjrlce, 81, postpaid.
Anorfiss
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
Ou and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2.30 p. m Buffalo, 8.50 p. m.
11.05 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
12.16p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m.. Cleveland, 10.10 p. m. Buffalo, 4 a. m.
6.21 p. in., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Bufla’.o, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5 05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a. m., Chicago 8 20 a. m.
0-93 a. m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
116 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52	p.	m.;	Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4.50 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 538; Chesterton,- 6.15 p. m.;	Chicago,	8 p.	m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE. ’
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grnnd Crossing	 u	7	35 a.m. 8	09 “ 9	10 “ 9	32 “ 9	47 “ 10	06 “ 10	08 “ 11	05 “ 11 15 “ 11 40 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
Miiler’s	"	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis	 “					
					
		11 02	“ 11 20	“ 11 22	“ 12 16	p.m.	7 32 “		
Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	  “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 “	i 20 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 8 15 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 n.m.	5 38 “ 0 21 “
		12 50 “			5 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
568	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Welcome Visitor in Every Catholic Household.
THE ONLY WORK OF ITS KIND.
The Household Library of Catholic Poets.
From Chaucer to the Present Day.	j
Collected and Edited by ELIOT RYDER, NVitli Critical and Biographical Notes. -
This important Volume, representing the best work of Catholic Poets, and containing many of the best and brightest gems to be found in the whole field of English poetry, was begun several years ago, and contains selections from more than one hundred eminent authors, English and American.
It has been the aim of the editor to present a comprehensive collection—a library—of poetry written by Catholics, which should take rank with any collection ever published, and at the same time illustrate the magnitude and variety of the valuable work which Catholics have produced.
The Volume contains many Poems which have become favorites the world over, besides others of note and popularity, arranged with the names of their authors, who have been placed in chronological sequence.
The Collect’on has been pronounced by many prominent clergymen and Uterateurs to be in every way valuable, and a most admirable monument of Catholic literature. The work is furnished with an alphabetical index of the names of poems, an index of authors, and also one of the first lines, thus making the means of reference perfectly complete.
The book is handsomely printed from new type, on fine paper, and contains admirable portraits of Chaucer and John Boyle O’Reilly. Both in contents and in manufacture, this is one of the finest specimens of Catholic book-making ever produced in this country.
Please fill this out, and forward to Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SPECIAL LIMITED EDITION FOK SUBSCRIBERS ONLY.
No—......... .........................................................................1881
J. A. Lyons agrees to sell and deliver, when published, to the undersigned,____copies of
a book entitled
THE HOUSEHOLD LIBRA RI' OF CATHOLIC POETS,
about to be published by him, for which the subscriber agrees to pay the sum of Five Dollars per copy, the same to be a special subscription edition of proof copies, which will be limited to two hundred and fifty in number, and will be printed from the first impressions of the plates, on extra fine paper.
Signature._________________________________________________________
Address________________________________________________________
As only two hundred and fifty copies of this edition will be printed, and as each copy will be numbered, in addition to having the full name and address of the subscriber printed and bound in with the book, it presents an opportunity seldom offered for securing such a valuable work, the edition of which is restricted to so small a number. Among the American'authors to be represented are: John Boyle O’Reilly, Maurice F. Egan, Judge Arrington, Dr. Huntington, Theodore O’Hara, Rev. D. X. McLeod, Richard Dalton Williams; Richard Henry Wilde, Rev. J. W. Cummings, John Savage, LL.D., William Seton, Daniel Connolly, Rev. T. A. Butler, Rev. M. B. Brown, Rev. A. J. Ryan, Rev. James Kent Stone, John B. Tabb, Charles H. A. Esling, W. D. Kelly, John Locke, Bro. A zarias, Miss Donnelly, P. S. Cassidy, Katherine F. Conway, Miss Anna T. Sadlier, Miss Elizabeth Waylen, Miss Edith Cook, Miss Marian Muir, Mrs. Margaret F. Sullivan, Mrs. A. H. Dorsey, Marcella A. Fitzgerald, Harriet M. Sk’dmore, J. W. S. Norris, John Acton, Mrs. Mary E. Mannix, Charles Warren Stoddard, William Geoghegan, Miss Sara T. Smith, Eliza Allen Starr, E. J. McPhelim, T. O’Hagan, Rev. H. A. Brann, D.D., John Boyle, Very Rev. J. A. Rochford, O. P., Mrs. Mary C. Burke, Mrs. C. D. Elder, George H. Miles, Rev. Patrick Cronin, and many others.