!
t
i
r Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vioturxis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 3, 1880.	Number 30.
A Stream that Hurries By.
BY GEEALD GRIFFIN.
The stream that hurries by yon fixed shore Returns no more:
The wind that dries at morn yon dewy lawn Breathes and is gone;
Those withered flowers to Summer’s ripening glow No more shall blow;
Those fallen leaves that strew yon garden bed For aye are dead.
Of laugh, of jest, of mirth, of pleasure past, Nothing shall last;
On shore, on sea, on hill, on vale, on plain, Naught shall remain;
Of all for which poor mortals vainly mourn, Naught shall return;
Life hath his hour in heaven and earth beneath, And so hath Death.
Not all the chains that clank in eastern clime
- Can fetter Time.
For all the phials in the doctor’s store
Youth comes no more;
No drug on Age’s wrinkled cheek renews
• Life’s early hues;
Not all the tears that pious mourners shed
Can wake the dead.
For all Spring gives, and Winter takes again, We grieve in vain;
Vainly for sunshine fled, and joys gone by, We heave the sigh;
Oh, ever on, with inexhausted breath
Time hastes to death;
Even with each word we speak a moment flies, Is born, and dies.
. If thus, through lesser Nature’s empire wide Nothing abide—	•
If wind, and wave, and leaf, and sun, and flower Have each their hour—
He walks on ice whose dallying spirit clings
To earthly things;
And he alone is wise whose well-taught love
Is fix’d above.
Truths firm as bright, but oft to mortal ear Chilling and drear,
Harsh as the raven’s croak the sounds that tell
Of Pleasure’s knell.
Pray, reader, that at least the minstrel’s strain
. Not all be vain;	-
And when thou bend’st to God the suppliant knee . Remember me.
Justin the Philosopher.
Justin the Philosopher, was born in Samaria, in Pales- ’ tine, which was at that time a tributary of the Roman Empire; hence he enjoyed all the rights of Roman citizenship. Justin was of Greek extraction, his father and grandfather being among the colony sent thither by Titus, the son of Vespasian. The date of his birth is uncertain; some say that he was born in A. D. 89, while others maintain that he was not born until 118. Be this as it may, Justin was, however, educated and brought up in all the errors and superstitions of paganism, and his father, Prisons, a good man in his way, left nothing undone to have “the nobler nature within him stirred,”—to give him a thorough education—as thorough as could then be attained.
Young Justin, in compliance with his father’s wishes, applied himself to the study of the various branches of literature and science—in all of which he made notable progress, evincing in each a marked ability; and his father, being capable of appreciating talent, inflamed our youth’s ardor by the expression of his approbation in regard to his rapid advancement.	-
On arriving at the age of manhood, Justin, stimulated by the desire of knowledge, which was seconded by the encouragement of a good parent, ardently1 applied himself to the study of philosophy—a study in which he delighted, and in which he afterwards attained so marked a distinction. He also devoted himself to the various branches of literature, and made decided progress in them; hence the reading of the poets, orators,and historians were among his chief delights.
In those days, even as now, it was deemed necessary for students before completing their education to travel. Accordingly, our young friend,—destined as he was, to become a bright star in the firmament of paganism, and ultimately to shine more resplendently as a light for the conversion of souls to the fold of Christ, the one true God —quitted his home, his parents, and his friends, and set out for Egypt, then famous for the teaching of certain mysteries of sacred learning, considered so well adapted for the completion of an education. Having drank here to satiety of all the learning of the Egyptians, he resolved to go to the then metropolis of the known world, Rome, the city of the Caesars. The date of his advent to this city is uncertain, nor can we come to a more definite conclusion regarding the date of his conversion, but basing our calculation on the course of studies through which he had passed, we may say he was somewhat advanced in years at the time this wonderful change took place in him.
Tillemont and Maraud, argue by a passage from St. Epiphanius that at the time of his conversion he was thirty years of age, while Eusebius says that it took plr-je after
464	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Adrian had celebrated the Apotheosis of his minion Antoninus, whom death had surprised in Egypt, and to whose honor the Emperor founded a city called Antonia. This occurred in 132; hence we may, on the authority of Dom. Maraud, say that his conversion took place about the year 137; neither do we know where he became converted, but Dr. Cave seems to think that this took place at Naplosa; however, the argument of Marand appears more probable, namely, that his conversion took place at Alexandria, as Justin states that he himself had been in this city about that time.
The circumstances which led to the conversion of Justin the Philosopher, are worthy of notice. We have seen him in the land of Egypt, seeking knowledge from a people who merited from the Divine Truth high encomiums;
. now we shall find him trace his footseps towards Rome— Rome whose conquering eagles floated victorious almost to the farthest extremities of the then known world, the renown of whose orators, poets, scholars, and philosophers was restricted by no limit or boundary. Here did he sound with more avidity the depths of deep philosophy; and the more he became enlightened in these humanities, the more human ignorance became dispelled,—the more his sublime imagination was carried to regions hitherto unknown to him, but on whose shores he was about to taste of that wisdom which pertains to God, the Creator of all— that unfathomable intelligence which alone can satisfy the soul of man seeking after truth. Now it was that his comprehensive intellect and profound judgment would not be trammelled by the systematic rules of ciude philosophy —a mere love of wisdom—nor would his great soul be content with anything else than a knowledge of the Author of wisdom—God Himself—the beginning and end of true science.
From the cravings of a soul just illuminated by the light of truth, delays were to him intolerable. The peri-paptetic who would have him name a stipulated salary he stigmatized as a mercenary. Nor did he fare better with the Pithagorean who required him to be a proficient in music, astronomy, and geometry. He, however, finally decided on entering the school of an Academic where he worked hard, laboring at the same time under the errrone-ous idea that in a short time he would come to the actual seeing of God, which he considered the completion of his studies. Shortly after this, as our young philosopher was walking by the sea-side for the purpose of deep thought and silent meditation—being free from the noise and bustle of the city—he met an old man, of a mild and grave demeanor, whose appearance was at once venerable and majestic. Justin scanned this strange personage so closely that the old man enquired if he knew him, but received an answer in the negative. With this man, whom some consider an angel, others a pious Christian, Justin commenced a protracted discourse concerning philosophy in general, and the Platonic in particular. The venerable man refuted all the arguments that Justin could bring to bear on the system he defended, and showed him in plain and unmistakable terms his many errors, as well as those of his masters, whose teachings he so ardently defended. This refutation had so impressed the mind of young Justin, that he humbly asked the old man who were most likely to lead him on to the right path that leads to wisdom and true happiness; he was referred to the writings of the Prophets, whose very names seem to enkindle in his breast an ardent love for those great and holy men of God—those true sages»
in whose every line is contained a mine of philosophical lore.
Deeply impressed with the inadequacy of the Platonic system of philosophy for the accomplishing of what it proposed—that of leading in a short time to the sight of God—Justin became a close observer of the tenets of Christianity, and the more he studied them, the more he loved them; the more joy he found in the perusal of the sacred Scriptures, which at this time became the object of his most earnest thought.
In the study of the Sacred Scriptures he commenced to see the beauty of Christianity, and this, together with the innocence and purity of the lives of the followers of the Nazarine, made an indelible impression on his noble soul; here we see the force of example, and the truth of the words verba, docent, exempla trahunt. The intrepidity, too, of the early Christians was not wanting in producing its effect. Justin’s keen penetrating eye saw at a glance the motives by which these good and pious persons were actuated ; hence he afterwards said of himself, at this period of his life: “ When I heard the Christians traduced and rereproached, yet saw them fearless and rushing on to death —to that which is most horrible to human nature, I became convinced that it was impossible for those men to be guilty of the crimes of which they were charged, or to be carried away from the path of virtue by the passions with which the flesh is so continually harrassed.”
Like the Christian philosopher, Aristides, the Athenian, and Heracleas, Bishop of Alexandria, Justin never laid aside the cloak, the singular badge of the philosopher; and well did he bear all the attendant honors of the philosopher’s cloak to the grave. He was indeed a true philosopher, as his first apology for the Christians abundantly proves. Yet, notwithstanding his zeal for the cause of God’s Holy Church, it is not certain whether he ever entered into or received sacred orders, but I think this can be reasonably deduced from the fact of his preaching in public, as in those days the laws of the Church were even more strict in this respect than they are now.
Justin, by his wonderful life, and labors for the spread of Catholicity, well deserves the title of Father of the Church, and is the first of these great and good men among the the Latins, who have left us works of considerable note.
This remarkable man wrote a work in order to refute the errors of Aristotle; and in it he displays a remarkable vigor of mind, a power of argument, and a depth of thought not to be easily excelled. Aristotle’s first two books on physics, or principles of matter, form, etc., are subjected by our young Christian philosopher to a keen criticism; but the treatise in which the fourth, fifth, and eighth -books of Aristotle are gravely censured are not sufficiently authenticated as Justin’s; yet there is good reason to believe, if we judge from the style of the writing, especially as regards force of argument, that Justin is the author of this excellent treatise.
Another most remarkable production came forth, at about this time, from Justin’s pen; it is his “Apologies.” These are among the most precious documents of antiquity. In them, he extols the power of divine grace in the lives and virtues of the Christians, of whom many, as he says, served God to the last days and hours of their lives in a state of spotless purity, both of body and soul; never having offended against the virtue of chastity, even in thought.
To Justin, also, is ascribed, and not unworthy of him,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	465
a dialogue or au actual discussion after the Socratic way of arguing; and this work deserves especial mention. It was after having written his first Apology, that he was absent for some years, and, as we may suppose, performed the functions of an evangelist. In the reign of Antoninus Pius, Justin, being at Ephesus, and casually meeting Tryphon, whom Eusebius calls the most celebrated Jew of that age, and a most distinguished philosopher, he fell into a conversation with him. This conversation led to a public discussion, which lasted two entire days, and was witnessed by a large concourse of people, who were astonished at the wisdom and depth of knowledge displayed by both parties; but Justin was the favorite, and by it won fresh laurels. He committed this dialogue to writing, and in the first part shows that, according to the Prophets, the old law was temporary, and to be abolished by the new; in the second, that Christ was God before all ages, distinct from the Father, the same that appeared to Abraham, Moses, etc., the same that created man, and was Himself made man, and crucified. He insists much in that passage, Behold a Virgin shall conceive—Isaiah, viii. In the third part, he proves the vocation of the Gentiles, and the establishment of the Church of Christ.
Justin, in his Oration to the Greeks, clearly shows the absurdity of paganism, basing some of his arguments on the holiness of life, the purity and sanctity of the Christian doctrine. In this work he also shows that the human mind can never be satisfied except in the contemplation of the sublime truths of the Holy Scriptures, and reproaches Plato for becoming subservient to the Athenians in admitting, contrary to his convictions, a multiplicity of gods. In this work is cited the words of Homer, Orpheus, Sophocles, Pythagoras Plato, Mercury, and Ammon, which profess the unity of the Deity, and thus cleary shows what these great men really believed in regard to this most important point. Another admirable work of Justin, and in which be shows wonderful reasoning powers, was that on “ Monarchy.” Besides the last named production, many other works are ascribed to him, but there is no doubt that some of them are spurious.
It is related that Diognetus, a learned philosopher, and a person of high rank, was desirous to know on what grounds the Christians despised the world and the things of the world, and how it was possible that they could bear towards one another such brotherly love and regard. This Justin explains in his own inimitable way, attributing it to the action of God’s grace on the soul, and to the virtues which these dear servants of God practiced, and which ever increased by tortures and massacres. He also explains that the glories of this life are not to be compared with the joys that are to come; that the soul is immortal; that the body will rise at the last day; that we are cleansed from the sin of Adam by the saving waters of Baptism; and that our souls are nourished by the Body and Blood of Christ in the most Holv Sacrament of the Eucharist.
Mentioning the Eucharist as a Sacrifice, Justin says: “No one is allowed to partake of this Food, except him that believes our doctrines to be true, and who has been baptized in the laver of regeneration for the remission of sins, and lives up to what Christ has taught. For we take not these as common bread and common drink, but like Jesus Christ our Saviour, being Incarnate by the word of God, hath both flesh and blood for our salvation, so we are taught that this food, by which our flesh and blood are nourished, over which thanks have been given by the prayers in His
own words, is the Flesh and Blood of the Incarnate Jesus.”
Justin’s two “ Apologies ” had the desired effect. The one. caused a rescript to be issued by the emperor Adrian, confirming a former edict of his father’s, and adds, “The j same answer I gave when consulted before on the subject.
If anyone accuse a person of being a Christian, it is my pleasure that he (the accused) be acquitted, and the accuser chastised according to the rigor of the law.” Martyrdom,’as the author himself expected was the reward of the other.
Pride and wounded self-love are vices that lead to the commission of crimes the most atrocious. Jealous at being outdone, the so-called philosophers who formed the court, as it were, of the Emneror Aurelius, made use. of every means to defame the Christians. The Emperor, unworthy witness of the prodigy wrought on the Bohemian mountains by the God of the Christians, in answer to the prayers of the thundering legion, very soon yielded to the sophistry and blandishments of his parisites, and turned again the sword of persecution, against those innocent and unoffending victims. The trial of Justin and his companions before Rusticus, the Prefect of Rome, as related in the Acts of the Martyrs, is well worthy of perusal. The lucidity with which this truly Christian hero puts forth the first principles of the Christian doctrine, and his readiness to meet death in defence of his honest convictions, shows what confidence may be derived at this moment from a life well spent, and which renders death a re-echo of life —a speedy passage to that happy abode promised to those who walk in the way of the Lord.
With him suffered about the year 167, in the reign of Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Ver us, one of the Emperor’s household, and some others. Tatian, the worthy disciple of Justin, says that of all men he was the most worthy of admiration, and Eusebius, St. Jerome, Epiphanius, The-odore, and many others, are not less profuse in their encomiums.	J. P.
St. Patrick’s Day Celebration at St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, N. B.
Editor of Scholastic:—While grand preparations were being devised in large cities all over the continent, to worthily celebrate the feast of Ireland’s saint, we, in the seclusion of the quiet Acadian valley, were not idle. It has always been the aim of the Irish students to make the Feast of St. Patrick one to which they might refer with pride, and this year they certainly have every reason to congratulate themselves on the unparalleled success of their labors.
In the morning, at 9.30 o’clock, a Solemn High Mass was sung in the parish church. Rev. J. Gagne being the celebrant, with Rev. M. J. McGill, C. S. C.,as deacon, and. Mr. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., as sub-deacon. Towards the close of the Mass, Rev. Father McGill ascended the pulpit and delivered a most able and eloquent sermon. In glowing terms, he recalled the time when Erin acknowledged no superior, when her children were free as the waves of the ocean king that course along her emerald shores, when the sunshine of peace and contentment illumined her landscape, and when the star of Faith lighted her sons on through the portals of persecution to the enjoyment of their reward. Then, in a voice full of pathos, he depicted her present sufferings, and concluded with a powerful appeal to his hearers to aid their starving brethren on the other
466
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
side of the Atlantic. The sermon was a powerful effort, and many were visibly affected.
The afternoon of the seventeenth was spent in completing arrangements for a grand Dramatic and Musical Entertainment. At 7 p. m. the Hall presented a magnificent spectacle. It seemed to have been changed into an arbor. Floral wreaths, festoons and mottoes adorned the walls, while pictures of celebrated Irishmen, literally imbedded in flowers, occupied conspicuous positions. Fully 500 persons greeted the opening piece—a quickstep by the College Band. The oration of the evening was delivered by Mr. E. L. O’Brien. His theme was “ Ireland and her sons.” The language of this young gentleman was elegant, the imagry chaste and appropriate; and the tenor of his remarks showed much deep study and research. The young gentleman ^possesses the happy faculty of blending statistics and narrative into a pleasing harmony, and this, combined with his natural grace of person and gesture, made him a great favorite with the audience, who testified their appreciation by frequent bursts of applause.
The well-known drama, “The Cross of St. John’s,” was excellently performed. In Act I, the scene of the robbery was intensely interesting. The cool sarcastic Theodore (C. J. O’Reilly), the hesitating Simeon (E. L. O’Brien), and the virtuous Schulmann (H. A. Walsh), acted their parts with much success. The scene in the gambling saloon in Paris was dazzling. The rich costumes, the gaudy surroundings, the easy, carelesss manner of the performers, formed a charmingly realistic picture; and the sword-fight, at the close, kept the audience in a state of breathless excitement.
The Farce, “D’ye Know Me Now?” was rendered in an almost perfect manner, and if applause can be taken as a standard of merit, it was the most successful ever played at St. Joseph’s. The waiter (T. F. Roche) carried off the laurels for the capital manner in which he upheld “ the dignity of the cloth.” Jolly Sniggins and the ev€r-doleful Dumps were ably personated.
The tableaux were, in my opinion, the gems of the evening. In one, “Erin as she is”—Ireland was clad in sombre robes, and an angel offered her the chalice of misfortune. The light was a pale blue; the dejected mien of Erin, the mournful tones of “ The Harp that once through Tara’s Hall,” and the shadows of misfortune casting their gloom over the scene, presented a truly affecting sight. This prepared the way for a collection in aid of the famine-stricken people of Ireland. The audience responded to the appeal in a manner that far exceeded the expectations of the most sanguine. The other tableau—“ Erin as she will be”—beggars description. She was clad in green silk robes, spangled with golden shamrocks, a crown upon herbrow, and the ever-glorious sunburst in her right hand, while an angel knelt and presented her with a bouquet of flowers. An intense bright light illumined the scene, and, as it flashed upon the gorgeous costume, a sight was presented that might well arouse patriotic feelings in the coldest heart. Three cheers for “ dear old Ireland,” and loud demands for an encore proved its success.
Some of the brightest gems of Irish song were very appropriately interspersed throughout the programme, and when we say they were in the hands of Prof. E. Ringuette, it is unnecessary to add that they were completely successful.
At the close of the Entertainment, the members of the St. Patrick’s Academy were called before the curtain, and received a hearty vote of thanks. The Very Rev. Superior,
Father Lefebvre, C. S. C., in a neat speech complimented the performers. He expressed himself much pleased to see that, while the students enjoyed themselves, they were not unmindful that there was a cry of sorrow, a solemn dirge of famine wailing through the land of their forefathers. Their actions had proved that Ireland, though humbled by poverty and racked by starvation, still was
“ More dear in her sorrows, her gloom and her showers, Than the rest of the world in their sunniest hours.”
The success of the Entertainment was due, in a great measure, to the ability and untiring exertions of Mr. A. B, O-Neill, C. S. C., who personally superintended the whole affair. In his capacity as Moderator of the Academy, he has, by his suavity and kindness, won for himself golden opinions in the hearts of the members, and his name will ever be associated with pleasant reminiscences,—among others, with that of one of the best Entertainments ever
given at St. Joseph’s College.
J. B.
St. Joseph’s Day at St. Laurent’s College, near ■	Montreal.
Editor of Notre Dame Scholastic On Friday, the 19th inst., an imposing ceremony was witnessed in the Chapel of St. Laurent College, viz., the admission to the Religious Profession of Mr. Joseph Stein, C. S. C., of New York City, formerly a student, and actually a Professor in the House. The ceremony was performed at 9 a. m., by the Rev. L. Geoffrion, C. S. C., Superior of the Institution, who officiated at High Mass, assisted by Rev. E. Meehan, C. S. C., as deacon, and the Rev. M. Me-, Garry, C. S. C., as subdeacon. After Mass, Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C., delivered an eloquent and impressive discourse on the Feast of the day, alluding in glowing terms to the ceremony about to take place. The Rev. preacher spoke with great force and earnestness upon the religious vocation; he held forth in forcible and glowing terms the beauty and advantages of the monastic state, and concluded with a touching exhortation to the young man who was about to take upon himself the “ Sweet yoke of the Lord.”
In the evening, an Entertainment was given by the members of the St. Joseph’s Irish-American Literary Association. Mr. Jas. Lynch, President of the Society, opened the exercises of the evening with a brilliant oration on “The Stars and Stripes ” and “Erin’s Banner,” which was frequently interrupted by the plaudits of the audenee. Among the vocal solos, those of Mr. Thomas A. Barron, R. Vilatte, and W. F. Trainor, were chiefly remarkable. The charming duet, “What are the Wild Waves Saying?” was well executed by Messrs M. J. McGinley and W. A. Keating. The melo-dramatic play, “The Blind Boy,” was ' the principal feature of Entertainment. The characters of King Stanislaus, Edmond, Oberto, Kalig, and Molino, were well interpreted by John Herbert, J. J. Tucker, M. J. McGinley, T. O’Sullivan, and M. M. Sheridan, respectively. The laughable farce, “ One Night in a Medical College,” in which Messrs. W. J. Coffin and W. A. Keating played their negro pranks to perfection, quite brought down the house. Among the declamations, that of Master W. Mc-Teigue—a lad, by the way, of nine years—threw all competitors into the shade. Masters J. A. L. Russell and A. Waters also delivered declamations; but there seemed to be no bounds to the admiration of the audience, when

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	467
Master W. McTeigue, with the coolness of an old master, sang in a clear melodious voice “The Sword of Bunker Hill.” The Entertainment concluded with a grand tableau representing the Apparition at Knock, Ireland, after which Rev. J. C. Carrier, the distinguished Professor of Science, made some spirited remarks, congratulating the actors on their success, especially Master McTeigue, the * prodigy of the evening. Prof. T. Russell and Rev. Mr.
Jas. White, C. S. 0., deserve much credit for the pains they took in preparing such an admirable Entertainment. The declining stars were already inviting sweet repose when the audience dispersed, well pleased, no doubt,, with the performance they had witnessed, and hoping, many such entertainments might continue to grace the classic < * halls of old St. Laurent.
A Spectator.
—The Maryland Senate Journal gives the following Report, made to the Hon. Senate and House of Delegates of Maryland by the Joint Committee on Public Institutions, about St. Mary’s Industrial School for Boys, near Baltimore, under the direction of the Xaverian Brothers: “ Your Committee next visited “ St. Mary’s Industrial School for Boys ” on the Frederick Turnpike, miles from Baltimore, a solid handsome stone structure with all the modern improvements for buildings of this class, and was much gratified to witness the great economy, good management, and active industry displayed, and of which you will find a fair and truthful exhibit in the Eleventh Annual Report of the managers, which has been placed before you. There are 386 boys in this Reformatory School, all of which are engaged in useful occupations, the principal features of which are Shoe-making, Printing, Basketmaking, Tailoring and Farming. Particular attention is given to the education of the boys, a number of whom are well advanced, with a prospect of future distinction, through the instrumentalities of this noble and charitable Institution, which, we believe, in point of management and adaptability, is second to none in the country, and we therefore recommend that a liberal appropriation be made for its support.	Wm. H. Bians,
Chairman Senate Committee.”
I *-	Art, Music and Literature.
—The monument erected to Beethoven by the city of Vienna will be publicly inaugurated May 1st.
—Mrs. Mary Agues Fleming, the popular story writer, i died recently at her home in Lewis Avenue, Brooklyn, ' N. Y.
—Prof. Werner’s great picture, “ The Congress of Berlin,” * will shortly be completed and hung in the festival room of the Berlin City Hall.
—Five pounds was the sum Samuel Simmons agreed to pay Milton when he should have sold the entire first edition of “ Paradise Lost.”
—Verdi is very much pleased with the preparations * being made to bring out his operas in Paris, in French. Maurel is to be the Amonasro in “Aida.”
—On the celebration of the tercentenary of CamBons, two new translations and also five new Portuguese editions of the Lusiad will be published.
—A statue is to be erected in the course of this year to George Sands. The site proposed is the vallee Noire, in Berry, the spot where so many of his romances had their birth.	■
—It is stated that the editors of Scribner's Magazine have on hand manuscripts for which §15,172.55 have been paid, and the editors of St. Nicholas' manuscripts for which $6,-54a have been paid.
—London journals are crediting Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan with having divided five thousand dollars a week as their share of the receipts from the “Pirates of Penzance ” Company A
—David M. Main, an English gentleman, has just published at Manchester a treasury of English sonnets, which he has edited from the original sources, and to which he has added over 200 pages of notes and illustrations.
—The famous Capuchin, Father Giovanni, who possessed a wonderful tenor voice, has juat died at Rome. His interpretation of the works of Palestrina and Pergolese stirred his auditors to tears. He only sang in churches.
—The Benedictines are said to have started a magazine in German and Latin as the organ of their order in Austria, Italy, and Spain. The first number was to be issued at Brunn on St. Benedict’s birthday. In France the order was not revived after the revolution.
—Theodore Thomas evidently has no desire to run an opposition college, as he told a Cincinnati reporter: “I will not assume the direction of a school burdened with debt, nor will I take one which will have to enter into competition with it, for, sooner or later, there would result a disturbance, and I am tired of these vexing troubles.”
—“It is worth noticing,” remarks the editor of the London Musical Standard, “that an Englishman has been chosen—over tne heads of an Italian and a German—to conduct the coming Festival at Leeds. It is possible that some day or other Englishmen will learn to believe in the musical capacity of England. But they are a long time making up their minds! ”
—According to the London Musical Standard, “If Miss Jenny Howe throws more animation into her singing and acting, and acquires that power of expression which is indispensable in all great dramatic parts, she will one day become a star of the first magnitude, and even if she remains as she now is, she will nevertheless render good service to the opera by her correct ear.”
—Now let the College of Music of Cincinnati offer a prize for an orchestral work, say a symphony, and thus aid the cultivation of a style of composition almost wholly neglected by American musicians. It might develop a ncu field and be productive of something truly beautiiul ihat might last. We have our Buck; now give us an American Beethoven!—Church's Musical Visitor.
—Apropos of the admiration of the London Athenozum lor a sentence in “Ouida'a” new book, “the beauty that was Atheu’s, and the glory that was Rome’s,” the Examiner observes that it is “a sorry mangling of the lines:”
‘ To the glory that was Greece’s, And. tne grandeur that was Rome’s.’ in Poe’s ‘Address to Helen.’ ”
—The colossal lion of Belfort, designed by M. Bartholdi as a symbol of the courageous resistance made at Belfort at the time when Paris was besieged, has at last been relieved ot all the scatfoldings and boardings that have hitherto hidden it from view. It nowstands out with very fine effect against the front of the rock on which the chateau or fortress that overlooks the town is built. It is hewn out of immense blocks of stone of reddish color, and produces an overpowering impression of gigantic size and" strength. Nearly eight years have been spent in its execution.
—The statue of Farragut for Union Square, New York, has been completed in clay by St. Gaudens, the sculptor. The figure is ot colossal proportions,—about nine feet high. Tne admiral stands upright, in uniform, and wearing his service-cap. He holds in one hand a large double-barrelled sea-glass. The attitude is perfectly easy and graceful; the feet are somewhat apart; the old sailor, in fact, stands in sailor-tashion on his sea-legs. The lace is striking; it is at once a portrait and a good typical study. The whole figure is simply massively treated. It is to be cast in bronze, and stand on a pedestal, at the base of which will be figures oi Courage and Loyalty.
468	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Prof. Louis Brown, an artist of repute at Munich, is working on the most colossal painting, perhaps, ever attempted on canvas. It will represent a general view of the battle of Sedan. The sketch is now finished, and measures sixty feet in length by ten in width. Tne painting itself will be 400 feet by 50, and is to be exhibited at Frankfort-on the Main, it is said, in two years. It is needless, perhaps, to add that a building will be constructed expressly for the purpose. The view of the battle is taken irom a commanding spot affording the sight of the whole valley of Sedan. The artist has selected the culminating point of the action, when the last and most desperate efforts of the French to open a way across the “circle of iron” were frustrated.
—“ The waters saw their God and blushed,” is a translation of a Latin epigram. It is often quoted, Vidit et eru-bull lympha pudica Deum, and has been attributed to Dryden wnen a school-boy at Westminster. It has also been claimed as the production of an Eton boy who was required to make a Latin verse on the miracle ot turning the water into wine, but it is really trom an epigram by Cra-shaw, an English poet of the time ot Charles I, who was converted to the Roman Catholic faith, and died a canon in the Cnurch or Loretto in 1650. Tae original is as follows: Hympha pudica Deum vidit et erubuit. In one of Bishop Heber’s poems we find tne following line: “ The conscious waler saw ns God and blushed,” but the idea seems to have originated with Crashaw.—“ Celia'' inN. Y. World.
—A curious discovery was lately made at the Vernon House, on Clarke street, at Newport, which was formerly the headquarters of Washington, Lafayette and liocham-beau. It is now being prepared for the offices of the United Stales Geological Bureau. Lately it became necessary to remove a large broad panel irom over tne fire-place in one of the upstair rooms. Behind this panel was discovered an old fresco painted in oil on plaster, and measuring some three feet square. The subject apoears to be a West Indian scene. In one corner are the figures of three beautiful females, one being dressed in red, with long hair flowing beneath a hat decorated with plumes. In her hand she holds a mandolin. This group stands at the gate ot a castle beyond which may be seen a cluster of houses with red-tiled roots. Opposite is a turbaned negro holding two snow-while horses somewhat heavily harnessed. In the background is a gathering of Indians with long lances. The painting is bordered above by a strip of yellow, over which is a frieze of passion-flowers and sea-shells.
country making white aud yellow ware, and not a mill to grind material. All the flmt aul stone required was imported from great Britain. Now there are 800 potteries in the United States, representing a total capital of over $6,000,000. The pottery craze of the last two or three years resulted in the erection of 30 new kilns in 1879.
—The portion of Asia Minor—comprising Batoum, Kars, Olti, and Artwin,—which has been acquired by Russia under the treaty of Berlin, is a district very rich in natural productions and capable of great development under an efficient administration. There is not much agricultural produce, but there is an aoundance of wood and metals, and tne climate and soil are well suited for the cultivation of silk and tobacco. The natives appear reconciled to the new state of things. Tney have ceased to emigrate into Turkish territory, and hoards of money which had hitherto been concealed, nave made their appearance in the towns. Batoum, thanks to its great advantages as a harbor, is increasing in size, while Poti, notwithstanding its dockyard and railway, declines.
—The papers have announced, in a few lines, the death of Abbe Debaize, a French priest, devoted to geographical exploration. But his demise demands a more prominent remark. He was one ot those heroic sons of the Cnurch whose aim is always to be in the van of progress, and who studied science as he had studied religion—solidly, profoundly and laboriously. Tne French Government, recognizing in him a man of singular aptitude for African exploration, granted £4,000 to assist him, and he left Paris for Zanzibar in March, 1878. He reached Ujiji in about a year, making valuable discoveries by the way, and some of our readers may remember that, upou his authority, we exploded some of Stanley’s romances. Providence did not spare him io finish his work. He succeeded in getting a considerable distance, and intended establishing stations at the north end of Tanganyika, and then exploring the western slopes of the Blue Mountains and the countries between the southern end of Albert Nyanza and Lake Tanganyika. We do not know as yet what jottings he had left, ot their completeness as a record; but from the extreme keeness of his powers of observation, his remarkable grasp of geographical matters and his capacity for work, we have good reason to hope that the world will gain much from his labors. May he rest in peace in his distant tomb!—Liverpool Catholic Times.
Exchanges.
Scientific Notes.
. —Fcssil human remains are reported to have been found near Castenedolo, Lombardy. They were imbedded in a stratum of corals, and seemingly belong to the pliocene period.
—uEtna is again tranquil, its summit is once more covered with snow, and an ascent is contemplated, with a view to examine the alterations caused in the crator by the recent eruptions.
—Signor Denza, of the Moncalieri Observatory, points out the coincidence of a shock of earthquake, in Lombardy and Piedmont, on Feb. 9, with the great activity of Hima the same day, and an eruption of a volcana in San Domingo.
—There will shortly be presented to the Royal College of Surgeons in London, a rare collection of skulls and skeletons, gathered during the last forty years by Dr. Bernard Davis, of Staffordshire; it comprises all the varieties of the human species found on earth.
—Owing, probably, to the sudden thaw several landslips have occured in various parts of Switzerland. Near Vully, on the Lake of Moral, 300 metres of cultivated land have glided into the water, and it is feared that a part of the village may share the same fate; and at Bellegarde, in Fribourg, several acres of wood are slipping down the side of a mountain.
—Thirty years ago there was but one pottery in this
—The Chimes, a neat and pretty Illustrated Weekly for Boys and Girls, is a constant caller at our sanctum. It is published by the Chimes Publishing Co., Baltimore, and makes a readable and interesling paper for boys and girls. The number before us—consisting of choice pieces of poetry, Intle stones of a deep religious stamp, short skeiches of holy youths and other interesting matter—is good, and cannot fail to please and interest those for whom they are intended. The subscription price ot this charming little weekly is for a single copy $1 per year; five copies, $450.
—The Harvard Echo, of which we have heretofore shown our appreciation by frequent quotations from its pages, is. always a newsy and most welcome visitor. The Echo is connecting itself by a chain of correspondents with the various colleges throughout the country, and will thus be capable of giving the latest college news. When we recollect that most of the college papers are monthly or semimonthly, the fact ot gelling the news in advance is an item worlhy of consideration. The Echo has lately shown its enterprise in giving the vole at the different colleges that took a ballot for the first and second choice of President, and now we have in advance a schedule of the games of the Intercollegiate Baseball Association for 1880. So far, but five colleges have joined the association—Yale having withdrawn, and Trinity aud other Eastern colleges holding aloof.
—The Georgetown College Journal is brighter, fresher and better than we have ever known it to be hereioiore,—that is, judging by an occasional number seen in former years. There is a fair supply of more than passably good poetry
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
469
for a college paper. The “Sursum Corda ” of the last number contains something more than its rythmical beauty— 5	deep, hallowed thoughts, beautifully expressed,—as may be
seen from the following stanza:
£ .•« “And what, for faith, would they give unto man? __ Naught but despair, and woe, and awiul doubts;
Making life the all in all, and cursing that. Haunted by the shadows of what might have been, They curse the heaven they have made a hell.
»	And if, perchance, they stumble on some truth,
Yet, wanting light, know not what they’ve found, But only blindly hint as to the shape.
*	__ Bo mixing little good with evil, teach
BH The empty doctrine of a clouded mind.” “The Reminiscences of Old Students” are interesting, as are also “ Prof. Clarke’s Reminiscences.” There is as yet nothing in the shape of essays, or a literary department, strictly speaking, and in this respect we would only say that the young men at Georgetown are, like a good many ' at Notre Dame, letting golden opportunities slip them— opportunities for advancement that will not recur in after- life. We try to impress this truth on the minds of those here who could help us, and improve themselves, by writing for the Scholastic, but many pay no heed to us. Georgetown boys seem to be even worse in this respect The exchange department of the College Journal is interesting,—as exchange departments generally are—but we would advise the editor not to overdo things in his line.
* Selt-conceit detracts a great deal Irom what is otherwise clever or meritorious, and the really clever exchange edi' tor of the Georgetown College Journal shows not a little of this self-conceit in his wntings. If he and his paper are really “ superior,” their merits will be felt and acknowledged, and the status of both settled, without the editor’s having to make proclamation ot the fact, as in the case of the Polyhymnian Monthly; and as to the judgment passed by him on the course ot action of the College Messaqe, we still beg to differ with him, although we do not tor a moment countenance the manner in which the Message p. handled the Journal's piece of advice, or rather the mandatum, no matter how much that mandatum deserved a rough handling. In our opinion, advice, to be effective, should be given courteously and with a modest reserve; criticism must, of course, depend upon circumstances, but even here a golden mean should be aimed at. The Journal editor’s remark about killing two birds withone “pebble ” shows his weak point; it is but another emanation Irom his sell-conceit; as far as we are concerned, he A should have read the sentence of his own condemnation in the college press throughout the country—and notably in The Princetonian, The Chronicle, The University, and The Brunonian which hold a position in the from rank of college periodical literature.
—The Virginia University Magazine for February is up to the usual nigh standard of ibis excellent magazine. The representative of the Old Dominion has always been one ot our favorites, and notwithstanding the many strictures that have been passed upon it by some ot the overrefined and learned of our contemporaries we must confess . that we read the articles in the last number ot the magazine with both pleasure and profit. Tuis may be an acknowledgement of weakness on our part, and if the reader will, he can have it so, but we speak the truth when we say that we see no good cause tor such criticisms as we have read on the articles in the Virginia University Magazine. What matters it whether an essay be long or short!
. Provided there is life enough in it to carry the reader to the end, that it is interesting throughout, we see in the fact ot its length but another claim to merit. In writing up college or other news, prolixity should be avoided; but in articles of a literary character, sufficient scope should be given to take in whatever is interesting in regard to the subject, and in this way alone can excellence in writing be attained, and a good taste in reading acquired. There are some, we know, who, it they attempt to go beyond a two, column article, become dry or insipid; their is an evidint strain upon words, and we turn away in disgust. But this is not the case with the writers in the Virginia University Magazine. Take, for instance, the contributor with the cabalistic title D7XS6—N; his article, “Our University,” takes up fifteen pages of the magazine, but it is readable, and even interesting, from the first page to the last. We would not
have a line of it cut out. There is no “ slush ” in it, as newspaper reporters say. It is al) live matter. “ Thoughts in a Library ” by W. Campbell Bruce, is a gossipy, interesting article covering five pages. “Byron,” and “The Poet Ploughman” occupy twelve pages each, and each carries the reader with unabated interest from beginning to end. If there is anything to be regretted it is the selection of such a subject for an essay as the life of Lord Byron, where much must be, or is said, that should not be brought before sensitive minds, for, alas! the trace of the Fall is found in every human soul, and where such a fierce and constant fight has to be waged, in order not to become a chained slave to the passions, it were better to let such subjects sink into oblivion. If there is a fault, it is in the choice of a subject, and certainly not in the manner in which the writer handles his theme.
College Gossip.
—The University of Sydney, New South Wales, has had a bequest of $500,000.
—The College of the Propaganda have given seven thousand livre to the relief of the Irish distressed.
—A class in journalism is established at Cornell. The favorite electives will doubtless be in the scissors, pastepot and stealing department.—Harvard Echo.
—Kenyon’s College has a Nu Pi Kappa Society. If the Nu is much of an improvement on the old style of pie, we should like to hear more about it. Our boys have a strong weakness for pie, and no doubt would feel grateful for being posted in regard to the Nu article.
—An editorial in the last number of The Volants begins as follows: “ For some unexplained reason, the art of dancing has not in this, or, generally speaking, in any other college, received the attention which its utility and importance deserve.” The writer is mistaken. There is at least one college where dancing is taught by “ a man with the necessary pedal qualifications and knowledge of style” which the Volante editor requires in the occupant for the proposed chair in the University of Chicago. For a time, so long that the memory of the oldest student runneth not to the contrary, the “ poetry of motion” has been cultivated at Notre Dame. The polished French gentleman and ripe scholar that founded the College did not lose sight of this gentlemanly accomplishment; while at the same lime cultivating the heart of those under his charge in a manner that would enable them to keep it within its proper sphere and bounds.
—And, latest now, in an ill-regulated fit of patriotism, the students at Trinity College had nearly succeeded in burning up, or burning down the college. This was on the 22d of February, Washington’s Birthday. The correspondent of The Harvard Echo says of it: “The preparations for Monday night were opened well, but—sic transit gloria mundi— the affair was a fizzle—unqualifiedly, and literally, a fizzle. To be sure, the Profs, were locked in, the fire-crackers and Roman candles were set off, the reading-room was set on fire and the alarm rung, but, triste dictu,—the Profs, climbed out of the windows, the fire in the reading-room was extinguished by a few bucketsful of water, and before all the fireworks had gone off, the celebrators found it necessary to go off themselves. And so they did, all but one luckless wight, whom the angry firemen chose' as an object of vengeance lor their useless midnight trip. Poor Sophomore! he only received his freedom by most diligent fabrication of excuses and pleadings; and the firemen still vow to make him smart well for their loss of sleep on that eventful nignt Not content with their pyrotechnic experiments of the 22d, several of the students have amused themselves lately by setting fire to the dry grass about the building, through a patriotic desire to hasten the symbol of their nature—greenness—in the grass. The fields now present a striking nocturn in black and white, where the burnt portion shows through the snow which has fallen to-day. Tnis snow is a perfect God-send to our reverend faculty, as it obviates the necessity of rushing out every few minutes to stamp out the incipient conflagrations in the grass.”
470
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, .April 3, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTKE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip oi the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the nejvs at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a aubscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he win confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume tor binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the olhce of publication, as, usually, but tew copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—On last Sunday evening four of the Fathers at Notre Dame—Very Rev. A. Granger, Rev. P. W. Condon, Rev. J. Frfire, and Rev. A. Louage—left for France, at the call of their Superior, to attend tne General Chapter held every four years at the Mother-House in Pans. The setting out of these gentlemen on last Sunday evening caused quite a commotion among the students, who wished to show' to Very Rev. Father Granger, the Prefect of Religion, and to Rev. P. W. Condon, the Prefect of Discipline, their kind regards and their good wishes for a safe and prosperous voyage across the Atlantic; hence it was that Mr. J. B. McGrath read in the name of all the students an ably-written and eloquent address to Very Rev. Father Granger, thanking him tor the care he had bestowed upon them during their time at Notre Dame, wishing him a pleasant voyage and a safe return. Father Condon was also made the object of particular attention. About half-past seven o’clock in the evening the Band commenced to play some charming airs, and then proceeded to the room of the Prefect of Discipline, where they all took their leave of him amid melodious strains of sweet music—sweet and charming enough to last him until he returns to old Notre Dame which will, we hope, be before the end of May next
—As is customary at Notre Dame the Easter services were of an impressive and solemn nature, and this is ever the case when the Ceremonial of the Church is strictly adhered to. At ten o’clock, hue die quamfecit Dominus, Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Very Rev. Father Corby being the celebrant, assisted by deacon and subdeacon.
The choir was under the direction of Rev. Father Fi^re
who has for years filled this office at Notre Dame. Bro. Basil was at the grand organ, whose peals reverberated through the aisles, and sent a thrill of joy to every heart, producing as it were, a foretaste of that harmony which we are told awaits the good beyond the grave.
-The sermon was preached by Rev. C. Kelly, who took for his text the Gospel of the day. It was a good substantial discourse, and was listened to throughout with marked attention on the part of the large congregation. In the evening, solemn Vespers were sung; the ministers, choir, etc., being the same as at Mass. Many persons came from the neighboring cities and towns to witness the ceremonies, which at Notre Dame are always of the most solemn nature.
Major General St. C. Mulholland has contributed to the Philadelphia Times the following affecting scene at the battle of Gettysburg; and as it is in reference to our esteemed President, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. 8. C., we transcribe it to the columns of the Scholastic, knowing that it will prove interesting to his many friends throughout the country:
“ When the third Federal Army Corps is forced to retire before the Confederates, help is called for, General Hancock tells Caldwell to have his division ready. “ Fall in 1” and the men ran to their places. “ Take arms! ” and the four brigades of Zook, Cross, Brook and Kelly are ready for the fray. There is yet a few minutes to spare before starting, and the time is occupied in one of the most impressive religious ceremonies I have ever witnessed. The Irish Brigade, which had been commanded formerly by General Thomas Francis Meagher, and whose green flag had been unfurled in every battle in which the Army of the Potomac had been engaged from the first Bull Run to Appotomax, was now commanded by Colonel Patrick Kelly, of the Eighty-eighth New York, and formed a part of this division. The brigade stood in columns of regiments closed in mass. As the large majority of its members were Catholics, the Chaplain of the brigade, Rev. William Corby, C. 8. C., proposed to give a general absolution to all the men before going into the fight. While this is customary in the armies of Catholic countries o'f Europe, it was perhaps the first time it was ever witnessed on this continent, unless indeed, the grim old warrior, Ponce de Leon, in search of the Fountain of youth, as he tramped through the everglades of Florida, or De Soto on his march to the Mississippi, indulged in this act of devotion. Father Corby stood upon a large rock in front of the brigade, addressing the men; he explained what he was about to do, saying that each one would receive the benefit of the absolution by making a sincere Act of Contrition, and firmly resolving to embrace the first opportunity of confessing his sins, urging them to do their duty well, and reminding them of the high and sacred nature of their trust as soldiers and the noble object for which they fought. The brigade was standing at “ Order arms,” and as he closed his address, every man fell on his knees, with head bowed down. Then, stretching his right hand towards the brigade, Father Corby pronounced the words of absolution. The scene was more than im. pressive, it was awe-inspiring. Near by, stood General Hancock, surrounded by a brilliant throng of officers, who had gathered to witness this very unusual occurrence and while there was profound silence in the ranks of the Second Corps, yet over to the left, out by the peach orchard and Little Round Top, where Weed, and Vincent, and Haslett
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	471
Were dying, the roar of the hattie rose and swelled and reechoed through the woods. The act seemed to be in harmony with all the surroundings. I do not think there was a man in the brigade who did not offer up a heartfelt prayer. For some it was their last; they knelt there in their grave-clothes—in less than half an hour many of them were numbered with the dead of July 2.”
k	The Church, an ever-watchful and good Mother, spares
no pains to bring up her children in the way they should
I walk, and constantly urges them on to the acquirement of truthful knowledge, and guards them with the mantle of $ purity against the vile, dangerous, and perverted tendencies of this our age. Never has she—as has been asserted 5 more than once by those who, we suppose, know no bet-1	ter—never has she been the “uncompromising foe of civil
’'	and religious liberty,” or of true enlightenment and ad-
1	vancement in all the arts and sciences. Nay, on the con-
trary, she has always been, and ever will be the promoter of activity, of industry, of advancement in art, science, and literature.
. t Borne has been for the past eighteen hundred years the centre of civilization. From her emanated liberty; from her emanated that freedom of speech which battles with the tyrant, the monster—the government that would fain annihilate every trace of Christian morality and virtue,
, • every trace of that faith which Christ Himself implanted in the hearts of men, and without which no one can be
■ saved. Look at the Church to-day battling with the infidel tendencies of the age—battling, in order to keep her y	philosophy, her theology, her sacred Scriptures, her Canons
and ceremonies pure from the contamination of the evil k ones that would destroy all—that would fain sink the - world once more into the darkness of heathenism, idolatry, and superstition.
. At present this ever-watchful Mother calls the attention of her children to a most important point—the teaching of a true philosophy—a philosophy that will not corrupt the mind and harden the heart, that will not teach men to
* doubt their own existence, and ait. r that the existence of everything else,—nay, even that of God Himself. And yet, because the Church does fight, because she wants to support the right and suppress the wrong, she must be said, forsooth! to be the “uncompromising foe of civil and religious liberty.” But we think it would be well for those * who make such false, outrageous charges against the handiwork of God—for the Church is a divine, not a human in*
'	stitution—to weigh well these few terms before they dare,
in the face of truth and justice, give them utterance. It would be well for them to remember that it is to the Church of Rome the world owes its advancement in civ-ilization—her progress from the beaten path of paganism,
I ► idolatry, superstition and the rest. Just let us imagine for a moment the Church to be suddenly taken away from K the world. What would the world be, may we ask, a hundred years hence? Would it be full of civil and religious liberty, and come up to the ideal of the nineteenth century’s „ great agitators of liberty and truth? We have no hesitation in saying that it would; because their ideal is a monster with seven heads—anarchy, confusion, poverty and distress, desolation, lawlessness and ruin. Yes; this would -( be the state of affairs,—this would be the civil and religious liberty the world could then boast of. Is it not too bad that she is kept from coming to this by the tyranny of the Church of Rome!	. -
Children are sometimes displeased with their parents because they use the rod; and it is only when those children come to the use of reason—when they become men and women—that they see that their parents acted correctly, and understand that if they had been left to follow their own fancies, their own notions and ideas, it would be hard to say where they would have stopped. So it is in regard to those who condemn the Church, because they know not her reason for half of the things she obliges her children to observe. But there is, however, this difference between the former and the latter: the one class always, or nearly always, remain children, and never reach manhood or womanhood; whereas the other come in the natural order, to the use of reason—come to be men and women, and consequently are then capable of seeing the mistakes they did make, and were liable to make, at every moment, but for the ever-watchful eye of a loving parent.
In the age in which we live the Church emphatically calls our attention to literature—that powerful promoter of good or evil—and one of her deepest solicitudes is that we should use it as a promoter of good; whereas, on the other hand, her gravest apprehensions are that we should be the victims of Its dangers. “ Schools, colleges, universities, literary institutions, etc., are to-day her special care; and she who guides the missionaries of America, and nerves the martyrs of China, Corea, and Japan, converts the ouvriers of Paris, and brings the word of Christ into the mines of England, even she it is who meets an infidel philosophy face to face on its own ground; fights the battles of Christianity against scholarly paganiam, raises the only effective voice which the age has heard against the errors and licentiousness with which so-called literature abounds, supplies their only antidote in her own ordering principles and presiding truths, and rallies all her children, according to their various stations and requirements, for the pursuit of whatever of solid or healthful, of graceful or beautiful, this same literature contains.” The Church, then, “having impressed upon us her doctrines, and strengthened us with her Sacraments, and blessed us with her gifts, leads us back again into the library—the fairy land of childhood’s happy days, and bids us obey the instinct which prompts us to seek knowledge and cultivate our faculties, imposing on us only the gentle rule that to the best of our abilities, and ever bearing her in mind, we should avoid the false and cleave to the true.” Such is the Church of God in our regard. It is her duty to watch, protect, and guard her subjects. Can she be blamed for doing so ?
Personal.
—Prof. M .T. Corby, Class of ’75, has been spending the past week at Notre Dame.
—Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C., who for a number of years was Prof, of Sciences at Notre Dame, now fills a similar position in St. Laurent College, Montreal.
—Col. Otis, H. S. A., commanding at Fort Lincoln, Dakota Ter., has been visiting Notre Dame during the past week. His son is a student in the Junior Department.
—A. J. Hettinger (Commercial), ’78, in renewing his subscription to the Scholastic, says: “ The Scholastic is as it has always been to me, the paper." We are nappy to hear that Mr. Hettinger is doing well, we believe, in the banking business with his father. He is favorably remembered at Notre Dame as a polite and intelligent student.
—Michael Kauffman (Commercial), ’76, is in business
4?2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with his father in Cincinnati, Ohio. In a letter recently received from him by the Scholastic, he wishes to be remembered to his scnool-mates, and says that if any from Notre Dame should call upon him at the “ Paris of America ” he will do the fair thing with them. We are pleased to hear that Mike is doing well. His brother Charles, who was a Minim here last year, is now pursuing his studies in Chapin, Germany.
—We learn from the Milwaukee Citizen that the spiritual retreat given at St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., was brought to a close on last Sunday week. This retreat has been most successful. It was preached by Rev. Fathers Cooney and O’Keeffe, C. S. C. The latter showing his ability as a missionary by his excellent sermons and the effect which tney produced upon the people. One of these, on “Blaspnemy,” is particularly noticed as a powerful effort. Father O’Keeffe is the late President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio. He also taught for some time at Notre Dame, and is favorably known to the students of ’76 and ’77.
Local Items.
—The weather is getting—well we won’t say what.
—The ball-alley in the Junior yard is well patronized.
—Kite flying is now a favorite amusement among our wee friends.
—There was a large number of visitors at the College on Easter Sunday.
—So far, we have heard of no cases of- spring fever. May it ever be thus I
—If Easter falls on Sunday, Wester must fall on Monday—so says a Prep.
—Bulletins were made out on Wednesday last. The boy in boards did the work.
—A game of baseball was played between the Seniors and Juniors on Monday last.
—A large number of wild geese passed here lately. This is a sign ot ttie opening ol spring.
—The Minims took a turn at fishing on last Monday. We suppose they had fishermen’s luck.
—The Infirmary is about empty at present; in fact, the past lew days were too good to be sick.
—The recreation, on Monday last, seemed to be enjoyed by all. Various games were indulged in.
—The President and Vice-President have removed to their new quarters in the College extension.
—Last Thursday, being April fool’s day, some very amusing tricks were played on the unsuspecting.
—The tailor-shop is overcrowded with work. Many nice spring suits will shortly make their appearance.
—The Band has had several good parades of late. We like to hear it make the woods and groves resound with its sweet strains.
—The playing of the Band in the rotunda, on last Sunday evening, was simply grand. The students enjoyed themselves up to nine o’clock.
—A game of Baseball was played on the 27th ull. between two picked nines of the Junior and Senior Departments. Score, 16 to 15 in favor of the Juniors.
—Some one, whose name we withhold, has termed Prof. Lyons’s room “ the grand Cecilian boss-room of the University.” He should have used a few more adjectives and be done with it.
—Our friend John says we are going to have fine apples next summer, and that the best ot it is, we won’t have to climb the trees lor them, as the branches are now all on the ground.
—The result of the last competition in Christian Doctrine, for the gold medal, was not made known by Father Condon prior to his departure for Europe; hence, the J u-niors will be kept in suspense until his return.
—“ Hang McGuire and that Hartford deaf mute 1 ” ejaculated our friend John, when reported for detention for not having his arithmetic duty. John sported the time he
should have spent in working his arithmetic, in trying to solve the puzzle of sixteen.
—A. N. Carpenter, Landscape Architect, Galesburg, Konx Co., Ill., has charge of the laying out of the grounds in front of the University. Mr. Carpenter is a reliable gentleman, and will very likely perform this difficult piece of work to the satisfaction of all.
—Some one has asked us what has become of the trees in the orchards, as the branches are all gone and nothing but the trunks remain. We, of course, referred our interrogator to Mr. Daly, the horticulturist, who can no doubt give him such information as he requires.
—Several persons are now employed in laying out the grounds in front of the new College, and cutting down the trees, etc., that interfere with the proposed plan. We hope that this piece of work will be well attended to, as on it the front view of the College building greatly depends.
—Tutor to Freshy; “Mr.------------, explain this epigrammatic expression, ‘The child is father to the man.’” Freshy, clearing his throat and rubbing his forehead with his pocket handkerchief, in order to give activity to his brain, says “I would be of the opinion that this expression means in plain English that in this country young chaps are wiser than their fathers.” A round of applause greeted our stately Freshman.
—We have received the programme of the Entertainment rendered by the students of St. Laurent College, near Montreal, on the evening of the 19th ult. The programme is gotten up tn an neat and attractive manner. Its contents are both varied and interesting, and reflects much credit upon the “ Irish-American Society ” of this Institution, and those otherwise connected with the Entertainment,—a short account of which may be found in another column.
—“Where! oh, where has the cold weather gone! ” says our friend John last Wednesday, as he stood on the banks of the St. Joseph Lake and gazed fixedly on its placid waters. We would like to inform our friend where the cold and piercing blast has really gone to, but, as we are not in this line of business at present, we have to refer him to our weather prophet and general time-keeper who can no doubt give him such information on this point as he may require.
—The services at Notre Dame on Easter Sunday partook of the importance and significance of the day, and were unusually impressive. Solemn High Mass was commenced at 10 o’clock, a. m., Very Rev. W. Corby, President of the University, being the celebrant. Tne Church was thronged with people, many being from a considerable distance,—as this is a favorite day among Catholics for a visit to this seat of religion and learning. The Easter sermon was delivered by Rev. C. Kelly, and was an able discourse appropriate to the occasion. The Cnurch was beautifully decorated with flowers and other ornaments—South Bend Register.
—On Easter Monday a general recreation was given to the students, and the day being a most pleasant one, they all enjoyed themselves well. The Band boys took a stroll through the country, and rendered some of their fine pieces, with the woods and groves as their delighted audience. We are sure some ot the feathery tribe would be delighted with the sweet notes if they were around, but it is too early in the season, and hence their only respectable auditor, as far as birds are concerned, was a blue-jay, who resolved to become a “tutor,” by taking unto himself a ’orn, as soon as he could make the necessary arrangements in regard to his family affairs. We hope he may prove an important auxiliary to this already respectable organization.
—There was an immense audience at the Easter services in the Cathedral at Notre Dame, Sunday morning. The decorations were beautiful, and the music, especially that executed by Brother Basil upon the large organ, was fine. Rev. Father C. Kelly delivered an eloquent discourse. In the evening, an interesting incident occurred well worthy of mention. Very Rev. Father Granger, who was about to depart with others for a trip across the ocean, was enticed into one of the Society-rooms, where he was surprised by a serenade from the Band, and further by being made the recipient of a complimentary address, de
THH HoTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4?3


livered by Mr. J. B. McGrath. The Rev. Father feelingly responded, and the event will long be remembered by those who participated.—South-Bend Tribune.
—On last Sunday evening the students of the Senior and Junior Departments assembled in the main hall of the University, to tender their kind Prefect oi Discipline, Rev. P. W. Condon, their good wishes before his departure for France, whither he has been called to attend the General Chapter ot the Order of Holy Cross which commences on the 18th inst. Immediately before his departure, the Band struck up some charming airs, which were rendered in admirable style, and well calculated to lighten the hearts of all present. Amid ihe strains of melodious music, then, Father Condon took his departure tor sunny France. May his trip be one of joy and pleasure, and may the sights of Paris, and the blue waves of ihe proud Atlantic, be a source of enjoyment unto him until he returns to Notre Dame.
—We learn from a correspondent that a grand Dramatic and Musical Entertainment tor the benefit of Si. James’s School, Bay City, Mien., took place at St. James’s School Hall, Thursday evening, March 18ih, before a large and select audience, who iully appreciated the different parts presented by their encores. Quite a number oi the Rev. clergy belonging to the neignboring cities were in attendance, and by their presence added much to the edat and encouragement oi the youthful actors, who, it is needless to stale, look their parts well, and snowed io advantage the training they received Irom their efficient and able director. The programme was long, and consisted of various songs, duets, choruses, piano solos, dialogues, and a drama in five acts, entitled “ St. Louis in~ Chams.” To our mind, an Entertainment of this kind seems to be the right kind, as it introduces a variety, and hence never tires an audience, but makes everyone merry, and helps to drive dull care away.
—Last evening Very Rev. Father Granger, Rev. Fathers Condon, Louage, and Erdre, oi Notre Dame, started for Paris, as was announced in the Begister a lew aa\ s ago. After supper, the University Band met in the rotunda, discoursed some excellent music, drew out all the students irom then respective study-halls, and sent a delegation tor Very Rev. A. Granger, alter which all parties dispersed for a lime. The Kev. gentleman was coaxed Irom his hiding-place under me plea that the Archconiraternity ex-pecied him to say a tew words io them before his deparlure. When he reacned the Socieiy-roum—the Society being already assembled—the Band blockaded Ihe hallway and played; all the other students crowded into the room, and a beaulilul address, in imitation ot.“ Hiawatha,” was feelingly and beauiiiutiy read by J. B. McGrath. Thesur-prise to the Rev. gentleman was almost overpowering, but he masiered himseli, and to ihe assembled throng he spoke words oi heariielt sorrow lor being compelled io leave his beloved home, ot hope for his own speedy return to it, ot advice to the Society, and ot encouragement to all to persevere in the practice ot those values that should distinguish the good citizen and iaiihtul Christian. Three rousing cheers were given him and his companions, and thereupon ail four stalled to face the dangeis of their journey. May all safely return.—South-Betid Begister.
—The long talked .of game of football between the Juniors and Seniors look place on the 26th ult.; but we are sorry to say ended in a draw, and the query as to which is the stronger Club is now as much of a mystery as ever. Both Clubs met on the Junior Gampus al p. m. Game was called al 2 p.m.; toe Juniors winning the toss, chose the western goal. The Seniors kick oif; but the ball is slopped by me Junior forwards, and worked down into the Seniois’ ground; gradually it nears me goal line, then is played up a little, but is forced back, till R. O’Connor, taking the ball from a pass back, kicks it within the .goal. A shout goes up from the Juniors; but the Seniors claim foul, stating that the ball struck a Prep, that was passing over the Campus, and rebounded within the goal. Here a noisy dispute arose, and alter much talk, the Captain of the Junior team agreed to take the ball twenty yards from the goal and resume the game. Several ot the members of the Junior Club were not pleased with their Captain’s proposal, and said that they did not approve oi
being bull-dozed by any Club. They, however, nerved themselves, and seemed determined to win. The ball is again set in motion, and some very fine playing takes place. The Seniors succeed m getting the ball into the Juniors’ grounds, but it is soon iorced back, and amid a bunding snow-storm the ball is kicked tor the second time within the goal by R. O’Connor, of the Junior team. This time the claim is allowed. Time, forty-five minutes. As it continued to snow, some members of the Senior Club proposed to postpone the game; the Juniors, however, would not listen to me proposal; and, on wim the game, seemed to be their watch word. Having changed goals, the teams again face each other, and it now looks as if me Seniors were to win the second bout, as they keep the ball tor a long lime in the J unior grounds. Suddenly, however, the play seems to change, me J uniors have me best of it, and keep the ball in their own grounds; both Clubs fight hard; the spectators urge them on by their shouis. Bom Clubs, however, certainly play under disadvantages. The ball is an English lootball, and is thoroughly soared Irom me tailing snow, consequently, it became very heavy. After a struggle of lorty minutes, the Seniors relused to continue the game, and withdrew Irom me field. Tne playing of both teams was very good, especially mat oi Mr. Campbell 01 the Senior team, wnich was admired by all present.
—Our “Knight of the pruning hook” has the following to say in regard to the item which appeared in me last issue oi the Scholastic on the care of orchards: The item oi last week’s scholastic is pertectly correct, as lar as it goes, but it has no reference whatever to me original and most important part of the subject, namely, “that the twig ot to-day is the branch of to-morrow and a limb of obstruction in the near future.” This fills the space omitted by last week’s item. 1 think that no greater service coulu be tendered by me Scholastic to me orchard, or iruit-growing class of its readeis, man to keep them stirred up on this important point, which, if only properly attenued to, would prevent a vast amount ol injury to trees. However, last week’s item plainly says mat no implement heavier than a common puckei-knile is needed in the orchard; and that no wounds should be visible on the body of iruii trees, as the culling off ot big branches is quite injurious, etc. No man, lamiliar wim the laws of animated nature or the approved rules oi horticulture, will vindicate ihe heavy pruning or maiming of trees otherwise than an unavoidable alternative. Tne roots of a tree have only so many cubic leet oi earth irom which to draw annual nutrition to supply the growth oi me head, which nutrition is drawn limner by capillary attraction; hence the earth, it not naturally inexhauslive, unless kept well manured and cultivated, will soon become barren, and unable to furnish sufficient sap for the nourishment and maturing ot the young fruit upon tne bearing brancnes. The iruu sutler also irom the trees having loo many barren limbs, wmcn consume unproductive nutrition, and deprive the iruit of air, light, atmospheric oxygen, ram ana dew moistures, so necessary to iheir maturity, anu, as a consequence, drop off immatured and stunted. Here comes in the difficulty between trimming and felling alone, when this trimming is not done in time; io hurt and disfigure me tree, and consider a hall-loaf better than no bread, is me only alternative. A tree thus placed bears strong resemblance to a child who, if seen to in time, a lew reprimands or an occasional spanking might shape its habits, which in afierume would need the discipline of me relorm school, or some such place, and men only be imper-ieclly done. Wuh regard to me culling off of heavy or lower limbs, there can, on account oi several reasons, be given no definite or prescribed rules by which we may be guided. Yet, me following may be oi interest: First, when a branch or limb takes to decaying irom obvious or unknown causes, it is always best to cut it oif even in its incipient stage, as it never will recover, and will only be a withering obstruction to others mat might grow and till its place; secondly, when the lower limbs nave not an upward tendency, iorming the head inio a conical or globular shape, but stretching out almost at right angles with the body, they not only hinder me cultivation oi me ground about ihe roots, for me raising oi corn or potatoes, bui keep oif both the rain and sun, so requisite to vegetation, and in furnishing nutriment for sap; lastly,
474
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
when trees have been allowed to grow their own way for a time, they are sure to become lop-sided, as the growth ii generally heavier on the sunny side; and thus in order to shape a tree with any regard to symmetry it is evident that the “out-of-place-limb” has to be removed, no matter where or on what part oi the tree it grows. Then, by coating the incision over with gas tar, paint, or any other kind of water-proof covering, the tree may be preserved, if the cut is only made smooth on its surface and sloped sufficiently downwards to prevent lodgment of rain. Hence it is a want oi attention to have the place where the amputation is made properly cared for that causes rottenness or damage to the tree. The “ pitiful sight” of seeing a farmer’s orchard maimed and hacked by severe pruning “ over which humanitarians drop a tear,” is nothing more nor less than an exposure of accumulated negligence, to which the person doing the work is no accessory; in fact, it is the result of an omission on the part of the owner, who should have adopted the tailor’s motto, “ a stitch in time saves nine.”
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, W. BL Arnold, R. Adams, A. Burger, J. Brice, F. Brennan, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, A. Dobson, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, D. Harrington, G. Harns, J. P. Kinney, F. Kinsella, T. Kavanagh, J. Kurz, P. Larkin, F. Lynch, E. Lynch, J. McGrath, W. McGomsk, E. McGorrisk, J. McNamara, E. Molitor, L Mathers, P. McCormick, C. Moore, W. McAtee, T. A. Mattingly, E. Le Beau, J. Noonan, L J. Newton, H. Noble, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Oaher, G. Pike, L. W. Ryan, H. Simms, J. Solon, P. Shea, J. bnuth, L. Smith, F. Smith, H. Wathen, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, T. P. Byrne, A. A. Bodine, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, M. G. Butler, G. C. C’astanedo, J. V. Cabel, A. A. Caren, A. M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, F. L. Dever, J. E. Davis, 1. F. Flynn, R. E. Flemming, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, E. F. Gall, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Hermann, A. F. Heliebuacue, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Jojce, J. M. Kelly, A. Kieme, R. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A. B. Manning, P. P. Neison, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A. Olis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomy, F. B. Puiliips, F. A. Quinn, A. Rieiz, W. Kietz, F. J. Rettig, C. F. Rieiz, P. H. Kaache, J. Ruppe, H. L. RuSe, C. F. Rose, A. S. Rock, A. N. Rohrhack, R. J. bemmes, J. A. Simms, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. seaman, C. A. 1'inley, C. ±L Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Veduer, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weny, B. A. Zekiud.
Lazy List—Masters Gallagher, Conyne, Payro, Zeis, and Burmeister.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. M. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, H. C. Snee, G. C. Knight. G. P. Van Mouriek, E. A. Howard, J. S. Courtney, C. C. Ecuim, H. P. Dunn, G. E. lourtilloite, J. W. Bannister, A. Van Mouriek, J. A. Campau, W. H. Hanavin, A. A. Molander, E. N. O’Donnell, J. E. Chaves, J. A. Kelly, J. E. Jonnson, J. A. Dweuger, E. L. Oatman, A. F. Schmuckie, H. J. Ackerman, E. C. Campau, W. Ayers, C. Young, E. H. Bourdon, J. A. Smith, H. A. Kuz.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL ERANCHES.
C. J. Brinkman, J. Homan, E. Litmer, J. Hermann, C. Rietz, J. A. Gibbous, C. Perry, H. Rose, C. Rose, C. Roberts, F. Carter, F. Grever, R. Le Bourgeois, A. B. Mergentheim, F. Becker, G. Castanedo, C. Schneider, G. Ruodius, A. Manning, F. Rettig, A. Hierb, R. Pomy, F. Grocnewaid, J. tL. Morgan, A. Burmeis^ ter, J. Weitzel, A. Hellebuoeb, F. Kieme, H. Bacnman, J. A. Seeger, S. Dering, W. McGornsk, AL J. Burns, E. Momor, J. V. Cable, J. Davis, E. Sugg, G. E. Clarke, R. Campbell, D. Don- 1 ahoe, D. Harrington, R. O’Brien, f. Simms, F. Wail, A. J. Bur- , ger, W. Connolly, B. Pollock, K. Keenan, F. Quinn, J. Guthrie, I
E. F. Fogarty, C. Tinley, F. Bloom, L. Stitzel, B. Claggett, R. O’Connor, F. Johnson, F. Kinsella, J. Marlett, J. Schobey, H. Deehan, F. Bell, J. Start, J. M. Kelly, M. Vedder, S. Henoch, J. Kurz, A. Lent.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, G. P. Van Mouriek, J. W. Bannister, G. Woodson, E. A. Howard, W. H. Hanavin, A. J. Campau, L Mattes, A. Van Mouriek, G. Tourtillotte, J. J. Henry, G. C. Knight, H. C. Snee, H. A. Kitz, C. G. Droste, H. P. Dunn, C. C. Echlin, J. Courtney, W. V. O’Malley A. A. Molander, F. B. Farrelly, J. R. Bender, E. N. O’Donnell, J. A. Kelly, H. J. Ackerman, J. H. Dwenger, J. E. Chaves, E C. Campau, J. E. Johnson, L. Young, C. Young, E. H. Bourdon, M. Olds.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—C. J. Brinkman, J. A. Homan, M. Burns. F. Kleine, W. B. McGorrisk, J. P. Courtney, J. Courtney, F. Becker; French—R. Le Bourgeois, A. Late, A. B. Mergentheim, G. Cas-tanedo; Artistic Drawing—J. Seeger, H. P. Dunne; Piauo—H. Simms, J. Homan, C. Rietz, N. Weney, H. A Bachman ; Cornet —F. Bell, J. W. Guthrie; Violin—F. Bioom, B. J. Clagget, J. Smith, W. Rietz; Flute—F. Grever, A. Hellebusch; Guitar— E. Fogarty, E. Molitor; Elocution—F. Wall, C. Hogan, G. Donnelly, W. J. McCarthy, C. Tinley, E. Orrick, J. Gibbons, D. Dan-ahey, J. Homan, H. Howe, E. Croarkin, F. Quinn, C. Brinkman, F. Phillips, A. Mergentheim, J. Guthrie, L. Smith, F. Becker, C. Rietz, A Rohrbach, J. Brice; Telegraphy—P. Sbea, E. Ewell, F. Phillips, M. Vedder, J. Marlett, H. Gregory, J. Meister, A. Lent.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The repository on Holy Thursday was very beautiful. A profusion oi flowers, tapers and caudles, beneath the rich drapings, all exquisiieviy arranged, imparted a most appropriate and charming eflect.
—On the Feast oi St. Joseph, the Society of the Children of Mary bad a reception in the Chapel of Loreto. Aspirants: Misses Engel, Cronin, McCormick, McCoy, aud Walsh. The Act ot Consecration was read oy Miss Walsh. Received to lull membership: Misses Smiiii, Murphy, Neu, Lloyd, Bruser, McManon, A. Ewing, Donnelly, Coiumua Wathen, S. Wathen, Simms, Quinn, O’Connor, Neieler, Edelen, Halloran, McFadden, Bischoff, Barroux. Act of Consecration read by Miss Quinn. The Rev. Chaplain erlormed the ceremony.
—Visitors: Mr. Clarke, Mrs. Garrity, Mr. Leynard, Mrs. By er son, Chicago; Mr. Anderson, Hainesburg, N. J.; Mr. Eilsasser, Cleveland, Onio; Mr. and Mrs. Biitas, Mrs. Roland, Rochester, Ind.; Mrs. -Richardson, Plymouth, lud.; Miss Van Gorden, Nelson, Pa.; Miss McKinstry, Mrs. Bigelow, Elknari, Ind.; Miss McIntyre, Springfield, Ohio; Air. Ufford, Lewistown, Ill.; Mr. Carpenter, Galesburg, Ill.; Mrs. Gali, Indianapolis, lud.; Mis. Purdy, Burlington, Iowa; Mr. Paddock, Union City, Mich.; Mrs-Hackett, Lonia, Mich.; Miss. Lloyd, Muskegon, Mich.
Boll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF -	MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class —Aliases Gordon, Buck. 2d Div.—Misses Neu, Usselman, Sullivan. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, Kuieiea, Farrell, Campbell, 2d Div.—Aliases McMauun, Hackiey. 3d Class—Aliases iM.c-Gram, I. Semmes, Cahiuan, Salomon, Gall, Weha, Reiuuard, Bruser, Maloney. 2d Div.—Misses U. Hackett, Julius, Don
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
475


<
nelly, Woodin, E. Hackett, Bischoff, English, A. Ewing, Horner-4th Class—Misses Crummey, Price, Palmer, Cavenor, C. Camphell. 2d Div.—Misses Otto, French, Fox, Mitchel), Leydon, Wurzburg. 5th Class—Misses Regensburg', C. Wathen, O’Connor, Purdy, Claffey, Keys, Loeber, Brown, Casey, Danaher, O’Neill, A. Dillon, Gavan. 2d Div.—Misses Dessaint, Orr, Harrison, Hutchinson, Cronin, Legnard, Gibbons, Simms, Lancaster, Paddock, Hammond, Feehan, 8. Semmes, S. Wathen, Reutlinger, Wall, C. Lancaster, Tailman, Thompson, Populo-rum, L. Wells, Moxon, Lloyd, E. Populorum, Fitzgerald. 6th Class—Misses Greenebaum, Rasche, Fleming. Barlow, Duncan, Murphv, De Lapp, McFadden. Baroux, Neteler, E. Rjan, C. Ryan, Papin, Carter, Chirhart, Knighton, Fishburne, 2d Div—Misses Ginz, G. Taylor, Watson, Zimmerman, Clarke, Ward, Edelen, Taylor, Lemontey, Cox, Moll, Wilkins. 7th Class—Misses Reynolds, Smith, McCormick, E. LlOyd, Halloran, McCoy, I. Hackett, Swayze, McCloskey. 8th Classs— Misses Butts, Cleghorn, Heeney, Fisk. 9th Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, M. Baroux, M. Chaves. 10th Class—Misses Strawn, P. Ewing, T. Ewing.
Harp—1st Class—Miss Galen, LSemmes, Dillon, Bruser. Organ—Misses C. and 8. Wathen.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner. 2d Class—Misses Usselman, C. Hackett. 3d Class—Misses Rosing, Bruser, Farrell, O’Connor, Buck, McGrath A. Ewing, Reinhard, Julius. 4th Class—Misses O’Neill, Otto, Semmes, E. Hackett, French, Mitchell, Hackley, Wells, Davis, Purdy. 5th Class—Misses Moxon, McMahon, Rasche, English, Halloran, Wathen, McCoy, Greenebaum, Regensburg, Brown, Paddock, Thompson.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Wall, Casey, Loeber. 3d Class—Misses Callinan, Feehan, Horner, Baroux, Hammond, Crummey, Barlow.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sullivan, Papin, French. 3d Class— Misses Otto,-Winston, Butts, Thompson, Fox, Lancaster, C. Lancaster, J. Wells.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Glass—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class —Misses I. Semmes, Killelea, Dillon, A. Ewing, Dessaint, Gavan. 3d Class—Misses C. Campbell, Zahm, English.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses A. Ryan, C. Hackett, Fitzgerald, Murphy, Halloran, Quinn, Simms, Edelen, Rasche.
Junior Department—Misses Carter, Duncan, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Reul linger, Clarke, Hutchison, Knighton, Claffey, E. Papin, Considine, Paquette, Gibbons, E. Populorum, A. Dillon, Moll, E. Ryan, C. Ryan, Lemontey.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses 8. Wathen, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith. Donn»*lly, C. Wathen, Murphy, Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Reynolds, McCormick, McCoy, Strawn, Crummey, Davis, Simms, Regensburg, Wall, Legnard, Duncan, Ginz, Casey, Halloran, Reinhard, Salomon, Horner, Palmer, Wurzburg, Paddock, Hucheson, Gibbons, Greenebaum, Hammond, E. Populorum, Papin, Ward, Chirhart, McCloskey, Crieg, Cox, Wilkins, E. Papin, Keys, Swayze.
Plain Sewing—Misses Gordon, Sullivan, Wall, Lancaster, Winston, A. Ewing, Greig, Cavenor.
General Mending—1st Class—Misses Ewing, Gordon .Usselman, Ward, Ryan, Danaher, Neu, Loeber, Bischoff, Winston, Wall, Hamilton Zahm, Salomon, Purdy, Lloyd, Sullivan, A. Ewing. 2d Class—Misses Donnelly, Gall, Keys, Wells, Wright, Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Thompson, Cox, Moxon, De Lapp,
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, order, amiability, and correct DEPORTMENT.	■
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, I. Semmes, Dillon, Otto, Mitchell, Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Loeber, Fitzgerald, De Lapp, Gall, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Campbell, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Semmes, Hamilton, Dessaint, Baroux, Gavan, Davis, Regensburg, Hammond, Saloman, Thompson, Rasche, Halloran, Wurzburg, Keena Swayze, Edelen, Moxon, McCormick, Paddock, Krieg, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Keenan, Hambleton, Ewing, Maloney, Cavenor, Buck, A. Ewing, Kirchner, Gordon, Lloyd, Neu, Ussleman, Winston, 0,Neill English, Julius, Callinan, O’Connor, Hackley, Price, Orr, Greenebaum, Horner, McFadden, Purdy, Reinhard, Leydon, Tailman, Reynolds, Cox, Brown.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Crummey, Fishburne, G. Taylor, McCloskey, C. Ryan, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Chirhart, Ginz, Paquett,
Hucheson, Harrison, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, M. Fitzgerald, Robinson, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Feehan, French, Populorum, Lemontey, J. Wells, Watson, Joseph, Moll, E, Ryan, Carter, Fleming, Reutlinger, Barlow, Legnard. E Populorum, Clarke, E. Papin, Considine, Strawn, I. Hackett, Chaves, Campau.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ 1 ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering. .
A RTIIUR J. ST A.CE [of ’64], County Surveyor tor
-la. St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSE, an excellent Catholic and family newspaper, published every Thursday.
Terms, $2.56 per annum. Address, Manly Tello Manager and Editor, 117 Erie Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
THE CATHOLIC COLUMBIA-IM, published weekly a’ Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
1). A. Clarke, of 70.
THE A. V Jtl MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
Attorneys at Law.
JAMES H. WARD, (of ’73.) Attorney and Counsellor at Law, Rooms 63 and 65 Metropolitan Block, N. W. Cor.
La Salle and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Hi.
SPEER MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of’72) Atto-nejS at Law, No. 225 Bra'y St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS B- CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney at J. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway <cot. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
JOHN F. McIIUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
ORVILLE T- CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, No ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
WILLIAM J. CLAllKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building. No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O>
TAMES A.. O’REILLY—of’69—Attorney at Law, eJ t27 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
DANIEL B. HIBBARD. Ji- ; (of ’70), Attorney
at Law. Specia attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.	w
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:	•
GOING EAST.
3 33 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	03 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m;
Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12	16 d. m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
0 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
• GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a an, Chicago 6a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
476
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile Wert of Notre Dame}.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical _____________and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course! for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Ils
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, "Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’L, Chicago.	Gen. .Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Care, Day Cars, Smoking Care, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pull man Palace Sleeping Care, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seals in the finest Seclining Chair Palace Cars in .	the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne* braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Chablton, General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Hobne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Manager.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	477
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Name in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late Are, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DKA&ER IN Watches, Clocks, •AJSTD JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving* Pone.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
>
1
k
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Genbseo. Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City.Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport. Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset: Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars arealsorun between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line."
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
PULLMAX PALACE OAKS are run through to PEORIA, DES MOINES. COUNCIL. BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVEN WORTH.
Ticket* via thi* Line, known a* the “Great Kock Island Koute,” are sold by an Ticket Agent* In the United State* and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your home ticket office, addre**,
A.. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gsn’l Superintendent.	Geu’l Tkt. and Pam’gr AgL,
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING-SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the L.S.&M.S., andP.. Ft. W. & C. R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with P^ C. & st. L. R. R.
At LA SALLE, with HL Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.: P. D. & E.; L B. 4 W-; Ill. Mid.: and T. P. & W. Rds.
At ROCK Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C.M. &SL P.R. R.
At West Liberty, with theB., C.R.& N.R.R.
At GRINNELL, with Central Iowa R. R.
At DES MOINES, with D. M. & F. D. R. R.
At Council bluffs, with Union Pacific R.R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with B.,C. R. & N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W., St. L. A Pac., and C. B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. & War.; Wab., St. Louis & Pac., and St. L., Keo. & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka & Santa Fe; Atch. & Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
CHAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farm-	J
ing region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the	|
United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at | Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.	I
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	'
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of	|
CLASSICS,	LAW,	41
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE, A
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.	i
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than can be ob-tained in any purely Commercial College.	j
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE	y N
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.	I
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.	Y1
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.