The Scholastic.
:	pEVOTED TO THE JnTEE-ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS. :1 '
,	“ Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.” . .	’	'	: .	_
 -•	.*	' ‘ , '	' •	'	. "
Volume VI.	NOTRE	DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMB ER 9,1872.	Number	G.
.	ib . -	.	• •	-■ . • ' . • - -• - - f * ‘ ' ■ ■ J.' :: i	.*	-« ;?
The Mischief-Maker.
“ This is dull enough work,” said a dear little breeze, ’ With the fragrance of June in her breath ;	'
“ Of living on rose-leaves and taking iny ease, I’m just about tired to death I
,	' Dear me!	-
■ I’m just about tired to death I”
“ I can’t raise the wind in this poky old place,” - Said the breeze with a dolorous sigh ;
“ So my quarters I’ll change, if it bring me disgrace— Tmust Have a blow’out or‘die!
-	Dear me!	: .
■ Said the breeze, with a dolorous sigh I -
The zephyr, quite out of her latitude falls, ' Aiidin search bf adventure' goes forth‘
' ’Receiving some hints as to' tempests and squalls ' From her friends at th'e‘east and the north,
• ■ Who say:	1
“ You’d better keep northeast-by-north.”- ’
She found a small'spark with the tiniest glow, .
And declared it would be'a great sliame	’
To let it die out just for want of a blow
. • • So she fanned it up into a flame ! • Ah, me! ••	.	.
. , Such a beautiful, terrible flame!	.
"It leaped and it crackled, and still the breeze blew;
• . ' And'thought it was capital fun ■ ■	• ' ’ '
To’see the black smoke as it gathered'and grew; - ■ <
And put out the light of the sun. ■	:
. • •'	“ Just see,” . , _	.	•
. She exclaimed, “ what a deed I have done I”
But she wearied at last of her frolicsome rout, -
, -And the joy of her turbulent reign,— .	• ■
" How I wish that this wretched old fire was out,; .
And I in my quarters again I	,	. •
,	Oh, yes, ,	_	.	,,
In niy nice, cozy quarters again.”
. But the flame she had kindled with vigorous breath,.. To her bidding refused to give heed, ... ;...
But went hurrying on in its wild dance of death,.
, And mockingly laughed at her deed 1	.
,	.	.	“.Aha!”
- . ‘How it mocked at her ignorant deed. ..
“ Dear me,” said the zephyr, “ now where shall I go To hide my disgrace and my shame ?	-
Ah ! little 1 thought that such ruin would grow
From the spark that I have fanned to a flame I Dear me!
And nobody else is to blame !	,
“ This caution I give to all breezes that blow, And to people who gossip about,
Be careful of sparks, lest ybu kindle a glow	:
That you’ll find very hard to put out!	‘
-	Just see
What came of my little * blow out’!”	: '
—The Young Folks' Rural.	' C
Notrs Dams Geographic Expedition. J
Arrival of Junior Division at Halifax, N. S — Their voyage to Greenland. .	_ '
;Halifax, N. S., bet, 8,1872..,
Editor of the Scholastic :. In . our letter of. the 6th, we,intimated that you would not again hear from;usuntil we reached Mexico, but the Junior Division, arriving yesterday according to appointment, gave such a glowing, ac-count.of their short visit to,Greenland and Iceland, that ... 1	. *.*	.	► r * • A ** - * * -	4. - • • - • . ,	• * t *
we cannot refrain from sending it to you immediately. You may rest assured of its accuracy,in. every particular, as it is substantiated by notes and.memoranda in the possession of Black, Devine, Morgan, Brosseau, Milburn, besides viva voce descriptions by their companions.	,
, As you are aware, t hey left Notre Dame about one monQi in advance of .us, going by rail, directly, to New York.- A vessel, the brig “ Advance,” .which by. the way- was the name of a brig belonging to Dr. Kane’s. Arctic Expedition, had been chartered for their,use some weeks previous.
After laying in a goodly stockof provisions and arranging everything that would, conduce to .the comfort of the excursionists, on the second ofAugust, a warm and sultry day, the “ Advance ” was boarded, and in a fewhoursthe most, prominent objects of. the .great; American metropolis began to fade away in. the dim ,distance., They headed northeast, directly for Newfoundland, and passing over a quiet sea they reached St. John’s in one week from the time of starting.	_ .........	*
A very dense fog hovered oyer, the banks at the 'time, and frequently they were m imminent danger of being run into, as they approached, by returning ships, notwithstanding all the accustomed tsignais. , The party.did. not land, but remained a few hours, in the harbor, until the noonday sun should serve, to some, extent,.to dispel the fog, when they might proceed with greater security., .. '
It was just' the middle of the fishihgseason, and many fishing-smacks passed, coming in and going but.. Everybody appears to.be engaged in the pursuit of codding, as it is found to be very lucrative. /	, . .	, ,
Leaving St. John’s, they crossed the northern portion of the Grand Bank about the place where the submarine.tel-egraph passes over its .sands to enter Trinity Bay, oho hundred miles directly west. ....	. .,
The course of tie “ Advance ” now lay north in the
66	THESCHOLASTIC.
direction of Godthaab, Greenland. The: sea was not as favorable as heretofore, for. a strong.gale from the north-east not only impeded their -progress but rendered the at--mosphere very cold, much to the discomfort of several, especially Johnny and Willie, who could not get warm.
On the 18th, Whitaker and Graves, taking the angular distance of the moon, found them to be longitude 49 deg. " 26 min., whilst the elevation of the pole placed them in latitude 64 deg. 10 min. From this they inferred that the .19th would bring them to their destination, which inference proved correct, for Godthaab was reached the next ’ day. Much disappointment was expressed by all upon seeing this town, so far did it fall below the notion they had entertained .of it. Here it is said the traveller can form an accurate idea of all Greenland, as he sees all the different elements of its small population and the various degrees of its limited civilization..
Amongst the Moravian missionaries you find a Christian spirit, but their efforts have not been altogether successful in bringing about.a refined feeling in the Esquimeaux, the principalinhabitants. These people pay little attention to anything save what pertains to their own existence; nor can we censure them therefor, as the excessively cold climate renders all attempts at establishing institutions of civilization almost fruitless. Their disposition is always friendly, and should you want anything within their power of obtaining, their hospitality will provide it with unconcealed pleasure.
■ Greenland is a field still open to explorations, for as yet very little is known respecting either its conformation, in general, or the topography of any region in particular.
; We will not stop to describe the voyage to Iceland, where they arrived on the 10th of September. But one instance cannot be suffered to pass by unnoticed. When off cape Farewell, several whales were seen in the distance, the sight causing a great deal of excitement amongst the younger members of the party, who had never seen a whale. Young McIntyre was so much excited that he was compelled to give vent to his feelings in singing the following:
“ I wish I was a whale, With a wiggle waggle tail; How happy I would be In the deep blue sea.”
Now, Mr. Editor, pardon our protracted letter, and we will endeavor in a future one to give you the impression Iceland made upon the minds of the voyagers.
Yours, etc.,	Viator.
Too Many Wheels.—One of the best dressed and most brilliant young men in St. Joseph, who parts his hair in the middle, essayed to delight a select party of ladies and gentlemen last evening by a few flashes of wit. The most noticeable scintillation of his wit was a conundrum: “ How—” said he, “ Aw—when is a lady not a lady "Nobody could tell, and the propounder of the conundrum gave the answer. “ When she’s a little buggy,” he said. A dead silence fell on the company, and the funny man was the focus of many singular glances. He soon became conscious that “ some one had blundered.” So he dived down into his vest pocket, brought out a newspaper scrap eyed it attentively three or four times, andjthen brightened up. “Haw—yes,” he said, “of course—haw—yes, of course—haw—when she’s a little sulky. Knew it was some kind of a wagon.”
A Mild Suggestion.
• Me. Editor: Dear Sir: Will you allow me to call your attention to what I conceive .to be a mathematical inaccuracy, which has slipped, doubtless through inadvertence, into the last issue of your valuable paper. In a note appended to the article entitled “ Mathematical Respect,” it is stated that “ a professor was eight-tenths or four-fifths as respectable as the president; a tutor five-eighths as respectable as a professor and five-tenths or one-half as respectable as the president”
These conclusions were no doubt derived from a cursory glance at the conditions stated in the by-laws previously quoted, viz.: The Freshmen are forbidden to wear their hats within ten rods of the person of the President, eight rods of the Professor, and five rods of a tutor.
Now the ratio of respectability deduced in your last issue would undoubtedly be correct if the personages mentioned were approachable in one direction’ only; but whereas Freshmen may be imagined to approach the President on the right side or the left, as well as in front, and we must suppose that-the law will take effect, no matter whether, they be in front, in rear, on the right, left or anyside whatsoever of the President, so long as they be within a circle whose radius is ten rods, it is evident that the ratio cannot be deduced from the ratio of the straight lines 8 and 10 rods, etc. Moreover, let us consider that if, influenced by a desire to gain a more extensive view, or by some equally laudable motive, the President were to climb, ascend, mount, or otherwise attain the summit of a church steeple not exceeding 165 feet (which is 10 rods) in height, the Freshman passing below would be obliged, under the law quoted, to remove his capital integument. Furthermore, should the Freshman chance to look over a precipice, and observe the President poking about after geological specimens at a distance no greater than 165 feet below him, he would again fall a victim to capillary attraction. From all which considerations we must conclude that the respectability, or hat-compelling force of the President, operates equally throughout a- sphere whose radius is ten rods, while the respective respectabilities of the Professor and.Tutor similarly radiate through spheres of eight and five rods radius each.
Now, spheres are to one another as the cubes of their radii, hence the respectability of the President is to that of the Professor as the cube of ten is to the cube of eight, or as 1000 is to 513, which makes the Professor only a little more than half as respectable as the President, while by the same reasoning the poor Tutor is only one-eighth as respectable; and unless we consider the President as more than human, we must regard the tutor as very much the same size as a tailor,—one being the eighth part of a man and the other the ninth.
If the system'were introduced here, we could easily find the respect due to the Prefects of Studies and" Discipline by inserting two mean proportionals (viz.: 640,and800) between 512 and 1000. I am, Mr. Editor, yours,' ' "
'	Tlutterbaum.
[We are under the impression that the “Prefects of Studies and Discipline ” would have no objection to the introduction of “the system,” provided the respect due them were always given. Still we think they would scarcely be satisfied with a respect naturally due to 11 mean proportionals.”]
THE SCHOLASTIC.	67
Missing1 Explorers.
Mr. Stanley, having fairly established his claim to have dvcovered the whereabouts of Dr. Livingstone, has added a chapter to the melancholy but interesting history of lost explorers. The list of them is longer than might be supposed, including in it the names of those whose fate has never been ascertained, of those the manner of whose death is known, or conjectured with probability, and of those who have temporarily disappeared from observation, among which last Dr. Livingstone may happily now be classed. Romance and mystery shroud the memories of those who have disappeared “leaving not a wreck ' behind.’’
There is Eric, the good Christian Bishop of Greenland, who, in the year 1121, started for this continent to convert the red men, but how he remained among them, or whether he ever got there, is unknown to this day. Then there is Prince Madoc, the son of Owen Gwyneth, King of Wales, who, in the year 1170, went to sea in search of adventures, and is said to have reached the shores of this continent, and to have left some of his people here. He went back to Wales for more colonists, and again started with ten ships full, but neither be nor his ships were ever heard of afterward, and there are now no traces of his colony.
In 1502 the Portuguese navigator, Gasper Cortereal, who had already explored the coast of Labrador, set out on a second exploration of that country, but not returning a, soon as was expected, his brother sailed in search of him. No account, however, of either of them ever reached Portugal. In 1549 the Sieur De Roberval, a wealthy Frenchman, who had been invested by, Henry II of France with the empty titles of Lieutenant-General, Lord and Viceroy of all the islands and countries then discovered, either by the French or English, and who had sailed up the St. Lawrence and built two forts near Quebec, started on a voyage of discovery, and was never heard of again.
In 1596 Capt. Richard Chancellor, an English navigator, set out to explore the Arctic Ocean, but never returned. Many years afterwards the remains of two English ships were found on the coast of Spitzbergen, but it is not certain that they were those of Chancellor. A similar uncertainty attaches to the fate of the French navigator, La Perouse, who, in 1774, left France on an exploring expedition in the North Pacific, in command of two ships, La Boussole and L’Astrolabe; he never returned. Expeditions were sent in search of him, but no traces were found until 1788, when another Frenchman (M. DeLesseps), landing on the coast of Kamtschatka, discovered some articles which had belonged to the missing ships; hence it was conjectured that they had been wrecked in the neighborhood. The fate of Leichhardt, the Australian explorer, is still unknown. He started on his explorations in 1848, since which time nothing had been heard of him.
The fate of most other lost explorers has been ascertained sooner or later after their death. Without dwelling upon the mythic instances of the Irish missionary, Ion, who came over to Massachusetts in the year 1049, and was murdered there by savages, or one of the Italian brothers, Nicola and Antonio Zeno, who in 1380 did" the same thing and met with the same fate, the list, beginning’ with the Spaniard, Juan Ponce de Leon, is long enough.
He was the explorer of Florida, and gave that State the name she bears;-but he fell in a conflict with the natives. Francisco Fernandez de Cordova,- another Spaniard, attempted the exploration of Yucatan in 1517, but received a wound there of which he died on his return to" Cuba. The great Portuguese navigator, Ferdinand Magellan (or, more properly, Magelhaens), the first European who sailed around the world, and gave the Pacific Ocean the name it bears, was killed in a fight with the natives of tha Philippine Islands in 1529. Pamoilo de Narvuaz, commander of a Spanish expedition in search of a wealthy empire somewhere in Souih Americ i,'was driven out to sea by a storm from the B ty of Apallachee, and drowned. This was in the year 1528. Fourteen years afterwards tha famous Spanish noble, Ferdinand de S >to, after countless adventures, died on the hanks of the.Mississippi. “To conceal his death from the natives, his body, wrapped in a mantle, and placed in a rustic coffin, in. the stillness of' midnight, and in the presence of a few faithful followers, > was silently sunk in the middle of the stream.” In 1583 Sir Humphrey Gilbert sailed from England with the : design of founding a colony on this continent, but his ’ ship was wrecked and all on board perished.
This brings us to more modern times. In 1779 the -illustrious English navigator, Capt. James Cook, was killed by the natives of Hawaii, while he was engaged in the humane attempt to stop his men from firing on them.
In 1805, the famous Scotch traveller, Mungo Park, having; ' explored the Niger and reached Timbuctoo, was attacked' by the natives, near this mysterious city, and,in endeavoring to escape by swimming, he and all his companions were drowned. This fact was ascertained by a native guide, three months afterwards, but it was not known in Euglaud for five years later. In 1816, John Williams, an English missionary to the New- Hebrides, was killed and eaten by the natives.
In 1822 the three Englishmen, Denham,'Audney and Clapperton, with others, explored the North of Africa, by way of Tripoli, the Great Desert of Sahara and the Kingdom of Bornou. Audney died of disease and privation. The others returned home, but Clapperton, a few months afterwards, died while exploring the Niger, and his faithful follower, Richard Lander, perished by the hands of the natives. Maj. Alexander G. Laing met with a like fete in 1826. In 1845 Sir John Franklin started on his fatal Arctic voyage, and he and all his companions were lost;
-his fate was not ascertained until 1859. The lamented ■ missionary, Allan Gardner, died of starvation, on Pictou,-Island, in 1851. The German Asiatic traveller, Adolph Schlagenwoit, was murdered in 1857 by a native chieftain. The bodies of Burke and Wills, and four other explorers, were found in the wilds of Australia in 1861. With them our present list closes, but it is not exhausted.—PhUadd* phia Ledger.
Insignificant.—This earth of ours is the lowest in rank .. among heavenly bodies. Were an astronomer on, soma other planet exploring the immensity of space, the planet . we inhabit, owing to its small size, might readily elude . I his intelligent view. The sun is one million two hundred, and twenty-five thousand times larger; and yet that enor- .. mous mass is comparatively onlya speck—a mere-point, which seems lost amid eighteen millions of stars which axe discoverable by instruments in the milky way.
68
THE S C H Q LAST IC.
J/he Scholastic^
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY. .
Rev. M. E. Brown, C. S. C., ----- - Editor.
An communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.' - •
....	• TERMS:.
One year.... ..................   $2	00
One session (5 months).......v.... 1 23
Single copies (10c) 'of the publication can be obtained' at the Stn dents' Office.	-	'
. “Esmaa Catholicism.”
One of the juvenile editors of the McRendree Repository has attempted to play “ spread-eagle,” in an article oh “ Roman Catholicism,” which appeared in the last number of that paper. He must have read “ Foxe’s Book of Martyrs,” the “Escaped Nun,” and a few numbers of Harper’s Weekly,” preparatory to his herculean effort. We wonder if he did not feel an inch or two taller when he had completed his masterly (?) essty! .No doubt of it, and most likely he entertains the pleasing hope that his article will be the means of inaugurating a crusade against the Pope. He accuses Catholics of intolerance, and in the same breath declares that the whole Catholic Church should be “ swept from the face of the earth Beautiful consistency! Now, my dear boy, take a goo 1 advice, and wait till your beard grows a little longer b-fore you try your pen on a subject with which you are, evidently, but very slightly acquainted.
. Notes by the Way.
Oub correspondent did not prescribe gymnastics this week. ‘
‘•Red Neckie’s” card in a late number of the.KL Courant yf&s, ne think, a little " soft.” ■
Peof. Lyons missed the first train for Chicago last Wednesday, and was obliged to take the “ Acc unmodation.”
We are glad to notice that The Scholastic is exciting considerable attention among our exchanges. Free discussion is one of our mottoes, so tell us freely what you think.
The Circulating Library has been established and is now in perfect running order; it is appreciated by the students, as may be inferred from the great number of members. • The books are well selected, and each and every one may find there “just the book hie,wants.” The selection altbgther certainly reflects credit on the good taste of the one making it.	‘	'
Soibee—Mademoiselle Godbert, at the invitation of the Rev. President ofthe University^ sang in the College parlor last Sunday evening for the entertainment of a select few. Prof Vande Velde also contributed to the enjoyment of the^party by the execution of some choice pieces on, the violoncello;. By^some. unaccountable, oversightwe were nofpresent‘on tbeoccasion/ andthus -lost a, rare treat, yet we are told that both the, singing and the. playing were of a superior qualityandmuch enjoyed by all present . 7 .
The Gem.”—We have seen the first number of this sprightly, little manuscript paper for '72 and ’73, and heartily congratulate the editors and the St. Edward’s Literary Association, under whose auspices .it -is conduted,: on the ■	•
taste and ability manifested in the matter , and style of , their neat paper. ,	;	,
. The first number contains articles pn.“ Literature,” “ The . Proper use of Vacations,” “The Origin of Newspapers” . and “ The Existence of God,” all of which are., well writ-,, ten. Success.to “The Gem.”	,
The Jesuits—We have received :from. somebody, in. New York a scandalous circular consisting of an extract.. from an article on “ The Jesuits," published in a late num-.. .her of that filthy sheet known as “Harper’s Weekly.” -	\
The article is intensely political, and evidently got up. for political effect. We fin ! no fault with it, however, on.that;. .	,
score, since every American has a right to think for him-, self on that question, and even gain others over to his . views if he can do so ia an honest and honorable way, . but we must in the name of truth and justice condemn the slanderous abuse heaped upon a learned, hard-working, and upright body of men, by the writer of that shameful .
tirade, and are forced to conclude that he is either very ig-	|
norant, or a wilful and bigoted falsifier of truth.
Calisthenics.—The conduct of the -young gentlemen of the Junior Department who attend the Class of Calisthenics is really commendable, quite gentlemanly. They are polite, attentive and industrious,—showing an evident . intention of learning all that it is posable forthem to learn in the time during which lessons will be given. Yet why is it that out of the large number of Juniors now present only twenty-five think it worth their while to improve	j
themselves in their manner of acting, or who wish to ac-	'
quire an easy, graceful carriage? The instructions in politeness given by the Professor are in themselves worth, and will in after life be found to be worth, many times the amount charged for tuition in the whole course. In addition, the members of the class are taught how to walk, sit., a id act in company, where they should certainly be easy, graceful, and agreeable in their actions. We would therefore like to see the class attended by rnany more than do .
attend at present. It is true that.the Professor is desirous	I
of having in the class only gentlemen or those who really wish to become such; but there are surely more than .
twenty-five Juniors who could with a little care and good	!
will acquire gentlemanly habits.	.	!
Personal.
Mb. Edward Sweeney, a member of the Commmercia]	Jl
Class of ’71, is now engaged as assistant Book-keeper in	|
a lage wholesale establishment in Erie, Pa. _	~	|
Mb, John Dillon, a commercial grad uate qf ’66, spent last..	i
Sunday with us. ’ i Although his,visit was short, it afforded much real pleasure to his many friends at Notre Dame. , He returned to Chicago on Monday morning. whither business called’ him.	. .	■	।
, Mb. John Woodwobth,,who,was. a student at Notre।
Dame in the earliest days of its existence,,spent ,last Sun-.	•
day with us,Although few .of his ;qld acquaintances, rer.,	;
main, all were glad to see on e of the first students,of Notre, , Dame., We would be mpst Jhappy to, see the .gentleman;
frequently.amongst us., , .	. . .	.	: •
i
THE SCHOLASTIC;
69'-
The Canadian Freeman of		October 24th contains a	J. McDermott,	T. McGee,. ’ . ,	J. McGinnis,
beautiful lecture, delivered bythe Rev. E. B. Kilroy, of ’49,			J. O’Connell,	D. O’Coanell,	W. Pollard,
before the. St.-	Vincent de Paul’s Society of-Hamilton,		J. Quill,	- A. .Ried,	C. Reid,	• ’
Ontario, a short time previous.		His subject was: “The	C. Ruger, •	,D.,Salazar,-.	A; Schmidt, -
Heroism of the	World and the	Heroism oi'Christ Con-	W. Shephard,:	' J.. Stubbs, -.	0. Waterman,-
trasted”. The Freeman says.: “		The lecturer, the Rev E.,		S. Wise.	
B. Kilroy, of St. Mary’s, Ontario		is an eloquent and pow-		J. F. Edwards, Secretary.	
erful speaker”.	Those of our readers who had the pleasure				
					
of listening to his oration at ,Notre Dame last-June .will				Class Honors	
endorse this tribute.					
			[Under this heading will appear each week the names		
	Roll of Honor.		of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies		
	■ 1 .	each week the names of	of the Class to which they belong.		Each Class will be
[Under this head are given			mentioned every	fourth week, conformably to the fol-	
those students whose conduct was m every respect satisiac-			lowing arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four		
tory during the	week preceding	the given date.] .	Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week,		
	OCTOBER 30, 1872.		those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the		
	Senior Department.		Preparatory; fourth week, Mu>ic, Fine Arts, Modern Lan-		
F. H. Buter,	W.-Briant,	C; Berdel, ■	guages, and special Classes—Director of Studies]		
H. Beckman,	M. Bastorache, R. Boyle,		PREPARATORY COURSE — Senior Department.		
D. Bryant, L. Burridge,	V. Baca, G. Brown,	W. Bartlett, . J. Browne,	FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1.		
M. Browne,	J. Brogan,	A. Blong,	A. Kreichgauer,	H. Cassidy,	T. Keenan,-. '
P. Cooney,	H. Cassidy,	W. Clarke,	F. C. St. Aubin,	B. Gorman,	L. Watson, . - •
A. Costello,	J. Comer,	G. Crutnmey,	E. Spittley,	A. Costello, .	J. Ireland, . '
A. Chapoton,	B. Dorsey,	F. Devo’o,	T. Flanagan, .	J. Burnham,	W. Bartlett;
F. Donnelly,	C. Dodge,	W. Dodge,	J. Rofinot, .	W. Van’t Woud,	J. Hoffman,
T. Dundon,	J. Devine,	J. Eisenman,	G. Brown,	T. Hansard,	B. Dorsey,
M. Foote,	J. Flynn,	B. Gorman,	J. Devine,	J. McDermott,.	F. Devoto,	.
J. Gillen,	E. Gambee, •	E. Graves,	J. Crummey,	P. Johnson,	F. Serafford,
J. Gillespie,	D. J. Hogan,	J. E. Hogan,	F. Miller,	J. Murphy,	M. Bastorache,
J. Hoeveler/	E. Halpin,	T. Hamilton,	J. Gillespie,	W. McMahon,	E. McS weeny.
C. Hodgson,	W. Hoff nan,	J. Hoffman,		Junior Department.	
J. Ireland,	C. Johnson,	’ P. Jacobs,	E Poor,	A. Kleine,..	J. Dunn,	.
T. Keenan,	C. Karst,	J. Kelly,	W. Breen,	F. Pearl,	F. Cronin, .
W. Lucas,	F. L ffi igwell, P. Lilly,		F. Au-tin,	S. Lovin,	R. Golsen, _
J. McGlynn,	E. Moraacy,	D. Maloney,	W. Ohlen,	C. Hake,	W. Hake,
E. Monohan,	J. Miller,	J. Murphy,	J. Marks,	T. Graves,	L. Whitaker,
T. Murphy,	A. Mooney,	J. McCormick,	C. Black,	0. Tong,	F. Sweger,
E. McSweeney,	E. Mullen,	J. McAlister,	S. Marks,	H. Mathews,	A.-Schmidt,
E. McLaughlin,	J. Noonan,	P. O’Meara, .	R. Lewis,	H. Zuber,	F. Bauer, -
P. O’Connell,	J. Rourke,	■G. Ruger,	H. Engledrum, .	J. Hilliard,	F. Dowe, , '
B. Roberts,	W. RansteaJ,	H. Saylor,	J. Nelson,	G. Fliehman,	F.. Muller, .
G. Stack,	J. Shiel,	L. Sanders,	. S. McMahon,	A. McIntyre,	N. Vannamee, ■
A. Taggart,.	P. Troudeau,	M. Torbett,	C. Clarke,	T. Nelson,	E. McMahon, -
S. Valdez,	A. Voorhees,	W. Van’t Woud,	G. Berdel, .	D. Salazar,	J. Golsen, .
L. Watson,	T. White,	C. Walters,	J. Hanley,	E. Moran,	A. Reid,
H. Walker,	J. Wolfe,	W. Wallace,	P. Brosseau,	J. Graham,	J. McHugh,
T. Watson,	C. Wheeler,	J. Ward.	W. Haney,	F. Weisenberger,.	_W. Pollard,
	Junior Department.		H. Enneking,	J. Ewing,	F. Ewing,. .
F. Austin,	B. Baca,	L. Busch,. ..	J. O’Connor,	J. Gerew, '	J. McGinnis,
P. Brosseau,	W. Bill,	W. Breen,	L. Scalia,	J. Daly, ■	P.Daly,
C. Burger,	. J. Campbell,	J. Caren,	D. Tansey,	H. Hoffman,- • ■	J. McDermott;'
J. Dore,	W. Dexter,	J. Devine,	L. Van’t Woud,	F.rMnlllgan,	C.-Nirdlinger, .. '
J. Dunn,	•J. Daly, .	P. Daly, .	.	T. McGee, •	,J. .Carmody,	J. Dore, ;	- .
J. Ewing,	W. Gross, .	J. Golsen,- . • .	W. Ball,	E. Holt,	W. Dexter,
G. Gerew,	E. Holt,	V. Hansen,-	W. Morgan,-	J.- A. Schiffer, -	J. Grace,	’
C. Hake, ..	• W. Haney,	L..Hibben, A. Kreiter,.	; H. Hoffman, •	A. Kleine,-.	‘	,R. Kelly,- * -:	WJVestal/	C. Reid. * ’ ‘ -
				, ' . - • >	
L. Loser,	R. Lewis,	F. McOsker,	THE'Minims play champion games as well as their “ big”		
J. Mullarky,	S. Marks,'	W.Morgan, .	brothers..The other day.*., the champions,” assisted by the		
J. McGrath,	. F. Miller,	E. Milburn,	rest of .the Department, -gained a complete victory over a		
V. McKinnon,.	. J., Moran,	A. McIntosh,.,	basket of apples.		
70 -
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Arrivals.
Otchipwe Nagamon.
William J. Fletcher, Charles B. Parker, . Michael Hillard, John C. Nevin, Daniel Claffey, John McMahon, Henry Kinley, Clarence Faxon, Joseph R. Ferry, -
St. Louis, Missouri.
Battle Creek, Michigan. Sorinsville, Indiana.
Bloomington, Illinois.
Bertrand, Michigan.
Chicago, Illinois.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, Illinois.
Eau Claire, Michigan.
Society Reports.
ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN ASSOCIATION.
The seventh, eighth and ninth regular meetings were held respectively October 19th, 27th, and November 2d. At these meetings the following members read essays and gave declamations: Masters L. Hibben, F. McOsker, W. Breen, W. Meyer, J. Quill, F. Egan, J. Campbell, E. Dougherty, W. Ball, J. Langenderfer, Jos. McHugh, F. Sweger, V. McKinnon, J. O'Connell, J. Devine, E. Ohmer, L. Whitaker, O. Waterman, J. Ewing and W. Gross. After this exercise Masters F. Sweger, J. Marks and J. McHugh, having fulfilled the conditions required by the rules, were unanimously elected members. The Association is actively engaged preparing for the 21st of November, the eve of the festival of St. Cecilia, on which occasion they will give their Fifteenth Annual Entertainment.
W. Bkeen, Corresponding Secretary.
NOTRE DAME CIRCULATING LIBRARY.
The members of the Circulating Library Association assembled on the 1st inst. for the purpose of organizing the Society, and for the election of officers. The choice for officers was as follows:
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier.
President—J. D. McCormick.
Librarian—P. J. O’Connell.	.
Secretary—T. J. Dundon.
Treasurer—M. M. Foote.
This Society, though yet in its infancy, has in reality attained to the vigor of manhood. It numbers upwards of one hundred members, has a library consisting of three hundred volumes of the choicest selections, made by competent hands from amongst the best authors. Every facility is offered to its members to cultivate a taste for books whose tone and character tend to ennoble the mind.
T. J. Dundon, Secretary.
The “ purp ” has good teeth.
The fountain is taking it easy.
. It is time to expect bad weather. •	.	.
The winds have commenced to whistle. : -
Lighted lamps are apt to have hot chimnies.
There is some science in almost every game, but in Quoiting it seems to consist in knowing how to measure.
Championship.—Last week witnessed the closing game between the Juniors and Seniors, for the championship of the University. The good spirit which prevailed between the contestants was admirable. Victory decided in favor of the Seniors by a score of 36 to 6.	. . :
NATIONAL HYMN OF
ORIGINAL.
Anishinabedog, Am be bi-ijaiog,
Nagamoiog!
Minik endashiieg,
Bemigabawiieg, N etanagamoieg,
Bi-ijaiog I
II.
Otchipwewaki sa ■
Ambe wauindanda
Negamoiang!
Geget gwanatchiwan
Ow kidakiminan, -Aw Minokossinan
Gamininang.
nr.
Mi sa maiamawi •
Mitchag Kitchigami
Oma eteg. •
Gigo bataini,
Namegoss sa abi. Haw, minopogosi
Atikameg I	.
IV.
Menogijigakin Ki babamashimin,
Minwendagwad.
N wadingin, ataia!
Kitchimamangashka, Kitchimadweiashka,
Gotamigwad!
v.
Nopiming dash abi Bebakan awessi
Wenijishid. .
Amik ima abi,
Nigig, wabijeshi, Makwa, wawashkcshi
Gwenatchiwid.
vr.
Kitiganing gaic
Maneinad nange
Gewissining.
Opin, mandaminag,
Minan, miskwiminag, Anotch go bekanak
Netawiging.
VII.
Anamakamig dash
Maiagwed, Jaganash, Anokiwag.
Biwabikokewag, Anonigosiwag;
Kitchimokomanag Mamigewag.
VIII.
W aiabish kisiian, Mano ki gadaian
Waaiaman.
Anishinabe sa
Minotch minoaia;.
Ishkonigans eta
O gadaian.
ix. . . Nossinan, kin igo Ki nandotamago ' Epitoweng; . , Enokitagoiang, . Tchi jawenimiiang Ketimagisiiang Oma aking. .
THE OTCHIPWE INDIANS, ON J SUPERIOR.	' ■
TRANSLATION. '
. ■	L ,	’
Oh, ye Indians, J * Come, draw near, .
Sing a song!	-	_ .
As many as there are of you, - Standing around, ' ‘ Who can sing well,- . Draw near!
Ji.
The land of the Otchipwe,
Come, let us praise, As we are singing.
Indeed, beautiful is
This'our country Our good Father -
Has given us. .
. HI-
For the eminently
Large Big-Water	’
Here is found. , -	.	• •
There is fish in abundance, The lake-trout is here, ' .
Ah, how well tastes The white-fish ’.	'
rv.
When the weather is fine,
We sail about, It is pleasant.
When it blows, aha!
There are big waves,
There is a great sound of waters, It is dreadful! •
v.
But back in the woods there are
Diverse animals, That are useful.
The beaver is dwelling there, The otter, the marten, The bear, the deer, The beautiful.	, ’
vr.
In the fields also
There is no scarcity
Of things to eat.
The potato, the Indian corn, Whortleberries, raspberries,
And sundry other Fruits of the earth.
VII.
But under the ground
The German, the Irishman
Are working.	,
They are gathering metal, They are hired laborers ;
The Big-Knives (Americans) Are carrying off the spoils.
VIII.
Thou, who art white, Well, thon shalt have
What thou wonldst have.
For the Indian
Is nevertheless well off;
A little reserved patch only
Shall be his own.
. : ix.	,
Our Father, Thee	.
We implore -'	*
At the top.of bur’voices; We who serve Thee, That Thou be merciful to us, ‘ Who are living* in poverty Here on earth. ,.
PRONUNCIATION OF VOWELS.
a as in father.	1	‘ i as in live.
e as in net. -	’ . •	|	. o as in bone.
TtRwstvsiautaos of consonants. ,	.
g as in get. ‘ I J as in the French language («&)» :
THE.SCH
0 L A ST I C .	.71

SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
x.
St. Mary’s Academy, November^, 1872.
“ The melancholy days have come, The saddest of the year.”
Yet the irrepressible young people at St. Mary’s continue to laugh and make merry. But this is easily explained, for they are kept so steadily at their classes, and so earnestly applied to their studies, that when recreation hours come they are too brimming over with merriment to spend time in sentimentalizing over the fallen leaves. Of course many of the oldest Seniors preserve the gravity and dignity of their class, and moralize over the decay of nature, or get into a poetical revery quite incomprehensible to the sportive Juniors and Minims, who think dead leaves make a splendid carpet for their recreation grounds.
On Thursday last the pupils had the pleasure of listening to a fine musical entertainment in the Vocal Hall. The charming vocalist Mdlle. M. Godbert favored them with a few gems given in her own exquisite style. Miss L. West sang very sweetly. St. Mary’s music pupils have always before them such high standards of excellence in the different departments of music that while hopefully pursuing their studies they can never be content with mediocrity.
Christmas week at St. Mary’s is made as cheerful as possible by the suspension of the afternoon classes and introduction of many suitable diversions; but it is a mistake to' imagine that there is a vacation at that time. Experience proves that the pupils lose much by absenting themselves from the Academy for even one week.
The impromptu entertainment given last Monday evening in St. Cecilia’s Hall in honor of St. Charles was very pleasing to all, and quite creditable to the young ladies who took part in the affair. On that occasion the Second Volume of “ The Monthly Gossip,” edited by the young ladies of the Graduating Class, was inaugurated by Miss B. T Crowley. The paper promises well, and it will, no doubt, sustain its former reputation for sprightliness and humor.
Tablet of Honor, (Sr. Dep’t) November 3,.1872.
Misses Katie Zell, Mary Cochrane, M. Lassen, Mamie Lassen, Alice Shea, K. Haymond, Bibbie Crowley, Lizzie King, M. Lange, Aline Todd, Lizzie Niel, M. Kearney, Annie . M. Clarke, Ida Reynolds, Rose Devoto, Mary Brown, Gertie Crapser, Mary Comer, Libbie Black, Nellie Langdon, Mattie Ward, Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Minnie Quan, Bay Reynolds, Lettie Ritchie, Lizzie Daly, Bridget Grace, M. Letourneau, Agnes Church, Carrie Creveling, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Mary Riley, Esther Boyce, Nellie Foote, Mary Layfield, Annie O’Conner, Addie Hamilton, Emma Wade, Rebecca Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Kattie Miller, Lizzie Ritchie, Lou Beckman, Mary Kelly, Mary McGuire, Agnes Conahan, Josie Connors, Sarah Chenoweth, Livinia Forrester, R. Marr, Emma White, Joanna Valdez, Romualda Manzanares, Henrietta Miller, C. Rishling. Lizzie Schiber, Louisa Lilly, “Fannie Snouffer, M. Gregg, Ella Hinkston.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN STUDIES. :
Graduating Class—Misses Kattie Zell, A. Shea, Bibbie Crowley, Minnie'Lange, Aline Todd.
First Senior Class—Miss Lizzie Niel, Mary Kearney, Annie M. Clarke,.Nellie Gros-, lea Reynolds, Rose De-
voto, Mary Brown, Daisie Green, Gertie Crapser, Mary Comer.
Second ■ Senior Class—Misses Annie Lloyd, Mamie Prince, Minnie Quan, Bay Reynolds,. Lettie Ritchie, Jennie Tucker, Katie Finley, Maggie Letourneau, Agnes Church.
Third Senior Class—Misses Carrie Creveling, Nellie Ball, Genevie Walton, Annie T. Clarke, Laura Weinreich, Mary Riley, Jennie Noonan, Esther Boyce, M. Layfield, Annie O’Conner.
First Preparatory Class—Missss Addie Hamilton, Emma Wade, Bell Wade, Rebecca Woolman, Louisa Pfeiffer, Katie Miller, Lizzie Ritchie, Annie Reid, Ella Quinlan, Mary McGuire, Bell White, Agnes Conahan, Marie Pinney.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses C. Germain, Ettie Burney, Bell Johnson, A. Eby, Mamie Dillon, S. Chenoweth, Ida Hatch, Ella Howell, Dora Simonds, L. Forrester, Ella Drake, R. Marr, E. White.
Third Preparatory Class—Joanna Valdez, R, Manzanares, Angeline Monroe, H. Miller, Rose McKearver, Lizzie Sohiber, Louisa Lilly, Fannie Snouffer (first in lessons), M. Gregg.
First French—Misses M. Quan, N. Gross, L.West, A.M. Clark, M. Letourneau, M. Cochrane, L. Dent, M. Kearney, J. Kearney, M. Lange.
Second French—M. Comer, A. Ried, A. Church, Addie Roberts, N. Thomson, E. Thomson, Alice Lynch, L. Tinsley.
First German—Misses K. Zell, L. Pfeiffer, K. Muller, A. Goldbardt, M. Comer, L. Weinrich.
Second Class—L. Schnerle, R. Klar, A. Rose, M. Scheiber, N. Finley.
Third German—Misses A. Shea, B. Crowley, M. Gall, Mary Gall, M. Marr.
Latin—Misses L. King, G. Crapser, J. Tucker.
Plain Sewing—Misses M. Brown, B. Crowley, L. King, I. Reynolds, L. Dent, A. Church.

SOCIETY REPORTS.
At the annual election for officers the following young ladies were chosen: .
st. eusebia’s literary society.
This Society is composed of the young ladies of. the Second and hird Senior Classes. The officers are as follows:	■	■
President—Miss M. Letourneau.
Vice-President—Ida Wilder.	■ .
Secretary—Mamie Prince.	. .
Treasurer—Nellie*Ball.	* ” - -
Librarian—Annie Lloyd.
st. Angela’s literary society.
Composed of the pupils of the First, Second and Third Preparatory Classes..
President—Miss L. Beckman. .
Vice-President—Miss A. Hambleton.
Secretary—Miss L. Hull.
Treasurer—Miss K. Casey.
, Librarian—Miss J. Walsh.
“ There’s a good time coming, it’s almost here,” said a youngster as he looked at the clock and saw it was five minutes to twelve.
?2	THE SCHOLASTIC.
New Publications.
"A Manual of American Literature : A Text Book for Schools and Colleges. By John S. Hart, LL.D. Philadelphia: Eld-
• redge and Brother, Publishers.
The Manual of American Literature, intended as a companion .to a similar work on English Literature by the same author, is unquestionably a work of superior merit. The author gives us, in a book of 64=1 pages, a concise, yet clear and impartial account of all American writers who have attained any degree of reputation in the world of ‘ letters. Those who have acquired the right to be considered leaders in the period in which they lived, are treated of more at length, and the account given of them is .printed in larger type to serve as a guide to the relative importance of the various authors. . The selections from the different writers mentioned are judicious, and of themselves would impart to the book'a special interest. Mr. Hart shows by the impartial manner in which he deals with writers of every religious denomination, that he has •a mind capable of rising above those petty prejudices the manifestation of which so seriously mars the works of many writers of the present time. This, added to the intrinsic .value of the book, renders the work under consideration most desirable and trustworthy as a text-book. ;
Pocket Dictionary.—Webster’s Pocket Dictionary, in its present-shape, is a great improvement over all previous editions and all -similar works. In the first place it is neatly printed, and bound in morocco, with gilt edges. Then it contains 200 pictorial illustrations, which give a much clearer idea of the meaning of many words than could possibly be conveyed by the usual definition. The little volume, while being no larger than an ordinary pocket-book, embraces in its vocabulary a careful selection of over 18,000 of the most important words of the language, with definitions sufficiently clear, though necessarily brief; to meet the ordinary wants of any one requiring its use. Prefixed to the work are tables of money, weight and ."measure, abbreviations, words and phrases from foreign languages, rules for spelling, explanations, etc. It is in fact a most valuable little book, and is doubly worth the dollar it costs. It-is very beautifully and substantially bound, with tucks and gilt edges. The -Publishers, Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 138 and 140 Grand Street, New York, will forward it by mail on receipt of One Dollar, or it can be bought almost anywhere.
Wool’s Litarary ani Art Agency.
A Commendable Policy.—Every honorable tradesman is obliged to suffer at the hinds of his dishonorable .competitors, just as the word of a truthful man must pass at a discount because of the untruthfulness of his fellows. Hence the importance of so modifying our whole system of commercial intercourse as to exclude the operations of every species of rascality. As an initiatory step in this direction, we are pleased to note, that S. S. Wood <fc Co. propose to conduct their Literary and Art Agency business so as to please and thoroughly satisfy their patrons, by requiring their agents, 1st, not to represent their goods for what they are not; 21, not to collect the amount until the articles have been delivered; and 3d, so to conduct the business that there shall not be an occasion for reason
able complaint.' They also agree “to .'refund the price of all articles which shall, for any reason whatever, be returned iff*good order within sixty days from the date of their receipt.” Messrs. Wood & Co., also the well-known publishers of Wood's Household Magazine (established in 1867), have favored us with a copy of their Agent’s Prospectus and Illustrated Catalogue, from which we judge that “Agents-may learn something-greatly to their advantage” and obtain specimens and full; particulars by addressing Wood’s Literaiy and,-Art Agency, Newburgh, N.Y.	"
A Bore.
“ Deliver us from the man who always says ‘ yes.’ ”—Minton.
Perhaps a more “detestable bore” cannot be found than the man who makes it a point to agree with all persons upon all subjects. By thus trying to gain every one’s friendship, he gains the friendship of no one. Ask him what he thinks Great Britain will do about the Alabama claims, and he says that he “ really cannot tell.” Suggest that she will not dare go to war, and he “ thinks so, too.” Ask him why he always lets somebody else think for him, and pins his faith to their sleeve, and he answers that he “hates argument.”	..
“Hates argument” indeed! He might as well hate truth. Argument is the crucible which separates the gold of truth from the dross of error. . Persons of sense love to argue. Argument sharpens, wit, -generates. thought, refreshes the mind, and elicits truth.	.
It is a nuisance to have a person, always ■ coincide -with what one says. One might as well be locked , in a room with a parrot, which had been trained to speak the single word, “ yes.” The grand aim in life of men of- culture and education, is the .acquisition of knowledge; but nothing can be learned from a man who is willing to let some one else think for him all the time. Men of sense like to make a point, and prove a position; but if they are .-met by a submissive “yes,” their plans are prostrated, and their arguments fall fiat. If, on the other, hand, an.opponent meets them with a sturdy “ I'think not, sir,” and shows a disposition to investigate, there is a chance to elicit truth.
Such a man wins respect from all. If-he discovers himself in error, he is thankful to be set right; if he is in the right, he has the satisfaction of gaining a victory over e ror. How many things have been demonstrated to be fallacies that were received as truths in past ages! If there is any question of whose correct solution bne is in doubt, it is best to submit it at once-to the test of criticism and argument,"for
In spite of pride,‘in erring reason’s‘"spite,	'
One truth is clear—	.
Whatever i«, is right!	'
For; round and round we run,
• And ever the right comes uppermost, : > -And ever is justice done I” i .-Allegan, Michiganjhv.
.—The Young Folks' Rural..
WOOD’S HOUSEHOLD MAGAZINE.
AGENTS may learn something greatly to their advantage’ and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing
Wood’s Litebaby and Abt Agency,
' • ' ’	‘	Newburgh, New York.