Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIAWA, FEBRUARY 15, 1879.
Number 24.
The Penal Days.
i.	’
Oh ! weep those days, the penal days,	'
When Ireland hopelessly complained.
Oh! weep those days, the penal days, When godless persecution reigned;
When, year by year,
For serf and peer,
Fresh cruelties were made by law,
And, filled with hate,	,
Our senate sate To weld anew each fetter’s flaw.
Oh! weep those days, those penal days— s Their memory still on Ireland weighs.
ii.
They bribed the flock, they bribed the son, ” To sell the priest and rob the sire ;
Their dogs were taught alike to run Upon the scent of wolf and friar.
Among the poor,
Or on the moor, Were hid the pious and the true— While traitor knave, And recreant slave,	•
Had riches, rank and retinue ;
And, exiled in those penal days, Our banners over Europe blaze.
in.
A stranger held the land and tower _ Of many a noble fugitive;
No Popish lord had lordly power, The peasant scarce had leave to live: - Above his head
A ruined shed,
No tenure but a tyrant’s will—
Forbid to plead,
Forbid to read,
Disarmed, disfranchised, imbecile— What wonder if our step betrays The freedman, bom in penal days!
IV.
They’re gone, they’re gone, those penal days I All creeds are equal in our isle ;
Then grant, 0 Lord, Thy plenteous grace, Our ancient feuds to reconcile.
Let all atone
For blood and groan,
For dark revenge and open wrong,
Let all unite
For Ireland’s right,
And drown our griefs in freedom’s song, Till time shall veil in twilight haze The memory of those penal days.
Overwork.
It is common, nowadays, when an eminent man dies, to attribute his death to severe mental labor—congestion of the brain, produced by over-exertion of the mental faculties. After the catalogue of the virtues for which the distinguished deceased was remarkable has been enumerated and held up to view for our admiration, the notice almost invariably closes with the remark that the deceased was the victim of overwork, and then comes a long homily on the fatal effects of too much work, concluding with a grave admonition to the living to be careful lest they meet their death from a similar cause.
To our mind, of all admonitions there is not one the bulk of mankind stands less in need of, and at the same time follows more faithfully, than the warning not to overwork themselves. How pleasant it is when we don’t feel like working to offer as an excuse for negligence, or to quiet the still, small voice of-conscience that upbraids us for our indolence, to exclaim that there is no use of killing ourselves —we might as well take the world easy. The consequence is, we imperceptibly contract the habit of taking everything easy, and neglect our duties through fear of killing ourselves by performing them.
Although the fear of killing ourselves may be a plausible excuse for neglecting our duty, and thereby gratify our natural indolence, yet it might be worth our while to examine if there is any real danger of coming to an untimely end by overwork.
The real value of a man’s life does not depend upon the number of years he lives, but rather on the amount of good he performs. It follows, then, that a man who at the age of forty has performed as much as another double that age, has lived to all intents and purposes as long as his senior. We know that many die at an early age who were not remarkable for their industry; indeed it might be said that some die because they are too lazy to make an effort to live. Again, many live to a ripe old age whose lives have been of continual and uninterrupted labor, and this renders it questionable whether any one dies from the effects of too much labor.
But admitting that some peop’e die from the effects of overwork, industry is such a great virtue that even the shortening of the span of life a few years is not a powerful argument against it. At best, the longest life is so short, —life in general is so uncertain, and its duties and responsibilities are so great, that no sane person would censure a man for using all the faculties of his mind and body for the purpose of rendering that life a success. Do not observation and experience teach us that a strenuous, laborious, life gives a man the same advantage as if he had been bom ten or twenty years earlier ? Do not the effects of industry
374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
give a man an opportunity to come forward and bring into full play all the powers of his mind just at the age when he possesses the vigor of youth and the strength of manhood to use them to the best advantage? How many, at a comparatively early age, acquire reputation that will last as long as civilization itself! Pitt died at the age of fortyseven; Burns, at thirty-seven; Byron, at thirty-six; Wolf fell at thirty-three; Balmes died at thirty-seven, to whom his biographer applies the words of Wisdom: “Being made perfect in a short space, he fulfilled a long time.”
Instead of censuring activity, we should be thankful for the example which teaches us how much can be accomplished by industry in a short time. But lest we might think that an early death is the sure fate of the industrious, we need but turn over the pages of history to dispel so foolish an idea. Sir Walter Scott died at the age of sixty-one; Edmund Burke, at sixty-six; Dr. Samuel Johnson, at seventy-five; Washington Irving, at seventy-six. If we turn to the lives of the saints, it would appear that incessant labor was the sole promoter of a long life. But we think it is evident that a laborious life, no matter how few are its years, is by no means a short one.
The Study of English Grammar.
There is, perhaps, no study which is of more importance to the American youth than that of English grammar, for it is that which teaches them to write and speak their language correctly. Of what use would a thorough knowledge of the mathematical and physical sciences be to them, unless they were able to speak of those sciences in a proper manner? And to do this would be an utter impossibility without a thorough knowledge of English grammar.
There are many who labor under a great mistake in supposing that because they can speak a language they need not study its grammar; it must be remembered that there is a great difference between speaking a language and speaking it with propriety. A child may be said to speak English; but it does not follow that because that child can speak English, it speaks it correctly. Now, what is said of a child in this respect may be very well applied to the student who thinks that because he can speak English he can speak it grammatically correct.
How often, when listening to young students conversing with one another, do we hear such improper expressions as the following: A student asks another if he saw John Smith to-day; to which the interrogated replies: “Yes: it was him that just now turned the corner”; or, “Yes: I seen him a while ago.” “Wasn’t there nobody with him ? ” continues the interrogator. “Yes, there was himself and them two other fellows what come here yesterday,” is the reply. “ Where,” continues the former, “ did you get them there books?” “Oh, them are the books I use in book-keeping class; I just now got them at the office,” is the answer. “ But what are you going to do with your old ones?” is the next question, to which the following is the reply: “Oh, I aint going to do nothing.” Now the boy who has a knowledge of English grammar will readily see from the above vulgar and ungrammatical expressions that those using them do not know that the nominative predicate after an attributive verb is put in the same case as the subject before it—they do not know that two negatives in English make an affirmative—they do not know that such expressions us “them there,” “those there,” etc.,
are vulgarisms. And why don’t they know it? Simply because they do not know English grammar.
Now, I do not mean to say, by any means, that he who makes a grammatical mistake in conversation is by that fact ignorant of the laws of the language, for we are all liable to make mistakes in speaking; but when we hear the same individuals making the same mistakes day after day, then we can arrive at but one of two conclusions: that either they do not know English grammar at all, or at least have but a very superficial knowledge of it. And, again, it is precisely here that many err; for if they study grammar at all, they are satisfied with a very limited 4 knowledge of it.
They say, “ Well, I think I understand the principal parts of it, and therefore need not mind the less important parts.” Now, will those would-be-smart fellows tell me what they understand by the principal and less important parts of grammar ? I say that there are no unimportant parts in English grammar; they are dll important, all-important, and each and every part has its own importance. If, for instance, you neglect to learn the rules of syntax, though you may understand etymology quite well, can you say that you know grammar ?
Some students, who do not see the inestimable advantage arising from a thorough knowledge of grammar, allege as an excuse for not studying it well, that it is too dry and j hard. Now the very same students who proffer this unacceptable excuse, may be seen, for hours at a time, pouring over the orations of Cicero, or the works of Ovid, Horace, Thucydides, Plato, or those of any other author in a foreign I language, spending perhaps, at times, half an hour in try-	*
ing to translate certain passages of the above named authors, and still they do not say that they are too hard or too dry;
and I know from experience that more time is consumed in trying to translate a half page of some of the above named authors, than would be required to memorize two or three pages of English grammar.
Many students find very great difficulty in translating the authors of foreign languages simply because they do not know their own language. They imagine that if they are capable of quoting a few passages from Cicero, Homer, Horace, or Virgil, they are smart men, and that if they \ know Latin and Greek their education is complete. They are willing to spend five or six years of hard study to master those languages, but they are satisfied with a year’s study of English. So true is this, that recently a learned professor in one of our Western colleges said that the average American student knows more about Cicero and his orations, than about his own language.	al
This subject is now receiving the attention of some of the principal educational institutions of this country, and every means is being employed to eradicate the already too prevalent, opinion that the study of English grammar is not of such importance as that of some of the other branches of education. I am sure that if we can devote five or six years to the study of iiatin or Greek, we can at least give one half the time to the study of English.
T. McN.
—A Frenchman, being about to remove his shop, his landlord inquired the reason, stating, at the same time, that it was considered a very good stand for business. The Frenchman replied, with a shrug of the shoulders, “ Oh, yes, he’s very good stand for de business-: by gar me stand all day, for nobody come tg gjake me move!’’
i; h
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
375
Columbus and Americus Vespucius.
America should, without doubt, be called Columbia, for to Columbus rightly belongs the honor of its discovery. It is true that this great man, like all his contemporaries, died under the impression that the land he had discovered was a part of Asia, or, according to his own words, a part of the Indies; whence it happened that the savages of America were called Indians, by which appellation they are known at the present day. It was several years after Columbus, that navigators became aware of the fact that, *	instead of islands more or less extensive, a new and im-
|	meuse continent, totally distinct from Asia, had been
found. Its boundaries were traced in 1525.
It is also true, that, if we consider facts rigorously and according to the letter, we would be authorized in sustaining that Sebastian Cabot was the first European to land on American soil, since it is well known that he landed on the coast of Labrador on the 14th of July, 1497, while Columbus, who thus far had discovered only islands, did not actually reach the continent till the 31st of July, the following year, when he touched upon the coast of Cumana. But from the day on which he discovered the Archipelago of Lucaya, Cuba and St. Dominego, the discovery of America was made, and the genius of Columbus expounded the enigma of this new and mysterious world, leaving to Cabot and his followers nothing more to do than to follow the route thus pointed out to them. If the honor of this discovery is denied Columbus, to whom must it be attributed ? Can it not be alleged the Scandinavians had dis-* covered North America many years before? And still more can it not be pretended that America has never been discovered, since it is without question that from time immemorial commercial relations have existed between the islands of Asia called Aleutian, and what we call the new Continent? Continuing on this train of ideas, must we not conclude that America was first discovered by its own natives or by those who were the first to arrive in it ? In this sense there remains nothing on the earth to be discovered but deserts. All this is only pleasantry. To Columbus belongs the honor of having discovered America; such is the opinion of all men, and it is corroborated by reason and justice.
I	As to Americus Vespucius, he was a man of probity,
learned, courageous, who lived and died without pretending .	to have discovered America.	He was a native of Florence,
|	and fifteen years Columbus’	junior. He made several
k	voyages to America, the first	of which was in 1499. His
position even on the vessels in which he travelled was only secondary. During his whole life, but particularly towards its close, he was held in high esteem as a geographer and navigator. He was much consulted in matters of the kind. Columbus entertained a particular friend ship for him, and there is a letter of his extant in which he recommends him to his son in most flattering terms.
Americus Vespucius was very far from supposing that even the most obscure corner of the earth, let alone the western hemisphere, would ever do him the honor of adopting his name; and he certainly had been stupefied to find that it was done to the detriment of Columbus. Nevertheless, there had already appeared at the time of his death maps on which the new continent was called by his name. It is supposed he knew nothing of them; but even had he been aware that so strange an error was circuited fie could scarcely be Reproached for not having ar-
rested it, the means not being in his power. In those days communications between literati were far from being as facile and rapid as they are to-day; besides, the rage for navigation was so great that literature claimed but little attention. The first geographer who gave to the new world the name of America, was, it appears, the librarian, and at the same time a professor at St. Did, on the Meuse. Why he called it after the baptismal rather than after the family name is unaccounted for. This author adopted for surname Hylacomilus; his real name was Martin Waltze-muller. What put it into his head to dub his map “ America”? It was very probably owing to the histories of Americus Vespucius’ voyages, then circulating around him,—a copy of which Vespucius himself had but a short time before addressed to Rene H, then reigning in Lorraine, where no account of Columbus or his achievements had ever penetrated. The details which Vespucius gave to the manners of the savages were very amusing. His reputation gradually spread abroad ; when speaking of the New World, the authority of Vespucius was considered definite. This is the explanation generally admitted.
Vespucius died poor, at Seville, February 15th, 1512. After his death the error spread more and more. It is difficult to change the name of a continent. Geographical names, anyhow, signify but little; and, for example, it may well be said that those of Europe, Asia and Africa, have little or no meaning.
Valentines.
As each season rolls by, it brings with it amusements of various kinds. When Christmas and New Year’s make their appearance, everyone, whether rich or poor, marks the day by presenting a memorial of some kind as a token of esteem or affection. But when Valentine’s day comes, far and wide over this broad universe of ours the mailbags may be seen loaded even to overflowing, with letters and packages of all shapes and sizes. Even in the smallest cities they are more heavily laden than usual. The reason it is unnecessary to state; it is known to all. But how and when started this custom? We may easily guess why presents are given at Christmas and on New Year’s Day, and why eggs are colored and cracked on Easter Day, and why we shoot bombs and fire-crackers on the Fourth of July, and why on St. Patrick’s Day we wear the golden harp upon our green badges of shamrock; but there are comparatively few who seem to know how this custom of sending valentines originated. And as this is the case, I think a brief history of it will not be out of place.
In the year 270, on the 14th of February, during the persecution of the Christians under the Emperor Claudius II, St. Valentine was apprehended and sent by that Emperor to the prefect of Rome, who, having had him beaten with clubs, beheaded him on this day. The connection between the Saint and the old established custom among the pagans, which, under different forms, has prevailed to our own days, is not very clear, but it is evidently derived from the superstitious practice in those days of pagan boys drawing the names of girls in honor of their goddess Februata Juno. It was a universal custom among the young people to gather into little parties, and, having written their names, to deposit them in two urns. Then the boys and girls drew alternately from the two urns, and the youth and girl whose names were drawn at the same
376
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
x time contracted a friendship for the year; and moreover, the young man escorted his fated one to balls and theatres and made her such presents as his means would allow. This amusement was innocent in itself, but, like many other things, it soon crept into an abuse. In some of the northern countries of Europe it extended to married families, and thus gave rise to enmities, jealousies and dissensions.
And thus this universal custom of celebrating the feast of the goddess Februata Juno lasted until the year 1602, when SL Francis of Sales, Bishop of Geneva, preached against this manner of observing St. Valentine’s Day in his diocese. Moreover, he severely forbade the custom of sending valentines, or giving boys, in writing, names of girls to be admired and waited upon by them; and to abolish it, he changed it into giving billets with the names of certain saints for them to honor and imitate in a particular manner.
Since the manners and times of the present age are different from those of St. Valentine and St. Francis, valentines have become the follies of the times. For many years it was the custom to send a valentine written in a feigned hand either to some cross-grained old bachelor or to some old maid in an envelope of immense magnitude. These letters were generally composed of poetry. But at the present day all kind of presents are made, all kind of letters, written or printed, are sent. A vast number of valentines assume the form of valuable presents, bracelets, necklaces, brooches, etc. The number and quality of valentines increase every year. Over four million passed through the various post-offices of the United States during last year.
In one respect, and only in one, valentines do some good, since the women and children engaged in making them receive high wages. The general time for preparing valentines comes immediately after Christmas, but in some places a certain number of men are engaged in preparing them during the whole year. Some of the common valentines are very humorous and satirical, and millions of them are sent everywhere.	F.
A Starlight Night.
The clear and frosty air of a January starlight night affords an exceptionable opportunity—an opportunity not to be neglected—for the contemplation of the heavens, in order to discover their beauties, as also to distinguish principal stars—those heavenly bodies that engage so much the learned and the great: they engage their attention in a manner that cannot be very well conceived by those who, either from ignorance or something else, never look over their heads to study or admire those numberless luminaries that lend their aid to the promotion of man’s happiness, so far as it may be had here below. Man, indeed, seems to be an ungrateful being; he seems to entirely ignore those very existences which make a part of his possessions; beseems to forget that he is the lord of Creation; that he is something that God loves with an infinite love, and that he is of priceless value in His sight. The exercise, then, of contemplating the works of God is of a most elevating nature, and tends in an especial manner to extricate us from the mire, so to speak, in which we are stuck fast, and raise us, however worldly though we maybe, to heaven’s portal, and together with purifying our minds and hearts, will give us an understanding of the motions of these heavenly bodies, of the order and harmony that
may be found in them. God is no doubt imminent in His works, which declare His wisdom, which show forth His glory, power, and greatness. “ Who can declare the order of the heavens, or who can make its harmony to sleep ? ” And, again: “Lift up your eyes on high, and see who hath created these things; who bringeth out their host by number, and calleth them by names, by the greatness of His might and strength and power: not one of them was missing.” These passages, taken from the Sacred Writings, show in unmistakable terms the beauty and harmony that may be found in the heavens,—that may be found in the contemplation of the starry firmament—of the numberless worlds over our head. Man, too, is told to look upon them, and see what a mighty or rather Almighty Being they proclaim—their Creator,—whose wisdom, power and magnificence they unceasingly extol. But, as we have already intimated, the elevation of our minds to the contemplation of God’s greatness and omnipotence is not the only benefit that we may derive from viewing the firmament on a starlight night. It should in fact be the aim of all to know not only the use of those bodies over our head, but also their names, especially of those that may be considered the principal planets or stars and their distinguishing qualities or marks.
We find in the Scriptures the names of many stars, such as the Polar star, Orion, Arcturus, the Pleiades, and others. It would, indeed, seem at first sight that the stars are scattered all over the heavens without any regard to order or regularity; but this is not so, for countless as they may seem they have their relative position and distance,—portioned into groups, called constellations, and distinguishable in such a way that no two are so much alike or hold so near a position as not to be distinguishable even to the naked eye. If we look towards the northern part of the sky, we will without difficulty discern the great, constellation known to some by the name of Charles’ Wain, and to those who have studied astronomy by that of Ursa Major, or the Great Bear. This constellation is composed of seven very remarkable stars: four of which are situated in the body of the animal and form what may be termed a trapezium, while the other three go to form the tail of the Great Bear or the handle of a dipper, which the whole seven may be said to form. The star next the body of the animal is called Alioth; the second, Mizar; and the one in the extremity of the tail is known as Benetnash, and is of the third magnitude. Of those in the body of the Great Bear, the two to the west are called Pointers, from the fact of their always pointing in a direct line to Almkabah, or the Polar Star, to which belongs another constellation called Ursa Minor or the Little Bear. An imaginary line passing from Alioth through Cor Caroli—a star of the second magnitude, situated about twelve degrees north of Berenice’s Hair—produced to about the distance between them, will reach Vinde-miatrix, a star of the third magnitude, and the one farthest north in the constellation Virgo. This latter constellation, a few remarkably bright stars, the principal one of which is Spica Virginis, which lies a little east of the place of the autumnal equinox, and is a star of the first magnitude. In the southeast part of the heavens may be found the Pleiades, or the seven stars, which form a cluster and lie in the neck of the constellation Taurus or the Bull. The largest star in Taurus is Aldebaran; it is of the first magnitude, and-in appearance closely resembles Mars. This star with four others compose the Hyades. Southeast of Taurus is the beautiful constellation Orion, composed of seventy stars yisible to the naked eye, of which two are of the $rst
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	377
magnitude, three of the third, and four of the second. The belt of Orion is formed of three stars in a direct line; the shoulders, of the two stars Bellatrix and Betelgeuse; the other stars compose the sword; and Rigel, a star of the first magnitude, makes one of the feet. This constellation is regarded as one of the most beautiful in the heavens, and cannot fail to elicit the attention of the observer. To the southeast of Orion may be observed the Great Dog Star, Sirius, the brightest star in the firmament and probably the nearest of the fixed stars, but is at the same lime no less than 80,000 miles distant, as far from the earth as the sun is from the earth, which is said to be at one period of the year 195,000,000 miles nearer this great star than at another, but by this there is no perceptible change discovered in its size, even by the most powerful telescopes. This star is situated in the mouth of Cants Major, a constellation composed principally of it and four others, three of which are of the third magnitude, and one between the second and third magnitudes.
The small constellation known as Canis Minor lies a little north of the equator, and about 26 degrees north of the Great Dog Star; its principal star is known by the name of Procyon, and is of the first magnitude. Two other remarkable stars are Castor and Pollux, one being of the first, and the other of the second magnitude; they form the constellation Gemini, are about four degrees asunder, and are known by the bright appearance which they present, The situation of Gemini is east of Taurus. These two constellations are signs of the Zodiac. All these stars of which we have made mention may be distinguished from the planets by their twinkling light, and, with the exception of the Polar star, rise in the east, travel south, and sink in the west.
The foregoing is but a brief description of a few of the heavenly bodies; those to us seem to be created by the hand of the omnipotent God for us especially, the first end; of course, being His own glory; but apart from this, it may be well to say that those bodies, some of which are of an immense size, have been created and placed in their present positions for a wise and useful purpose, and although we, poor mortals as we are, are unable to account altogether for their usefulness, we cannot fail to observe in them the presence of the One whose being, wisdom, goodness and almighty power they proclaim.
“ To God, whose temple is all space, Whose altar—earth, sea, skies;
One chorus let all beings raise, All Nature’s incense rise.”	B.
—Why is a thief your only true philosopher? Because he regards everything from an abstract point of view, is opposed to all notions of protection, and is open to conviction.
“ Nothing,” said an impatient husband, “ reminds me so much of Balaam and his ass as two women stopping in the church porch and obstructing the way to indulge in their everlasting talk.” “But you forget dear,” said the wife, meekly, “that it was the angel who stopped the way, and Balaam and his ass who complained of it.”
—A woman lecturer advertises herself in Providence as a “ child of nature, wearing the unmistakable crown of genius, and doing her share in the ever-appointed work of genius—the work of ‘ making the whole world kin.’ She brings with her the electricity of the North—the brilliancy of the aurora borealis—and all who meet her are magnetized.”
Affectation.
There appears to be no reason for supposing that it is ever lawful for anyone to pretend to be what he is not. God has given to all their own peculiar qualifications, which they can never lay aside to assume those which are not genuine or their own without acting contrary to the order of things, and being guilty at least of some imperfection. We do not, indeed, say that affectation is always a sin in those whom it becomes, but we do say that it is anything but manly, becoming, or of an elevating nature. What good, we might ask, does anyone derive from pretending to be something to which he has no claim ? A man may affect, may assume, may put on an air of something which is as far from him as one pole is from another; and all this only goes to show a want of the beauty natural, so to speak, to what is genuine and real. What pleasure or what good can be derived from looking upon an artificial man,—a man who has thrown aside his reality, and assumed a false appearance, in order, we may charitably suppose, for no good motive,—for this reason seems to be deduced from the principle, admitted by all, that whatever is not obtained by fair means brings no good either to the obtainer or to the society of which he forms a part.
There is not, nor can there be, any excuse for a man’s striving to pass himself off for the opposite of what he is; for, were he to succeed, he could be called nothing else than a deceiver and a hypocrite,—a discredit to humanity and a shame to himself.
Affectation may be said to have its origin in vanity, a source from which arise many defects detrimental to mankind.
“ Sin with vanity hath filled the works of men.”
Vanity is indeed closely allied to sin; they are seldom found separated in a certain class of individuals, who seem to have been created for no other purpose than to admire and contemplate their own fancied greatness, their own attainments and personal accomplishments,—a class of persons who are so inflated by the grand idea which they have of themselves that had they not some generous friend to tell them, “ once in a while,” what they are, they would, in all probability, put themselves upon the altar of ostentation to be perpetually admired, honored, and the rest,.by their own personal selves and a host of others whom they falsely imagine to be worshippers at their shrine.
There is another source whence arises affectation,—narrow-mindedness. People afflicted with this disease can see no farther than their nose; they are idealists, in a certain sense; there is no objectivity for them; there is no reality beyond their own minds; their ideals are themselves; they alone are perfect; they alone correspond to that notion which is in them of their own intellectual creations.
Again, those who assume an affected air are, invariably, not on good terms with their neighbors, from the fact that the latter easily see that they are imposed upon, and consequently their feelings become hurt; the little pride which, may also be in them becomes wounded, and the result is anything but good fellowship. It seems to be natural to man to strive to hold his position in society, to keep that place for which he has been designed by Him who rules and governs all things; and when anyone infringes on this right,—when anyone endeavors to walk over him, as it were, by an assumed authority—something- that can
378
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lay no claim to reality—then it is that opposition is shown, and the man with the assumed air gains for himself nothing but the contempt and hatred of him over whom he wished to pass—whom he wished to excel.
Affectation is exposed in a manner worthy of itself by comparing it with its opposite. This can be done by simply taking a man in whom this defect is found and contrasting him with another who is altogether natural and genuine in his character. The one wins the esteem and-confidence of his fellow-men, while the other breeds nothing in the breast of his companions or those with whom he may come in contact save disdain, contempt, and suspicion. That simplicity which so adorns the minds of men is altogether wanting in the one who is, as it were, in disguise, wearing a double character, and anything but what he pretends to be; while in the other, the opposite ennobling qualities constitute his character and render him a man beyond reproach or suspicion. He is what is expected of him—a man, and not the appearance of one.
A character which is affected has been beautifully compared to a palace built of ice; in the distance, and especially when the sun’s rays fall upon it, it appears to be something magnificent, and built of the most precious material, gold; but, alas! on coming in closer proximity to the structure and examining it closely, we see how much we were deceived! It had the appearance, it is true, of something good; but what is an appearance ? It becomes now all the more worthless in our eyes; we consider it void of praise or merit, of any real or distinguishing feature. It is ice, and nothing more. And so it is with the man whose character is affected: its beauty vanishes before the noonday sun; its glories fall to the ground; all that remains, all that constitutes that character which had so great an appearance is affectation—a something which is not.
Man is, indeed, foolish to deceive himself; to mar the really fine qualities that he may possess, by any act of his own—to tarnish his reputation and character by something which is so silly, so ungrounded, and so opposed to real happiness and true enjoyment.
There ought to be in all a desire to act rightly; to feign or pretend nothing, but always to keep on the straight course that is open to those who by manliness, uprightness and force of true character are an honor to the society in which they move, a source of pleasure to their companions, and of peace and contentment to themselves. “Be wise in time that you may be wise in eternity,” should be ever before our minds; and if we have something to reproach ourselves with on this head, we should endeavor to repair it by every means within our reach, and live for the future as we ought.	B. C.
Scientific Notes.
—In these days, when the electric light appears to absorb attention, it is interesting to find that an exhibition is to be opened at Bradford, on the 17th of February, of gasburners, gas-stoves, engines, and other appliances for the economic use of gas for domestic and manufacturing purposes. The rate at which the use of electricity as an illuminating power is advancing cannot be more clearly shown than by the fact that M. Carre, the carbon electrode maker, is manufacturing 2,000 metres of rod per day.—Athenaeum.
—M Pasteur has recently repeated his experiments to show that vinous ferment cannot be developed independently ol the presence of specific organisms as a natural result of the maturation of the fruit. By wrapping up cer
tain bunches of fruit in cotton-wool, and inclosing others in heremtically-sealed glass cases, in the latter part of July, he might anticipate that such protected bunches would yield a juice’absolutely incapable of spontaneously entering on fermentation. These anticipations were exactly fulfilled.
—Mr. E. J. Lowe, the astronomer, in a letter to the London Times, mentions a curious instance of the value of small birds in agriculture: “Thirty-five years ago a countryman left here for Australia, taking with him all our popular hardy fruits and vegetables; but the produce was yearly destroyed, until the English sparrow was introduced, alter which there was plenty of fruit.” Waterton calculated that a single pair of sparrows destroyed as many grubs in one day as would have eaten up half an acre of young corn in a week. The swallows, fL-calchers, and other summer birds come too late to destroy the grubs; it is only the native birds, like the sparrow, which really do the necessary work. Fr- st does not kill these grubs. Even in the severe frost of 1860-61, when the thermometer stood in some places eight degrees below zero, the grubs were not injured. It is the little birds which are the true undergardeners, though they do take a certain portion of the produce by way of wages for their work.—Spectator.
—In the course of the scientific expedition in the American steamer Black to the north of Yucatan in 1877 there was brought up from 1.500 fathoms depth in the Atlantic a crustacean the peculiar features of which have recently formed the subject of a note to the French Academy by Prof. Alphonse Milne-Edwards, to whom the specimen was sent by Prof. Agassiz. M. Milne-Edwards finds it a type of a new isopod family, and he calls it Bathynomus giganteus. Tne animal in question measures twenty-three centimetres in length and ten in breadth. What one is chiefly struck with is the completely new arrangement of the respiratory apparatus. It consists of a new series of branchiae in the foim of tufts placed between the lalse abdominal claws, and each blade of which, examined in the microscope, is found to be a tube covered with very fine hairs. This exuberance of respiratory apparatus is, doubtless, necessitated by the condition of life at such a great depth. But it was hardly to be expected that in a region so dark this crustacean should have, as it has, very well-developed eyes. Each of them comprises 4.000 facets, and is placed at the base of the antennae. According to M. Milne-Edwards, the bathynome probably lives clinging to algae; it is carnivorous, and seems to feed chiefly on cephalopodous molluscs. It is thought the study of such animals should throw light on the history of fossil crustaceans, and especially on that of trilobites.
Art, Music and Literature.	'
—The King of Bavaria has conferred on Madame Clara Schumann the Ludwig Medal for Art and Science.
—The School of Religious Music, founded at Malines by	j
M. Lemmens, threw open its doors for the first time on
Jan. 2d.	4
—A new book by Mr. Charles Francis Adams, Jr., to be called “ Kailroad Accidents,” is in preparation at G. P. Putnams’ Sons.	.
—Gounod is writing another opera for the Grand Opera. Massenet is writing one also for that grand opera house, to be called “ Le Cid."
—Miss Harriet Hosmer is complimented by The World, of London, as the greatest of the few female sculptors the world has ever seen, and one of the very few among those who have produced strong work and not mere prettinesses.
—The “ History of Co-operation in England,” by George Jacob Holyoake, is now completed. The second volume is expected to appear very soon. The volume includes the story of the new industrial movement from 1845 to the end of 1878. It is dedicated to Mr. John Bright.	:
—Mr. Filzpatrick is writing a biography of the late Charles Lever. It will contain certain chapters of “ Harry Lorrequer” which went astray in manuscript, which had «• to be re-written from memory, and which were not recovered till long after the appearance of the novel.—Athenaeum.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	379
. —Mr. Cutter, of the Boston Athenaeum, while contributing monthly to the Library Journal many pages of painstaking notes on current bibliography, is also, we understand, at work on the bibliography of the Devil (though he is perhaps the last man to whom it could be a labor of love).—The Librarian.
—Massenet, who composed Roi de Lahore, set with magnificent mise en scene at “ l’Academie,” will for some unexplained reason produce his new opera Eroideade, at Milan, which cannot afford such outlays for mounting an opera as the “ Academie.” On Gounod’s Polyeucte over $60,000 were expended there, and one thousand new dresses made for it.
—Edmonia Lewis, the colored sculptress, contracted to make a piece of statuary to be put on a grave in Sc. Louis. The clay model pleased Mr. Thomas, the other party to the bargain, who paid $1,500 down, agreeing to give $500 more on the delivery of the marble statue. The completed work was sent from Italy, but Mr. Thomas refused to accept it, claiming that the workmanship is so poor that “ the statue is a burlesque on art.” Miss Lewis has sued for the $500, and a large number of art experts are to testify in the trial.
—Sheldon & Co. have just ready the first volume of their promised series on “ American Authors,” under the editorship of Prof. D. J. Hill, of Lewisburg University, already known as the author of successful text-books of rhetoric. The volumes will be neat and tasteful 16mos. of about 300 pages each, giving a biographical, literary, and critical sketch each of an author and his writings, with a steel portrait, and will be issued at $1 each. The volume now ready is that of Washington Irving; the biography of William Cullen Bryant will follow in about a month.
—The Scientific American says that the enamelled ware known as Cincinnati faience originated with Miss M. Louise McLaughlin, whose experiments were first successful in 1877. It is fired in a kiln at a temperature of 9,000 deg., while the famed Limoges faience is not fired higher than 5,400 deg. The enamel of the Cincinnati variety is exceedingly brilliant in color, and so hard that the point of any steel instrument is said to make no impression upon it. This invention is indirectly a result of the excellent schools of design for which Cincinnati is justly honored.
—A correspondent of the New York Post says: “How many persons of average education know that ‘refreshing’ is a comparatively new word ? I did not until two or three days ago. Then I found in an old magazine a fling at the Edinburg Review for using it, the critic styling the word ‘a piece of slang.’ After this I discovered a rap on the knuckles about the same thing which your readers will find in Murray’s edition of Byron. It is in the eclogue he calls ‘The Blues,’ which I suspect is little read in our time, and imputes the obnoxious word to his enemy, Jeffrey.”
—Most French critics entertain a bitter hatred of Wagner, but M. Lavoix, in his Historic del Instrumentation, just published in Paris, pays the following tribute to his genius: “ A musician powerful and full of passion, possessing in the highest degree the science of effects of harmony and instumentation, endowed, whatever one may say, with remarkable richness of melody, Richard Wagner is incontestably the first musician of our age.” The same author makes severe strictures on Schumann, but sums up as follows: “When hereafter justice is rendered to the talent of Schumann, it is as an inspired poet, as a bold and often happy harmonist, but certainly not as a great colorist that he will rank among the great composers of the modern school.” M. Lavoix thus concludes his chapters on the old school: “ Placed thus in the first half of the eighteenth century, Bach and Handel mark the separation of the two epochs; after them the orchestra will only be enriched in a very small degree with regard to the number of instruments; but it is in their employment that an entirely new art will be revealed.”
—A good deal of amusement has been created by an ac count that on a recent occasion a picture of Mr. Whistler’s was publicly produced, and neither Judge nor jury could tell which was the top and which the bottom. Whether the legend is true or not we are in no position to say; but it is certainly as true as the coincidence is curious that at
the Winter Exhibition of the Society of Painters in WaterColors, 1873-4, a lovely and elaborate architectural drawing by Mr. Ruskin was placed upside down, not by a porter of a court of law, but by persons employed by an eminent artistic body. Thus it remained for a time, until some sharp-sighted visitor discovered the fact. The work was (we like to be particular) No. 105, “Study of the Colors of Marble in the Apse of the Duomo of Pisa,” and exhibited with “ Study of the Colors of Marble in the Base of the Church of St. Anastasia, at Verona,” No. 97. There is a third story to a similar effect. When John Martin had finished his well-known “Zadok in Search of the Waters of Oblivion,” which was more than once engraved, he sent for a framemaker’s men to frame it, and, having occasion to remain in a room adjoining his studio while they were in the latter room, he was edified by a loud dispute between the men as to which was the top, which the ■ bottom, of his picture!—Athenaum.
—Signor Ermann Loescher of Rome, Turin, and Florence has published a prospectus of a publication likely to interest Celtic scholars all over the world. It is a Latin commentary on the Psalms of David, attributed to the age of Charlemagne, and, on grounds considered probable by the learned, to the Irish Saint Columbanus, although erroneously ascribed to St. Jerome by the text itself. Aja-other copy is preserved at St Gall, Switzerland, and a third in the Wurtzburg University Library. A curious feature is a running, interlinear gloss, or interpretation, of the text in the old Irish language. The task of editing this interesting document is intrusted to Signor Graziadio Ascoli, one of the leading Italian philologers of our time, who in a learned preface, accompanying the prospectus, points out the use already made of the MS. by eminent Irish philologers. It is proposed to issue the work in parts of not less than sixteen pages of type; the whole to be comprised in two octavo volumes, and completed during the course of 1880. The first volume will contain the text and the gloss; the second, an account of the gloss, together with contributions to an Irish Grammar and lexicon furnished by it and other Celtic sources. Annexed to the first part, issued at Turin last June, is a photo-lithographic fac simile of a page in the Ambrosian MS., and of another in the St. Gall copy. The edition is dedicated to Signor Nigra and Professor Max Muller.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Harp for February has the following table of contents: “On Giving Alms”; “The Purification of the Blessed Virgin”; “Sister Clare” (Poetry); “Chit Chat”; “St. Valentine’s Day”; “Irish Historical Sketches”; “The Wild Geese, or the Raparees of Barnesmore”; “The Woodland Flower” (Poetry^; “A slight Misunderstanding”; “Ned Rusheen, or Who Fired the First Shot”; “Silken Thomas Renouncing his Allegiance to England ” (illustrated); “Children’s Corner”; “Our Puzzle Corner”; “ Facetiae ”; Music—“ Flee as a Bird ”; “ Notable Anniversaries in February.”
—A musician, George Sharp, had his name on his door thus, “ G. Sharp.” A wag of a painter, who knew something of music, early one morning made the following addition “ Is A Flat.”
—A small Aberdeen child who was asked by a Sundayschool teacher “What did the Israelites do after they crossed the Red Sea?” answered, “I don’t know, ma’am; perhaps they dried themselves.”
—A short man became attached to a very tall woman, and somebody said that he had fallen in love with her. “ Do you call it falling in love?” said an old bachelor, “ it is more like climbing up to it.”
—A teacher who in a fit of vexation, called her pupils a set of young adders, on being reproved for her language, apologized by saying that she was speaking to those just commencing their arithmetic.
—List of letters remaining in the Notre Dame post-office for the week ending Feb. 15th, 1879: J. C. Lemirande, Jas. Dugan, Dennis Morrissey, Albert Cunningham.
Held for postage: Miss Maggie Daly, New York, Dr. G. Schmidt, Chicago.
380
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUftt jaw
Notre X>ame, February 15, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAHLE SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year ot its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old Iriends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
.All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above aR,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Good Language.
It has been well said that the years spent at school or college would be profitably employed if one learned nothing more than the art of conversing well. A good con-verser is perhaps more difficult to find than a good orator. It is not by any means rare to see men of unquestionable ability appearing to very great disadvantage in society. Hume, the historian, it is said, was positively sheepish in the drawing-room. At a reception given in his honor in Paris, the only words which he had self-possession enough to utter during the evening were, “ En bien, madame,” several times addressed to the hostess. Now, to be brilliant in the “ salon ” may or may not be an aim worthy of the ambition of the student, but there is one essential part of the art of conversation which all should make it a point to master before leaving school, and that is the use of good language. It is the language which one uses that stamps him immediately as a person of education and refinement or the reverse. Whether a man is or is not well versed in Hebrew, Sanskrit, or the higher mathematics, is a question which at least ninety-nine-hundredths of those with whom he associates will never be able to solve; but all will at once be able to detect whether he makes use of good language or not, and will form their judgment of him accordingly. Students— even those whose standing in class is high—are perhaps as a class inclined to be somewhat careless with respect to the language they make use of. If their attention is called to any inaccuracy of expression, they are of course willing to acknowledge their mistake, but seek to excuse themselves on the plea that it was made intentionally or through carelessness, and is not to be attributed to ignorance. As though a fault were a fault only when committed through ignorance! Those careless persons should remember that the manner in which our thoughts are usually expressed soon becomes a fixed habit, or second nature, which cannot be changed or got rid of without the utmost difficulty. It is
next to impossible to have one kind of language—like an every-day suit of clothes—for our intercourse with ordinary people, and another for set occasions. If, therefore, we wish to be spared the mortification of blundering before those persons concerning whose good opinion we are solicitous, the only plan is carefully to avoid blundering even before those on whose opinion we are perhaps apt to set less value.
Some persons, who evidently have a certain ambition to shine in conversation, seem to think it impossible to be choice in their expressions and yet make use of language intelligible to ordinary mortals. Our best wish for such persons is that
“ Some power the gift would gie them To see themselves as others see them.”
There is a peculiarly bombastic and pedantic style, generally known as Johnsonese, which delights in nothing so much as unusual constructions and sesquipedalian words. Whatever may be our opinion of this style in a long-winded literary effort, one thing certain is that in conversation it is everywhere and at all times an insufferable bore. A bore, we mean, if one is forced to endure it for any length of time; a small dose may appeal rather to our sense of the ridiculous. After a lapse of several years, we still remember the amusement afforded us by one of these Johnsonese conversers, who, desiring to know whether one of his young friends was likely to receive prizes on commencement-day, inquired whether “Mr. So-and-so’s literary and scientific attainments were of sufficiently elevated a standard to entitle him to official academic recognition.” If the questioner had the slightest suspicion of the heroic effort which it required on our part to remain serious, he would, we are convinced, refrain from imposing a similar effort on any one in future.
Good English and what is commonly known as jaw-breaking English are two very different things, and young men aiming at good language would do well always to bear this in mind. To those other and graver faults against good language, as well as propriety—viz., vulgarity, slang, and profanity—there is, we trust, at present no necessity to allude. Ungrammatical and inelegant expressions may lead others to form a low opinion of our culture; but coarseness of speech must force them to form a low opinion of ourselves. “ Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketb,” and we rate too highly the qualities of heart of the Notre Dame students to suppose that the language they habitually make use of could offend a sense of delicacy however fastidious.
Examination of the Elocution and Music
Classes.
As was announced in the last issue of this paper, the Entertainment given by the members of the' Music and Elocution Classes took place in Washington Hall on the 6th inst. It was complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose birthday it was. All who were present speak of it as being very enjoyable. It was private,—there being no invitations sentout,—yet the hall was pretty well filled with thestudents and members of the Faculty, all of whom seemed to be well pleased with the treat afforded them. Promptly at ' seven o’clock—without the delay which so often takes place before the exercises commence—the University Cor- -	«
net Band opened the exercises with a Grand March from
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	381
“ Faust.” The Band this year is in a fine condition, and we are are glad to be able to say that it is at present composed of members who well sustain the reputation that it has always borne. The members, it is true, are amateurs, but still we can confidently say that from the way they have played at the different Entertainments given during the past session, they show unmistakable signs of becoming first-class players.
Master Frank McGrath was the first to step forward to declaim. “The Moor’s Revenge” was given by him in a manner highly creditable. His gestures are graceful and appropriate, and with strict attention to the instructions of his teacher he promises well for the future. Next followed a violin solo by Mr. J. A. Burger. Mr. Burger’s playing was good, a fact well known to all who have heard him. The accompaniment on the piano, by Mr. J. J. Coleman, was well played. This ended, Mr. E. E. Collins spoke “ Spartacus’s Speech to the Gladiators.” The selection is one too well known to give at an entertainment, but Mr. Collins has the credit of interesting his audience with an old, familiar piece. A piano solo followed, in which Mr. G. Schnull displayed much musical talent, playing, in a manner deserving of the highest praise, a morceau from Von Weber. Master G. Donnelly gave in a praiseworthy manner Longfellow’s “ Ship of State,” which was followed by a flute solo, well played, by Mr. R. Mayer. Mr. P. J. Hagan rendered the “ Death of Benedict Arnold ” in a manner that gained for him great applause. Mr. Hagan possesses a good voice and fine delivery. Master K. Scanlan beautifully rendered the “ Shores of Tennessee.” He has a -fine, clear voice, a good delivery and, with practice, we can say that he will become one of our best speakers. His selection, however, is too old. Mr. T. Hale declaimed “ The Suicide,” and was loudly applauded. Mr. J. B. Berteling gave us “Bingen on the Rhine.” We are sorry he chose such a worn-out piece. As usual, however, he entered into the spirit of his declamation, and acquitted himself most creditably. Master J. Perea finely rendered the “Downfall of Poland.” Mr. R. Mayer declaimed “ Our Republic ” in a satisfactory manner. Mr. A. B. Congar chose for the subject of his declamation “The Young Gray Head,” —a hard selection to render well, but Mr. Congar did ample justice to it, and was listened to with great attention. He was loudly applauded. Mr. F. X. Wall spoke in a pleasing manner the “Grave of Dickens.” Mr. Russell, although last on the list, was by no means the least worthy. He spoke, in a manner deserving of the highest praise, “The Angels of Buena Vista.” Mr. Russell is graceful in delivery and distinct in pronunciation. He well merited the applause that greeted his effort.
The programme ended, Very Rev. President Corby arose, and, declining to make the closing remarks, as he was unable to be present at the commencement of the exercises, he called upon Rev. P. P. Cooney to do so. Father Cooney, in response, made a nice little speech, congratulating the young men on the success which had attended their efforts that evening, and assuring the members of the Elocution Class that whilst under the guidance of their indefatigable teacher, Prof. Lyons, they would undoubtedly make rapid progress towards perfection in the art. At the close of the remarks the Band struck up the march for retiring. All left the hall well pleased, and, no doubt, hoping that they would soon again be treated to such another Entertainment by the members of the Elocution Classes.
- Personal.
—	A. X. Schmidt, of ’78, is in the employment of Messrs. Collins & Gathinann, Chicago, Ill.
—	Dr. John Ronsey, of’58, is practicing dentistry at Toledo. He has a good share of the public patronage
—	Mrs. J. R. McCarthy, of Lafayette, Ind., spent a few days at Notre Dame in the beginning of the week, visiting her son.
—	Lewis Pilliod (Commercial), of ’75, and Augustine, his brother (Commercial), of ’76, run a flour mill at Toledo, O.
—	Clarke Myers (Commercial), of ’76, delighted his many friends at Notre Dame by a visit last week. Mr. Myers is at present living at Findlay, Ohio.	'
—	Rev. P. P. Cooney, Rev. W. F. O’Mahoney, and Rev. J. Robinson left Notre Dame last Saturday for Covington, Ky., where they are now engaged in preaching a mission.
—	Lately visiting Toledo, we were pleased to see Messrs Richard Calkins, Jno. Ronsey, Thomas Ronsey, L. Pilliod and A. Pilliod, all old students of Notre Dame.
—	Richard Calkins (Commercial), of ’76, is in the office of Bissell & Gornll, Attorneys at Law, Toledo. We are under obligations to Mr. Calkins for favors shown us.
—	Dr. Thomas Ronsey, of ’54, has a large practice at Toledo, Ohio. When we called to see him, a week ago, there were no fewer than ten people waiting in the anteroom for his services.	.
—	Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C. S. C., President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week. Father 0 Keeffe is looking well, despite his onerous duties, and reports all as well in Cincinnati.
—We are pained to have to chronicle the death of James Maurice Brown (Commercial), of ’72, which occurred at Dubuque, Iowa, on the 5th inst. The Daily Tdegraph of that city, speaking of him, says: “Upright, kind and unobtrusive wherever his associations led him, made him in life a desirable friend and companion, and in death will leave a memory upon which no shadow has ever fallen, and one that will long be cherished with tender and loving recollections. The deceased had all the qualities for a suc-cesslul and useful lite—a courageous, hopeful spirit, unflinching integrity, and faultless habits; and these, with a liberal education, received at Notre Dame, well fitted him to go forth fearlessly to meet the battles and vicissitudes of the world. His untimely death is universally and sincerely regretted, and in their deep affliction the family have the sympathy of the community, where all are so widely known and profoundly respected.” All who remember Mr. Brown during his stay al Notre Dame, speak of him as being a good, hard-working student, and one who by his gentlemanly deportment and conduct enlisted the esteem 01 his professors and fellow-students. We sympathize with his parents and family iu this the hour of their sad bereavement. D. 1. P.
—The Mt. Rev. Archbishop Henni of Milwaukee, Wis., celebrated his golden jubilee as a priest on the 6th of February. Tne Archbishop has long been a friend of Notre Dame. Besides the ceremonies in the church, there was a grand torch-light procession by the various societies of the city. Among the ecclesiastical dignitaries present were Most Rev. Archbishop Purcell, Right Rev. Bishops Dwenger, O’Conuor, Hennessy, Mrack, Heiss, Krautbaur, Grace, and Seidenbush, Abbot Adelbrock, and a large number of the reverened clergy, among whom we noticed many friends of Notre Dame. Tne Milwaukee Sentinel says: “ The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary ot Archbishop Henni’s entrance into the work of the priesthood was au occasion ot interest to the public generally as well as to the Roman Catholic citizens. The venerable Prelate is responsible tor much of the good order and obedience to law that has marked the people ot his charge for ihirly-five years; he has been a good counseller, a good man, a quiet citizen, and had won the high esteem of all with whom he has come in contact, regaruless of sectarian feelings. He has coulributed greatly to the material prosperity of Milwaukee, erecting with money secured abroad by his own energy, various charitable and benevolent institu
382
THE KOTUE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tions. Holding an extraordinary influence, he has used it invariably for good, and he is clearly entitled, by his benevolence, piety and labors, to the high honors that have been conferred upon him, and the people of this city can rejoice with him, in the ripe age and usefulness he has achieved. There were many striking features in the celebration yesterday, among them the reunion of old friends and co-laborers. Archbishop Purcell, who delivered the eulogistic sermon yesterday, is the man who, nearly forty years ago, gave Archbishop Henni his first charge in America, and afterwards conducted the ceremonies of his investiture as a Bishop. Among those pres.-ent was the venerable Vicar-General Kundig, who was a young man with Archbishop Henni and who was the first to welcome him to Milwaukee thirty-five years ago. Another early friend who graced the occasion was Bishop Heiss, of La Crosse. These pious men have grown old together in the service of the Church, and their united presence at the golden jubilee was a pleasant and striking event. All good people will join with the Roman Catholics in wishing their diocesan father many more years of usefulness.”
Iiocal Items.
—	Classes are now in fine working order.
—	The Elocution Classes are well attended.
—	There are many fine skaters amongst the boys this year.
—	Competitions commenced this week, and will continue regularly until June.
—	The Entertainment next Friday, the 21st, will take place at half-past six.
—	The boys say that the skating on Sunday last was the best they had this winter.
—	The Scholastic Almanac has received nothing hut complimentary notices from the press.
—	The Entertainment next Friday evening will be complimentary to Very Rev. President Corby.
—	Yesterday was St. Valentine’s day. Quite a number of valentines passed through the post-office here.
—By mistake the name of Mr. J. P. Quinn, as Treasurer, was omitted from the Thespians’ report last week.
. . —The next meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association will be held in their newly fitted-up room.
—The Elocution Class will give a seance in April, when orations, declamations and music will be in abundance.
—The Entertainment given in Washington Hall on the 6th inst. was complimentary to Very Rev. Father General.
—The Minims enjoyed themselves with a game of baseball on Monday last. We believe it was the first of the season.	.
—We understand that the University Orchestra has been reorganized. We have not learned the names of the players.
—Those who imagined that the winter was over were shown how much they were in error by the snow-storm last Wednesday.	'
;—The name of W. B. McGorrisk should have appeared in last week’s Scholastic amongst the list of readers in the Senior refectory.
—Vespers to-morrow are from the Common of one Martyr, page 40 of the Vesperal. lu the morning Alissa de Angelis will be sung.
/,—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-y thean Association was held February 10th.* The time was occupied by reading the various semi-annual reports.
—One of our subscribers, a level-headed man, writes to us from Iowa: “I take a dozen or more papers, but the Scholastic is more interesting to me than any of the others.”
—There are two resolutions which all the students should make, and which they should follow during this session: (1) To study as hard as possible; (2) To read the Scholastic regularly.	*
—A student in the Senior Department has mislaid Fredet’s Ancient History and Bullions’ Greek Grammar. Anyone knowing the whereabouts of these books will please notify some one of the Senior prefects.
—J. Kurz (Junior Department), of Dubuque, Iowa, received the best Bulletin for the month of January; G. Schnull, of Indianapolis, Ind., received the second best, and M. J. Burns, of Grand Rapids, Mich., third best.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Feb. 8ih. Declamations were delivered by Masters A. Coghlin, C. McGrath, C. Garrick and J. Crowe. G. J. Rhodius read an essay.
—The 16th regular meeting of the Society of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday, Feb. 9th. The report of the Treasurer was read, from which it is evident that, financially, the Society is in a good condition.
—On the morning of the 22d, Washington’s Birthday, the College Band will play a grand national medley at halfpast seven in the morning in front of the College building, The members of the Band will please meet at their room at 7.20, sharp.
—P^of. Lyons has about fifty Scholastic Almanacs for 187flfi877, and 1878. He has had them bound in a handsome cover, together with the Almanac for 1879. All to-vgether, they make handsome volumes. He will sell the four bound together for $1.50.
—^Half-past six is the time fixed for the Entertainment tq/take place next Friday in Washington Hall. Those ,who do not receive invitations will please remember that they must pay for the pleasure of attending. We hope to see a large and appreciative audience on the occasion.
—The first competition for the gold medal in the Class of Christian Doctrine (Junior Department) was held last Wednesday with the following result, viz.: J. Brady, 95 per cent.; A. Zahm, 90 per cent.; W. McCarthy, 80 per cent.; and K. L. Scanlan, 80 per cent. The remainder averaged well.	-
—We glanced over the note-book of the Junior Department the other day. Not one of the students whose family name begins with an S received notes. All had 1 for everything. We do not care to say what letter begins the name of those having the worst notes, for fear that our friend John would receive a letter from home.
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held February 8lh. Declamations were delivered by Masters McDevitt, French, Farrelly, Crowley, Guthrie, Kennedy, E. Sugg, A. Mergentheim, W. McDevitt, R. French, Adams, O Farrelly, O’Donnell, and W. Cannon. The 23d meeting of the Association was held on Thursday evening, February 11th. Declamations were given by Masters Guthrie, Kennedy, Crowley, Morgan and Canoil.
—Mr. J. J. Quinn delivered the address presented by the students of the University to Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, on <he occasion of his birthday, February 6th. The students showed their good taste in selecting Mr. Quinn, as no one could better express their sentiments for Very Rev. Father General. The address was certainly very fine, and in no way inferior to the one delivered by the same young gentlemen on Very Rev. Father General’s patronal festival, October 13th.
—At the 14th regular meeting of the St. Edward Columbian Literary and Debating Club the election of officers for the ensuing session took place, and resulted as follows: Directors, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior General C. S. C., and Very Rev. Father Corby; President, Prof. J. F.Edwards; Hon. President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Promoter, Bro..Theodore; Vice-President, S. Spalding; Secretary, T. W. Simms; Corresponding Secretary, Geo. Sugg; Treasurer, D. Donahue; 1st Censor, J. Euglish; 2d Censor, M. J. McEniry; Prompter, R. Keenan; Marshal, M. Burns. A vote of thanks was then tendered to the worthy President for favors shown to the Society, after which the meeting adjourned.
—At the last meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception the ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. M. P. Fallize. Papers were read by Masters Frank Phillips, M. Foote, and A. Rock. The semi-annual elec
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
383
tion of officers resulted as follows: Vice-Presidents, M. J. Burns and J. A. Gibbons; Recording Secretary, Frank McGrath ; Corresponding Secretary, K. L. Scanlan; Treasurer, G. Donnelly; Censor, Frank Clarke; Organist, E. Walters; Sergeant-at-arms, J. F. Mug. The reports of the various officers and committees were read. The Society is in a flourishing condition. Under the direction of the energetic President, Rev. T. E. Walsh, and the able officers, the Society will undoubtedly sustain its old reputation.
—We thank our contributor of many years, J G. E., for an article which will appear next week. Why do not others of the old students, who are now making their fortunes in the world, send us an article once in a while? We are only too glad to receive them. Old students ought to remember that the columns of the Scholastic are open to them as well as to the students of to-day. The Scholastic is the paper of all students,—those of twenty years ago, those of last year, those now attend ng class. Since they left Notre Dame, T. E. G., J. J. G., T. M., T. E. G., E J. M., W. T. B., P. J. C., and- others, have not favored us with any contributions. It should be a recreation, or a labor of love, for them to send an article once in a while. Our paper should be for them a sort of literary society of which they are members, and the exercises of which should consist of written essays.
—The programme of the Entertainment to be given by the Thespians next Friday evening is as follows:
Music.................................N.	D. U. Cornet Band
Address..............'..........................L. J. Evers
Oration.........................................A. Herzog
Music...........................................Orchestra
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Dramatized for the Occasion.
Mr. St. Clare.............................A.	J. Hertzog
Marks........................................ Haley........................................P.	J. Hagan
Cassar .....................................L.	J. Evers
Uncle Tom.................................J.	B. Berieling
Phineas......................................J. P. Quinn
George Harris ..............................A.	J. Burger
Dr. Wilson ...................................W.	Arnold
Gumption Cute..........................................F.	Devoto
Mann ..........................................J.	Kinney
Mr. Shelby.............................................A.	Congar
Jonathan St. Clare.....................................R.	Russell
Edgar St. Clare........................................J.	Courtney
Topsey.................................................F.	McGrath
Sambo..................................................J.	Byrnes
William Henry Harrison ........................J.	Smith
Quimbo.................................................A.	Congar
George Washington......................................T.	Simms
General Jackson........................................J.	Schaufert
Julius Caesar Bonaparte ....................J.	Spalding
Hannibal Lee...........................................J.	Scheiber
Pompey.................................................J.	McGrath
William Penn...................................W.	Kreig
Between the acts, music will be furnished by the Uni versity Orchestra and Cornet Band.
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, J. F. Arentz, R, M. Anderson, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, J. Brice, A. Burger, J. Berteling, T. J. Burns, J. Byrne, M. T. Burns, J. G. Baker, J. Bachman, Thos. Barrett, J. Bell, A. B. Congar, G. P. Ca-sidy, T. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, D. Coddington, J. M. Carroll, E Calkins. C. B. Cones, G. Cochrane, D. Donohue, F. Devoto, J. Downey, L. J. Evers, J. English, J. Eberhart, A. Hertzog, M. Hogan, J. C. Herrmann, C. W. Hick erson, P. Horn, T. Hale, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, A. M. Keenan, W. Krieg, P. B. Larkm, A. A. L*-nt, W. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. Mc-Gorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien, S. Perley, L. Proctor, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, 8. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, J. Simms, G. Sugg, A. Scheiber, A. Schaufert, P. Shea, C. L. Stuckev, J. Smith, F. C. Smith, E. Schifferle, S. T. Summers, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, W. Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
. M. J. Burns, J. G. Brady, F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, H. E. Canoll, A. A Caren, T. F. Clarke,
W. D. Cannon, J. V. Cable, G. H. Donnelly, L. D. Dimick, R. L. French, E. F. Forarty, M. L. Foote, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, L. H. Grever, F. Glade, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, J. Kurz, E. S. Walter, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, J. B. Inderrieden, G. C. Foster, H. C. McDonald, W. A. McDevitt, A. S. Manning, J. F. Mug, G. H. Niles, J. N. Osher, G. A. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. f. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A Rietz, W. Rietz, A. S. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scinlan, J. A. Seeger, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, R. J. Semmes, C. P. Van Mourick, A F. Zahm, L. H. Garceau.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, W. A. Coghlin, C. M. Crowe, C. McGrath, J. A Crowe, H. W. Bachmann, J. M. Courtney, A Hierb, J. McGrath, G. J. Rhodius, J. J. Gordon, F. J. Brady, P. 8. Fitzgerald, A. Chirhart, C. L. Garrick, T. McGrath, C. J. Welty, I. C. Williams, J. 8. Inderned-n, H. A Kitz, C. M. Long, H. C. Snee, A. F. Schmuckl-, E. S. Chirhart, E. A Howard, F. B. Farrelly, J. fl. Garrity, F. I. Garrity, L. J. Young, A Van Mourick. J. Chaves, A. Rheinboldt, C. Young,
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their clashes during the month past.]
A. Hertzog, L. Evers, M. J. McCue, J. P. Quinn, J. A Burger, J. P. Kinney, R. Russell, C. Clarke, G. Sugg, G. P. Cassidy, A B. Congar, J. B. Berteling, J. B. McGrath, F. W. Bloom, M. J. Burns, R. D. Slewart.
List of Excellence. ■
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy------; Latin—A. Hertzog, L. Evers, J. J. Quinn, F. Bloom, R. Russell, J. P. Kinney, J. Simms; Greek— F. Devoto, J. B. McGrath, J. P. Kinnev, F. Bloom; English Composition-----------; Rhetoric-; English Literature—P. J. Hagan; Essays and Criticism—J. J. Shugrue; Geometry—A. J. Burger; Trigonometry----------; Surveying-; Astronomy—
G. Cassidy ;Gemnd Geometry and Calculus---; Mechanics—
M. J. McCue, J.P. Kinney; Physiology—R. E. Keenan; Botany— W. B. McGorrisk ; Mineralogy----; Physics-----; Chemistry-----------------------------------------; History—M. J. McCue, Geo. Sugg, J. Shugrue, W. Arnold, A. Hertzog; Algebra-------------------.
No reports were'handed in from the classes left blank in the above list.

—Miss Agnes Brown was called home by a telegram to attend the funeral of her brother. She has the sympathy and prayers of her teachers and companions, who hope to have her soon again among them.
—The Feast of the Purification falling on the first Sunday of the month, besides the usual ceremonies and devotions the Blessed Sacrament was exposed the entire day. The Catholic pupils had the honor ot passing one hour in prayer, and of assisting at the Benediction.
—The Senior recreation-hall was well filled lately to witness one of those entertainments gotten up by the Seniors for the amusement of their companions. Of course they succeeded to the satisfaction of their friends, for the impromptu programme is always full of wit and merriment.
—Among the visitors in the Academy lately were Mrs. H. Pratt, Miss B. Cutter, Coldwater, Mich.; Mrs. Cavenor, Mrs. L. Cortright, Hyde Park, Chicago; Mrs. G. Rothe, Mrs. Chirhart; Mr. C. Myers, Findlay, Ohio; Mr. C. Ky-remanvems. Miss Allen Benton, Miss C. Adams, Mrs. Stull, Mrs. Bonney, Mr. Line, South Bend; Miss. C. Dwyer, Minneapolis; Mrs. Col. Kinsey, Chicago; Mr. J. J. McGrath, and Prof. Corby, Chicago, Ill.
—In the Art Department during the Examination were ex-

384
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cellent specimens of drawing and painting, portraits taken from life, landscapes, flowers, shells, etc., etc., from nature; crayon heads from casts; all showed either genius, talent or industry. The oral examination in this department is always the strong point, and shows the foundation work to the best advantage. The embroidery received its share of praise—but the plain-sewing is encroaching on the time formerly given to fancy-work, and the useful is gaining over the ornamental.
—At the weekly Academic reunion of the pupils of the Graduating and Senior Classes, “ Rosa Mystica ” was read by Miss M. McGrath and Miss E. Keenan. Its contents were excellent, comprising all the sayings and doings of the school since November last. Space does not permit mention of the several articles; however, the “Hymn to the Blessed Virgin,” “Criticism of Goldsmith’s Works,’’ “ Song of the State,” and the “Future of the Phonograph," cannot be passed over. Miss Woodin’s newly invented machine gave illustrations of the truth-telling wonder, which caused much amusement.
—Very Rev. Father General’s absence from the literary and musical Entertainment which closed the exercises of the semi-annual Examination was deeply regretted. Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Shortis, Vagnier, Saulnier, Zahm, O’Mahoney, Lilly, and Fallize; Brothers Basil and Leopold; Profs. Howard and Edwards; Mr. Lancaster, Mr. Kirche, Mrs. Phelan, Mrs. Redman, Mrs. Howard, Mrs. Pratt, Sirs. Fitzgerald, and Miss B. Cutter honored the pupils by the strictest attention. The musical faculty from Notre Dame followed carefully some of the numbers from the notes, which were handed to them, during the performance. Naught escaped their eyes or ears, and their approval was duly appreciated. The choiuses and other vocal numbers were up to the mark. The essays—German, French and English—were well written and delivered in clear tones. Mrs. Fitzgerald charmed the audience, as usual, by her harp playing, and kindly executed, after the concert, for the delighted amateurs, some of her favorite pieces. Very Rev. Father Corby returned thanks in the name of the company. His encouraging words will spur on future efforts, although he said, with Rev. Father 0 Mahoney, “ the Examination never was better at St Mary’s.” Rev. Father 0 Mahoney made one of his beautiful speeches, and ended by praising the pupils for thus doing honor to the institution.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Sr. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Zo6 Papin, Anna Maloney, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Birch, Mary Casey.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Danaher, Annie Cavenor, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Adelia Gordon, Alice Farrell, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Grace Glasser, Mary Sullivan.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Annie McGrath, Anna Cortright, Alicia Donelan, Ellena Thomas, Henrietta Rosing, Margaret Whelan, Mary Usselman, Adelia Geiser, Ella Mulligan, Mary Mulligan.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Ina Capelle, Julia Barnes, Minna Loeber, Mary English, Della McKerlie, Caroline Hopkins, Ollie Williams.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis.
Junior Prep.—Misses Mary Lyons, Elise Lavoie, Maiy Chir-hart, Maud Casey.
1st Jr.—Misses Jessie Pampel, Elizabeth Consadine, Amelia Morris. Elise Papin.
2d Jr.—Misses Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmerman.
3d Jb.—Miss Alice Esmer.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Ellen McGrath, Clara Sil vert horn, 100 by excellence; Misses Henrietta Rosing, Annie McGrath. Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie, 190.	.
Piomoted to the 2d Class—Misses Ella Mulligan, Zod Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, Grace Glasser.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselman, Annie Herman.
2d Class—Misses Adelia Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel.
3d Class—Misses Minna Loeber, Ina Capelle, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Catharine Hackett.
4th Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Alice Donelan, Julia Butts, Catharine Ward, Martha Zimmerman, Sarah Purdy, Catharine Capelle.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silver-thorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adelia Gordon, Harriet Buck.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu, Genevieve Welsh.
3d. Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Emma Gerrish, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Zoe Papin, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Mary Danaher, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Catharine Danaher, Pauline Hills.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Lulu Wells, Rebecca Neteler, Caroline Hopkins, Maud Casey, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas', Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Doneian, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Mary Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Isabella Hackett, Bridget Kelly.
7th Class—Misses Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart.	•
Sth Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts, Alice King.
9th Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Alice Esmer.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, lorantha Semmes.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Elizabeth and Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Clara Silverthorn, Adelia Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Brown, Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Zod Papin, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Mary Birch.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Annie Jones, Mary Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Ellena Thomas, Mary Campbell.
3d Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Angela Dillon, Laura French, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Campbell, Angela Ewing, Julia Butts, Sophie Papin, Anna Cortright, Minna Loeber, Ellen Mulligan, Maud Casey, Sarah Purdy.	.
PAINTING IN WATEB-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses Harriet Buck, Marie Plattenburg, Agnes Joyce, Hope Russell.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss Emma Lange.
3d’Class—Misses Sarah Eambleton, Genevieve Welch.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR department.	.
Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, Mary Usselman, lorantha Semmes, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Anna Cortright, Ellena Thomas, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald,. Adelaide
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	385
Bisby, Caroline Hopkins, Ollie Williams, Caroline Gall, Annie Herrman, Mary Campbell, Teresa Zahm, Pauline Hills, Mabel D. Hamilton, Ida Torrents, Sarah Purdy, par excellence. Misses • Adelaide Kirchner, Eleanor Keenan, Julia Barnes, Alicia Done-lan, Ina Capelie, Louisa Neu, Della McKerlie, Mary Hake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Ellen Hackett, Maud Casey, Ada Clarke, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Sabina Semmes, Elizabeth Consadine, Julia Cleary, Isabella Hackett, Alice Esmer, Isabella Scott, par excellence. Misses Mary Mulligan, Laura French, Catharine Campbell, Eiise Lavoie, Marie McN. Garrity, Elise Papin, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmerman.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Eg?” The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
EgT In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditab'y.through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music.L 0; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
' Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
Chicago, E. I. &?Paciflc.
Through trains are run to Lea fenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren ana Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express...................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
E. ST.JOHN, • A, KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass.and TicketAgent.	General Superintendent.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Siennan House, '	Chicago, Illinois.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
The Sun will be printed every day during the year to come Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of everybody and everything save the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy which has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
The Sun is the newspaper for the people. It is not for the rich man,against the poor man, or for the poor man against the rich man but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hates. It is for the honest man against the rogues every time. It is for for honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does not take its cue from the utterances of any politician or political organization. It gives its support unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspiracy of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where be still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence. In this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not less in the year 1879, than in 1878,1877, or any year gone by. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before 1he people, The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and women of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of today. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity will be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the coming year. . The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements of the leaders in every section of the Republic will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest may be added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudu’ent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Sun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before ; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid} is 55 cents a month, or §6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight page sheet of fifty six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or §7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at §1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is §1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free. Address
I.	W. ENGLAND,
Publisher of The Sun, New York City
SHIOKEY
PEOPBIETOa OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARA’S ’BITS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. MNy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
•	f.SRICKEX,
386
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Time Table-Noy. 11, 187'7’.
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	i flight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ fi 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 *1	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 « 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦Jac=tson Express.		
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPac’fic Express.	J Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
				9 50 p.m 12 45 a.u 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “			
INiles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45a.m. 630 p m.
“ N. Dame— 852 •	6 38 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen'l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THR CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Eond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appletori, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and.all points via Freeport. Its -
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
G?r. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago, Gen, Manager, Chicago,
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOITVG WEST,
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,		11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 310 “ 450 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9 00 a.m. 10.12 “ 1250 pai. 2.26 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Alliance,					
Orrville,					
Mansfield,					
Crestline,	Arrive				
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.40 “ 120 p.m. 350 “ 7.00 “	5 40 p.m. 7 35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 1225 a.m.	•••••••••
Lima,.’.					
Ft. Wayne,				2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	
Plymouth,					
Chicago,	Arrive				
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,		9.10 p.m. 2.46 A.M. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 1010 “ 11.45 “	8.30 A.M. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 527 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 “ 11.30 u 1.30 A.M. 233 “ 4.05 “	
Ft". Wayne,					
Lima,							♦ ••••••••
Forest,					
Crestline,	Arrive				• • • • • • • •
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,				12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4 15 A.M. 4.55 “ 700 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12 15 p.m	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 1120 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Orrville,....						
Alliance,					
Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEBS, G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
KOVAL MA.IJL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBZ to QUEENSTOWN and LI7EBP00L, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. BALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York, Or to JACOB WILE, Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, octs-tf	Indiana,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	387
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
PUBLISHED DUPING TEEM TIME
AT
TSTOTZRZE ZDAJSZCIE, USTTDI-AlSrA—
Subscription, $1.50 per Annum.
—Exhibits more journalistic industry, taste and skill, than any college publication we are favored with.—Manhattan Monthly.
—We wish some of our professional journalists were half as clever as the Editors of The Notre Dame -Scholastic, the beautiful title paper published at the University of Notre Dame, IndianaBoston Bilot.
—Our brave little college contemporary The Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its Twelfth Volume. We wish it twelve times twelve of usefulness and prosperity; some one else can take up the wish at that time.—Catholic Universe.
—The rare ability of its editorial articles, the tact and good sense shown in its make up. and the admirable, even elegant character of its contributions and selections, have challenged our admiration, and we watch for its visits with much interest.—St. Joseph Valley Register.
—Although The Scholastic is professedly a college journal, yet its columns abound with varied topics of a useful and enjoyable character which, we are sure, will be just as acceptable to plaope jostling ’mid the crowd in the great world, as to those surrounded by classic walls.—Catholic Union (.Buffalo).
NOW READY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo”, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd.Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo...3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.....7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
The Scholastic Almanac
University of Notre Dame,
For 1879
P^ICE 25 CTS.
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844
Table of Contents:
Introduction,
Our Predictions for 1878, Astrological Predictions for
1879,
Names and Titles, Days of Obligation, Days of Abstinence, Eclipses for 1879, Movable Feasts, Rates of Postage, An Astronomical Myth, Calendars, Astronomical and
Ecclesiastical,
Wild Flowers,
The Court of Charlemagne, At Our Wit’s End, Our Alma Mater, Indirect Egotism,
To Signor Gregori, Good Books, Some Curious Words, The Catechism, Purple Days, Napoleon on the Divinity of
Christ, Mutability,	•
An Evening Picture, The Papacy, The Things of God, Grasshoppers, Shall it Ever be Thus ? Wolves in the Street, Hens and Their Poetical
Lays, Berenice’s Hair.
Address,
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOGHAFHER
Comer Michigan and Washington Sts.,
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.	'
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IK Watches, Clocks, A-isrr> JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
• . . . <
388
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PKOCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhwt. Office,. 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACK [of’64], county Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
THK CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN.published weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of ’70.
THE AVE MA.TtTA., a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited.by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price. S2.50.
Hotels.
rpTTTD BOND UOTJ^JE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-I igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Bl. All. Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I*. TTI^YjKIN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder. Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CAUUING CA_m>S—no two alike, with name AtJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
ClK CENTS will obtain yon a Copy of Tan Scholastic AD Almanac for 1879. Address
J.	A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS TJ. CLIFFORD, .[of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FA-DJTVnVG- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOT I IN	McldLU GH (of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office
65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CTT^MHEEtLjVIIN (of ’61) Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the D. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
IITIEET A M J. CL A RKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.NII2S A- Q,Tg,~F)TT .T,V—of ’69 —Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JO IVIN ». McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DAWTTEL TS- HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections, 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan,	"	gcpl4-ly
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend . follows:
5	GOING EAST.
J 3 23 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9	I 2 p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
240 am: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
4, 50and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a tn.
4 5Opm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40;
Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago. 11 30 a.,m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend .
J. W. CARY, Genu Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago RAILWAY. Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.				
Going-	North.	STATIONS	Going-	South.
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.23 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.<3 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p. m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.<'7 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.3') “ 7.25 “	Abbive	Leave. -	- Michigan City, - - -	- - - La Porte, • - - -. - - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkenon, - - - -	- - Pjymou'h, - - -	- - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - - -	- - - Peru, - - - -- - Bunker Hill. - - - -	- Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton,- - - - -	- - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - - -	- - -Cincinnat’, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - -	- Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 1132 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
Leave Leave	PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS. Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon. RETURNING Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p.m. 1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55a.m.’			
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis I
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in. Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
^"Berths 81.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Manager, ludianapolis
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Collixtlbiis 5 ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
Sign of the Big Indian.
64 Washington.St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,