Notre Dame Scholastic.
□isce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 9, 1877.	Number 40.
Eio Nono.
THE PRISONER OF THE VATICAN.
Read, at the Entertainment of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of the University of Notre Dame, held in Honor of the Golden Jubilee of Pope Pius IX, Tuesday, June 5,1877.
A marshalling of hosts Throughout the Russian posts; While dark-browed Asian bands, And Bedouins from Sahara’s sands, Hover along the Turkish coasts. The cannon’s brazen mouth
Welcomes the surging foe from north or south; And wily scimitar and good broad-sword, Are wielded by a countless dusky horde Scouting along the Caspian’s southern shore. The Titans are abroad; and, as of yore, Nations must reel. Millions are in the field; Yet who shall say Sultan, or Czar, will yield ?
And Roma ? Hark! the steady tramp, To fife and horn, of thousands from their camp	‘
On bristling Quirinal or Esquiline!
Their plumed helmets shine
.	As they step-to martial air,
And now their trumpets blare As they march across the square, —Saint Peter’s vast piazza—and before The very palace door
Of Peter’s own successor. But no sign
Of fealty is given from the line;
No PiW il Papa, as in those days When Pio Nono’s praise
Rang through the great piazza and was caught, . Like some exultant thought,
From street to street, until Saint Peter’s dome, Towards which the nations turn as to their home, Seemed, in its beauty and its might, to bear Upward to heaven his grateful people’s prayer.
Now, they turn without salute : The Vatican’s own walls are not so mute: Till the loud “ Halt! ” or “ Wheel! ” From a brute leader, makes a pilgrim feel How tyrants on thy neck, O Rome, have set an iron heel!
But hark, once more!	-
Above the battle’s roar, Above the blare of trumpet, shriek of fife, Above the world’s ignoble hate and strife, A voice is heard—a voice as clear As if a silver flute, With throat of gold, From some far summit spoke,
Vain is a tyrant’s yoke;
Ye piping hordes, keep mute ;
And all ye faithful, hold
Your breath to hear;
For lo 1 from Peter’s fold,
The one Good Shepherd calls unto his own Of every race and zone—
11 Peace to you, 0 my children; peace and joy !"
The thief comes but to plunder and destroy:
But he whose brow, full fifty years, has worn
The mitre’s rim;
Whose fair tiara’s fairest gem grows dim
Before his virtues ; who was born To baffle, by his meekness, wrath and scorn ;
Yet so as to exalt that Wisdom’s worth
Which is not of this earth ;
Who from his prison rules the world ; will keep
His title of Good Shepherd of Christ’s sheep:
While they who live to catch the last bright ray
Of his pontificate, exceeding Peter’s day,
Will see,
The glory of this Golden Jubilee
Turn to an aureole, and thus surround
His venerable head ; as they are crowned
Who with their Prince, Saint Peter, have been bound.
Bound with Saint Peter; bound with Peter’s chains We well may say !
Methinks I see it still
The old Basilica which crowns the hill
Called Esquiline. The Caesars, and their claims, Whatever be their names,
Titus or Trajan, step aside to-day.
The Pontiff and his Patron keep their feast
With glowing faces turned towards the East;
For as the angel smote thy double chain,
Saint Peter, will he say again:
“Rise, Pio Nono !” and men yet shall tell
How the strong fetters from their Pontiff fell;
And how he who wore
Saint Peter’s chains, stood free before
The world and all its scoffers, and could say: “ Behold how Christians for their Shepherd pray! ”
Rabelais.
It reflects little credit on poor human nature that the works of Rabelais should for three centuries have been admired and read, and that even now they are praised. Nothing could escape his gross and ribald wit; things sacred and religious were not respected by him, and his life was one shocking to all morality. Ynu may urge that he excites us to laughter. Ah, but the soul does not laugh; and, as Fenelon says: The heart hardly laughs. It is therefore a false idea to say that laughing, as we understand it, comes from
626
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a highly glorious source. Thomas, the man crowned with academical praises, said of Voltaire that he came only to laugh, as the devil does, at the miseries of mankind. It is of this kind of laughter that we speak; and it istthis infernal laughter that Rabelais provokes. Thiskind of laughter, like vitriol, is an acid that consumes, dissolves, and kills—that has destroyed many things, but has never been able to produce anything, not even the least. What is it that remains to you and to the world after you have laughed at the grossness so highly embellished by Rabelais ? Nothing, unless it be contempt of yourselves that you have read, and of the author that he has written.
You urge also the grace and beauty of his style. But the devil himself has had the time to learn, and he is acute enough to inspire his adepts with seducing and deceptive formulas. The disciples of John Huss, Luther and Calvin were clever writers. It is neither by this seductive style, nor by that spirit of a serpent, that Bossuet and Bourdaloue have elevated the morals and formed men—that is, Christians. Malice is filled with unlimited copiousness, which it gives to all; and in your visits to a common village tavern you are sure to find some one abounding in drolleries, whom people will style a phenomenon of wit, and who is a Rabelais on a smaller scale, honored to a certain extent, yet interiorly held in contempt.
Take a glance at the life which biographers have written of Rabelais. They have exhibited him as a kind of Tt/ll Eulenspiegd, half rogue and half fool; and tire narrative of his life is nothing but the reflex of the cunningness of his book. They say that Francis I made use of and profited by his writings. If so, then they were worthy of the habits of Francis I. Rabelais, unhappily, was at first a monk, then a physician at Montpellier, afterwards cur€ of Mendon,atatime when the clergy chosen by the civil power give itself entirely up to the so-called Reform. He can be numbered among the miserable men who were dragged along by Luther and Calvin. His excesses caused his exile from Rome, where there is more leniency than in other countries, and the Christians who read his works must not forget that they compromise their souls in such bad companionship as his.
It may not be out of place, however, to give one anecdote related of Rabelais. It shows fully the low state to which he fell. When driven from Rome, his finances were so low that he was only able to reach Lyons. Arriving there, he entered one of the best hotels and ordered a good supper, which, as was consistent with his nickname of “the Drunken Philosopher,”he moistened well with wine. After he had satisfied himself, he retired for the night; but the next morning, being unable to pay his expenses, a situation which after him has been called le quart d'heure de Rabelais (the quarter hour of Rabelais), he made use of a stratagem worthy of Lazarillo of Tormes and other scamps of that time. He made several small packages of ashes, which he tied up in papers after the manner of druggists; then calling for the boy of the hotel, and, saying that he himself was ignorant of the art of writing, he persuaded him to inscribe on one of the packages: “Poison for the King”; on another: “Poison for the Queen”; and on a third: “Poison for the Dauphin.” Then cautioning the boy to say nothing about what he had done, Rabelais sent him off. The boy very naturally went immediately to his father and related the affair to him. Horrified at the thought of the great murder which he supposed was to take place, the father without delay summoned fhe magis
trates. Rabelais, as he bad expected, was arrested, taken to Paris under a strong escort, and on the way was well served, because they expected him to make some startling revelations. The king, having been notified of his arrival, desired to see the prisoner, who, coming into the presence of his majesty, swallowed before his eyes the pretended poison, thus exciting the laughter of the whole court.
This is attributed to Rabelais as his last will and testament: “I have nothing, I owe much; the rest I give to the poor.”	M. P. F.
Youth, and American Literature.
{From “L'Echo des Deuz-Mondes,” New York.)
We frequently complain that we do not know what English reading to give our French and American youth. The fact is that our young people of both sexes, Protestant as well as Catholic, have good reason to complain of the little respect shown for them in view of the periodical literature prepared for them. There is certainly no country in the world where they write so ill for youth. What can be more nauseating than the weekly productions circulated by the million under the captivating titles of “ Boys’ and Girls’ Weekly,” “Munro’s Boys and Girls of America,” “Our Boys and Girls,” etc., not to speak of those unclean dime novels which destroy every year more juvenile constitutions than the scarlatina or smallpox have ever done? We ask with anxiety what will be the future of a nation whose youth can thus recklessly poison both its soul and its heart? We ask ourselves, moreover, to what species of bipeds can such ink-spillers belong who fill all these murderous sheets with whatever is most vulgar and most slangy in the language, without even redeeming the ignominy of form by the purity and form of conceptions and ideas? Woe to them, for they will walk on the great accounting day at the head of those through whom scandal walks with head erect throughout the world!
One of the gravest consequences of this abominable abuse of the freedom of the press is the materialization of the infant soul and a premature disgust for all healthy reading. Open one of these weekly sheets that I have quoted above: you will find there on the first page the worst species of romance with which a young imagination can be inoculated, —I mean adventures, in which the actors are young heroes and heroines, among whom the author exhibits in embryo all the vices, passions, eccentricities, insanities of advanced age,—all this, I repeat, in an impossible language to which all classes of young America addict themselves so thoroughly that twenty years hence we shall recognize no longer the idiom of the ancient mother-country. It is on this point beyond all others that we may say that American institutions have sunk below thedemocraticlevel. Nothing is more deplorably uniform here than vulgarity of language, vulgarity such and so deeply engrafted in our youth that in spite of continual calls to order we cannot attain even in the most severe schools a correction of this mass of defective or inelegant phrases which are the despair of professors for whom the word “ education ” is not altogether meaningless.
However, for Catholic youth, excellent weekly journals published in English are not wanting. Every week our editorial table is covered with publications which those parents who are solicitous for the future and the salvation of their children ought to 'utroduce among them to the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
627
formal exclusion of all others. We find in each a very in,	teresting tale, painting life such as it is, and not that fan
tastic and impossible existence which deludes the youthful imagination, without speaking of the immense wrong done to family ties, to social relations and to the rights of our !	fellow-beings, which are at almost every moment trodden
under foot or fleered at in the detestable sheets which we . x have stigmatized above.
'	Everyone here knows the Wew York Tablet, the Freeman's
Journal, the Catholic Review, and that periodical, McGee's Illustrated Weeldy, whose success is so gratifying. This in.	deed is excellent current literature Well! mention this
!	to our young persons of to-day, and they will tell you that
they would not read them even if they were paid for it !	Why? They arn’t spicy enough; their literary palate is
;	already vitiated by the red-pepper of sensational journals,—
written for youth of their age, if you please—to the shame '	of the enlightened century of which we boast so much.
I have under my eyes at this moment one of the most remarkable of weekly publications, the name of which is the .. Notre Dame Scholastic, and which is published at No-•' tre Dame, Indiana. It is the organ of a University, edited, I believe, by the more advanced students, but is in any case a model of its kind, which every parent can place in ।	his children’s hands for their profit. Every week we find ar-
ticles of the highest interest on the important events of our epoch, education, the arts, and religion, as well as choice poetry—something, in short, suitable to supply excellent reading to youth and to furnish their minds with a mass of information and useful knowledge, the whole presented in clear and elegant language. Why not have several of these reviews within the reach of all? Why not react i	against that immodest press which sullies the minds, the
I	imaginations, the hearts of our children? Truly it is a
‘	strange problem, this modern indifference to the prohibi-
tion or permission of literature to youth. It is truly one of the most lamentable signs of the times, because it anticipates in a future not far removed the disappearance of one of the greatest safeguards of American society, I mean of purity in daily education, without which liberty becomes the pogniard with which nations effect their own destruction.
An Old-Time Trip.
We lately came across an account of a trip to Chicago, made in 1865, by the Field Band connected with the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association. At that time great the
1	Northwestern Sanitary Fair was in full blast at Chicago,
f	and the boys took advantage of the occasion to pay a visit
I	to the city. The Band comprised thirty-four instruments,
[	and the boys were from the age of twelve to sixteen years.
L They were dressed in full zouave costume, and played with '	great accuracy and precision. The boys arrived at Chicago
in the morning of June 10th, and repairing to Union Hall i	theyplayed for some time, their performances being raptur-
ously applauded by the thousands assembled.
After executing this field music in the hall, the Band recited in concert the following imitation of Tennyson’s “Charge of the Light Brigade,” written especially for the ’ occasion, and entitled'
RUSH OF THE MILLION.
Half the land, half the land,
i	Half the land coming,
All for the Northwestern Fair Bush near a million.
Forward the soldiers’ aid!
Crowd in the good things made, All for the Sanitary Fair!
Rush on, ye million!
ii.
Forward the soldiers’ aid 1 When can their toils be paid ? Not though the Fair should flow More than a billion.
They have defended us, Bled for the Union cause, Saved for us homes and laws,— Haste to the Soldiers’ Fair 1
Rush on, ye million ! in.
Treason had threatened us, Europe had laughed at us, Good men despaired of us—
Up rose the People 1
Sherman and Grant were there, Sheridan’s sabre bare, Rosecrans fought for us, Mulligan died for us, Bled all the Nation.
IV.
Fought well the Eastern men, Fought well the Western men, Fought well the Celtic men, Fought well the Teuton men, All the world mocking;
Plunged in the rebel smoke, Soon the backbone they broke.
Wounded and dying
Pale from the prison woke— Treatment foul, shocking 1
Aid for the prisoner!
Aid for the suffering!
v.
Hearts are disconsolate, Homes rendered desolate, Strong men disabled,
, Fruit of rebellion 1 Haste ye to answer them! Empty the purse for them!
They are deserving.
Noble souls ask of you, Gentlest ones plead with you, Help those who bled for you, Roll out your millions 1
VI.
Far from Atlantic’s shore,
Far from Pacific’s shore, Good things to right of us, Good things to left of us, Good things all round us.
Gifts from kind stranger lands, Gifts from our native land, Precious mementoes!
God bless those dear hands Healing our heroes!
God bless the officers, The Fair and its members!
VII.
Honor that Union band, Fighting on sea and land;
Honor their leaders.
Honor to those who planned Feast like to this so grand;
Honor these pleaders.
Wives of our heroes ask,
628	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Greet them, ye million! Aid their brave soldier task, Boll them a billion!
The boys spent the day, it seems, in a very pleasant ' manner; and at four o’clock they assembled in front of the j Tremont House and gave a serenade to the hero of the i hour, General Sherman. The General appeared upon the balcony, and in highly flattering remarks thanked the boys for the compliment they had paid him. After this, the Band visited the various newspaper offices and were well received by the different managers. All the journals gave highly complimentary notices of the Band the following day, from which we infer that the young gentlemen created quite a sensation in the city and were the recipients of many attentions from the citizens.
For the information of the present members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, though they no longer have their field band, we will state that during the scholastic year of 1864-5 the members of the Association had four famous rides. 1st. A sleigh-ride to Niles on the 18th of January, 1865, Profs. J. A. Lyons and Stace accompanying the Association. The supper was taken at the Bond House, which then, as now, set a good table. 2nd. A ride to Mishawaka on Washington’s Birthday, Feb. 22d, 1865, Mr. George O’Brien accompanying. Supper was eaten on their return, at the National Hotel, South Bend. 3d. A great ride to South Bend, under the auspices of Prof. J. A. Lyons. Serenades at various residences. Supper was taken at the Deming House. 4th. The ride to Chicago on the 10th of June, Profs. J. A. Lyons, T. E. Howard and M. T. Corby accompanying them.
The Triumph of David.
Guido Reni was one of the most brilliant representatives of the Bolognese school. He was born in the year 1575, at a moment when art had arrived at its complete development. The earlier portion of his life was nothing but continued happiness. His father, Daniel Reni, a clever musician, made him enter the studio of the master Dems Calvain, a Flemish painter, whom rhe Bolognese regarded as a restorer of good taste; the young man, however, did not remain there for a long time; he sought for masters that could better suit the ardor of his genius, and he found these in the Carrachis. When twenty years old he entered their studio and immediately distinguished himself not only by the good qualities which make the great artist, but by the merits which constitute the sweetness of private life. He pleased at. the same time by the elevation of his ideas and the modesty of his character. Such was his rapid progress that the Carrachis, his friends and masters, perceived some shadow of bis growing reputation. This knowledge gave rise to a feeling which, however, did not degenerate into enmity, though it might have caused some jealousy. Masters and students remained always on the terms which fitted their name and their character. The Carrachis rendered Guido an inappreciable service: they deterred him from associating with aud imitating Carravagio, who, notwithstanding his dark and haughty manners had almost seduced the young man.
Guido Reni was already celebrated at an age when many artists try to make themselves known. Powerful friends protected him; the Pope loved him, the kings and great lords contended for the productions of his brush, and paid for them with their weight in gold. Happy would he have
been had not a hideous vice taken possession of him and spoiled these noble qualities, dashing his cup of happiness to the ground. Guido became a gambler, and his passion for play wasted his life and warped his genius. He died at the age of sixty-seven, in the year 1642, in a condition of almost utter poverty, pitied by his nearest friends, despised by his neighbors, and almost forgotten by his contemporaries. He had exhausted the remains of his talent by unceasing productions necessitated by the course of the terrible life he had embraced. These last compositions are generally feeble and careless; everything bears the stamp of an excessive rapidity both in the. conception and in the execution.
“ The Triumph of David,” however, shows on the contrary all the good qualities combined which we admire in Guido: richness in composition, correctness in drawing, tender and delicate coloring, and especially grace and nobility of expression. The picture represents David after he had severed the head of Goliath from the body. He stands holding the head of his antagonist, resting on a small pillar. This head is frightening; not even in death is it quiet. The features, which are still contracted, have preserved their ferocity. What a contrast with David, who, negligently and carelessly, has placed his hand over this terrible head! How his whole body breathes the calmness of strength, and how serious is his countenance! not even the pride of triumph can be seen there; his fixed eye does not look at the bloody trophy, it tends further. We can see that this is not a human victory; man has but been the instrument, the cause is from on high.
Scientific Notions.
Our Divine Creator willed to employ four elements in His marvellous work of creation, viz., fire, water, earth, and air; and in all of them, with the exception of the element fire, animality is infinite and ubiquitous.
Water swarms with various living creatures, from the mammoth whale down to the tiny minnow gliding amongst myriads of its fellows. To form a conception of the natures, the forms, the varieties, and the number of these within the oceans, seas, rivers and lakes, already known to geographers, is impossible, because of their infinitude; yet how much of this element, water, may there not be which the civilized explorer has not yet seen!
The extent of animality in this element is wonderful. The destruction of the creatures of the deep by man, and the internecion of the smaller ones by the larger, appear not to make the slighest diminution as regards number, so prolific of life are they. According to Leeuwenhoek, the roe of a single codfish contains millions of eggs.
The conception of all the oceans, seas, etc., and their inhabitants, may be deemed a too extensive task; then reduce the subject to one of the lowest of its details—a glass of water, for instance—and survey it through a microscope, and astonishment increases. Therein are seen creatures of various forms and dimensions—some fearfully constructed; some with furious looks hastily pursuing and destroying others: all wonderfully and perfectly formed; all with parts, proportions, instincts; all with faculties, organs, fully commensurate to their requirements!
Hardly inferior to this phenomenon of vitality in water is another also connected with it, namely, coral-reefs, rocks, and islands, and which are'the formations of living animalcule.
r	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
629
The earth is all life: living things are ever moving on it or issuing from it. There is nothing on the earth but possesses either actual vitality or the germs of vitality. Pulverize the rock, granulate the iron bar, scatter the results to the winds, and what will they not eventually become? All vegetation lives; not a tree, a plant, a flower, a blade of grass without vitality. All eat, drink, sleep, have arteries, lungs, heart, digestive faculties complete. Each has been generated; has had its infancy, its maturity, and assuredly will have its decadence. Wound any of them, does it not bleed ?—not crimson drops, mayhap; crush any, and does not its individuality become extinct ? Nay, if you but touch some, do they not shrink back, terrified, as it were, by the contact ? This fact appears to demonstrate that these possess something more than mere animality. Observe the slender and bending tulip when moved by the zephyr: it appears to motion the beholder away, gracefully and modestly, from the contemplation of its stainless beauties. Then the trees, when the wind is rude—how piteously they moan! How the cadences of their sorrows rise and fall! —now low and prolonged,—now high, fierce, and clamorous, as the angry wind drives ruthlessly through their outspread branches. They seem Nature’s cries whilst in travail.
Plants impregnate, and thus their propagation becomes assured: this fact establishes the presence of life and sympathy. Undoubtedly all substances possess the principles of vitality. The decline and the death of the particular individual certainly takes place, but the utter disconnection of life with it never occurs; that which actually ensues is but a mere transition—a transition as regards both form and number.
^Life conducts to death, and death conducts to life. Possibly the fabled renovation of the phoenix has had its origin in this fact. Variety in form, and frequently an increase in number, are the results of what is vulgarly termed the privation of life. The germs of death attend the germs of life, even in the most robust or the most beautiful. Concurrently with life commences death, and concurrently with death commences life. These are some of the great mysteries of creation and of the wonderful ways of God. They are philosophical facts, and physical science demonstrates 'them. The microscope reveals animalcule in the plant, and the self-same microscope reveals animalcule living and generating in the human body. And, notwithstanding the destruction of human life constantly occurring, and notwithstanding the immensity of animal life consumed by man, by beasts, by birds, by fishes, by reptiles, throughout the cycle of the existence of each, yet the number of living creatures diminishes not, but, on the the contrary, increases.
The air above us, around us, and which we inhale, is full of insect life—it ischarged with them. These atmospheric infusoria are the bearers of sickness or health; life or death to man always, and to animals generally. Alan’s well-being, physically considered, is directly influenced by the atmosphere, and the atmosphere itself is directly influenced by the nature and the number of animal life with which it is impregnated. A ray of the sun forcing itself through a chink into a dark apartment, reveals innumerable atomic insects. All nature is animated—all nature reproduces. Life in no instance is subject to annihilation; it rejects annihilation in common with all otuer things in creation. The polypus or hydra reproduces itself when cut into pieces; every part soon becomes a perfect animal. This fact
was first discovered by Leeuwenhoek. The polypi are of . the order of zobphytes; they partake of the animal and vegetable nature, and therefore are placed in the link which unites the animal to the vegetable world. Two polypi cut asunder, and joined at either end, become one; the one species may be turned inside out and live as before. Herein lies a clear proof that life cannot be annihilated.
Man stands superior to all the elements and all they have given birth to only in one respect, in the possession of a soul and an understanding. To him only has wisdom been communicated. He only, of all animals, knows the purposes, the uses, the value of things, and to him only are all things subservient. They have been created for his use and the greater glory of God, the supreme Creator. But man should ever remember that his body, of which he now is so vain, will one day be food for worms; in fact, it is so already, for decomposition begins long before people are aware of it, long before the breath leaves the body. At the best he is but a living, moving mass of corruption, and none can tell to what purposes his body may yet be turned, or what form or forms it may yet assume. Many a one now decked out in all the pride and pomp of fashion would droop his head were he to consider what his poor body may yet become. Shakespeare’s Hamlet considers this matter, and well worthy of perusal is what he says upon it. Whilst creation endures, no nobler destiny awaits man’s body than that of other animals. The earth devours her offspring, but gives them life again in other forms and for other purposes. Herein is a cause for the observance of humility—herein is an overwhelming argument against human vanity.
But the soul, the soul of man, owns no transition: it is immutable, unchangeable, immortal. It is the only thing associated with the creation that frees itself from nature’s laws. On the cessation of man’s vitality, it breaks away from all the influences of this earth, and wings its flight to the judgment-seat of Him to whom it in all justice belongs; whilst the body, that frail, sinful body, which it occupied, and which, alas! had so often arisen in rebellion against its Creator, reverts to earth, to the worms, whence it originally sprang.
This universality of life is evident—its infinitude cannot be doubted. The subject furnishes in itself the clearest notion that can be found of positive infinity; for who can count the drops of water in the ocean, and yet we know that each drop teems with life? who can number the creeping things of earth, or the myriads of insects abounding in the air, and yet we know that such are?
All is life, whichever of the three elements be considered. This is a fact which maybe made known to everyone— understandable and palpable to every one. It is no abstraction or speculation, but a reality, and easy of demonstration. Surely the Hand that formed all, and alioted unto all their respective vocations, and which they so regularly and faithfully pursue—surely this Hand must be Divine!
Then let man, the most 'exceedingly favored of all creatures, pour forth his gratitude and thanksgiving, and proclaim aloud, as indeed all other creatures do, each in his way,—“ Our God is a great and a good God, and wonderful are th e works of His hands.”
—Evils in the journey of life are like the hills which alarm all travellers upon the road; they appear great at a distance, but when we approach them, we find that they are far less insurmountable than we imagined.
630
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—The death of a celebrated Russian geologist, Prof. N. P. Barbot-de-Marny, is announced.
—The municipal clocks of Vienna are moved in accord, by means of pneumatic tubes, with a central clock. Every minute a wave of compressed air is sent through the tubes, causing the hands to move.
—The great Museum of Applied Sciences in Moscow will be opened June 11. The building is ready, and the collections have been brought in. Eleven scientific societies will hold their sittings in the Museum.
—M. Redier, barometer maker to the French Association for the Advancement of Science, has devised a barometer for warning miners when the atmospheric pressure is undergoing a sudden depression, so that they may’ guard against fire-damp explosions.
—Prof. McGrady, successor to Prof. Agassiz in the chair of ZoOlogy, at Harvard, has found it necessary to tender his resignation, which was caused by a desire on the part of Prof. McGrady to raise the standard of zoological education in the college to a higher level than was deemed advisable by the authorities.
—A telegram received by the St. Petersburgh Academy of Sciences announces that a mammoth, well preserved, has been found in the neighborhood of Tomsk. A piece of its flesh, with fat, has been forwarded to the Academy, which, as we learn from the weekly “Nature'' proposes to send Mr. Toliakof for the exploration of the remains.
—At the April session ol the German Ornithological So ciety, Prof. Gadon stated that by a study of the digestive organs of the flamingo he had found that it did not belong to the duck family, to which it has hitherto been classified, but was to be placed among the storks, being very closely allied to the latter, although properly an intermediate link between the two families.
—A substitute for gunpowder, invented in England, is called *' powder paper.” Il is paper impregnated with a mixture of potassic chlorate, nitrate, prussiate and chromate, powdered wood charcoal, and a little starch. It leaves no greasy residue on the gun, produces less smoke and less recoil, and is less impaired by humidity, and it is 516ths stronger than gunpowder.
—The presence of copper in the blood of human beings and domestic animals nas been placed beyond doubt by the investigations of various chemists, but has generally been regarded as an accidental circumstance due to the use of copper utensils in the preparation of food. M. S. Cloez, of Paris, recently examined the blood of a roebuck shot in the forest of Essaets, and found copper oxide present to the extent of 5^ milligrammes per killogramme of blood. As this result would tend to show that copper is a normal constituent of the blood the question which next awaits solution is that of the method of its entrance into the animal system.	'
Art, Music and Literature.
—Another' Dame Europa pamphlet, “Dame Europa’s Remonstrance and Her Ultimatum,” is attracting attention in England.
—The solar world is the field of M. Jules Verne’s latest hero, “ Hector Servadac,” whose adventures are in course jf publication in Paris.	—
—A picture by Meissonier Brought $20,000 at the Oppenheim sale in Paris. It represents a poor artist seated in the midst of a group of soldiers, one of whom is posed for a portrait.
—M. Henri Lavoix has published an interesting little brochure on the history of the play, the “ Misanthrope,” in which he brings to light some curious facts about the comedians of Moliere’s troupe.
—A book on the “Plantation of Ulster,” by Mr. Hill, is in the press, and will be published next September. The volume, which will include family histories, is expected to be very interesting to students of Irish history.
—Mr. W. F. Gill announces his intention to publish shortly his life of Edgar A. Poe, for which he has been collecting material through several years. There will be several illustrations, among them a/ac simile of the original MS. of “The Bells.”
—Frau Marchesi, on the twenty-fifth anniversary of her appointment as professor of singing at the Vienna conservatoire, received ordersand decorations from the sovereigns of Germany, Italy, Saxony, Weimar, and from the burgo-mastor of Frankfort-sur-Matn.
—A facsimile reprint of the “ Original Letters of Sir John Falstaff and His Friends,” by James White, is about to appear from the press. It is known to the present generation only by the praise of the author’s schoolfellow and early friend, Charles Lamb.
—The operetta which M. Offenbach is composing to the book of MM. Ghivot and Doru for the next winter season at the Folies Dramatiques is called “ Madame Favart,” and it deals with three distinct epochs in the life of the famous favorite of Marshal Saxe.
—In the course of a few weeks the brilliant journalist, Miss Marie T. Courcelles, will give to the public a translation of Dr. Oazenave’s charming and valuable work, “ Beauty and the Art of Human Decoration.” The book will be published in this country by Hall & Chase. •
—The widow of the Duke de Galliera has given the splendid collection of pictures and objects d’art which were in her husband’s Parisiau home to the Museum of the Louvre. The collection is so fine that a special apartment, bearing the words Salle Galliera, will be assigned to it.
—The Adriotico describes a beautiful statue which is to be raised to Titian this year, the 400th anniversary of his birth, in the little town of Piove di Cadore, his birthplace. The head looks toward the house where he was born, on the walls of which, tradition says, his earliest efforts appeared.
—The recent festival of the Handel and Haydn society in Boston was the first successful affair of the kind—in a . pecuniary-sense—given by that association. Miss Fannie Kellogg was the principal vocalist, and is referred to as having been particularly successful in the oratorio of “ Samson.”
—Rev. H. Quigley, D. D., author of “The Cross and Shamrock,” and other valuable Catholic and national works, is about to issue a book of great interest to every Irishman, especially those on the Pacific Coast. The torthcomihg volume will be entitled “The Irish Race in California and on the Pacific Coast.”
—A Hopkins county Kentuckian has a Straduarius violin 186 years old. It was bought of a strolling troupe of Italian musicians at Evansville, Ind., in 1859, for $25, and it is thought to be worth a hundred times that sum. Upon the inside is carved the inscription, “Antonius Straduarius Faciebat, A D. 1681.
—Pupils of the French Archaeological School, while pursuing their studies at Melos, have disinterred the arm of a statue of which the hand holds a mirror. There is reason to believe that the arm is that of the famous Venus of Milo in the Louvre, and at last accounts it was to be sent to Paris for verification and adjustment.
—One of the Cincinuati papers suggested that at the Cary-Thomas concerts there, the Wagner music be placed first upon the programme, so that the slamming of doors and shuffling of feet by late comers may not be noticed. This over, and the audience seated, something soft and soothing would be in order.
—General Meredith Read, the American Representative in Greece, has obtaiuecLa copy in piaster of a most ancient and interesting Greek Treaty, found a few days ago on the southern side of the Acropolis, at Athens, in the course of excavations now in progress under the direction of P. Bo- -livar, the distinguished German explorer.
—The proposed conference of English librarians, suggested by the conference at Philadelphia last summer, will be participated in by representatives of most of the large libraries throughout Great Britain. It is to be held at London, in October or November. There is talk of holding the American conference this summer in New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	631
—The death is announced of M. Thos. Sauvage, the doyen of French dramatic authors. He was born in 1794, and produced his first play, “Mademoiselle Hamilton,” in 1814. He wrote over fifty pieces, including “ Le Cald,” “Le Toreador,’’ “Les Porcherons," and “Le Pdre Gaillard,” and half a century ago he, for a short time, directed the Odeon.
—The Philharmonic Society, of New York, at a private meeting Friday afternoon, elected Theodore Thomas musical director in place of Dr. Damrosch. In case Mr. Thomas should decline, the Society will dispense with the concerts the coming season and engage some European celebrity as director. The precise reasons for the sudden action of the Society are not known.
—A historical work, entitled, “Un Homme 1’Autrefois,” by the Marquis Costa de Beauregard, has just been issued in Paris. It contains a number of unpublished documents relating to society in Paris in the time of Louis XV, the revolutionary wars in Savoy and Piedmont, the first campaign of Bonaparte in Italy, and the taking of Turin by Souvaroff; also some curious letters of Joseph de Maislre.
—According to Mr. Arber’s researches, the name of Shake-spere appears first in the registers of the Company of Stationers on the 23rd of August, 1600, when two booksellers produced the authority of the wardens for licensing “ Muche a Doo about Nothinge, and the second parte of the history-of Kinge Henry the Lilith ”; but several years previously the fee had been paid for a “newe ballad of Romeo and Juliet.”
—The veteran Spinish poet, Don Jose Zorrilla, lately read before a select company of nearly two hundred members in the Madrid Athenaeum some passages from his epic, “The Cid”—a poem, his magnum opus, which he has had in hand for many years, but which is now at last to be published. Before it was given to the printer many of his literary friends were desirous of hearing some of the most effective portions of the poem from his own lips.
—The Commission of Historical Monuments has voted the necessary funds for the purchase of five tombs of the Grand Masters of the Knights Hospitallers of St. John of Jerusalem, which have been preserved to the present time in Rhodes. Four of these belonged to as many celebrated French Grand Masters—namely, Dieudonne de Gozon, Peter de Cornillon, Robert de Jolhao, and James de Milly. The fifth tomb is that of John Baptist des Ursins.
—The German Chamber of Bookselling, which has its. headquarters at Leipsic, has decided to publish a general history of the trade in Germany from its beginning. Between 1801 and 1820 there were about 250 booksellers in Germany; in 1840 their number had doubled. This includes dealers in both new and second-hand books. In 1864 the number was 2,859, it is now estimated to be 5,500. As to the books published the number in 1589 was 362, in 1750 it was 1,000, in 1840, 7,900, in 1875 12,516, and last year 13,356. The projected history will contain interesting particulars in reference to the gradual growth of the trade, with especial reference to that of Frankfort, which was its first centre in Germany. Its transfer to Leipsic took place in 1765.
—A volume containing as many as one hundred and sixteen translations, literal and free, of the celebrated dying address of the Emperor Hadrian to his soul—beginning : Animnla vagula blandula—
collected and arranged by David Johnston, has been printed for private circulation at Bath, the editor having taken pains to bring together from every possible quarter a variety of opinions on the much contested meaning of the lines in question, which have been regarded by some as of small merit, while by others—as by Alexander Pope, whose well-known piece, beginning
Vital spark of heavenly flame, paraphrased them with a Christian instead of heathen at mosphere—they have been esteemed as among the most interesting relics of antiquity.
—The Italian prize for a work on Oriental history, in honor of the coming Orientalist congress at Florence, amounts to five thousand lire, which will be awarded to the writer of the best work on “The Vicissitudes of Aryan
Civilization in India.” Learned men of all countries are invited to compete, and their manuscripts, in Latin, Italian, French, English, or German, may be sent through any of the Italian consulates. The work “shall commence with a historical and critical essay on the primary constitutive elements of Aryan civilization before its emigration toward the Punjab, as revealed in the language, mythology, religious beliefs, and customs of the race; and it shall then set forth in a distinctive manner the subsequent history of that civilization in India, tracing the elements which have modified it in the various localities in which it became established.”
—A cable dispatch to The New York Herald, dated London, the 26th of May, says: Herr Richard Wagner celebrated his 64th birthday on Tuesday last. A banquet was given him in the evening by the London liederkranz. Wagner responded to the toast of his health in a speech expressing his pleasure and surprise at finding that what he had created in a still retreat had preceded him in the world and made him famous. The series of six concerts of which I have already telegraphed you were a success artistically, but financially a great failure. Wagner, who had the first §10,000 of the receipts secured him, turned that amount over to cover the losses after the two succeeding concerts. There is still a deficit of §5,000, mainly because of the fifteen hundred seat-holders who paid nothing and the high prices, which kept thousands away. A series of Wagner concerts, at popular prices, will be given next week. There is a promise of enormous houses. Wagner visited Covent Garden last night to witness his opera of “ Taunhauser,” and returned home disgusted with the wretched performance but delighted with the exquisite rendering of the part of Elizabeth by Mlle. Albani. Mme. Malerna, the Brunnhilda of the concerts, returns to Vienna on the 3d of June. She has created a furor here by her wonderful dramatic singing.
. Books and Periodicals.
—We have received the Supplement to the Popular Science Monthly, and we think we are justified in saying that the Popular Science Monthly and its Supplement are the best scientific magazines in the world. In support of this assertion we appeal to the staff of their contributors. Are not the names of its regular and occasional contributors renowned throughout the world? Asa Gray, Prof. Proctor, Prof. Huxley, Prof. Tyndall, Prof. St. George Mivart, etc., etc., are the stars of modern science. The second number of the Supplement opens with a charming poem by Alfred Tennyson on “Montenegro.” The second article, “A Sketch on Montenegro,” by W. E. Gladstone, is a contribution of great interest just at this time. “The Germ Theory and Spontaneous Generation,” Pasteur—Tyndall—Bastian tends to clear those two difficulties, which caused so much vexation in the scientific world for the last three centuries. The next article on “Narrowing the Experimental Issue,” is very instructive to Experimentalists in chemistry and physics. A modern “Symposium,” by Dr. Ward, of the Dublin Review, Prof. Huxley, Mr. R. H. Hutton, and Sir James Stephen. Subject: “The Influence upon Morality of a Decline in Religious Belief,” which is taken from the Nineteenth Century, is a novel affair, and we read it with no little interest. “ Richard Wagner,” by H. R. Haweis, is one of the most interesting articles on that great musician we have seen. The article is written in a most attractive manner. “Central Africa and the Brussels’ Geographical Congress,” by E. De Lavelege, is an important geographical publication. “The Contest of Heathenism with Christianity, as Reflected in Greek and Roman Literature,” by Prof. E. Keller, is interesting from a literay point of view. “ Mental Physiology,” a review of W. Carpenter’s Mental Physiology, from the London Times, is a-valuable republication and makes that learned work better known. “The Alkaline and Boracic Lakes of California,” by A. Phillips, and “ Deaf but not Dumb,” by St. John Ackers, are very interesting. Finally, Dr. Asa Gray closes the number with a review on Darwinism, wherein he shows that we should not contend against Darwin’s theory as it stands, but that we should most certainly oppose the materialistic view of it.
632
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, June 9, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: .
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should taae it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should tact it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
The St. Cecilians.
As we announced in the last number of this paper, the celebration of the Pope’s Golden Jubilee was, for local reasons, celebrated at Notre Dame on the evening of the 5th of June, instead of the 3d. It is true that on the 3d Solemn High Mass was sung and a panegyric of the great Pontiff preached, but beyonil that there was at Notre Dame no celebration on that day, but all was transferred to the Tuesday following.
As at all the Entertainments given tuis past scholastic year, a large crowd filled Washington Hall to witness the Exhibition given by the members of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association. The Hall itself had been tastefully decorated with wreaths of evergreen, ribbons, flags, national and Papa), and other ornaments. Above the stage, in evergreens, was written the legend “ Pius IX,” and a bust of the Pope stood on the table just in front of the President’s table. During the first part of the Entertainment the stage itself was not without its extra decorations. The national colors were displayed, and among these many flags stood the beautiful silk banner of white and yellow, the Pope’s colors, with the great seal of the Pope painted thereon. But enough about the decorations, let us to the play.
As we have already said, there was a large audience in attendance, eager to behold the youthful St. Cecilians. They were not kept long waiting, for promptly at half-past seven the Band began to play, and we have no doubt but that this fact made every one feel so very jolly that on its conclusion there was generous applause and patient waiting for the curtain to rise.
The music of the Orchestra and Band need not be dwelt on at length here, for, with the exception that with each Entertainment there is visible progress manifested, what we would say would be a repetition of what we have time and again said of these organizations. We would, how
ever, chronicle the fact that the Orchestra favored us with music oftener than it is usual for it to do.
The Choral Union treated the audience to two choruses: the “Jubilee Hymn of Pius IX,” and “Angel of Peace,” by Keller. Both choruses were sung very well, and do the young singers great honor. We doubt not that His Holiness, had he been in Washington Hall, wou^d have given the young singers his benediction in reward for the gusto displayed by them in singing his praise. Keller’s National Anthem, “Angel of Peace,” was sung very well, and we hope it will be repeated at the Commencement. We believe that at the end of the year the Choral Union will prove a credit to itself and to the place.
There was one address only read, and it was given very nicely by Master A. Widdicombe. The declamations of Masters Cavanaugh and McGrath were both well given. We did not like the selection spoken by the first named, but we have nothing but praise for the manner in which it was spoken. Master McGrath gave “The Blue and the Grey ” charmingly, and followed it with a comic selection which caused much merriment. “ Pius IX, the Prisoner of the Vatican”—a poem written for this occasion, and which may be found on our first page,—was recited by Master A. J. Buerger in a most creditable manner, adding new beauty to the lines by his excellent rendition of them.
After the Prologue, spoken by Master R. J. Golsen, a short comedy, entitled “ The Midnight Intruder,” was put on the stage. The characters in it were all well taken, even those back of the stage doing their parts well. The dogs were essentially necessary to bring out the farce, and so those who took the parts of the dogs seemed to feel. As far as barking goes, these young men may consider themselves successful. The characters in the play, besides the dogs, were: “ Air. Aspen Timid,” AI. B. Kauffman; “ Zeb. Ferguson,” Nattie Vanuamee; “Knock-KneedSam,” John Phelan; “ Dark-Lantern Bill,” George V. Sampson; and “Bob,” James Hagerty. The audience thank them for numberless merry laughs.
‘ The farce was followed by an historical drama, in five acts, called “ Alajor John Andre.” We had read the play, (it is published by Alurphy & Co., of Baltimore,) and must confess that as a work we did not like it; but it is needless here to point out its many defects, for what we have to do with is the acting. At times there was some tediousness, but whether this was the fault of the actors or of the author, who put long speeches in the play without any provocation whatever, it is difficult for us to say; perhaps it was the fault of both. Nevertheless there were many passages brought out with great fire and warmth, and on the whole the play was, because of the general good acting, received with great favor by the audience. The parts of “ Washington,” by C. J. Clarke; “Greene,” by S. D. Ryan; “Lafayette,” by G. P. Cassidy; “St. Clair,” by Jno. Mosal; “Putnam,” by F. W. Cavanaugh; ‘ Hamilton,” by G. Crawford; “ Knox,” by J ohn Phelan; “ Steuben,” by C. Faxon; “ Parsons,” by C. Walsh; “Col. Clinton,” by C. V. Larkin; “Col. Jameson,” by G. Sampson; and “Major Talmage,” by Ralph J. Golsen, were taken naturally, truthfully, and excellently. R. P. Mayer (Paulding), W. F. Hake (Van Wert), and Otto Lindberg (Williams), assumed the roles of the “ Captors of Andre” excellently. Master Lindberg, by his good acting, kept the audience in very good humor. Masters A. Widdicombe (Sir Henry Clinton), A. J. Buerger (Major John Andre), W. Ohlman (John Andre, Sr., Major Andre’s Father), M. B. Kauffman (Gen. Knyphause), T
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
633
'	Nelson (Gen. Robertson), G. Sugg (Admiral Graves), T.
:	Fischel (Ooi. Carleton), 0. Hagan (Benedict Arnold, the
:	Traitor), J. E. Hagerty (Hezekiah Smith, a Tory), and F.
'	McGrath (Sylvester, Page to Sir Henry Clinton), all did
l,	excellently well. It would take us too long to notice each
]	one in particular, and it is sufficient to say that all entered
i	well into the spirit of the play and portrayed the charac-
ters with fidelity. The remaining characters were taken J	by Alasters J. Rothert, E. Moran, A. Hatt, C. Orsinger, A.
Bergck, N. Vannamee, J. Perea, J. Healy, F. Carroll.
‘	The grand tableau was very beautifully got up and made a
very pleasing effect on the audience. All the characters in the play appeared in the tableau, and the blue and buff of the American officers-contrasting with the red of the Brit,	ish was beautiful.
The closing remarks were made by Rev. President Col'	ovin, thanking the young Cecilians for the pleasure given
by their acting, their music, etc. Everybody was well pleased with the Entertainment, and join with us in congratulating Prof. Lyons on the success which crowns all his efforts in bringing out the talent of his boys.
—
J	Personal.
.	—Mrs. Widdicombe, of Sturgis, Mich., spent several days
at the College this last week visiting her son.
;	—We had the favor of a visit on Tuesday last from Rev.
Father Noll, pastor of St. Vincent’s, Elkhart, Indiana.
;	—Among the visitors last week were Mr. and Mrs. James
j	Collins, of South Boston, Mass. We were delighted to see
4	our old friends, and hope they may find it convenient to
visit us frequently.
1	—We see by the New York Herald's account of the cere-
monies on Decoration Day at Calvary Cemetery, New York, i	that Rev. Paul E. Gillen, C. S. C., Chaplain of the Cor,	coran Legion during the late civil war, was present at tbe
celebration, and gave Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
—The Cincinnati Enquirer mentions Edward M. Brown, ।	of ’65, “ who narrowly escaped the nomination for that
■	office two years ago” as a good candidate for Attorney
General of Ohio. Were the convention made up of Notre Dame boys he would be nominated for the office by acclamation.
—Mr. Alfred Kemner and wife, of South Bend; Mr. J. A. Kinnmeaux and wife, of Dunkirk, N. Y.; Mrs. George Hanson, of Akron, Ohio; Mr. E. Carqueville, of Chicago; Mr. A. Mayer, of Cleveland, Onio; Miss Walsh, of Chicago; and Mr. M. Kauffman -and wife, of Cincinnati, Ohio, were among the visitors to Notre Dame lately. Mr. and Mrs. Kauffman and Mr. Mayer came especially to see the St. Cecilians’ Entertainment, in which their sons took part.
^7 —The Chicago correspondent of the Cincinnati Enquirer, , in speaking of the newspaper men of Chicago, says of , Barnes B. Runyon, of ’60, now connected with the Chicago Tribune: ‘The chief editorial writer is Janies Runyon, an honor to the Tribune. He is, first of all, a gentleman, and a descendant of one of the best and oldest families here. He has written many plays, a few of which the public have not failed to appreciate. Who would forget Mignon, as he dramatized it for Maggie Mitchell ? Running ‘	a Corner had an immense success at McVicker’s. He is a
man apparently about forty years of age, slight in figure, a striking face, a finished linguist; he has made some charming translations. He is a brilliant writer, and, as ‘Mat ;	Angel’ says, “ Mr. Runyon can turn out more copy in an
i	hour than any other man in Chicago.’ His translation of
i	‘ Memories,’ from the German, and ‘ Graziella,’ from the
'	Italian, have met with the success they richly deserved.
Runyon is a great writer, and his sun shall shed its warmth and light long alter he is dead and gone; however, for the sake of humanity and the Tribune, let us hope Runyon may live long and add new lustre to his name.” Of course
our readers know that “ Graziella ” was translated from the French of Lamartine, and not from the Italian. The book is for sale by Jansen, McClurg & Co., and we can recommend it to our old students.
Local Items.
—The audience at the St. Cecilian Entertainment was quite large.
—The members of the different societies are getting their badges ready for Commencement-Day.
—Everyone at Notre Dame is preparing for the Examinations and Che Commencement exercises. •
—It is said that the fencing at the St. Cecilian Entertainment was the best ever seen at Notre Dame.
—There was Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament every evening during the Octave of Corpus Cbristi.
—The members of the Band and Orchestra had a very pleasant drive to St. Joe Farm on last Wednesday.
—The St. Cecilia censors, G. Sugg, C- Hagan, R. J. Gol-sen, and H. Maguire, performed their duty well at the last exhibition.	-
—Our young artist has been doing good work during the week. The drawing of his chum, 8., has been admired by all who examined it.
—There will be a meeting of the standing committee of the Associated Alumni to-morrow afternoon at 2 p. m. All are requested to attend.
—Master A. J. Buerger’s recital of the poem in commemoration of the Golden Jubilee of Pio Nono on Tuesday evening, was praised by all.
—An inquirer would like to know how it is that some boys walk about the baseball grounds pulling and blowing their fingers every time they muff a ball ?
—After their Exhibition, the St. Cecilians went to work like men. They will no doubt exhibit their talents to advantage at the coming examinations.
—Last Sunday, the Pope’s Golden Jubilee, Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Letourneau, assisted by Revs. C. Kelly and T. E. Walsh as deacon and subdeacon.
—The St. Cecilians had the Papal colors flying over Washington Hall on the day of their Entertainment in honor of the fiftieth anniversary of the consecration of Pius IX.
—Vespers to-morrow are of St. Barnabas; pages 38 and 39 of the Vesperal, with Commemorations of the third Sun-, day after Pentecost, the Octave of the Sacred Heart, and St. Margaret.
—The new Polish Catholic church, on Monroe street, Rev. V. Czeyzewfski, C. S. C., will be dedicated in form, on Sunday, the 17th, Very Rev. Father Sorin officiating. —South Bend Tribune.
—On the day of the Pope’s Golden Jubilee, June 3rd, Rev. President Golovin preached a glowing and eloquent panegyric of His Holiness in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame.
—A soldier being asked how the fare was in the army, replied: ‘“ Well, to be candid about the thing, I have eaten so much pork within the last six months that I am ashamed to look a hog in the countenance.’’
—The youthful anglers were again in luck. They started from the College at 2 p. m. last Monday, and returned at 6 with a large striug of fish. Lee reports the number forty caddies, sixty-three bass, and one large snapper. •
—The two choruses sung at the St. Cecilian Exhibition by the Junior Choral Union under the direction of Br. Leopold, were excellently rendered and much admired. The members who took part in the choruses were about thirty in number.
—The decorations in Washington Hall on the night of the St. Cecilians’ Entertainment were very tasty. They were made under the supervision of Messrs.- Schmidt and McHugh, who may pride themselves on the fact that never were the decoralions in the hall equal to their decorations.
—At the 35th regular meeting of the St. Cecilian Philo-mathean Association, held May the 6th, the members ten-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dered a unanimous vote of thanks to Profs. Howard and Edwards, Bros. Leander, Paul, Leopold, Philip Neri, and Wilfred—also to Rev. Father Lilly—for favors received at the last exhibition.
—On account of our going to press the day after the Feast, it was impossible to give a lengthy description of the ceremonies on Corpus Christi. The procession around the lake was larger than any ever formed at Notre Dame. There were fully twelve hundred people in line, and four or five hundred people as witnesses.
—There were many beautiful arches erected on the grounds of St. Mary’s Academy last Sunday, when the procession of the Blessed Sacrament took place. Though all were beautiful, we were particularly pleased with the one erected on the space between the new cottage and the old Academy. It was worthy of the highest praise.
—Of the old St. Cecilians present at the Exhibition on the 5th Masters Sugg, and A. Lambin, deserve special mention for the efficient manner in which they discharged their duty as marshals, and Masters Augustus K. Schmidt and Jos. P. McHugh, for their artistic skill in decorating the Hall. The Association also returns thanks to Masters Wm. P. Breeu and Carl Otto.
—We would call the attention of the young men who take part in our Entertainments to the fact that it is entirely out of place for them to introduce local “gags” into their plays. It may be that the “gag” is understood by the “ boys ” here, but they should remember that there are many others in the hall to whom the jokes are utterly incomprehensible. Better by far to leave them out.
—EditorNotre Dame Scholastic:—Thesingiugoi the Te Deum at the conclusion of Corpus Christi procession at Notre Dame made a beautiful effect. It reminded us of our dear native land. There is a beautiful custom in Northern Germany observed at Corpus Christi processions, which is"-that the boys in the upper class of the parish school and those who have made their First Communion inarch before the priests and clerics siugiug sacred hymns alternately with them. The singing of the boys is accompanied by a band. We would suggest the same for next year.
—We are glad to see that some persons have adopted the laudable custom of cultivating small gardens of flowering plants in order to furnish means for decoration on Corpus. Christi. On account of the Feast falling so early in the season this year, the usual natural flowers were not yet in bloom but their place was supplied by artificial ones. A more plentiful supply for the decoration of the little oratories in the College and elsewhere can therefore now be had. Anyone needing such can obtain them by applying to Br. Hip-polytus or Br. Hilarion, at the Manual Labor School.
—The j<?lly Juniors of the University held their annual picnic in Johnson’s, grove on the St. Mary’s, road last Wednesday. The Herald man was there and reports a tip-top time. The boys had everything one could ask to eat, as also lemonade, ice cream and cigars in profusion—all without money or price. The University Band wafted wild waves of music through the dense groves and contributed largely to the success of the picnic, which lasted all day. The boys marched back to their college home, cheering lustily, and as happy as only boys are permitted to be. —South Bend Herald.
—On Wednesday the Minims made an excursion to St. Angel’s Island; on arriving there they were disappointed to find the central portion of the bridge which formerly connected it with the main land had been broken down and swept away. The water being shallow on one side, they were enabled to reach the island by the aid of a couple of planks. Arrived there they partook of the lunch they had brought along; the balance of the time was spent rambling around, and in fishing and athletic sports. On returning to the College they all declared it was the pleasantest afternoon they had spent for a long time.
—On Wednesday morning the members of the St. Cecilia Philomaihean Association planted their evergreen tree at the grave of the late Rev. Father Gillespie. After the tree was blessed by Rev. Father Granger a few remarks were made by Rev. President Golovin, in which he spoke of the many good qualities which marked the character of the deceased Father. The Be Profundis was then
chanted, and the tree was placed in the earth. Next year the Cecilians will plant their tree at the grave of the late Rev. Patrick Dillion, and when they have planted trees at the graves of all who once had charge of them they will plant their trees on the Campus.
Z^We made a mistake last week in our “Retrospects in paying that Very Rev. Father Badin was the founder of /Notre Dame. We meant to have said that he was the founder of the Mission at St. Mary’s of the Lake. Father Badin, while travelling through the northern part of Indiana in 1836, visited the place uow known as Notre Dame, but then lying unnoticed in its native forest wilderness and beauty. Struck by the loveliness of the place, or rather influenced by that Providence which directs the most apparently unimportant events for the accomplishment of Its own eternal designs, he resolved to secure the place to the Church as the site of a future College. Not long after, it passedintothehandsofRighlRev. Bishopdela Hailandi&re. the successor to Bishop Brute in the diocese of Vincennes, who transferred it to Very Rev. Father Sorin, then a simple priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and now its • Superior General, the actual founder of the College, uu- ' der whose direction it obtained its present proportions and success. Father Badin always seemed, to have a special affection for the place, making it his home occasionally; his unceasing labors on the mission, however, kept him travelling almost continually, but he seemed to take pleasure in taking a short rest from his labors here from time to time. Father Badin was the first priest ordained in the United States. His field of missionary labor extended through Kentucky, Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, and occasionally elsewhere. This devoted missionary was so well known on the Mississippi and other rivers that he was scarcely ever asked to pay a fare. He died at Cincinnati on the 19th of April, 1853, in the 85th year of his age, and nearly the 60th of his priesthood.
—The Entertainment given May 30th at St. Mary’s Acad-demy in honor of the Mother Superior, and to which we alluded in our last number, was in every respect worthy of the occasion. The exhibitions at the Academy are always enlivened by excellent music, and on this occasion the vocalists and instrumentalists seemed to surpass all former students. Misses H. and M. Julius, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunnihg, B. Spencer, H. Hawkins andE. Pleins played charmingly any number of duets, which were enjoyed fully by the large audience assembled to witness the exhibition. The singing was simply delicious. The choruses were given with a volume and at the same with a sweetness which to us was a perfect surprise. The solos of Misses Foote, O’Connor and Spencer, and the trio by Misses O’Connor, Spencer and Cavenor were wellrendered. All of these young ladies are possessors of voices at once sweet and powerful, and they give every evidence of thorough and skilful training. The addresses were read in a very praiseworthy manner, the articulation was distinct, the modulation of voice perfect. The German address was read by Miss Faxon, the Senior address by Miss Cravens, the French address by Miss Beal, the Junior address by Miss McGrath. The Minims paid their respects to their Superior in dumb eloquence. There was a French address from three young Misses, but as their names were not down on the programme we cannot give them. The five tableaux representing scenes in the life of St. Angela were highly artistic and were the admiration of all. We do not know who has charge of the tableaux at St. Mary’s, but we feel called upon to compliment her for the faultless manner in which she puts her scenes upon the stage. The prologue to the play was read in excellent style by Miss AI.Ewing, after which we were treated to an original drama entitled “Matilda of Tuscany.” We had a programme with the names of all those who took roles in the play, but we lost it, hence if we omit the names of any we beg pardon in advance. All acquitted themselves with ecto. The actors entered into the spirit of the play with great earnestness, and their rendition was excellent. The parts, as far as we can remember, were taken by Misses Faxon, Cravens, Kirchner, A. McGrath, N. McGrath, A. Walsh, L. Walsh, G. Breeze, Wilson, Cavenor, Byrue, Russell, Morgan, Ewing, Thompson, and others whose names now escape us. The Exhibition over, highly complimentary remarks were made by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Walsh,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
635
after which all adjourned to dinner, which was prepared in that faultless style for which St. Mary’s is justly famous.
—Last evening at Notre Dame was one of the most enjoyable of many a day; and there are many feasts over there, from time to time, for those who appreciate well-directed efforts to please the public—to interest and benefit those over whom Notre Dame throws her protecting mantle. The exercises last evening were in commemoration of the Golden Jubilee of Pope Pius,—perhaps we should say a part of the honors with which the anniversary was observed. The exercises were those of the Sl. Cecilia Philomathean Society, composed of the “Preps.” of the College. The exercises were in Washington Hall, which was most beautifully decorated for the occasion with flowers and evergreens—lavishly so. Festoons twined the pillars which support the gallery, and trailed along the galleries. They also depended in graceful curves, from corner to corner of the Hall, and met at the centre, from which depended an evergreen and floral globe, representing the earth. From this bristled the flags of all the nations of the earth. The effect was very fine. Small flags also dotted proper places in all parts of the Hall. We have not space for a report, at length, of the exercises of the evening, but they were of the most interesting character. The Hall was packed with spectators from the city and students. After the grand introductory march by' N. D. U. Band, which was very fine, the Choral Union sang the “Jubilee Hymn of Pope Pius IX.” Master Widdicombe followed with the address of the evening, a very neat little effort, proper to the occasion. Other exercises of the first part were as follows: Declamation, “Italy in 1847,” bi' F. W. Cavanaugh; song and chorus, “ Angel of Peace,” Choral Union; address, “Commemoration of the Golden Jubilee,” A. J. Buerger; music, by Orchestra; Declamation, “The Blue and the Gray,” F. McGrath; Prologue, Ralph J. Golsen; music, by Band. The second part was an amusing play, “The Midnight Intruder,” which took well, being very happily rendered. Then came the play of the evening, “Major John Andre,” an historical drama in five acts, recently written and prepared for the stage, by a Catholic priest, and played for the first time at Notre Dame, last evening. Right faithfully has the author acquitted himself in weaving into his play, with fidelity to history, the spirit of the piece, and well did the young gentlemen enter into their respective characters; each important character being selected with good judgment by Prof. Lyons for the post assigned him. The play is long, but who took note of time, as scene after scene of thrilling, pathetic interest was unfolded? The character of “Major Andre,” the star of the play, was sustained in a manner which reflected the highest credit on young Buerger, who had that part; and we may speak in the highest terms of commendation of C. Hagan, as “ Benedict Arnold”; of A. Widdicombe, as “Sir Henry Clinton”; J. Hagerty, as “Hezekiah Smith, the Hunchback Tory”; C. J. Clarke, as “George Washington,” and the young gentlemen who represented his generals. But why make this particular mention, when all did so well ? The play is one of rare interest, and was rendered throughout with unflagging interest, closing with a grand tableau, representing Major Andre and his lather, dead, in the foreground, with the page of Sir Henri' Clinton, weeping over them. Just behind them, the three captors, Spaulding, Williams, and Van Wert. On one side, Washington and staff, on the other, Sir Henry Clinton and staff, with Benedict Arnold in conspicuous position, standing before the drawn swords of Washington’s staff. From a raised position to the rear, C. J. Clarke, as Washington, delivered the epilogue. The effect was impressive in the extreme. Closing remarks by the Rev. P. J. Golovin wound up the evening’s entertainment, which will be remembered by all as one of the most pleasant they have attended.—Soutli Bend Register of June 6th.
—Injustice Rebuked.—A reward greatly inferior to the merit is an injustice. A brave fellow, who had both his arms shot off in battle, was offered half-a-crown by his Colonel. “ You surely think, Colonel," answered the soldier, with great readiness, “that I have only lost a pair of gloves.”
Roll of Honor.
[In the folio wing list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Burke, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, A. Hertzog, J. F. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. McEniry, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. Qninn, E. Riopelle, M. Regan, A. Schmidt, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, G. Saxinger, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Bergck, W. J. Brady, J. A Burger, J. Bell, G. H. Crawford, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, H. Canoll, J. Carrer, C. EL Colwell, M. Condon, G. H. Donnelly, F. C. Ewing, J. English, L. J. Frazee, T. Fischael, R. Golsen, R. French, J. L. Healy, W. Hake, Jas. E. Hagerty, J. Ingwerson, G. J. It-tenbach, R. E. Keenan, O. W. Lindberg, J. Lumley, F. T. McGrath, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, E. Moran, R. P. Mayer, J Mc-Tague, A. Miller, W. J. Nicholas, T. Nelson, W. H. Ohlman, C. T. Orsinner, E. J. Pennington, F. T. Pleins, E. F. Poor, C. Peltier, J. L. Perea, R. C. Price, W. J. Ryan, S. D. Ryan, F. Rheinboldt, J. H. Rothert, J. P. Reynolds, P. Schnnrrer, K. L. Scanlan, J. R. Schoby, G. E. Sugg, W. Taulby, C. Van Mourick, N. H. Vannamee, W. Vander Heyden, Charlie F. Walsh, T. Wagner, L. Wolf.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Heron, P. Nelson, J. Seeger, G. Lambin, W. McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, G. Hadden, A. Coghlin, C. Reif, E. Carqueville, R. Pleins, J. Scanlan, F. Carqueville, J. Inderrieden, C. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, W. Coghlin, A. Sehnert, H. Riopelle, F. Gaffney, W. Carqueville, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, H. Kitz, E. Hertzog, C. Hertzog.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING JUNE 6.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
G. Saylor, G. Laurens, F. Vandervannet, O. Hamilton, J. Burke, J. Fitzgerald, J. F. Krost, J. Kenny, F. Schlink, P. Hagan, E. Sugg, E. Pefferman, J. B. Patterson, T. Fischael, T. Garrity, C. Orsinger, J. Krost, J. Hagerty, G. Cassidy, G. Sngg, S. Ryan, L. Wolf, J. Gray, G. Saxinger, W. Dodge, F. Keller, J. Boehm, J. Ingwerson.

Corpus Christi at St. Mary’s.
Every year at Saint Mary’s we see the procession of the great Litanies on the Feast of Saint Mark and the Rogation Days winding its way among the groves and orclnrds of this charming retreat; while on the 31st of May the wax light procession, in honor of the Blessed Virgin under her title of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, has been one of such singular beauty that it may be called unique; possible, even, only in such an atmosphere as surrounds Saint Mary’s.
Still one- procession was always lacking, that of Corpus Christi. The faiut echoes of one many years ago lingered among the traditions of the oldest residents at St. Mary’s; but this was all which could be said in the way of precedent for the procession of the Blessed Sacrament on the afternoon of Sunday, .June 3d—the "first one," as almost everybody insisted upon calling it.
No sooner was it decided that the procession was to take place than all minds and fancies, all hearts and hands were engaged; and only upon such an occasion can the varied resources at Saint Mary’s be comprehended. There were repositories to be prepared, arches, mottoes—for these could not be drawn from some accumulated store of successive
636
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
years; and not only these, but a canopy; and not only a canopy, but it was discovered that a new cope and veil and burse must tell our Lord how much His spouses and daughters delight in honoring Him. But as ■children are known to be most deeply occupied when perfectly hushed, so alone could we judge of the intense occupation of the few days preceding; and not until Sunday after Mass was there anything to be seen but the skeletons of arches here and there. By noon of Sunday St. Mary’s had bloomed out like a bed of tulips under the warm sun of a spring day. Arches with their mottoes, and all a-flutter with draperies, and little banners with inscriptions alluding to the mystery honored; here and there a statue with a veil of soft lace such as ladies know how to prize, with delicate fern leaves falling like long garlands around the figure of the Blessed Virgin, or a St. Joseph leading the Divine Child. At halfpast five o’clock there was a setting of all the tides towards Loreto; Professed Sisters, Novices, Postulants, guests—and, still more conspicuous, the pupils of the Academy in their blue or pink uniform, carrying banners; those by the children of the Guardian Angel Society adorned with angelic devices; and others by the Children of Mary, bearing ail the titles given to our Lady in the Litany of Loreto. There was a faint odor of incense from the little chapel so dear to every one’s heart, and then we could see the Minims in their white dresses, with light baskets on their arms, ready to strew the path with lovely flowers. In a moment more the cross-bearer and Brothers, then the Priests, with Very Rev. Fr. Provincial, in their rich chasubles, issued from the chapel door, when our Minims heralded the coming forth of the Lord of the Tabernacle by a shower of blooms on the walk, stepping reverently, with their faces towards the King of kings, while the incense-bearer threw up clouds of incense from the glowing thurible, as the snowy head of Very Rev. Fr. General was seen under the white canopy with its silken hangings, covered with the cope, and on his shoulders the veil, in which he carried the os-tensorium with the Host. From Loreto they stepped into the shadows of the grove, taking the winding path along the river-bank. The tender green of the young foliage gave every variety of tint; below rolled the St. Joseph, with scarcely a ripple, and the sky was that of summer. At the bower of Our Lady of Mount Carmel was a tasteful side altar, and the very fences were garlanded with green as we continued along the bank and then turned so as to enter the same winding path again, until another turn took us, within the Ring, to Trinity arbor in the centre of the garden, which is laid out like a blooming Rosary. The flutter of the pretty pennons among the shrubbery, the beds of bloom and blooming garden, the voice of the fountain in full the carols of singing birds among the branches as if they, too, would be choristers, and join in the hymns of praise sung by priest and nun and Child of Mary; the doves, which looked out of their airy cages to add a plaintive minor note to the chorus, awl then the picturesque arbor inviting our Lord to its shelter, made one of those scenes which can never be reproduced except among their own surroundings. While the Benediction was given there was a hush among the very leaves of the garden; and when the choristers again took up the song of praise, earth and air, as well as singing birds, seemed to share the gladness. This repository was a gathering of all the beauties of the garden. The reposoir was hung with bunches of grapes and sprays of golden wheat, and the lights gleamed among flowers of the choicest hue, the garden crowning itself to meet Him who of old “walked in the garden at the cool of day.”
The winding garden walks gave a way of egress so as to pass by the Academy, where a repository had been arranged on the portico. The beautiful Novitiate altar had been placed here with its emblematic paintings from the hand, not of any hired designer, but from the novices themselves. Over the tabernacle was an exquisite reposoir, covered with satin, soft tulle, beshrined with stars in gold, with heads of wheat, and surmounted by three crosses, upon one of which rested a crown of gilt with jewels. The colored lights were particular^ soft, and the roses which touched the reposoir were as delicate as roses could be; the whole relieved against the recess of the portico richly draped, and enclosed, as it were, by the two large chestnut trees near by, of the richest green. We could not but believe that the youthful hands which had done so much for
this repository, which they proudly called their own would be richly rewarded by Him who said “Meye have not always.”
From the Academy steps the procession took the winding way which leads between Saint Joseph’s Cottage and Saint Ann’s, under the blooming arch of the Minims, with decorations on either side the way, to Loreto, whose whole front represented a repository in white and gold, and holding forth its arms as if inviting all to the fold of peace. On one side of the repository was the statue of Our Lady of Loreto, above it the picture of the Holy Father, Pius IX; on the other side the statue of Blessed Margaret Mary Alacoque, and above this the picture of Saint Joseph; and this bower of whiteness and repose, on the very walls of a chapel copied from the house in which took place the mystery of the Incarnation, sheltered by tall trees, relieved against a background of lovely hills, and just tipped with the last rays of the setting sun! The voices of the choir were as strong as ever at the last Benediction hymn, and never did the voice of the venerable General of the Order of Holy Cross rise more sweetly from the midst of his chil-ren than at the foot of the Repository of Loreto, after on had given the Benediction of the day to those kneeling he the paths and greensward. It was a day and evening to be long remembered by the Community and by the pupils themselves, who will take to their homes and along the dusty ways of the world the remembrance of all which touched tneir young souls on this lovely 3d of June, 1877.
We had an opportunity to see the cope, veil and burse before they were used. All are of rich moire antique, of a whiteness as soft as that of ostrich plumes, and the fringe and edges in gold of the fairest quality. On the cape of the cope was painted in water-colors the favorite symbol of the Blessed Sacrament, the pelican, feeding its eager young with the blood from its own breast. In this instance there were five in the brood, as if the artist remembered the five Wounds. On the veil was represented an ostensorium with the Host, in which appeared the Infant Jesus, radiant with joy, extending His arms to all mankind, and seated on sheaves of wheat, with grapes on their vines clustered on either side. The motto:
0 Salutaris Hostia,
Quae coeli pandis ostium, printed in water-colors on gold, made the inner rim of the ostensorium, and outside of this was a wreath of adoring angels in water-colors, relieved by the golden rays of the ostensorium on the rich silk. The whole effect was exceedingly rich in the open air and sunshine. The burse was choicely embroidered in white silk, with the Sacred Heart glowingly painted in water-colors; the whole an offering from the pencils and brushes of an art department upon which Pio Nono has bestowed a special Benediction.
E. A. S.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, A Byrne, M. Walsh, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neil, L. Kelly, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A Reising, H. Russell, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, A. Wooden, E. Pleins, A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, M. l)unn, H. Millis, L. Tighe, M. Pomeroy, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, M. Smalley, 8. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, C. Ortmeyer, M. Us-selman, I. Cook, S. Rheinboldt, A Miller, 100 par excellence. Misses H. Julius, M. O’Connor, A. Harris, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, M. Schultheis, D. Cavenor, G. Breeze, B. Siler, A. Koch, K. Bur-gie, M. Coughlin, M. Plaltenburg, M. Hungerford, J. Burgle, N. Johnson, C. Thaylor, E. Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses A Ewing, A. Kirchner, A McGrath, A. Morgan, C. Corrill, D. Gordon, L. Chilton, M. Mulligan, M. Ewing, L. Walsh, J. Kingsbury, L. Cox, M. Lambin, N. Hackett, M. Cox, L. Van-namee, L. Ellis, A Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty, E. Wooten, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Redfield, E. Parsons.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A O’Con
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	637
nor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall.
1st Sb. Class.—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, A. Harris, E. O’Neill, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A. Reising.
2d Sr. Class.—Misses H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, A. Cullen, E. Lange, S. Moran, IE O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson.
3d Sr. Class.—Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, A. Wooden, E. Pleins, D. and A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, E. McGrath, M. Dunn, H. Millis.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses L. Tinhe, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Burgert, G. Conklin. M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, C. Ortmeyer, M. Plattenburg, M. Usselman, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie, S. Rheinboldt, L. Weier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr. Class—Miss Mary Ewing.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Ewing, A. Morgan, M. Mulligan, D. Gordon, L. Walsh, A. Kirchner.
2d Prep. Class—Misses A. McGrath, L. Chilton, I. Mann, M. Redfield, E. Mulligan, C. Correll.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Cox, M. Lambin, <F. Fitz, J. Kingsbury.
1st Jr. Class—Misses L. Vannamee, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Ellis, F. Sunderland, M. Davis.
LATIN.
Misses Cravens, Rodiuberger, Cooney, Carroll, Russell and. Hawkins.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, L. Weber,”H. Julius, A. Kirchner, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis, L. Kelly.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, A. Reising, C. Ortmeyer, M. Usselman, C. Boyce, D. Gordon, L. Walsh, S. Rheinboldt, A. Koch, L. Johnson, M. Spier, S. Hennebery.
FRENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, N. McGrath, P. Gaynor, M. and E. Thompson, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, C. Silverthorne, A. McGrath, L. Rodiuberger, J. Burgert, M. O’Connor, J. Bennett, A. Walsh.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Walsh, H. Millis.
4th Class—Misses S. Moran, A. Ewing, M. Ewing, E. and M. Mulligan, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts.
FANCY-WORK.
Misses H. Hawkins, C. Correll, S. Cash, A. Koch, I. Cook, M. Halligan, B. Wilson, E. Pleins, N. O’Meara.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
.A. CATHOLIC JOURNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS E„ AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS :	a „
One Year.......................................$	2 50
Five Years......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)  .20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St., New York.	j
The Two Foremost Popular Scientific Magazines.
The Popular Science Monthly, THE POPULAR
Science Monthly Supplement.
Conducted by E. L. YOUMANS.
IE* rices.	per number, per year.
Tre Popular Science Monthly ...........50 cents...$5.00
The Popular Science Monthly Supplement 25 “ ...... 3.00
The Uonthly and S jpplement. Taken Together ...... 7.00
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
Was started (in 1872) to promote the diffusion of valuable scientific knowledge, in a readable and attractive form, among all classes of the community, and has thus far met a want supplied by no other magazine in the United States.
It is published in a large octavo, handsomely printed in clear type, and, when the subjects admit, fully illustrated. Each number contains not less than 128 pages.
Ten volumes have now appeared, which are filled with instructive and interesting articles and abstracts of articles, original, selected, translated, and illustrated, from the pens of the leading scientific men of different countries. Accounts of important scientific discoveries, the application of science to the practical arts, and the latest views put forth concerning natural phenomena, have been given by savants of the highest authority. Prominent attention has been also devoted to those various sciences which help to a better understanding of the nature of man, to the bearings of science upon the questions of society and government, to scientific education, and to the conflicts which spring from the progressive nature of scientific knowledge.
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY SUPPLEMENT
(Established May, 1877.)
Appears monthy, and is complete in itself. It is published in large octavo, of about one hundred pages, uniform with the Monthly. The Supplement contains articles of great scien- -tific interest by the ablest minds in England, France and Germany, for which the editors cannot find space in the Monthly. The purpose of the Supplement is to increase the scope and influence of The Popular Science Monthly, so as to meet the augmentingrequirements of the times, and make this publication the completest reflection of the scientific and philosophic progress of the age that can be anywhere obtained.
Opinions op the Press.
“If the ‘Supplement’always presents on its title-page such an array of distinguished names, it is likelv to rival the parent magazine-in the public favor.”—New York Evening Post. “‘The Popular Science Monthly’has recently issued a Supplement, which marks a new era in that very able periodical.”—Baltimore Gazette. “ This new enterprise will be received by the reading world with pleasure.”— Baily Courier, Buffalo, N. Y. “ This new venture of Appleton & Co. ought to be very successful.”—The Baily Spy, Worcester, Mass. “The ‘Supplement’ contains several able and interesting papers.”—Hartford Baily Courant. “It is a work of rare interest and ability.”—Norfolk Bui- ’ letin.
JAMES BONNEY
TUB PHOTOG-E/AFHER.
Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BZEnSTZD, TTsTZDIA-TTA..
638
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-May 13; 1877.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago....	5 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	7 33 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles ..	9 01 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	10 50 “	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson.	2 15 p.m	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	« 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	4 45 p.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.u
“ Kalamazoo..	116 p.m	2 40 “	5 CO a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 50 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 02 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago.	6 55 “	7 40 “	10 15 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Snperiors of both Institutions.
t*. S HICKEY.
IViles and Sontlx Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—815 a.m. 630 p.m. “ N. Dame— 8 22 •	635 Ar. Niles— 855 “	715“	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6 56 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame— 725 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 30 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Henby C. Wentwobth,	^Saturday and Sunday excepted. H. B. LedyAnn,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
ZEL MEYER, Agent
FOR
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for •‘Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1.500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Hlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BENO, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-1
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or
impaired digestion.	/
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House, Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Numbeb of Specimens
Crystals and fragments.. Students’ size, larger.. Amateur's size, 2J4 in. x 1J4
I 25
I inbox
I § 50 §1
50	100
inbox inbox
100
200 300
1 50
3
§1 50 | § 1
6
High School or Acad. size,2%x3% in. shelf specimens College size, 314x6 in., shelf specimens . .
5
10
25
500
$ 2
10
25
50
100
§ 3
50
100
300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of .Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trams for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. Thia is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation.................. 5	00	p.m.	9 35	a.m.
Night Express.......................10	00	p.m.	6 50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
M. Livingston & Co.,
ABE THE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	639
Attorneys at Law.
BRO wN «fc HARVEY (E M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G-. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
<UHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
F^JNISriWO & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JO HIV E. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.	.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WIT/EI A M J. CL A RKE (nf ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JUNIES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69 —Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa Collections promptly attended to.
TOHN I). McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law eJ and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	*
GOING EAST.
8 35 a m„ Chicago and St. Lonis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05.
IO 37" a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25pm;
Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
13 30 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 13 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am: Cleveland, 7 ('5am; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 1pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 820 a m.
4 38 d m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago. 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 4,5 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
TOWLE & ROPER,
WHOLESALE DEALERS IN
CIGARS I TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, -	-	• ILLINOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE. LIST.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
Organ for Sale.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTJf± LIB J STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for ZA_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
’Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COEUNITIIUY. published weeklv at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, ?2.5o.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74' §1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass 0. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, 0. 0. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective ■ swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price. §700; will be sold for §500.
For further particulars address
Very Rev. A. GRANGER, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
34 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, India"ap-olis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rfTHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, MichI igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.
640
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul. Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Dlinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Paci- .c R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with, trains of all cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bememher. you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & North-Western Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT,	MARVIN Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo", West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, H .. and Louisiana, Mo........4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SAFE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story truce house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-fhedj<coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Xnd.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEADER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A.itsrr>
JEWELRY.
411 Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 20,1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.i, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	900 A.M.	1.50 P.M.	6.00 A.M
Rochester,		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,								310 a.m.	12.50 p.m.	535 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		446 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
IWansfield, 		........	7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 "
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		925 “	7.35 “	11.15 “	
Lima,							10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		3.45 “ -	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST				
	No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	T^ave	9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	4.45 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 am.	11.25 “	7.50 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	9.55 “	
Lima,		8 55 “	4.05 “	11.25 “	
Forest,			10.10 “	5.20 “	1220 a.m.	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	1.35 “		
Crestline	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	1.40 A.M.	605 a.m
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.44 “	205 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.30 “	9.38 “	3 40 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.05 “	11.15 “	5.03 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	6.49 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	7.50 p.m.	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY EINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs.from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEES, G. P. & T. A. -