lotre Dame Scholastic.
Biscc quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 5, 1881.	Number 24.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.
G. F. Sugg^ ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83. ’
W. B. McGorrisk, ’82.
F. W. Bloom. ’81.
H. C. Simms. *83.
W. H. Arnold, ’82.
R. E. Fleming, ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.
Love.
FROM “PRELUDES,” BY MAURICE F. EGAN.
Is love the passion that the poets feign, Drawn from the ruins of old Grecian time. Born of Priapus and all earthly slime, And tricked by troubadours in trappings vain Of flowers fantastic, like a Hindoo fane;
Or the long metre of an antique rhyme Dancing in dactyls ? Is love, then, a crime— A rosy day’s eternity of pain ?
If we love God, we know what loving is;
For love is God’s: He sent it to the earth, Half-human, half-divine, all glorious,— Half-human, half-divine, but wholly his;
Not loving God, we know not true love’s worth, We tasted not the great gift He gave to us.
---------- I o I---------
Washington.
BY F. W. BLOOM.
All nations, ancient and modern, have honored the illus-lustrious dead. And why? Because of all incentives to high exertions intellectual and moral, none are so potent as the examples of the great. Greece had her Achilles, Rome her Scipio, France her Charlemagne, England her Wellington, and we Americans our glorious Washington. Other nations may have had greater warriors, more renowned statesmen, poets more brilliant; hut no nation has produced a man of such sterling worth, of such unblemished reputation, with a union of qualities so great and good,—all directed and devoted to the service and benefit of his country.
On the 22d of February, 1732. a soul was ushered into existence; and on the 14th of December, 1799, that soul winged its flight to the great Creator. The first throb of the-child’s pulse was in a land under the lash; the man drew his last breath in a land of freedom. His nativity was not celebrated with rejoicings; but his death was a
severe blow to the feelings of a nation. There were no princely demonstrations at his birth; but no monarch’s demise has ever been accompanied by greater or more sincere manifestations of sorrow. George Washington’s mission in life was grand, yand its fulfilment redounds to his greatness. His success is rendered only more conspicuous by the ultimate failures of so many men similarly circumstanced. Men promise much and perform little; they think they are marching on to fame and greatness, whilst the ground is opening beneath their feet, and they are sinking to destruction. Like CEdipus, they solve the riddle of the sphinx, and are blind to the riddle of their own liveg; and there have been sufficient historical examples to point out a moral. Scarcely one of those great statesmen whose names are so familiar, commanding the armies and guiding the councils of his country, has either lived long or seen good days; defeat, disaster, or dishonor has been the lot of almost all. Themistocles died in a strange land, a pensioner on a great king’s bounty; Pericles fell a victim to the plague which was decimating his besieged countrymen; and Alexander and Napoleon alike fell in the midst of triumphs. Washington, however, was as fortunate as he was great and good. Under his auspices, a civil war was conducted with mildness, and a revolution with order. Raising himself above the influence of popular passions, he happily directed them to the most useful purposes. Uniting the talents of the soldier with the qualifications of the statesman, and pursuing, unmoved by difficulties, the noblest end by the purest means, he had the supreme satisfaction of beholding the complete success of his great military and civil services in the independence and happiness of his country.
Whoever has occasion to examine carefully into the history of the period in which Washington lived, will find his reverence for the character of that , illustrious man always increasing. Something of the same feeling exists as possesses one looking at Delaroche’s famous picture of Marie Antoinette. All else in the painting—whether judges, guards, or spectators—sinks into shade and insignificance before the one grand central-figure, standing out in bold relief against the darkness of the canvas—
“ Her purpose flashing in her face.”
The more intimately one becomes acquainted with the facts, the more firmly is he convinced that Washington , was, throughout the whole forming period of the republic, the grand moving power; everything seems to have depended on him: the leaders of popular opinion looked to him for advice; the Congress for direction. While the war was raging he guided every movement, repressed all discontent, infused the breath of life into inert masses, and created the means of efficient warfare. When the war was ended, and a new form of government became necessary,
370
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
he guided the deliberations on which it was founded. When its strength and efficiency were to be tested by experiment, the sovereign power was placed in his hands, which steered the new ship of state through the most perilous storms, and conducted her into the secure haven of national prosperity. He was present in every creative movement; the impress of his mind is stamped upon every great national institution. Nor was the character of his mind unfolded only in the public acts of his life; the proofs of his greatness are seen as well in his private actions. The same qualities which raised him to the ascendency he possessed over the will of a nation as the commander of armies, and chief magistrate, caused him to be loved and respected as an individual. Wisdom, judgment, prudence, and firmness were his predominant traits. Courage, physical and moral, was a part of his nature; and, whether in battle or in the midst of popular excitement he was fearless of danger, and regardless of consequences to himself. We cau imagine how he must have been inspired with the noble idea of patriotism, wafted, as in Plato’s state, “like gales of health, blowing fresh from salubrious lands”—by the sight and ever-recurring thought of the subjection, which galled the pride and spirit of independence existing in his own and in the hearts of his coun-trymen.\^His ambition was of that noble kind which aims to-excel in wha ever it undertakes, and to acquire a power over the hearts of men by promoting their happiness and winning their affections. Uis moral qualities were in perfect harmony with those of his intellect. To his equals he was condescending; to his inferiors, kind; and to the dear object of his affections, exemplarily tender. Correct throughout, vice shuddered in his presence, and virtue always felt his fostering hand. Duty was the ruling principle of his conduct; and the rare endowments of his understanding were not more constantly tasked to devise the best methods of effecting an .object, than they were to guard the sanctity of conscience. A Christian in faith and practise, he was habitually devout. His reverence for religion is seen in his example, public communication, and private writings. He uniformly ascribed his successes to the beneficent agency of the Supreme Being. Charitable and humane, he was liberal to the poor, and kind to those in distress, j As he was free from envy, so he had the good fortune to escape the envy of others, by standing on an elevation which none could hope to attain. If he had one passion more strong than another, it was love of country. The purity and ardor of his patriotism were commensurate with the greatness of its object. Love of country in him was invested with the sacred obligation of a duty; and from the faithful discharge of this duty he never swerved for a moment, either in thought or deed, through the whole period of his eventful career. Combining the physical and moral force of all within his sphere, with irresistible weight he took his course, commiserating folly, disdaining vice, dismaying treason, and invigorating despondency until the auspicious hour arrived, when, united with the intrepid forces of a potent and magnanimous ally, he brought to submission the future conqueror of India; thus finishing his long career of military glory with a lustre corresponding to his great name and in this, his last act of war, affixing the seal of fate to our nation’s birth. To the horrid din of battle, sweet peace succeeded; and the virtuous chief, mindful only of the common good, in a moment, tempting personal aggrandisement hushed the discontents of growing sedition; and.
surrendering his power into the hands from which he had received it, converted his sword into a plough-share, teaching an admiring world that to be truly great, you must be truly good. His own superiority and the public confidence alike marked him as the man designed by Heaven to lead in the great political as well as military events which distinguished the era of his life. The finger of an over-ruling Providence, pointing at Washington, was neither mistaken nor unobserved, when, to realize the vast hopes to which our revolution had given birth, a change of political system became indispensable. This arduous task devolved on citizens selected by the people, from knowledge of their wisdom, and confidence in their virtue. In this august assembly of sages and patriots, Washington, of course, was found; and, as if acknowledged to be most wise, where all were wise, with one voice was declared their chief. How well he merited this rare distinction, how faithful were the labors of himself and his compatriots, the work of their hands and our union, strength and prosperity," the fruits of that work, best attest. But to have a constitution was showing only, without realizing, the general happiness. This great work remained to be done; and America, steadfast in her preference, with one voice summoned her beloved Washington, unpracticed as he was in the duties of civil administration, to execute this last act in the completion of the national felicity. Nobly did he fulfil the duties of the trust assigned to him, and he received his reward in the plaudits of his beloved countrymen. Such was Washington, the hero, at the mention of whose name every true American heart bounds with love and patriotism, and whose glory and renown, the reward of heroic virtue, form the theme of many a reflection for prtriotic heroes. Genius is much, but it is not all; it is only when it coexists with virtue that its possessor is really deserving of our admiration and esteem.
It is the happy combination of rare talents and qualities, the harmonious union ot the moral and intellectual qualities, rather than the dazzling splendor of any one trait which constitutes the grandeur of Washington’s character. For we may truly say, “ the purity of his private character gave effulgence to his public virtues,’’—praise most true, than which none could be greater.
Orthography and Phonetics,
BY JAS. NORFLEET.
Language is an organism. Etymology and orthography teach the structure of this organism. Organic bodies are subject to changes with reference to their development from an imperfect to a perfect state, from primeval greenness to subsequent maturity.
With these premises we venture an exposition of the confused results that would accrue from the adoption of a phonetic method of orthography. The new, but not less interesting, science of philology shows markedly the difference between the English idioms and orthography of the time of Chaucer (who, with Wickliffe, may justly be acknowledged the source of our vernacular) and those of the present day. This change observed in the transmission of the English tongue is not less noticeable in other languages. We will depenfl for the most part on our
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	371
mother-tongue for exemplification and reason by analogy of other speeches.
The English of to-day bears the same resemblance to its origin as the man to the baby. The fundamental element still exists; the traces or recognizable marks are, of course, almost effaced or concealed; the superstructure hides the foundation, but always implies its existence. Upon the masonry of the English language generation after generation have been erecting new idioms and shaping the orthography of the elements of these idioms with different material.
The two great truths established by philology are, viz.: That languages are subject to laws, rational and philosophic, like all other manifestations of the mind of man: and that languages have their history, which may be traced from the first indefinite sound of the infant to the last sigh of the expiring giant; that they grow, prosper and spread, decline, and finally succumb, with the nations by whom they are spoken, and with the mind of which they have been at once the exponent and the evidence. Changes, then, sensible after the lapse of long periods, like those observed in animal growth, have been made. The English of Chaucer would to-day be considered by some, even with a tolerable understanding of English, as the language of a foreign author. In the orthography of our language we are gravitating towards perfection, perhaps. At this period the inclination of speeches is to disembody themselves of cumbersome forms and tedious inflections— as witnessed in ancient languages, the Greek and Latin for instance,—and io assume a lighter garb, to depart from the mechanical and to approach the spiritual; this tendency is accomplished in proportion to the culture and refinement of the mind. This is now the spirit of all great idioms: to relieve themselves of bodily forms.
In language there are two elements: the spiritual and the material. The spiritual is the idea conceived in the mind; the material, or corporeal, is the vehicle by which this idea is expressed. To make known this idea in as light and airy a vesture as possible, is the drift of cultivated speech. But this spiritual expression cannot be effected in a day, or a year, or a period, by the artificial contrivance of man, but will ultimately be attained in the continual elevation of man’s mind. The slow but smooth-flowing current of improvement must not be interrupted in its course, nor its progress accelerated by artificial means, for the works of art are not lasting. Language and its orthography cannot be dealt with arbitrarily: it forms a part of man’s nature; it is an instrument more comprehensive in its use than any of the senses, and it is a gift of God. It is the genius of the English language that it has no general laws for orthography, not even that of analogy. And shall we destroy its chief characteristic ? Orthography in its original forms observed no regularity in the combinations. By use and human genius, by a skilful adaptation of sound to letters, with a due regard to etymology, orthography has assumed its present form. Shall we ruthlessly plunge headlong into the perversion of a system toward which our course has been directed since the world began ? Why create a confusion, worse confounded than that of Babel, for the sake of a few egregious sciolists, whose only aim in this pretended needed reformation is to acquire for themselves a reputation and fame by which they may be arrayed pre-eminent in the galaxy of the departed great (who, forsooth! may be charged with folly), because in all the plenitude of their wisdom they evinced a desire and worked
for the formation of a ridiculous mode of spelling. “ Why ridiculous ? ” our adversaries may contend. Bidicu-lous, because even if the changes were logical, what set or body of men shall be made the standard of phonics? How from the wreck of the present existing dictionary can they construct a more perfect orthography, giving etymology its-due consideration? The literary upstarts who proposed this principle perhaps in their generosity did not conceive the obstacles they would place in the way of their descendants by involving in obscurity words derived from the Greek, Latin, or other foreign sources. In studying, for instance, the etymology of the word “philosophy,” if spelt “ filosofy,” the student would necessarily have to go through the routine of a comparison of sounds: whereas now, if he has any knowledge of Greek, the origin of the word presents itself with the word.
The consideration of this word “ philosophy ” recalls to my mind the story of the little boy, who, upon being remonstrated with on account of his erroneous orthography of the word “socks,” wanted to know if “s-o-x” didn’t spell “ socks,” what did it spell. His orthographical performance was thoroughly phonetic, and his question was, of course, unanswerable; but I have never heard that anyone recognized in that boy genius; rather stupidity. If that boy be alive to-day, doubtless he considers that the correction of his master and the laughter of his classmates were ill-timed, and perceives in his injured person the martyr of a reformation, but who feels his cause now espoused by valiant men. We have.said that the inclination of language is to assume a spiritual garb. This is the main point of my essay. The accomplishment of this inclination cannot be effected precipitately. By continual enlightenment, the mind will eventually bring about these changes, and will nicely, without tediousness, maintain the relations of etymology. But if the mind declines, a relapse to mechanisms will succeed.
Another difficulty in the way of a phonetic method of spelling is, that the same letters, even among people of our own tongue, have not the same sounds. Climate has influence. Who shall regulate this? Who can.make the harsh, grating tones of the Northern and the soft, smoothflowing and melodious notes of Southern people sound alike? The adoption of the method would give rise to all kinds of facetiousness and excesses in orthography. Leave orthography alone; let it develop itself. The physical appearance of man is not substantially improved by artifice, and the outgrowth of his mind cannot be. The mind wanting, will find that which is needed.
In conclusion, I am led to say that, in time, a method of orthography (following the present tendency of speech) answering to the phonetic mode proposed, will be effected, if the mind is continually developed. For the orthography of modern English is superior to early English; and who can doubt that the English spoken by posterity, at the present rate of improvement, will not excel in orthography that of to-day until, disembodied, words shall assume their spiritual robes.
—An Irishman went to the theatre for the first time. Just as the curtain descended on the first act, an engine in the basement exploded, and he was blown through the roof, coming down in the next street. After coming to his senses, he asked: “ And what piece do you play next?”
5
372
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Hoitieultural Hints.
Although it is not our intention to devote our columns to any matters apart from college journalism, we gladly give space to the following suggestions, presuming that they might be of greater utility to some of our readers at the present time than a treatise on Greek mythology, knowing that a large number of our patrons belong to the farming and horticultural class, and that perhaps they don’t read or study works on orchard culture to its best advantage.
As the shadow of spring is looming in the near future,— and, as a general thing, orchards and gardens suffer severely from the ravages of ti.e storms in midsummer and heavy snows in winter, it may be needful for the farmer to make a tour of observation among his trees, and use the knife and pruning-saw before the plow and the hoe demand his attention. It is proverbial “ that the hope of reward sweetens labor,’’ but, in fruit culture, both labor and reward are lost, if neglect gets either toleration or indulgence. All broken, decayed, or decaying limbs should now be cutaway, as also all superfluous branches which not only consume the sap from the bearing limbs but choke up the head so as to exclude the air, light, and dewy moistures so e-sent;al to the formation of young fruit The limbs should be cut off closely, and even with the body, without leaving any ends or spurs projecting as many do, for those are sure to take the water and eventually give a dry rot to the heart of the whole tree, making a squirrel burrow of it; the face of the cuts and around the edges should be pared smoothly after the saw, both to prevent rain lodging about the core and to let the sap coat over more freely on smooth surface. When limbs, an inch or more thick, are cut off, a coating of cheap paint, such as is generally used on barns or fences, will be a great benefit, as it prevents the wound from cracking or dasing, if applied when the wood is just seasoned enough to soak it in. After the heads of the trees have received due attention, the butt or bottom will be demanding special consideration; for it is the winter quarters for all insects and maggots which prey on the sap and foliage in summer, and make the crotches and chinks in the limbs the deposits for their eggs and hatching-beds in spring. A good hoeing and clearing off about the base of the trunk will not only break up this rendezvous, but give the returning birds a rich picnic and a chance to rid the earth of those pests, which, if the weeds, sod, and suckers are not rooted up will hinder their operations The wider the hoeing under the tree, the better, as it saves the necessity of plowing too close when both body and roots are often very badly injured, especially those roots which seek nutrition close to the surface. And while it is requisite that the earth should be kept clean and porous under trees as far as roots are likely to extend, hoeing is by far the most preferable, as being the safest, (especially on light loose soil) for two reasons: first, it-will not cut up or malm the fibrous surface-roots which draw so much nutrition and moisture from the refreshing rains of summer; mxt, it will not disturb or lighten the anchorage which the imbedded roots are grappled . in, and which is the only stay and safeguard heavyheaded trees have against being blown sideways or totally uprooted by severe storms. But as the roots of trees require the natural amount of food and moisture to sustain a healthy, vigorous vegetation for the size of the head and crop it is bearing, and which tljpy are designed to supply
in a relative proportion with corn, potatoes, cabbage, or any other cereal crops, it is self-evident that the growth of weeds, sods, or anything else having capillary attraction is simply an act of petty larceny of that which, of natural right, belongs to the growing fruit, and for which reason it is so frequently diminished both in quantity and quality far in excess of what it would cost to receive a due and proper share of cultivation. When the weather sets in warm and beaming, insects will commence to incubate in the forks of the limbs and under the loose old shell-bark and moss (which by all means should be kept scraped off) a good scrubbing of soft soap with a shoe-brush will richly compensate lor the trouble, as it will destroy the larva and hatching nests of those parasites, and so save the fruit from being wormy which is principally caused by the young vermin getting into the germ of the blossoms just after they are able to crawl: and should you happen to find a mound of ants in your operation, don’t destroy or abuse them, but carefullly colonize them all over the orchard with pre-emption rights, for “Morgan’s raiders” never made greater depredations on a cattle ranch than ants do upon the deposits of insects which live in, and on fruit trees, after destroying the quality of the fruit. Scoring the sides of the trunk and heavy limbs in one or two places with a common pocket-knife is very beneficial, as it allows the bark to expand without bursting when the sap is rising, besides preventing the trees from becoming hide-bound, mossy, or shell-barked.	T. D.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Boito is writing a biography of Verdi.
—Remenyi played in Chicago a few evenings since to a very large audience.
—Mr. George C. Munzig, the Boston artist, is painting a portrait of Miss Lillian Bailey.
—Pickwick and the immortal Sam Welter are the subjects of a painting by G. C. Eichbaum, of St. Louis.
—The English critics condemn “ La Belle Normande,” a new opera which has been produced in London.
—M. Bonnat, the well-known,painter, has been elected to the vacent seat in the Academy of Fine Arts, Paris.
—About 100 pictures were sold at the late exhibition of the Philadelphia Society of Arts, realizing over $20,000.
—The pictures got at the San Donati sale, in Florence, for the Boston Art Museum have arrived at their new home.
—“Her Majesty’s Opera Company” will return to New York for another engagement, opening next Monday evening.
—Mr. Issac Walker’s pictures brought $36,069 at auction. One of Schreyer’s, “ A Surveying Party,” was sold, for $2,350.
—The sales at the Salmagundi Sketch Club’s Black and White Exhibition footed up $20,55. It was not a financial success.
—The king of Bavaria has subscribed 300,000 marks towards the performance of Wagner’s “ Parsival ” at Bay-euth, in 188 2
—When Mdme. Adelina Patti was in Madrid, recently, she gave $800 for distribution among the poor of that part of the city where she was born.
—Sixty-seven of Mr. Reid’s collection of paintings brought $32,605, and the entire collection of 142 realized $70,185. Eight brought over $1,000.
—A national exhibition of the products of Italian art, industry, and agriculture is to be held at Milan on the 1st of May, 1881, and will remain open until Aug. 1.
THE KOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	373
—Lord Beaconsfield is said not to read his manuscript pages over, but to send them straight to a friend for revision. He thinks little of “ Lothair,’’ and much of “Endymion.”
—Mr. Charles Coding, of London, is said to have sold a collection of 190 snuff-boxes, enamelled, painted, and otherwise decorated, to a dealer in antiquties for the sum of $200,000.
—Mr. Bridgeman’s picture, called “ Lady of Cairo Visiting,” has brought §1,350 to the purse of that industrious artist; his “Jewess and Arab,” $900, and his “Evening on the Nile,” §500	.
—A few evenings ago, at Sandwich, Ill., an audience was so noisy during a solo by Remenyi that the violinist retired abruptly from the stage, and refused to finish the entertainment.
—A costly monument, to be erected over the tomb of Zachariah Chandlier, is cutting at one of the Main granite works. A statue of the Rebel General Stonewall Jackson is also making there.
—There have been discovered north of the site of Memphis, and near Sakhara, Egypt, two pyramids erected by kings of the sixth dynasty. The interior apartments are covered with several thousand inscriptions.
—During the year 1880 there were published in the United States 2,076 books—an average of over thirty-four a week. Of this number, 292 were works of fiction; 270, juvenile books; 239, theological and religious; 151, works of biography, memoirs, etc.
—A Prussian officer has published a minute and exhaustive report upon the fortifications and the natural defenses of the entire Franco-Germau frontier, from Lux-■ emburg to Switzerland. French papers, in discussing the circumstance, allude to the possibility of another war.
—The word parchment is derived from Pergamus, where about 200 B. C. the art of preparing the skins of animals writing was brought to great perfection. The skins prepared there were called pergamena, whence our English word parchment.—D. L. Musselman in “ Modern Argo."
—The three ^prizes in the competition opened by the American Architect for an “ entrance hall of a small hotel in a country town, frequented by the highest classes of society,” were awarded to W. A. Bates, of New York; E. Dewson, of Boston; and T. J. Gould and F. W. Angell, of Providence.
—A picture of large size and containing many figures is being finished by W. H. Low for the approaching exhibition of the Society of American Artists. The scene is Nantucket, and the actors a crowd of women of Marblehead standing near that “ Find Oireson ” whom Mr. Whittier has immortalized.
—The fifty-second annual exhibition of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts will be opened in Philadelphia on Monday, the 4th of April, and will continue until Monday the 30th of May. Contributions will be received at the Academy from Monday, the 14th of March, till Saturday, the 19th of the same month.
—Gounod’s new opera, “ Tribut de Zamora,” has been in preparation for some at the Paris Opera and under the supervision of Gounod himself. This opera will be given this month, and will doubtless be a gratifying change to the Parisians, who' have grown a little y/eary of “Faust,” “ William Tell,” “ Favorita,” and others.
—Constantine Sternberg, the Russian piano virtuoso, is on a tour through the Southern States, and is meeting with enthusiastic audiences everywhere. Since Feb. 1, he has played in Washington, Richmond, Norfolk, Raleigh, Charleston, Savannah, Augusta, Chatanooga and Lexington,—in some of these cities giving two and three concerts.
—It is announced that a new edition of “ Worcester’s Quarto Dictionary ” will be ready shortly, with a supplement of over 200 pages, containing more than 12,000 new words and a vocabulary of synonyms. The publishers claim that the additional matter renders this work the most complete dictionary of English language published.
—This famous French song was written to please the Mayor and Mayoress of Strasburg. Mayor Dietrich, who was ft fair tenor, was the first known person to sing it.
The fact that the war-song was a favorite in Marseilles before it was known in Paris at all, it is suggested that some military band may have carried it from Strasburg. Mrs. Dietrich arranged the music for the harpsicord and other instruments.
—The late Frank Buckland was an excellent classical scholar. He had whole passages of Virgil at his fingers’ ends. He used to say, when he could not understand an act of Parliament, that he always turned it into Latin; and within a fortnight of his death be was discussing a passage of a Greek play with one of the accomplished medical men who attended him, interesting himself about the different pronunciation of ancient and modern Greek, and the merits of the Greek accentuation.
—The following is the new inscription on the obelisk Central Park, New York: “ Presented to the U. S. by the Khedive of Egypt, 1881. Quarried at Syenne, and erected at Heliopolis Thothmes 111. Re-erected at Alexandria under Augustus. Removed to New York through the liberality of W H. Vanderbilt, by the skill of Lientenant Commander W. H. Gorringe, U. S N. The actual cost of lowering, removing, and transporting 5,382 miles by water and 11,520 feet by land, and erecting, is §80,603.
—Maurice Dengremont, the wonderful and handsome boy violinist, is but twelve years old. In speaking of his playing, the Musical Record says: “ He plays with earnestness, skill and taste; before he has executed twenty bars, it is at once apparent that he is the most extraordinary graduate from the nursery seen for years and years. To look at the petite, childish figure, and listen to the extraordinary flow of rich, pure-toned music coming from the violin under the fingers of that diminutive boy, makes one marvel at cause and result.”
—The art of writing is most ancient, and the account of its origin lost in the distance of time. Many have supposed that the knowledge of letters was given to men by direct revelation from God. The Bible gives us the earliest notice on the subject that is anywhere to be found. Moses, we are told, received the two tables of the covenant on Mount Sinai, written with the finger of God; and before that, Moses himself was not ignorant of the use of letters. We fiad the first mention made of writing in Exodus xvii, 14. And the Lord said unto Moses, “Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua,” etc. From the various texts of Scripture, in which it is mentioned, there is much reason to believe, says Mr. D. L. Musselman, in an article in the Modern Argo, quoted entire in The Penman's Art Journal, from which we take a few notes, there is reason to believe that the act of writing was understood among the Jews while other nations were yet without it, and that from them it has passed into all other countries and handed down to our own time. The Greeks and Romans believed that the Phcenicians were the inventors of letters, the knowledge of them being first brought by Cadmus from Phcenicia to Greece about 1500 B. C..
Scientific Notes.
—It is claimed that the Nicaragua canal can be constructed in four years, at a cost of not over §50,000,000.
—The following table of the comparative longevity of trees, is based on an examination ot annual concentric layers of the oldest known trees. Judas-tree, 300 years; common elm, 335; common ivy, 450; common maple, 416; white birch, 576; orange tree, 630; evergreen cypress, 800; common olive, 800; walnut, 900; oriental plane, 1,000; common lime, 1,100; common fir, 1,200; cedar of Lebanon, 2000; taxodium distichum, 1,000; yew, 3200.
—It has long been known that su’phur cools a hot bearing, but the reason why is doubtful. Von Heeren states that the fine metal dust formed when a journal runs hot, and which acts strongly upon both journal and bearing, forms a sulphide with the sulphur. This compound, which grows soft and greasy, does not cause any appreciable amount of friction’. Sulphur and grease, in combination, are in regular use on board the steamers of the North German Lloyd’s.

374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Reichel gives the following new method for the qualitative separation of these two troublesome metals, especially when there is but little cobalt in the presence of a larger quantity of nickel. Both metals are precipitated with potassic hydiate solution and filtered. The unwashed precipitate is thrown into a test tube and heated with very strong potash until it boils. Under these circumstances the cobalt dissolves with a blue color, thus' proving its presence in a very.simple manner.
—The phenomenon of the perforation of rocks by sand carried on the wind has been observed in the valley of Rhone in France. A very violent wind often prevails in the neighborhood of Uzes, and drives large quantities of sand against a band of quartzose pebbles contained in a tertiary soil. The pebbles contain cavities which might be believed to have been made by human hands, but which are really produced by the often renewed friction of the sandy particles against their surface.
—The simplest post-office in the world is in Magellan Straits, and has been established tnere for some years past. It consists of a small cask, which is chained to the rock of the extreme cape in the Straits, opposit Tierra del Fuego. Each passing ship sends a boat to open the cask and to take letters out and place others into it. The post-office is self-acting, therefore; it is under the protection of the natives of all nations, and up to the present there is not a case to report in which any abuse of the privileges it affords has taken place.
—Industry thus describes a simple way to produce an illuminating compositiou. Cleanse oyster shells by well washing, expose them to a red heat for half an hour, separate the cleanest parts and put into a crucible in alternate layers with sulphur; now expose the vessel to a red heat for an hour at least. When cold, break the mass and separate the whitest parts for use. If inclosed in a bottle the figures of a watch may be distinguished by its aid. To renew the luminosny of the mass place the bottle each day in the sun or in strong daylight; or burn a strip of magnesium wire close to the bottle. The sulphide of lime will thus absorb light, which will again be available at night time.
—Though very little is allowed to transpire respecting the progress which Mr. H. M. Stanley is making in his endeavor to form a road to overcome the difficulties pre-senttd.by the Yellala Falls, we gather (says the Athenaum) by recent letters from Mboma, on the Congo, that it is exceedingly slow. Besides his first station at Vivi, near the foot of the Falls, which is already becoming quite ah important little settlement, Mr. Stanley has formed another post higher up, and he has made a narrow road some twenty-five or thirty miles long which is practicable for carts he has recently received for transport purposes. At his present rate of progress, however, it would be idle to speculate how he will be in executing the herculean task he has undertaken.
—The trustees of the Lick Observatory have finally closed the contract for the optical part of their great telescope. There has been considerable doubt whether a refractor or an enormous reflector would be selected, but the decision is in favor of the former. The object glass is to be three feet in diameter, and the Clarks of Cambridge, Mass., are to make it for $50,000. The mounting for the instrument is not yet provided for. Proposals will be obtained from the principal instrument makers of Europe and this country. Probablj' the mechanical part of the instrument will cost as much as the optical. It may be three years before the telescope is finished. If the instrument proves successful, it will be the most efficient ever pointed at the heavens. Its power will exceed that of the Pulkowa glass by forty-four per centum, and it will be almost twice as powerful as the great telescope at Washington, which at present is the best of its kind.
—A cubic foot of ice contains about one-eleventh less water than a cubic foot of water. Water is composed of one volume of oxygen to two of hydrogen, or, by weight, eight parts of the former to one of the latter. These expand when freezing to fill the same space with less weight. Water below the temperature of its greatest density is an exception to the general law of expansion by heat and contraction by cold. But for this wise provision of the
great Lawgiver, the rivers, or even the ocean, would be frozen solid, and the earth would be uninhabitable. Water continues to contract by the application of cold until it touches 39.2 deg. Fahr., when the law is reversed, and from that point it expands and goes on expanding under whatever reduction of temperature. This is the reason why crockery and even iron vessels are broken by the freezing of water in them. The. expansive force of confined water at and below the freezing point is something tremendous, and it will explode a rock like a charge of gunpowder.
—A Chicago chemist has the following to say in regard to the adulteration of oleomargarine, etc.: “ I have examined a large number of specimens of oleomargarine, and have found in them organic substances in the form of muscular and connective tissues, various fungi and living organisms which have resisted the action of boiling acetic acid; also eggs, resembling those of the tape-worm. I have them preserved to be shown to any one who desires to see them. The French patent under which oleomargarine is made requires the use of the stomach of pigs or sheep. This is probably the way the eggs get in. I have specimens of lean meat taken from oleomargarine. There can be no question that immense amounts of oleomargarine are sold and used as pure butter. I regard it as a dangerous article, and would on no account permit its use in my family. I have also found the following adulterations in the articles named: Bread, with alum and sulphate of copper; yeast, with alum; baking-powder, with alum, terra alba, plaster of Paris, whiting, and kaolin ; milk, with a variety of articles; cheese, with potatoes, beans, oleomargarine, vermilion, red chalk, sulphate of copper, arsenic, and corrosive sublimate; lard, with boiled starch, alum, and quicklime; confectionery, with chromate of lead, red lead, vermilion, Prussian blue, copper and arsenic; pickles, with sulphuric acid and verdigris; mustard, with yellow ochre and chromate of lead; vinegar, with sulphuric acid, arsenic, and corrosive sublimate; coffee, with roasted acorns, spent tanbark, logwood, mahogany, sawdust, and burned liver of horses; teas, with a great variety of articles.”	,
College Gossip.
—The University of Michigan has 1,515 students.
—Boston University (Methodist) has 510 students in all departments.
—Salamanca contained at one time, it is said, twenty-five colleges.
—The Faculty of Cornell have forbidden smoking on the campus.—University.
—On an average, nine per cent of Yale graduates become clergymen.—Brunonian.
—The baseball nine at Harvard is said to practice two hours a day in the gymnasium.—Mercury.
—The University of Louvain, founded in 1426 by Duke John of Brabant, contained at one time 6,000 students.
—No one is allowed to enter the dining-room at Trinity unless he has paid for his board in advance.—Concordienses.
. —Scene in the Literary Society: “ Mr.~President, what is before the house?” Answered by Mr. H-------, “The street.”
—Prof. Lincoln’s advice to Seniors: “ Cavete ne Annales Taciti per Bohnium aut Harperos aut Murphyum quam per vosmet legatis.—Brunonian.
—The Harvard Lampoon, which came to an unexpected end last June, will probably be started again within a week or two as an undergraduate journal.
—And now Michigan University is to have a daily paper.—All the Exs. No, gentlemen; Ann Arbor has a daily paper, but the University is spared that infliction. —University
A. Senior carried his clock down town to get it repaired and found that it only needed winding up.”—Brun-
!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	375
onian. We wonder what kind of a creature a Brown Senior is any way.—Chronicle.
—Prof, of Pedagogy: “ In administering corporal punishment two ends should be kept in view.” We are conservative, and believe this to be an ill-advised innovation on the orthodox method, which requires only one.—College Mercury.
—The sophomores at Columbia are talking of adopting the full academic garb. The Spectator states that “ gowns were abolished by the faculty some years ago, on account of the inconvenience of the capacious sleeves for secreting illegitimate aids to spur the memories of lazy students.”— Chronicle.
—Col. Higginson, writing to the Woman's Journal, is so rash as to state that it is only a matter of time when coeducation will be established at Harvard. He says this in discussing the exclusion of the Annex from the privilege of the reading-room This does not seem to strike the Echo very favorably.—Chronicle.
—The feeling of utter loneliness experienced by a certain Junior at the late preliminary examinations, on feeling for his faithful pony only to produce wash-bill from < his washerwomen—consequent on a charge in raiment— was only equalled by the smile that encircled his facial area as the professor, who had been slyly watching him, gobbled it in.—University.
—Aids to memory were long known as cribs. They were then called after an animal that ate from a crib, a horse, or, more commonly, a pony. The modern appellation, however, is a bicycle. We suppose this name comes from the fact, known to the initiated freshie, that only one can manage the thing.—Queen's College Journal. And that one is frequently the lynx-eyed Professor.
—Cornell’s library ranks fourth in college libraries. Harvard leads with 200,000; Yale, 100,000; Dartmouth, 50,000; Cornell, 40,000. With the appropriation we shall considerably increase our figure.—Cornell Era. We beg leave to dispute Cornell’s claim. Brown’s library numbers more than 40,000.—Brunonian. And, but for our modesty, we might tell of a very respectable number at Notre Dame.
—On the 10th of January, the sophomores at Columbia College posted a notice that after the 12th freshmen would be required to lift their hats to them, and that the strict observance of this rule would gain them the privilege of carrying canes after the semi-annual examinations. The freshmen did not choose to submit, and all took canes to chapel one morning. After chapel, a rough and tumble fight took place. Several hats, canes, and one or two heads were broken.—Chronicle. Disgraceful!
—Mrs. Stone made the following distributions from the Stone estate about the beginning of January: Hampton Institute, Fortress Monroe, Va., $20,000; Olivet College, Olivet, Mich., $20,000; Ripon College, Ripon, Wis., $20,000; Illinois College, Jacksonville, Illinois, $20,000; Marietta College, Marietta, Ohio, $10,000; Beloit College, Beloit, Wis., $20.000; Roberts College, Constantinople, $20,000; Howard University, Washington, $25,000; Berea College, Berea, Ky., $10,000; New West Educational Commission, $12,000; Evangelical work in France, $15,000.—Chronicle.
—It seems that the undergraduates of the great English Universities are as fond as are the undergraduates of our American Colleges of sinning in rhyme. Now and then some of these undergraduates develop into poets in whose praises the world loves to blow its trumpets. Mr. Tennyson, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Dean Stanley, and others, underwent this development. At Oxford was once published an ugly-looking little periodical called College Rhymes. This has been numbered with “the things that were, but are not.” But Oxford and Cambridge now maintain several little miscellanies of verse, in whose atmosphere only academic songsters may practice their wings. Strange are the flights sometimes taken in this atmosphere.—Alabama, Univ. Mag.
—The Acta is still devoting all its energies to the matter of forming an intercollegiate ,press association, and calls for the opinion of the various college papers. It has also appointed the fifteenth of April for a convention at New Haven. We admire the enterprise of the promoters of this
movement, but after mature deliberation we have reached the conclusion that the idea is impracticable. The Brunonian prefers to be excused. The association may be formed, and may flourish for a time, but that it can be productive of any real benefit, or that interest in it can be maintained, seems extremely doubtful. Other intercollegiate schemes with full as good aims have pined away and died, and it would occasion no surprise to see this new venture meet finally with the fame fate—The Brunonian.
—President Chadbourne, of Williams College, having resigned, his place has been filled by the election of Prof. Franklin Carter, a graduate of Williams, but occupying the chair of German at Yale at the time of his election. The Athenaum states that the choice seems to give much satisfaction to the New York alumni. The following paragraph, from a New York paper, compliments Presidentelect Carter, and points out some of the necessary traits in the character of a successful college president:
“Prof. Carter is a capable business man of diplomatic habits and tastes; a young man even with the age. Like President Eliot, of Harvard, he can always represent the college creditably on public occasions, and he is one of the best after-dinner speakers in America. He is also a cultivated gentleman of social habits and tastes, who naturally, all his life, has come in contact with refined classes of people, who, as a class, if they do not possess the wealth of the country, control it—a class which Williams College, like-all other American colleges, needs to have interested in its growth. Williams College had its philosophical era and religious growth under Mark Hopkins. She had a practical physical development of her resources under Paul Chadbourne. She will now have a revival of scholarly and social culture under Franklin Carter.”
—From the following, which we clip from The Berke-leyan of Feb. 14, it will be seen that the University of . California waives all examination in the case of highschool students recommended by the Principal:
“ Upon the request of any Public High School in California, a committee of two professors of the University will visit such High School, and report upon the kind and quality of its course of instruction. If the report of such committee be favorable, the graduates of such High School, if so recommended by its Principal, may be admitted to the Freshman Class of the University without examination for admission. The actual expenses of the visiting committee are to be paid by the High School so visited.”
The editors of The Berkeleyan seem to be greatly exercised over this matter; they say that while it must tend to a lowering of the status of the University, it is a hard blow aimed aCnon public preparatory schools. Though the former may be true, it seems to us that the latter does not necessarily follow; non-public preparatory schools will eventually make the best showing, on account of the examination test, unless the high-school Principal is conscientious in his recommendations.
New Publications.
—We have received from the New York Publication Society, No. 9 Barclay Street, “ Instructions for First Communion,” “The Will of God,” and “Memoirs of a New York Doll.” The first of these books is a translation from the German of the Rev. Dr. Schmitt, of Freiburg-in-Breisgan, Germany. It is a neat book, well bound, and neatly printed. It consists of three parts: 1st, Instructions for First Communion; 2d, Instruction on the preparation for General Confession; and fid, Discourses for the use of First Communicants. We have not had time to give it a thorough and entire perusal; but from what we have read of it, we are satisfied that it is a highly-inslruc-tive work, and one which should be found in the hands of every catechist. The “ Will of God ” is a very small book, translated from the French by M. A. M. It treats, 1, On the necessity of Conformity io the Will of God; 2, Of the advantages to be derived from Conformity to the Will of God; and so, on under twenty headings. Each point is briefly but comprehensively touched upon. The “ Will of God ” is really a Multum in Parvo. “ Memoirs of a New York Doll,” written by Herself, is a neatly-bound book, consisting of 83 pages of reading-matter very interesting for children.
376
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Marell 5, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—We had intended giving Gavazzi, the apostate priest who lectured in South Bend last week, a raking over in this week’s issue. Our friend Murray, of the South-Bend Herald, has, however, saved us the trouble, by handling the apostate without gloves in a well-written editorial in his issue of the 23d ult. We shall content ourselves with reproducing it for the benefit of our readers. Here is what the Herald thinks of Gavazzi:
“ Signor Alessandro Gavazzi, a distinguished citizen of Rome, Italy, who bears the title of ‘ Patriot and Evangelist,’ and who is travelling for the third time through this country in the interest of the ‘Free Church of Italy,’ addressed a very large audience at the Presbyterian Church on last Thursday evening. It was made a sort of union meeting by all the Protestant churches of the city. Signor Gavazzi is represented as ‘ having taken a leading part in the struggle for civil and religious liberty in his native country, Italy, for fifty years. While yet very young, he was appointed Professor of Rhetoric at Naples, where he rapidly gained reputation as an orator, and by his able advocacy of the reformation of both Church and State, he gained the enthusiastic admiration of the progressive party of his countrymen, and has been up to the present time a leader in the work of reform in Italy and the establishment of Protestant principles in that country. From means secured by him in this country in 1872, a theological seminary was established in the very heart of the Eternal City, where young men are educated for the ministry of the Free Church, and which is well patronized from the ‘ Alps to the Adriatic, from Susa to Sicily,’ and in which he is Professor of Sacred Oratory.’
“We always like to see and hear men discuss any public question who are distinguished for learning and patriotism in their native country, but we must confess there seemed so many incongruities mixed up in this address as not to impress us very favorably. The sum and substance of the lecture, when sifted from personal egotism, appeared to be an assault on the Roman Catholic Church, not only in Rome, but in the
United States, showing that the speaker had but an imperfect conception of religious toleration, as viewed from an American	’
standpoint. We may be mistaken, but it is our understanding that there never has been any connection be ween ‘ Church and State’ under the present government of Italy; that the Pope had no more secular power outside of the Vatican under the	‘
■government of King Emanuel than he has in this country	|
under the administration of President Hayes; that the public schools are created and run by the Government, the same as they are in Indiana, and that the Church has no more control over them than our churches have over the public schools here;	j
that they are governed by law in Italy as they are governed by law in Indiana. If such is the ease, and they have, as the speaker asserted, a compulsory education law in force in Italy and there is no connection between ‘ Church and State,’ it struck us as very strange that the advocate of a Free Church, a patriot, who has ‘taken a leading part in the struggle for civil and religious liberty in his native country of Italy,’ and under	,
King Emanuel had driven the secular power of the Pope out of	!
one State after another until the city of Rome was conquered	:
and the Papal authority outside of the Church was entirely	d
destroyed—we say, it seems strange to us to see such a man asking for donations of money to establish schools to educate Catholic children in opposition to the public schools of the government he assisted to establish; in opposition to the	g
Church of their parents—educate them in the doctrines of the	B
Free Church of Italy—so that Protestants would be donating	fl
their money for the establishment of sectarian schools in Italy	g
against the interests of the public schools to injure the Catholic	fl
Church, the very thing they charge the Catholics of doing in this country against the interests of the public schools to injure the Protestant churches.	.	.
“The whole lecture was bitter, sectarian, intolerant, unsuited to a free American atmosphere and unworthy of such a distinguished advocate of civil and religious liberty. The assertion ' that the members of the Roman Catholic Church stood in more need of conversion to Christianity than the idolators of China, was unsuited to this locality, and spoiled all the good effects of the lecture with that portion of the audience not already filled with the same spirit of religious bigotry and intolerance. His denunciation of Protestants who send their children to schools in this country conducted by Roman Catholics sounded as foolish as it was unreasonable from his own persistent efforts in establishing sectarian schools in Italy; for in this country, where we enjoy true civil and religious liberty, sectarian schools are at a discount; yet people have a right to send their children to any kind of schools they deem proper, and no one has any right to denounce them for it. Signor Gavazzi may be considered a liberty-loving patriot in Italy, but he would have to be ‘ born again ’ before he could ever be called such in America.”
—“ Count that day lost whose low descending sun Views from thy hand no worthy action done.”
Such are the words of an eminent scholar, words which contain a mine of thoughtful and salutary advice; words which, if heeded, would serve as a rule of life for every student.
“Count that day Jost whose low descending sun
Views from thy hand no worthy action done.”
It is within the power of each and every one of us to perform not only one, but many good acts daily; acts that will benefit not only the performer of them, but will also be found beneficial to those with whom he may associate. The performance of one’s duty is the noblest, though perhaps the most difficult, as well as the best of all acts; for in it we benefit not ourselves alone, but by edification and good example, we will undoubtedly be the cause of exciting emulation in others who will endeavor
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	377
to imitate us In the performance of their respective duties. Man is naturally of an imitative disposition. Kings and emperors strive to surpass each other in the brilliancy, gorgeousness, and grandeur of their courts, in the numerical strength and superiority of discipline of their armies, or in the extent of their territorial possessions; and while one must of necessity take the lead in this race, the others will be found employing every means to imitate as near as possible their more successful competitor.
This is the case in almost every station or occupation in life. The successful artist, merchant, or mechanic will find scores of men emulating him. This natural tendency on the part of man to ape everything he sees, may have, in all probability, first suggested to Darwin his theory of evolution. It is not unreasonable to suppose that Darwin was not the first to whose mind this theory presented itself. There were many, perhaps, who, long before Darwin was more than a thought in the mind of the Deity, had for a like reason looked upon man’s existence from a Darwinian standpoint, but who had not the moral courage, or rather had not attained .the proper stale of idiocy, to give public expression to their sentiments on a point so irresistibly opposed to the judgment of sound minds. This, of course, as we have already intimated, is but a suppositional case; but, then, Darwin’s whole theory is but a suppositional one: he never saw the realization of his theory. We have neither seen nor heard tell of the- men to whom we have reference, but the possibility of the truth of our assertion is far more— yes, infinitely more—probable than that of the Darwinian theory; at the same time we do not wish to be understood as saying that invisibility is a proof of non-existence. A pin is a very slim and unpretentious, though very serviceable article, and while often unseen, it is as frequently felt. Nor do we, like the once incredulous Apostle Thomas, say that we shall not believe unless we may see. No: but there is a limit to every man’s credulity—a mental boundary line, so to speak, beyond which sound reason would not allow us to venture; and the one in the present instance is Darwinism.
In our age, men have but to flaunt some new theory or doctrine, and immediately proselytes, admirers and supporters, imitators, spring up as if they had been lying in ambush for its appearance. Joe Smith had but to declare that he had found a wonderful book containing a new revelation,—one which is a panderer to the most shamefully carnal appetites of man,—and immediately he found himself surrounded by society’s scum, -anxious to be his disciples. All are familiar with their diabolical tenets, so holy in their eyes that they believe themselves entitled to the appellation of “The Latter Day Saints." These so-called saints, a term used metaphorically for the word devils, have by their shameless actions scandalized the world, and cast a blot upon the otherwise unmarred Christian reputation of our country,—a blot which will continue increasing in size and foulness, and which may in time blur the very name of Christian, unless the United States Senate takes proper, immediate, and effective measures with a view to its obliteration.
Colonel Ingersoll is another of those crucifiers, if we may use the expression, of the nation’s religion and morality. One cannot exist without theoth'er: religion subverted, morality must necessarily cease to exist. But even atheistic Bob finds his hundreds of supporters, his hundreds of enthusiatic applauders. Tom Paine, like In
gersoll, was looked upon with admiration by hundreds of the men of his time: millions of the men of his day looked upon him with a holy horror. Tom Paine is dead; Bob Ingersoll will die, and with him will be buried all but the evil which he has been instrumental in bringing upon his fellow-men. Lost, indeed, are many days for Ingersoll, and men of his stamp; for there are few in which they have performed good acts. They do not those things which would be a means of actuating their fellow-man in the proper performance of his social, civil or religious duties, simply because they will not. What an influence could they not exercise over thousands, If they but made proper use of the talents with which God has blessed them, and which they, instead, cause to be potent engines in their fellow-man’s destruction ? They will have a terrible account to render some day to the supreme Ruler of the universe.
We, as students, have many opportunities, every day, of doing worthy actions. First, we have our classes to prepare for: it is a duty; we perform it; and have thus performed a worthy action. We see a fellow-student in distress—be may be in need of some assistance which is in our power to render—we help him; we have performed another worthy action. We behold a fellow-student conducting himself improperly—perhaps he exhibits a spirit of insubordination—we approach him, admonish him, and reason with him; he takes our advice, or perhaps insultingly rejects it; in either case, we have performed a worthy act. Some one may have injured us by endeavoring to destroy our reputation, etc.; we forgive him, and in so doing perform a most worthy act. We might multiply the occasions in which we are enabled to perform worthy actions; but we think that we have already mentioned a sufficient number whereby each student may know when, where, and how he may do something worthy every day. Resolution and the seizure of the opportunity are all that is necessary. We will always find the occasion; but unless we have the resolution to do our duty, we shall often be obliged to '
“ Count that day lost, whose low descending sun Views from our baud no worthy action done.”
—“ Who is the architect of your new college buildings?” is a question that has been frequently put to us by friends in various parts of the country. “ W. J. Edbrooke, of Chicago,” has always been our reply. “But who is W. J. Edbrooke ? ” we have been asked time and again. This is a question to which we wish to give a brief answer. That Mr. Edbrooke is not better known outside of his profession is because he is yet a young man and has been before the public only a short time as an architect. We would not, however, have our readers conclude from this that he lacks the experience of older men. On the contrary, belonging as he does to a family of architects, his father and other members of the family having followed that profession, he= became posted in all the details of his art, before he entered the years of manhood. In addition to this, he was; for several years a practical workman, so that he is able to-direct his foreman and builders in all the minutiae of the most complicated structure. During the short time that he has been before the public he has made his mark. Owing to his ability, enterprise, and genial disposition, he already occupies an enviable position in the ranks of American architects, and is certainly one of the ablest in the West.
378
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notwithstanding the fact that he has followed his.profession but a comparatively short time he has, nevertheless, already done an immense amount of work. Besides drawing out plans for a large number of miscellaneous buildings, he has planned and superintended the erection of upwards of forty educational institutions. He also drew out plans for the Chicago Court-House, which were considered by the committee on buildings the second best, although, in the opinion of experts, they were superior to those that were adopted. He was also an equally close competitor for the Indianapolis Court-House. All who have seen his plans for the above metioned buildings pronounce them masterpieces of ingenuity and skill, and sufficient to have given their author a national reputation had they been carried out. After the destruction of the old college by fire, Mr. Edbrooke was the one, of many competitors, who submitted the best plans for the new buildings which were to be erected. When it is known that he had to get his plans ready after only a few days’ notice, because work had to be begun without delay, and when it is further known that it was only ninety days from the time that the foundations of the new buildings were begun until students were received in it, one can form an idea of what an indefatigable worker Mr. Edbrooke is, to have been able, without neglecting his other business, to supply plans as fast as the workmen and contractors required them. A friend of his told us that Mr. Edbrooke frequently, especially in the earlier part of the work, remained up working on his plans until two or three o’clock in the morning. He was not satisfied with drawing the general outlines, but wished to attend personally to even the details of the plans and specifications. It would seem that he had staked his reputation on the construction of this building and was determined to produce something of which not only he himself but also the friends of Notre Dame might be proud. How admirably he succeeded all who have examined the main building, and the Music Hall can testify. How accurate his plans were, even in the minutest details, can be inferred from the fact that Bro. Charles, who worked after them, being superintendent of the building, did not find them in any instance to vary even a quarter of an inch from what they should be. Viewed as working plans, they were perfect.
But although recognized as an architect of superior ability, Mr. Edbrooke is more esteemed by those who know him for hie qualities of mind and heart. He is a thorough gentleman and a genial companion, and makes hosts of friends wherever he goes. Business relations with him are always pleasant and satisfactory; if not, it is through no fault of his. We think we express the sentiments of all who know him here when we say that the University has no more welcome visitor, or more valued friend, than her architect, Mr. W. J. Edbrooke.
In connection with the above account, it is with pleasure that we present a few extracts from a description taken from a late number of the Denner Tribune, Col., of Mr. Edbrooke’s latest work—the grand opera house and hotel in course of erection by Gov. Tabor. In passing we would add that the Gov. was so well pleased with his architect’s work that,.in addition to paying him handsomely for his plans, he presented him with a magnificent gold watch, full-jewelled, valued at $700:
“ Turning from these very brief remarks concerning the history of the theatre to our own time and our own city, it is desired to say something in regard to the grand building now
being erected by Governor H. A W. Tabor for the presentation of dramatic and musical entertainments Some time prior to the year 1880, owing to the size which Denver had assumed, and its rapidly increasing population, it became apparent that a better and larger theatre than the old Forrester Opera House was necessary. The question was agitated alike by citizens and the public press, but no one seemed willing to make the venture or incur the financial risk.
Thus matters stood until about a year ago, when Governor Tabor, having nearly completed the finest business and office block in the city, and one of the finest in the West, began earnestly to contemplate the erection of an opera house. The fact that he had this purpose in view became known to the public, and whenever the Governor, or Mr. W. J. Edbrooke, architect of the Tabor block, were observed to be looking at any particular property, or making any inquiries concerning it, the owner immediately advanced his price.
Finally a desirable location was secured and the work of tearing down the houses was immediately commenced. After the removal of the houses, the work of excavation for the proposed combined opera house and hotel was commenced. It was then early in May last, and Governor Tabor, accompanied by Architect Edbrooke, went on a tour of inspection to the Eastern cities, remaining longest in Chicago and New York. The theatres of all the Atlantic cities were visited in turn, and all the minute of their architecture and appointments carefully noted. The erection of one of the most magnificent and elegant opera houses in the country being contemplated, the object of the tour of inspection was to ascertain the most desirable features of all the theatres and combine them in the new theatre building. The visit of inspection extended over a period of three weeks, and the gentlemen returned to Denver with a large budget of useful information, gathered from their own observation and from the experience of a large number of theatrical managers and other practical men connected with theatres with whom they had conferences.
On their return to Denver, Architect Elbrooke made considerable amendments in his sketches of the new opera house, as a result of his observations on the visit. As the work of excavation for the foundations progressed, Mr. Edbrooke was busily engaged on the plans, and he has been keeping ahead of the work on the building up to the present time, when the plans are complete in almost every minute detail. The work of the building has progressed more slowly than was hoped, number of unforeseen causes of delay arising, the most important which was the unusually severe weather which has prevailed with but brief intermissions since early in November.
The building will have a frontage on Curtis street of225 ft. and 125 ft. on Sixteenth steet. It will be in the Queen Anne style of architecture, five stories in height, including the mansard, with finished basement. The material used is golden pressed brick and Manitou white sandstone trimmings. The partition walls are all of brick. The mansard roof will be covered with slate and the cornice and trimmings of galvanized iron. Along the top of the roof will be.a line of ornamental iron cresting. There will be three towers, the chief of which will be at the comer of Sixteenth and Curtis streets. The brick work of the towers will extend one story above the remainder of the building, end-ng in pediments against the towers. The height of the grand tower from the pavement to the top of the finial will be 150 eet. On the Curtis street front, at the third story, will be three stone balconies of ornamental design. The windows are very numerous, and will all be of the twin or triple order.
The opera house proper will be situated in the west corner of the building, away from the noise and bustle of the street. The basement walls under this, as well as the other portions of the building, are 2 feet 8 inches in thickness. The material used was stone, laid upon a foundation of dimension stone and concrete, and built in the best possible manner. The walls above the basement are of the best hard-burned Denver brick, 2 feet 2 inches in thickness to a height of 30 feet and 20 inches in thickness from that point to the roof trusses.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	379
These walls are strengthened, by buttresses which support the trusses. The buttresses are bonded their full height with bondstones of the full size and thickness of the buttresses, which are thoroughly anchored and braced by the galleries, boxes and proscenium wall and lobby and gallery floors. The roof is supported by seven framed Howe roof trusses, each capable of sustaining the weight of a train of cars.
The auditorium, from the curtain line to the front wall of the room, will be 90 feet and 71 feet wide; the height, from the stage level to the roof trusses, 62 feet. The proscenium opening will be 34 ft. wide and 34 ft. high, with a semi-circular arched panel over it, in the centre of which will be a painting representing “ The Origin of the Drama.” In the centre of the ceiling, over the auditorium, will be a compressed dome 25 feet wide. On each side of the stage will be three proscenium boxes, circular in shape and 25 feet in diameter, and capable of seating 15 to 20 persons each. These boxes will be provided with curtains, which can be drawn to any desired distance, so as to screen the occupants from the view of persons in the body of the auditorium. The boxes will be elegantly appointed, and both the interior and exterior decorations will be rich and handsome. Immediately back of the proscenium boxes will be open or “fashion” boxes, each capable of seating five persons.
The parquette and parquette circle will have a seating capacity of 800, the first gallery 400 and the third gallery 300. All these divisions will be provided with opera chairs—the two former with A. H. Andrews & Go’s automatic folding-chairs, upholstered in the best manner and provided with hat-rack etc. Without crowding, the entire house will have a seating capacity of 1,600. There will be two exits on Curtis street, one on Sixteenth and one on the alley, as well as two exits from the stage.
The stage will be 50 feet deep and 71 feet wide. Immediately in front will be the space set apart for the orchestra, which will be sunk below the level of the floor of the auditorium, so that the musicians will be almost entirely visible. In the rear of this space, and under the stage, will be a second space, which will be sunk below the level of the first. There will be ample room for an orchestra of fifty pieces. The stage will be stocked with scenery, rigging and machinery of all descriptions. The drop curtain and the drop scenes will be raised bodily from the stage, the great height of the roof easily permitting of this. Under the stage, in addition to the space set apart for the machinery, will be a musician rehearsing room and other apartments. The ornamental pillars supporting the proscenium arch will be finished in hard wood, highly polished and veneered with various woods’ Designs for the drop curtain will be submitted by various artists in Chicago and New York, from which a selection will be made.
The entire building will be practically fire-proof, every precaution having been taken in the plans to avoid liability to fires. The structure will be heated throughout by steam, and. in addition to the hotel portion, will be provided with grates. Gas will be used as an illuminator, and in the opera house it will be lighted by electricity. A great chandelier will be placed under the centre of the dome, over the auditorium, which will have a powerful reflecter above it The upward curtain created by the heat from this chandelier will carry the foul air up and out through a ventilator at the apex of the dome. Around the walls of the anditorim, near the floor will be placed a number of exits for foul air, which will be conveyed along a duct to a large flue, the interior of which is provided with steam-heating pipes, creating an upward current and carrying the foul air out at the top.
The plans for the entire structure have been made with a view to strength, beauty, convenience and perfect adaptation to the purpose intended. Expense has been made a secondary consideration, and the result will be that Denver will have the finest and best appointed opera house in the West. The grand edifice is expected to be completed by the 1st of June— at least the opera house portion. Denver, which has so long been deprived of first-class dramatic and musical performances
will then have an opportunity of witnessing the presentations of the finest artists of this country and of Earope.
Upon the enterprising citizen who, has provided the city with this beautiful temple of dramatic and lyric art, too much praise cannot be bestowed. It will be a monument to his liberality in the generations to come. In his efforts to thus beautify the city and provide its people with a place of amusement, which to them will be a constant source of pride and pleasure, he has been ably seconded by Mr. Edbrooke, the architect. His work on the Tabor block has shown him to be master of all the details of his profession, and when the grand opera house is finished it will be a triumph of architectural art.
Personal.
—	Prof. Lyons has been unwell for the past week.
—	Rev. Father Kroegel, of Elkhart, called at the University last Thursday.
—	Mrs. Quinn, of Tolona, Ill., is here visiting her son, J. Quinn, of the Prep, department.
—	We are happy to state that Bro. Stanislaus’ health has greatly improved during the past week.,
—	Mrs. Morrisson, of Jackson, Mich., is visiting her son, Mr. T. F. Morrisson, of the Senior department.
—	Mrs. McGinnis, of Ottawa, Ill., mother of B. McGinnis, ’75, visited the University during the past week.
—	N. J. Mooney, ’78, has gone to Rome to complete his theological studies. May success attend you, Nat.
—	Mr. Johnson, of New Lexington, O., spent Tuesday and Wednesday with his son, W. Johnson, Senior department.
—Rev. Father Marine, of New Orleans, called at the University last Saturday. He will start for France some time during the month.
—State Senator Jackson, of New Lexington, Ohio, spent a few days of this week with his son, Master A. T. Jackson, of the Prep, department.
—Walter Hatfield, ’78, is pursuing his medical studies in Philadelphia. Walter intends to visit Notre Dame next vacation. His address is 226 N. Ninth street.	_
—Those knowing of the whereabouts and employment of old students will confer a great favor on us by forwarding such information at their earliest opportunity.
—Miss Minnie O’Connor, Chicago, Ill., called last Saturday, to see her brothers, Mr. R. and Master D. O’Connor, of the Senior and Minim department respectively.
—Mrs. Thos. Nester, East Saginaw, Mich., remained here over Monday and Tuesday, visiting her sons, Mr. G. and Master J. Nester, the former of the Senior, and the latter of the Minim department
—Mr. H. Hough, of Indianapolis, Ind., called at the University last Thursday to see his friends, Masters E. and A. Gall and H. G. Sells, of the Prep, department.
—We are in receipt of a letter from Bro. Theodore, C. S. C., in which he says that he is well pleased with Watertown, enjoys good health, and desires to be kindly remembered to his many friends at Notre Dame.
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., arrived here from Lead City, Dakota Ter., last Thursday evening. He reports an extremely severe winter in that part of the country, Mercury being constantly between fifteen and thirty degrees below Zero since winter set in. He says that Rev. Father Golovin enjoys excellent health, despite the hardships he endures in that cold region.
—Rev. Father Kelly, President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., took his departure thence last Saturday evening. Owing to the large increase in the number of students under his efficient administration, he found it necessary to augment the number of his Faculty; he accordingly took with him Mr. Regan, C S. C., who will assume professorial duties in that now flourishing institution. We wish Mr. Regan the best success in his new sphere of labor.
380	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Give ns a rest, Pete.
—Are you obliged to fast ?
—Autographs are the rage.
—He didn’t “ skip ” after all.	'
—Mike can’t catch behind the bat.
—Lent commenced last Wednesday.
—Salty says that he can stand a joke.
—The Siamese twins—Plato and Jim.
—“ Our funny man ” has been absolved.
—When are we to have the next soiree?
—Bro. Lawrence nurseth a sprained ankle.
—Wednesday last was a fine recreation day.
—“ T. F.” will act as secret agent for the Staff.
—An impertent query: “Sime snuff, Brother? ”
—Excellent singing at High Mass last Wednesday.
—These are the editor’s “ blue times	news scarce.
—The Band will serenade on the 17tb. Verbum sap, etc.
—No mail from the East, Monday. Trains snow-bound.
—The snow-plow did good work last Tuesday morning.
—Several good games of handball during the past week.
—The “tooth-pick” has gone to the city of the Straits.
—A Lenten table has been started in the Senior refectory.
—The Bostonians seem to have a predilection for medicine.
—Master C. C. Echlin was leader at last Sunday’s High Mass.
—A. true friend has been well styled a “ man’s second soul.”
—“ Sammy ” says that his larynx is in a precarious condition.
—Our friend John’s not in the least finical. Oh, no! not he!	-	’
—“Is it a ‘ howl ’ or an ‘ heagle ’ ? ” “ ’Tis neither.- it’s a hawk.”
—Bro. Frederick has the thanks of the Sorins for favors received.	,
—There was Benediction on Monday and Tuesday evenings.
—“Charley Ross” found a long-sought for friend last Wednesday.
—Rev. P. Franciscus officiated at Benediction on Tuesday evening.
—Several new pictures adorn the walls of the Sorins’ Society-room.
—Several good locals, for want of space, must lay over until next week.
—“ Duzen ” had one or more books confiscated on him during the week.
—Joe and “Fishy” are engaged in a series of Scriptural disputations.
—Says Barney to Dan and Hec.: “When shall we three meet again? ”
—“ G- Edmund ” is rather an aristocratic way of putting it Eh, Salty?
—“Its Nip and Tuck, and a fine of one dollar on whomsoever gives it away.”
—“ Are you twenty-one ? ” is a question often asked at this season of the year.
—The “Burlington babes” have not been heard from. Wonder how they are ?
—March came in like a lion; we shall see how lamblike will be its departure.	.
—The ice on the lakes is, despite the recent heavy rains, about fifteen inches thick.	.
—The Catholic students received Holy Communion in a body on Tuesday morning.
—Harry Sells says that it is about time for the Bookkeeping Class to “ ledgerize.”
—Prof. Ackerman is kalsomining the new chapel recently erected near the Presbytery.
—The “ Genius ” has gone to a place where his accomplishments will be better appreciated.
—“Nep” received another frightful castigation from “ Sancho ” last Wednesday afternoon.
—A certain Junior is said to snore so loudly that he wakes up with his heart in his mouth.
—The regular semi-monthly meeting of the Staff took place last Wednesday in their new sanctum.
—We hope that the University Orchestra will again favor us with “ William Tell ” on the 17th inst.
—To-morrow, 1st Sunday of Lent, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers of a Confessor, not Bishop.
—Yesterday was the 104th anniversary of the birth of the most intrepid of Irish patriots, Ribert Emmet.
—Three minds with but a single thought; three hearts that beat as one—Van, Sam, and the “ Sailor Boy.”
—The Columbians will appear on the 17th inst., under the management of Prof. Lyons, in “ The Celebrated Case,”
—McNamara and Gallagher practice daily in the gymnasium, preparatory to the opening of the baseball season.
—There was Benediction of the B’essed Sacrament at 8 o’clock Sunday evening, at which Rev. P. Kollop officiated.	■
—The French Government has seized the valuable property located in the city of Paris, belonging to this University.
. —It may flatter our friend “ Charlie Ross ” to know that the Editor of the Watertown Gazette is after a lock of his auburn hair.
—And still the “ Corporal ” has not written to any of his Notre Dame friends. “ Ingratitude, thou art a black monster,” etc.
—The members of the Vocal Music Class, under the instruction of Prof. Baur, are preparing a grand Mass for Easter Sunday.
—Mr. Eliot Ryder delivered a very entertaining lecture, last Thursday evening, to a very large audience of students and professors.
—See what lofty aspirations are aroused by entering the •Seniors. Even our smallest calls upon the barber with nwnotonous regularity.
—At a meeting of the Sorins, held last Thursday evening, a vote of thanks was extended to Master F. Grever for favors shown the Association.
—Dancing at present is the favorite exercise with the Seniors on recreation days. M. T. Healy has their thanks for furnishing the necessary music.
—The game of handball which was to have taken place last Sunday afternoon, between the Juniors and Apprentices, has been indefinitely postponed.	.	.
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion closed on Tuesday evening with a grand procession of the Blessed Sacrament, Masters Tinley and Rhodius being censer-bearers.
—Bro. Lewis found it necessary to build a bridge from the road to his apartment in the post-office last Sunday. The water was fully a foot-and-a-half deep near the main entrance.
—Masters Tinley and O’Neill were thurifers during the procession of the Blessed Sacrament, last Sunday, on which occasion Masters Browne and Cleary were acolytes-in-chief.
—The first thunder-storm of the season occurred last Saturday night. It reminded us of old times. It rained all day Sunday, and wound up with a blinding snow-storm in the evening.
—“ Remember, 0 man, that thou art dust, and unto dust thou shalt return,” were the solemn words which the Church addressed to all her children last Wednesday— stern reminder of man’s mortality.
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion, which began here last Sunday,—on which occasion President Corby, with Rev.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	381
Fathers Walsh and O’Keefe as assistants, celebrated Solemn High Mass,—closed on Tuesday evening.
—Last Wednesday, Ash Wednesday, Solemn High Mass was sung bv Very Rev. A. Granger, with Rev. Fathers Walsh and Fitte as deacon and subdeacon respectively. Rev. P. Moran, C. S. 0., was master of ceremonies. '
—We had scarcely bid adieu to Mr. Snow, who was suddenly carried off by the rains of Saturday and Sunday, when he again put in an appearance. It would appear that he intends sojourning with us a week or two longer. All right.
—A heavy snow-storm commenced here last Sunday evening and continued without intermission until Monday evening. A heavy wind prevailed during the whole storm, forming snow-drifts, in many places, to the height of four or five feet.
—We have received the Scholastic Annual, a well arranged and attractive magazine almanac, issued at Notre Dame, Ind. We have examined it with much interest, and can but commend the enterprise which it shows.
—College Mercury, Racine,
—The Board of Trustees of the Detroit Medical College have our thanks for a kind invitation to attend their first Annual Commencement Exercises, which took place last Thursday evening, at Whitney’s Grand Opera Home, Detroit. We regret our inability to have been present on the occasion.
—Ourreaders will know what kind of weather we enjoy (?) here when we state that, on Saturday and Sunday, we might have rowed boats Horn the University to the post-office, the water being sufficiently deep; while on Monday evening the snow was about a foot-aud-a-half deep. A sudden change 1
—The reports of the meetings of the different societies were handed in too late for publication this week. We have more than once reminded the secretaries of societies to be more punctual in forwarding us their reports. Again, do not fail to hand in your reports by Wednesday evening, at the latest.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1881 comes to hand with an excellent table of contents. This is its sixth year for public favor and richly it deserves it. Prof. J. A. Lyons has made this little volume interesting and at the same time made marked improvements in it throughout. It is handsomely printed on cream-tinted paper.—Catholic Messenger.
—For improvement in penmanship the following students of the Minim department deserve special mention: Masters J. S. Courtney,30 perfect notes; C. C. Echlin and G. E. Tourtilotte, 24; D. G. Taylor, 23; W. T. Berthelet, 17; W. F. Hanavin, 14; R. E. Costello, 14; A. B. Van Mourick, 13; H. 8. Snee, 12; H. E. Kilz, 12; M. W. Olds, 11; J. Haslem, 11.
—Our friend John loves to play handball. He’s good on the “ scoop,” you know. He made one of them last week; but instead of scooping the ball, as he had fondly hoped to do, he “ scooped ” balf-a hundred good-sized slivers into his fingers. Some of them still linger ’neath the cutic’e of his index finger; sweet mementos of the Minims’ handball alleys. "
—A meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday, Feb. 26 Rev. Father Hudson delivered the religious address. Essays were read by Messrs Bloom, Mc-Eniry and Kavanagh, each of which was followed by rounds of applause. Messrs. Clarke, Danahey and O’Donnell were appointed to read essays at the next meeting, after which the meeting adjourned. We were honored by the presence of a large number of visitors. .
—When our friend John, who “ bounces ” the scales at 275, says that he coujdn’t possibly live on one meal per diem for forty days, we believe him; and when he asserts that if he were to take less than three full meals a day, he would surely, literally waste away, we believe him also. We know of more than one who fondly hopes that John may not succeed in obtaining the necessary dispensation. It is unnecessary for us to remark that John is not of that number.
^-My. Edward Buysee, South Bend’s leading jeweler,
has, according to the Sunday Register, purchased a ship chronometer at an expense of $350. This he did for the sole purpose of accommodating all who desire the correct time, the city clock being unreliable. “ Mr. Boysee,” says the Register, “ is a public benefactor, and should be j commended in his laudable enterprise.” So think we; ’ the best method of showing the appreciation of such a favor is to bestow on Mr. Buysee.a’liberal patronage.
—“ J. Willie ” likes to peruse marine news. Those having items of the same, will confer a great favor on him by giving them to him. We are sure that “J. Willie” will be pleased to learn that, as soon as the lakes are freed from their “icy jackets,” navigation will be speedily resumed. The “Hiawatha” and “Minnehaha” are still occupying winter quarters. “ Sancho,” “Nep,” “ Pluto,” and “ Fearless ” are anxiously awaiting the opening of the boating season; so are the Boat Clubs. More-marine news next week, “ J. Willie”
—Our friend John sends us the following lines for publication:
He took a sudden seat, he did, .
In all his gorgeous foppery;
Such sickenimr spectacles we see, . When sidewalks are so sloppery.
And she, poor girl, went down with him, In all her pullback frippery;
Such tragic incidents take place, When sidewalks are so slippery.
—A certain individual, who glories in the title of “funny (?) man,” having at last tumbled to the fact that a late publication of his “ The Little Dog’s Tail ” was too stale to be tolerated, now seeks to pass it off on “ Billy.” I suppose he means the gentleman from Iowa, by title. But he should remember that, as th'e ostrich, when pursued by the huutsmau—although it hides its head—is readily detected by its tail; or as the skunk, when concealed, imagines its presence unknown, is known by its bad smell; so this sick offspring readily points out the “funny man” as its father.	'
—“Charley Ross” is greatly alarmed since learning that the Watertown Gazette mau has signified his intention of being present at the Commencement Exercises here next June. “Charley” says that he heartily wishes we had not piped so much on that pipe left at our office some time ago, by one who came from a distance,—Wisconsin perchance,—to see our “devil.” “ Charley” wishes that the pipe and Gazette man were in the depths of the ocean buried. “ Charley ” seems to have a holy horror of you, Mr. Gazette; but, no matter, we’ll endeavor to quiet his disturbed imagination; and when yon call to see us in June, you will, undoubtedly, dissipate the fears with which “ Charley’s ” soul seems at present stirred. You’ll be here when you get here, if not sooner, we suppose.
—Our attention was attracted, Monday morning, by the' angry vociferations of some one just under the window of our sanctum. Prompted by curiosity and a desire to gather news, we went to the window, and casting a hasty glance below, we soon learned the cause of the uproar. There was “Judy” endeavoring to pull a heavily-laden sleigh over a spot from which the wind had swept the snow, leaving naught save the bare cold ground. Beside “ Judy ” stood that redoubtable knight, of whom mention was made in these columns a month or to ago, roaring like a Bengal tiger: “ Git up, now! git up, Judy! ” But “Judy” didn’t “git” worth a cent; and as quite an audience had by this time gathered around the knight and his steed,-he concluded to moderate his charming voice a little. “ Judy” had evidently been waiting for a lull in the storm, and when it came, she made one vigorous effort to pull the sleigh after her; she partially succeeded, for with one grand pull she wrenched the fills from their fastenings, and a moment later was seen making for the College stables at the rate of 1.16., leaving her gallant knight and master in no enviable frame of mind.
—The college press is again endeavoring to tell how many apples Adam and Eve ate. The latest calculation is that made by the Harvard Daily Echo. The Edw man says that they ate 81,896,864,apples. He first.asks, “How many apples did Adam and Eve eat?” and then continues: “Some say Eve 8 and Adam 2, a total of 10 only. Others figure the thing out differently. Eve 8 and
'iw6»K
382
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Adam 8 also; total, 16. But if Eve 8 and Adam 82, certainly the total will be 90. Scientific men, however, on the strength of the theory that the antediluvians were a race of giants, reason something like this: Eve 81 and Adam 82; total, 163. Wrong again. What could be clearer than if Eve 81 and Adam 812, the total was 893. Then if Eve 811st and Adam 812, would not the total be 1,623 ? Perhaps after all the following is the true solution: Eve 814 Adam, Adam 8124 Eve; total, 8,938. Still another calculation is possible: If Eve 814 Adam, Adam 81242 oblige Eve; total, 82,056. Even this, however, may not be a sufficient quantity; for though we admit that Eve 814 Adam, Adam if he 8181242 keep Eve company; total, 8,182,056. All wrong. Eve when she 81812 many, and probaly felt sorry for it, and her companion, in order to relieve her grief, 812. Therefore Adam, if he 81814242fy Eve’s depressed spirits. Hence both ate 81,896,864 apples.”
—Last Tuesday Very Rev. Father General brought to the Minims’study-hall three handsomely-bound volumes; one, he said, was for the beet boy in the department; one, for the worst, and the third was for the one whose conduct placed him between these extremes. Very Rev. Father General allowed the Minims to decide by vote, and Master D. G. Taylor, of St. Louis, Mo., was voted the best boy; and Master G. McGrath, a tolerably good boy. But the difficulty was to find out the worst boy. Things were at a stand still, for no one wished to be the first to decide the delicate question, until Master J. S. Chaves at last summoned courage to come forward and cast a solid vote for a certain student from Ohio. His example was followed by others, and the third volume was awarded to a boy, from the Buckeye State who, to his credit, be it said, received it with the best grace, showing that he was not in the least disconcerted at the choice made of him by his classmates. After the distribution of the prizes, Very Rev. Father General was requested to make a speech, which he did in his own humorous and interesting manner, as could be best seen from the attention and pleasure with which his young friends listened to every word. In the course of his remarks he told them that he did not want them to fast during Lent, but wished them to eat heartily three times a day and to pay more attention to their studies, and be more obedient. The Minims desire to return their sincere thanks to their venerated Patron for his speech and his prizes, both of which they especially value as they are from him.
—The following lines, which we found somewhere, will prove interesting to those studying Telegraphy:
A.—	A dot and a dash is A. -
B—...	A dash and three dots, B.
C...	Two dots, a space, and one dot, C.
D—..	A dash and two dots, D.
E.	One single dot is E.
F.—.	For F, a dot, dash, dot.
G-----. Two dashes and a dot for G. H.„.---H, four dots you allot.
I..	Two dots will stand for I.
J—.—. A dash, dot, dash, dot, J. K—.—	For K, a dash, dot, dash, you try.
L-----	A long dash L away.	-
M----- Two dashes M demands. N—.----A dash and dot for N.
O..	A dot, and space and dot, 0 stands.
P„...	Five dots for P, not ten.
Q.	.—.	Two dots, dash, dot, are Q.
R.	..	A dot, space, two dots, R.
8...	For 8, three dots will always do.
T—	One dash is T, thus far.
U.	.— Two dots, a dash, for U.
V.	..—	Three dots, a dash, for V.
W.----- Dot, two dashes, W.
X.—..	Dot, dash, two dots, X see.
Y.... Two dots, space, two dots, Y.
Z....	Three dots, space, dot, are Z.
&.... A dot, space, three dots, Si descry Period.,— —A period is U D.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. C. Adams, W. H. Arnold, W. J. Brown, T. E. Bourbonia, F. W. Bloom, T. P. Byrne, G. E. Clarke. J. J. Casey, B. A. Casey, L. F. Callagari, L. E. Clements, D. Danahey, J. D. Delaney, M. B. Eaton, M. L. Falvey, J. M. Falvey, W. P. Fishburne, F. W. Gallagher, F. J. Garritty, G. L. Hagan, M. Healy, W. E. Hoffman, D. A. Harrington, M. F. Healy, W. Johnson, W. Kelly, A Korty, T. Kavanaugh, F. E. Kuhn, J. Ken del, J. C. Larkin, R. Le Bourgeois, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. J. McCarthy, J. A. McNamara. J. A. Mclntre, J. J. Mcllvaine, J. J. Malone, M. J. McEniry, J. C. Newman, G. Nester, H. O’Donnell, J. O’Reilly, E A. Otis, A. Pimyotahmah, E. Piper, L. M. Proctor, W. B. Ratterman, J. Solon, F. C. Smith, J. 8. Smith, H. A Steis, P. D. Stretch, E. G. Sugg, G. Sugg, B. F. Smith, L. W. Stitzel, W. Schofield, C. H. Thiele, E. G. Taggart.8. P. Terry, C. Van Dusen, J. F. Wiseheart, W. T. Walsh, W. R. Young, A. Zahm, J. B Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. W. Ayers, A. A Browne, J. H. Bennett, F. A Boone, J. M. Boose, C. J. Brinkman, M. G. Butler, V. G. Butler, J. H. Burns, A Bodine, W. H. Barren, G. C. Castanedo, A M. Coghlin, J. M. Courtney, E. Culiinene, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S Cleary, J. V. Cabel, H. P. Dunn, G. W. De Haven, F. H. Dorsel, J. W. Devitt, A. J. Dennis, N. H. Ewing, A J. Flynn, J. M. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fischel, Fred Fisehel, L. F. Flormau, J. J. Gordon, J. M. A. Dick. Flynn, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, W. W. Gray.P. G. Hoffman, H. P. Hake, F. J. Hurley, A. J. Hintze, J. T. Homan, J. M. Heffernan, J. L. Heffernan, T. D. Healv, F. R. Johnson. A. T. Jackson, F. A. Krone, F. A. Kleine, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kollars, G. C. Kipper, Sam Livingston, W. P. Mahon, F. McPhillips. J. L. Morgan, C. J. McDermott, S. T. Murdock, F. J. McKinnon, H. W. Morse, C. A Morse, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, G. O’Kane, J. P. O’Neill, F. J. Prenatt, D. G. Paul, G. J. Rbodius, A. M. Rhorbaek, C. F. Rose, H. L. Rote, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, H. G. Sells, W. E. Smith, C. Schneider, G. Schaefer, J. W. Scanlan, G. A. Truschel,C. A Tinley, F. J. Woeber, F. W. Wheatly, G. Woodson, T. Williams.
J. O’Neill was left off by mistake last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
—C. C. Echlin, D. G. Taylor, A. J. Van Mourick, W. M. Olds, W. F. Hanavin, H. C. Snee, F. M. Moroney, D. O’Connor, T. McGrath, L, J. Young. A. J. Frain, E. A Howard, J. Nester, R. Costello, A. G. Molander, J. L. Rose, J. Ruppe, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, M. E. Devitt. F. B. Farrelly, E. B. Bagard, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. W. Kent, A. B. Bender, C. Young, C. Metz, D. L. McCawley, W. J. Miller.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
A Coghlin, A. Hintze, C. Rietz, J. L. Morgan, G. Silverman, J. M. Scanlan, J. M. Boose, W. L. Coghlin, E. Fischel, H. Hake, J. Heffernan, J. Martin, F. McPhillips, C. Perry, E. Prenatt. C. Rose, J. Ruppe, J. W. Start, G. Truschel, A. Bodine, E. Gall, C. Kollars, A Bodine, A. Schiml, H. Sells, J. M. Falvey, W. Fishburne, G. Hagan, W. Johnson, W. J. Kelly, F. E. Kuhn, J. Malone, G. Nester, J. Newman, W. Ratterman, F. Rettig, R. Seeburger, H. Steis, C. Thiele, W. R. Young, M. B. Eaton, A. Korty, J. O’Reilly, E. Piper.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.
Reading and Orthography—H. Morse, W. P. Mahon, J. H. Burns, A. Flynn, J. C. Newman; Grammar—W. Cleary, E. Fischel, N. Nelson, G. Truschel, A. Bodine, A. Coghlin, G. Hagan, J. Newman; Geography and History—H. Hake, C. Rose, E. Fischel, J. Heffernan, H. Hake, J. Scanlan, G. Hagan ; Arithmetic—C. Kollars, C. Perry, J. W. Start, J. W, Guthrie, G. Hagan, A Bodine, H. Hake, E. Gall, E. Fischel; Book-Keeping and Penmanship—(will be published next week).
The name of J. Homan was omitted from the List of Excellence, for Algebra, last week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	<83
Catholic Journalist Wanted.
An excellent chance is now offered to a ready and capable writer, with some means, to assume the duties of Managing editor of the Catholic Messenger which will be soon published weekly. The Messenger is the only Catholic paper in West Virginia, or in the Wheeling diocese, and is already in a flourishing condition. The past five years’ experience has demonstrated the necessity and want of a first-class Catholic paper, which will be handsomely supported by the people of this and the adjoining States. This is a good opportunity for a live Catholic journalist, who must come, well recommended. For further particulars address,
JOHN N. O’BRIEN,
Manager Catholic Messenger, Parkersburg, W. Va.
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, 75 Dearborn St,, Unity Block, CHICAGO, ILL.
Refer by Permission to University of Notre Dame.
Church Organs
AT LOW PRICES.
PIPES ONLY, OF IMPROVED CONSTRUCTION, AND THE BEST MATERIAL.
SECOND HAND ORGANS
FOR SALE.
One with two bank of keys and Pedals, 21 stops, 18 feet high (Gothic case), 9ft. wide, and 8 deep.
This is a good organ, and is offered very low.
CHURCH ORGAN PEDAL ATTACHMENT
for any style of Piano. Sent ready to put on. Are detachable.
* Circulars free. Address	•
T. H. KNOLLIN,
No. 6 W. FAYETTE ST., ieWlm	SYRACUSE, IV. Y.
db i Q TO 20 PER WEEK. Agents wanted to canvass for Mcgee's Illustrated Weekly, Box 2120, New
York.	n6-7t
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
Robert King,
TEACHER OF
Elocution and Dramatic Art,
(Since 1855,)
73 TWENTY-SIXTH STREET, CHICAGO.
Liberal arrangements made with Colleges and Universities for Dramatic Recitals and Humorous Readings.
Terms sent on application.
oct23-3m
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Noy. 7» 1880
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.				
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Limit Ex
Pittsburg,	Leave Roch eater,	-	12.05 a.m. 1.15 “ 3.30 “ 5.00 “ 6.55 “ 7.25 “	9.15 a ji. 10.10 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	L50pm. 255 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m.
Alliance,	.					10.25 p.m.
Orrville,..						
Mansfield,					
Crestline,.'	Arrive				1.40 a.m.
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima,		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.15 pm. 3.46 “ 7.00 “	6.35 p.m. 8.18 “ 9.30 “ 12.08 A.M. 250 “ 6.00 “	9.55 P.M. 11.28 ‘ 1232 AM. 240 ‘ 4.55 “ 8.00 “	1.45 am.
				
Ft. Wayne					5.35 “ 7.16 “ 9.40 “
Plymouth,						
Chicago,......Arrive				
GOING EAST.				
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn. Ex.	No. 4, AtlanJSx.	No. 6, N.Y. Ex.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,			9.40 p.m. 2.50 A.M. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.08 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “ 235 p.m. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 p.m. 9.25 “ 1215 a.m. 238 “ 3.55 “ 5.30 “	3.30 p.m.
Ft. Wayne,						8.35 p.m. • • • •••• • • • 1235am.
Lima,					
Forest,					
Crestline,	Abbive				
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 226 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.30 p.m. 803 “ 10.06 “ 11.45 “ 2.04 A.M. 3.15 “	640 AM. 7.20 “ 9.23 “ 11.25 “ 210 “ 3.15 pm.	1240 am. 1.15 « 2.57 “ 4.25 “ 7.30 AM.
Orrville,					
Alliance,.							
Rochester,						
Pittsburgh,.... Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that rune the celebrated Pullman Piuce Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	.
F. B.KYSBB,
384
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, ■which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. IT. EDWARDS.
Notes Dams, Indiana.
i PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, BY MAURICE JF. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame i	University.
•	Price, $1, postpaid.
i ^uddrcss
;	PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
.	Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2.30 p. m. Buffalo, 8.50 p?m.
11.05 a. m., Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
12.16p. m., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 10.10 p. m.: Buffalo, 4 a. m.
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a'm., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5 05 a. m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
0-93 a. m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11.30 a. m.
116 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. m.;	Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4.50 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.38; Chesterton, 6.15 p.	m.;	Chicago,	8	p.	m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MATT,.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Ex-• press.	8 Chicago add St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 “ Miner’s	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis	 “ Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	■ “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	—.	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10 “ 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 OS “ 11 05 • “ 11 15 “ 1140 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		11 02 “ 11 20 “ 11 22 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		
					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 “	120 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. 8 15 “ 10 30 a.m.	5 3S	“ 6 21 “
		12 50 “			6 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m. ,
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m, 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. Manager. \ CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t,