^otre Dame Scholastic.
Disoe quasi semper vlcturus; vivo quasi eras moritruMis.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 17, 1877.	Number 12.
The Two Rules.
‘Live while you live; youth flies,’ The cynic, mocking, cries.
The wise man says : ‘Love truth ;
To God give life-long praise;
For innocence is youth, And wisdom length of days.’
Eliza Allex Starr.
English Literature.	.
A HISTORICAL STUDY'
In the history of the world there have been two peoples, one of ancient, and one of modern times, whose origin, growth and power, as well as the formation, extent and influence of whose language and literature, have been remarkably similar: the ancient people were those that spoke the Latin tongue, and the modern are those that speak.the English. Rome was founded by Romulus and his band of robbers, and England by Hengist and his band of freebooters : the arms of Rome went out from the small territory of Latium until they were feared by almost the whole known world; the dominion of England has been likewise extended from a small territory, until it is respected by even a larger part of the earth, larger indeed than all the world known to the ancients: the power of both was obtained by the exercise of the greatest wisdom and valor, but also by that of the greatest selfishness and tyranny, of which there is any record in the annals of humanity. Greatness of soul, united with a ruthless determination to subdue all opposition, seems to have been the prevailing genius of both nations.
As there was one ruling, aggressive and obstinate element in each people,—the Latin element in the Roman, and the Saxon in the English,—so also we find in each the same power of absorption and assimilation: the Latins, combining the adjacent nations of Italy, formed with them the Roman people; and the Saxons, not only overcoming the ancient Britons, but finally mastering the Danes, and even rising superior to their own conquerors, the Normans, united with all these elements in the formation of the English people: and thenceforth this absorbing and assimilating power was characteristic of each nation; wherever the Roman arms prevailed, there also followed Roman law, Roman customs, and the Roman language and literature, so that the new country became rather a Roman province than a conquered nation; in like manner, every land in which the English race has taken root has adopted the English law, English traditions and the English lan
guage and literature as its own. In America, for instance, where all the races of the world commingle, the English element, though but a small fraction of the whole, is nevertheless supreme, giving law, language and character to the nation. Finally, to complete the resemblance, all the civilized world to day lives under the law of the one or of the other of these two peoples, the civil law of Rome or the common law of England being the basis of legislation in every state of-Christendom.	.
As these were no ordinary peoples, so they gave expres sion to no ordinary language and literature. Roman speech has been even more nearly universal than Roman power itself, being to this day the general language of the learned; while the English, already more widely spoken than any other language, bids fair to become the common speech of civilized man: or, as Dr. Newman has it, himself thought by some to be the first living master of English prose, “ The English language and the Irish race seem destined to spread over the whole earth.”
As both English and Latin originated with a fierce, uncultivated people, so both were made beautiful by contact with more polished nations: the French language and the Italian literature have had the same refining and ennobling influence on the English that the Greek had upon the Latin. The Latin, before it was harmonized by the almost perfect Greek, was rude and uncouth, thouglfstrong and forcible speech: so likewise was the English before submitting to the refining influence of the elegant muse of France and Italy.
Thus the English language and the English speaking people, like the Roman, are both composite, that is, made up by the harmonious union of different parts; but in each case we find a strong central element which leads and gov erns the others, in the one the Latin, and in the other the Saxon. It is interesting to remark that this union of different elements, under the guidance of one strong central element, has been characteristic of all the most civilized and powerful nations. The greatness of France was un- ' doubtedly due to the dominating influence of the Franks, who united under themselves the varied elements of Gauls, Romans, Visigoths, Normans, Bretons, Basques, etc. The splendid Spanish nation was formed by the heroic Visigoths, who united into one the Iberians, Carthaginians, Romans, Vandals and Moors. Nor did Spain attain the highest glory until all the petty kingdoms resulting from the Moorish invasion were united under the sway of the accomplished queen of Castile. Modern Italy and ancient Greece are examples of the growth of numerous small but powerful and highly civilized States among the same people, that of Florence being the most intellectual in Italy and that of Athens in Greece. But although both Italians and Greeks were made up of numerous races, yet no one of
178
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
them was sufficiently dominating to unite the whole people into one great State; so that neither Greeks nor Italians were ever united as one nation until both had long passed the period of their highest intellectual activity, and degenerated to what we find them at the present day. Thus it would seem that diversity of race and predominance of a single race are necessary in order to secure a united, powerful and highly civilized people. .
What is true of the nation is also true of its language and literature. -The quasi union of the Greeks gave birth to their multiform language, and nurtured the muse of Homer with its varied dialects; and when Athens succeeded for a time in uniting the surrounding petty States with Attica, the Attic muse attained her loftiest flight, and the eloquence of Demosthenes made all Greece for a moment throb as with a single heart In like manner, the Latin language and literature reflect the condition of the Roman people; the Tuscan, that of the Florentine republic; the French, that of the brilliant monarchy of the Franks; and the English, that of the English people : variety of race and unity of people appearing everywhere as the necessary source of the highest excellence.
When the English language and literature began to assume a regular and permanent form, about five hundred years ago, the English people were for the first time really united as one nation under the brilliant rule of Edward IH. The united people were made up of four distinct races: the Britons, or original inhabitants of the country, the Saxons and their cognate tribes, the Danes, and the Normans. The Saxons and the Danes were closely related, each belonging to a branch of the great Gothic race, while the Britons belonged to the more ancient Celtic race. The Normans were themselves half Gothic and half Celtic.. Originally a Scandinavian people, like the Danes, they had been in possession of a large province of France for about a hundred and fifty years before their invasion of England; and during this time they had become merged in the French people, speaking the French language and adopting the French literature and French civilizition generally. Thus it should seem the English people are made up pretty equally from two of the great civilized races of mankind, the Gothic and the Celtic, the Saxons representing the southern or Teutonic Goths, the Danes, the northern or Scandinavian Goths, the,Britons representing the northern, or Gaelic Celts, and the Normans both the Scandinavian Gothsjand the southern or Gaulish Celts, together with the Latin and other southern races of France. By the conquest of Wales and the union of Scotland and Ireland, three other Celtic nations were united to still further mingle the Celt and the Goth, the Southern with the Northern nations. It would seem indeed that if there is any common ground on which all civilized nations might unite it should be that of Great Britain.and Ireland. Like the Sabine women, persuading their Roman husbands and their Sabine fathers to live together as one people, the British nation, related equally to Celt and to Saxon, to the Latin and to the Teutonic race, should persuade all the nations to come together as one people, speaking the same language.
From what has been said, we might infer that the English language and literature should exhibit the characteristics of the races which make up the body of the English people; that we should find in it something of the light heartedness and generosity, something of the eloquence and imagination of the Celt; something of the strong common sense and love of freedom of the Saxon; something of the
dark, mysterious poetry of the Scandinavian; something of ' the grace and exactness of the French; and something of the commanding power and majesty of the conquering Norman: and, in America, these characteristics should be still further modified by the glowing eloquence of Ireland, the thoughtful science and rich melody of Germany, the softness of the sad and luxurious African, the wildness of the untamable Indian, the romance of the Spaniard, and finally, perhaps, the gorgeous coloring of the Asiatic; for all these arc here gathered together from the uttermost parts of the earth. Verily, if any language is destined to become universal it is that which we speak ourselves, and which has already accommodated itself to so many races: audit is from America, rather‘than from England, that this language will spread over the earth. Here it will doubtless be.still further modified by all the nations that are assembled within our borders, and who will each undoubtedly give to it some of the marks of their several speeches; until finally every people will find its own particular tongue represented in the speech of the great republic. It was but a few years ago that Cardinal Manning, in send- „ mg out a band of missionaries to convert the regions of the Southern States, expressed his belief that the time would come when these negroes, being Christians themselves, would pass over to their brethren in Africa, and thus at length convert that great Continent to Christianity. With them would most certainly go the language of this country. Recently also the ancient Empire of Japan, desirous of closer commercial relations with America, seriously proposed to adopt our language, that is, if we would only consent to have it spelled as it is pronounced, a consummation devoutly to be wished. Thus there is, to say the least, a fair prospect that Christianity and the English language, aided by the telegraph and the steam-engine, may at last make all men, what they were in the beginning, of one race and one speech.
With this glance at the history and character of our language, let us proceed to consider the general features of its literature. We have seen how intimate is the -relation of a language to the people that speak it; it is indeed the close relation of mind and speech: even still closer is the
relation of literature to both people and language—being the triple relation of mind^ speech and thought: as the mind is, so will be the speech; and as both these are, so will be the thought. If, then, we would know the character or history of a people, we must study their language and their literature; if we would know their language, we must study their literature and their history; and if we would know their literature, we must study their language and their history. These three are thus inseparably united, history, language and literature, the thoughts, the words and the deeds of men. He who would thoroughly know a people must know these three things concerning them. For instance, to become acquainted with the Romans, it is necessary to read Sallust; but it is also necessary to read Horace. On the other hand, as De Quincey well remarks, the grandeur of the Roman character, unlike that of the Greeks, is seen, not in their literature, but in their history; as in the heroic self-denial of Regulus returning to his prison, or the sale at auction of the very ground on which Hannibal was encamped, or in those magnificent words of the dying Trajan, “ Caesar should die standing.”
Accordingly, it is utterly impossible for us to appreciate English literature until we understand the English language and are acquainted with English history. It makes
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	179
all the difference in the world, not only what is said, hut also when, where, by whom, and under what circumstances, it is said. Read Shakspeare or Scott, for example, without reference to the times in which they lived, or of which they wrote, and you have no true knowledge or appreciation of their wonderful creations; so also if you read them as translated into another language, their magic will seem to have departed, even as delicate fruits lose their aroma when transferred from their native gardens to the palaces of the city.
(Conclusion next week )
The Seven Wise Men of Greece.
Who has fixed the number of the wise men of Greece at seven? Who has conferred these titles on them? Has old Greece had but seven wise men, and were all the others fools, as some youngster sarcastically remarked in the Scholastic last year; or among those brave, intelligent and virtuous men, whose heroic achievements and honorable deeds adorn the history of their nation, have there been seven so conspicuous and so far superior to all others as to deserve to be grouped apart and more particularly to be recommended to the admiration of the world? In the beautiful ages of Grecian philosophy these questions were already put, but have never’ been solved. The vague tradition which pointed out seven sages was an enigma to the learned men of Greece themselves.
At first the meaning of the word wise was a subject of dispute. Should we attribute it to a man of great virtue? Periander, one of them, was a disgusting tyrant, conspicuous for his cruelty and immoral conduct; and Damon of Cyrene, who composed a history of philosophers, does not exhibit the other six as models in moral conduct either.
Anaximenes, who wrote a history of Greece, pretends that these wise men were at most poets. Their sentences were expressed in verse, a fact which perhaps explains why most of them appear so insignificant to-day, deprived as they now are of their rhythm and primitive ornament. However, Dicmarehus, a scholar of Aristotle, a man famous for his knowledge of philosophy, history and mathematics, says in his works on Greece: “ They were neither learned men nor philosophers, but simply men of good sense— legislators.”
But who were these seven wise men? The same Dicte-archus admits at first four, universally recognized as wise : Thales, Bias, Pittacus and Solon. After these he names six others, from among whom he selects three: Aristom-enes, Pamphilus, Chilo of Sparta, Cleobulus, Anacharsis and Periander. Hermippus, in his book on Sages, pretends that there were no less than seventeen, from among whom he chose promiscuously seven principal ones. He enumerates them in the following order: Solon, Thales, Pittacus, Bias, Chilo, Cleobulus, Periander, Anacharsis, Acusilaus, Epimenides, Leophantes, Pherecydes, Aristode-mus, Pythagorus, Lasus, Hermio, and Anaxagoras. Hippobotes proposes another number and another arrangement. He places at the head Orpheus and Linus. Diogenes Laertius, who lived during the reign of Septimus Severus, in his lives of philosophers, gives all these variations, with-out however, deciding in favor of anyparty. “ They do not agree,” he says, “any better on the number of the sages than on their maxims: Leander substitutes Leophantes, Lebedian or Ephesian, and Epimenides of Crete for Cleobulus and Myson; Plato, in his Protagoras, puts Myson in the place of Periander; Euphorion changes Myson for
Anacharsis, and others add Pythagoras to the number of sages.”
The reason why the number of sages was definitely fixed . at seven is likewise obscure. Seven, as we know, has always been a sort of sacred number. It would seem, however, that the popular opinion recognized especially seven wise men, who lived at the same time and who had frequent conversations with .each other on learning and wisdom. “Archetimus of Syracuse,” says the same Diogenes Laertius, “has given an account of the conference of the sages with Gypselus, and states that he himself was pres-ent thereat.” Euphorus says that with the exception of Thales they found themselves all with Crcesus. According to some other authorities, they assembled in Panonia, Corinth and Delphi.
We give these different opinions without presuming to decide upon them. On the contrary, we feel inclined to say that the number seven is here altogether arbitrary, and the epithet wise has various meanings. To determine precisely to whom it belongs would be very difficult, if not impossible; and, besides, it is not at all certain whether the maxims attributed to each one of these personages might not just as well be claimed by others. The epoch at which the Seven Wise Men were first so called was, according to the best authorities, the archonship of Damasias, B. C. 5S6, and they lived between the years B. C. 665 and 540. These reserves made, we will adopt here the more probable and most commonly received opinion, and give some short notice of the life of each of the pretended sages, viz.: Thales, Solon, Chilo, Pittacus, Bias, Cleobulus and Periander. With each biography we will give some choice sentences of which the sage is supposed to be the author. Of these sentences there are some that are much less striking because they are really wise, and they were consequently put in circulation at a very early period; others, on the contrary, are jests or paradoxes, which must have contributed much more to sharpen the minds of the Greeks than to improve their reasoning faculties.
With the exception of Thales, the Sages were all statesmen, eagerly desirous to spread good manners and morals among their subjects. They all sincerely desired the good of society, though each one in his own way. We learn their opinion as to the best form of government from the accounts of an assembly, held in the palace of Periander of Corinth, in the presence of the Scythian Anacharsis, who had come to Greece to compare the manners of this quarter of the world with the rude sturdiness of his own country. Solon’s opinion was, that the best form of government was that where the injury done to one individual is considered as done to the whole nation. Bias thought, it was, that where the lav/ rules in stead of the tyrant. Thales said, where the inhabitants are neither exceedingly rich nor exceedingly poor. Pittacus: where dignities are conferred only on whomsoever is worthy. Cleobulus, where the citizens are more afraid of blame than of punishment. Chilo, where the laws are better listened to and have greater authority than the orators; Periander finally said that the best of all was a democratic government, approaching as much.as possible the aristocratic one, because the authority of a small number of sensible and well-minded men cannot fail to prove of great avail. Then the Scythian, lastly gave his opinion and thought it was where virtue was honored and vice avoided and despised. From this we see how widely seven or eight men, all claiming the epithet of wise, can differ with regard to one and the same
180
-I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
idea. But who is the wisest ? who has spoken the truth ? Neither opinion is to be rejected; and so much is true, that the Scythian has not been farthest from the point. Their opinions are all worthy to be taken into consideration even in our days, and we must confess that many of our speakers are by far not so wise as the Scythian and the seven sages of Greece.
The following legendary tale expressive of that great modesty and piety which always accompany true merit, is related . respecting them: Some strangers at Miletus, sailing one day by the island of Coos, agreed to pay a certain prize to some fishermen who had just thrown their net into the sea for whatever they should catch from that draught. They drew up a tripod of solid gold which, it is said, Helen when returning from Troy had thrown into the sea at that place, on account of an ancient oracle which she then recollected. To decide the question: “ Whose property the tripod should be considered ? ” gave rise to some altercation between the fishermen and the strangers. The cities to which they belonged afterwards interested themselves in the affair, each espous* ing the cause of its own citizens. When they were on the eve of an open rupture, it was agreed on all hands that the dispute should be referred to the decision of the oracle. They sent to Delphi, and the response of the oracle was that “ the tripod should be given to the most eminent of the wise.” It was immediately sent to Thales. He, however, modestly declined it, and offered it to Bias of Priene. Bias modestly had it conveyed to a third, and so it passed through the hands of the seven iu succession; and Solon, who received it last, said: “ There is no being wiser than a god,” and he sent the tripod to Delphi, where it was consecrated to Apollo.
The first of the series of articles, to appear next week, will be on Thales.
A Sign-Board.
[The following lines have been sent us by an esteemed friend of the Scholastic with a request to publish them, with which we cheerfully comply. If some of those who vend liquors had but a grain of conscience left, many a young man -who now fills a drunkard’s grave, or who will one day fill it, might have been saved from such a dreadful fate. Those who give liquor to students, to young men contending with temptation, or to those who are known to be drunkards and whose families suffer in consequence for the necessaries of life, incur a fearful responsibility, and must one day answer for it before a just Judge. On the other hand, the liquor dealer who is guided by principle and conscience has it in his power to perform a mission that without his co-opcration might otherwise fail—namely to save those who are tempted to wreck their brightest hopes by over-indulgence in stimulating drinks. The first class is well represented in the following lines; of the second class there are, we hope, many who endeavor to counteract evil as far as lies in their power.]
I will paint you a sign, rum-seller, And. hang it above your door;
A truer and better sign-board Than ever you had before.
I will paint with the skill of a master, And many shall pause to see
This wonderful piece of painting, So like the reality.
I will paint yourself, rum-seller,
As you wait for that fair young boy, Just in the morn of manhood,
A mother’s pride and joy.
He has no thought of stopping,
But you greet him with a smile, And you seem so blithe and friendly
That he pauses to chat awhile.
I will paint you again, rum-seller, I will paint you as you stand
With a foaming glass of liquor Holding in either hand.
He wavers, but you urge him: “Drink! pledge me just this one! ” And he lifts the glass and drains it, And the hellish work is done.
And I next will paint a drunkard ;
Only a year has flown,
But into this loathsome creature
The fair young boy has grown.
The work was quick and rapid;
I will paint him as he lies In a torpid, drunken slumber,
Under the wintry skies.
I -will paint the form of the mother
As she kneels at her darling’s side— Her beautiful boy that was dearer
Than all the world beside.
I will paint the shape of a coffin Labelled with one word—“Lost 1 ”
I will paint all this, rum-seller, I will paint it free of cost.
The sin, and the shame, and sorrow, The crime, and want, and woe, That are born there in your rum-shop, No hand can paint, you know;
But I’ll paint you a sign, rum-seller, And many shall pause to view
This wonderful swinging sign-board, So terribly, fearfully true.
Art and Civilization.
It would appear on first sight that it is the office of Art to civilize and refine mankind. That it does refine man after civilization has once begun to shed her benign rays upon a nation, is certainly true; but it never was the office of art to cause these beams to shine. It requires something even greater than art to do this and this something is Religion.
Art, whenever it has accomplished anything, has ever been the handmaid of Religion; and when once these two have been totally severed in their relations, art has always been the loser and has failed in its office as a civilizer. The most polished nation of antiquity, Greece, made art to serve the twofold duty of inspiring religion and patriotism, and so long as this was the case the arts flourished and accomplished much.
With the Greeks, a love of beauty was a principle of religion; their gods and demigods and heroes were according to their conception, so far as physical excellence is concerned, models which the whole world, since then, has never excelled, if indeed it has ever equalled them, and since Greek art was inseparable from religion and patriotism, this physical beauty, ascribed to their gods and heroes, was reproduced by the chisel and the brush. Hence all the attributes of grace, loveliness, strength, and majesty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	181
clothed the creations of the artist. These qualities which marked the productions of the painter and the sculptor were not without their influence on the people. The beauty and majesty which showed itself in the sculptured marble were sought after by the people, and their habits and ihode of of life were made such as to reproduce in themselves as much of this physical beauty as possible. Besides this, the works of those mighty toasters of antiquity made the Greeks more susceptible to the finer feelings of our nature, and emulous of performing deeds like to those which the painters and sculptors reproduced for them. They softened, at the same time, the rude part of their nature and made them the most refined and highly cultivated nation of antiquity.
In Rome, art never reached the same degree of perfec-iton as in Greece, nor did it ever influence the people to as great a degree. The cultivation of the fine arts in Rome began when Rome, as the great mistress of the world, was at the highest point of her power, and when, from the multiplicity of gods, religion was almost dead to the cultivated pagans. As a consequence, art was soon made to answer a purpose disgraceful and mean. It was used to glorify the tyrants who ruled in Rome, and thus fell from the lofty height which it should occupy. By degrees it lost its great mission as a teacher; and when the barbarians of the North ravaged the Empire, art would have been lost to the world had it not found a peaceful asylum in the cloister.
The nations of the North were unlettered and unrefined. They settled themselves throughout the Roman Empire, • and brought their barbarism with them. Art by itself was powerless to soften their manners; but Religion, bringing them under the mild yoke of Christ, and teaching them the sweet precepts of the Gospel, forced them to abandon many of the rude practices of their forefathers. Then she called in Art to her aid, and right royally did she respond. Made the companion and co-worker of Religion, Art became ennobled, and capable of fulfilling a grand mission. There were truths to teach, manners to refine, and people to educate. The preachers spoke from the pulpits, and pictures taught from the walls. During these periods the arts supplied the place of philosophy, and were the historians of the people. They were made to teach an illiterate populace the grand truths of religion and good morals, by reproducing the events related in the Old and New Testaments; wherefore it was that Pope St. Gregory the Great wrote: “ Let pictures be employed in the churches, that those who do not understand letters may be able at least to read on the walls what they are not able to read in books.” And it was proclaimed by the Siennese painters as follows: “We, by the grace of God, manifest to rude and ignorant men the miraculous events operated by virtue of and in confirmation of our Holy Faith.”
So long, then, as art is made to serve the interest of religion it has a high and great mission to perform; so long as it serves to kindle in the hearts of men the fire of patriotism, and instils into their souls a love for the good and beautiful, it is a great worker in refining and civilizing man; but as soon as it forsakes these ends, and panders to the vices of mankind, it sinks itself into the mire and becomes defiled, thus making itself a curse rather than a blessing. 	K.
—We write our mercies in the dust; but our afflictions we engrave in marble. Our memories serve us but too well to remember the latter; but we are strangely forgetful of the former.
Cheerfulness.
Among the many good dispositions which men may acquire, there is hardly any which gives so much satisfaction not only to the possessor, but even to those with whom such a person may come in contact, as the disposition commonly called cheerfulness; There is an habitual cheerfulness, and an occasional mirth and animation in speaking: Habitual cheerfulness comprises the two last; It is, in fact, the cause of them; Practically speaking, habitual cheerfulness, or cheerfulness properly so called, has a tendency to communicate the same joyous spirit to others that we ourselves feel, to make others feel as we feel, to make others act as we act; in a word, to make our friends and companions participate in the fruits of our own happiness and joy. That such a disposition as this otight to be acquired, no one doubts. Everyone has more or less need of it. No one should be without it.
There are, ho wever, some who seem at all times and in all circumstances to be dissatisfied cither with themselves or with others. Seldom do they seem to care for what to others is a real source of enjoyment. A gloom heavy and dense appears to overhang their countenances. Melancholy is their prevailing disposition. Cheerfulness, joy, and mirth never stir up their energy, brighten their, countenance, nor invigorate their soul. No friendly word escapes their lips. There seems to be no enjoyment for them, nothing sufficiently attractive or encouraging to rouse up their spirits and recall their flagging energy. They are like plants shut off from the light of day, deprived of the mystic rays of the sun, which is the source of their healthy development and growth. Could anyone reasonably bestow praise upon such an individual ? Surely not; on the contrary, he is, as people say, to be pitied. Cheerfulness, on the other hand, brightens up the countenance, animates the expression, enlivens the imagination, rouses up one’s energy, and makes study and work, however difficult, easy and pleasant. Recreation hours, taken in company with a person of this disposition, are really hours of enjoyment, beneficent to both mind and body. True and honest friends, respect and love, are but the natural consequences of cheerfulness. It puts us in social relation with the outer world, and makes us pleasing both to God and nuflat. . .
There must, however, be a cause for all this. ^Bfcct without a cause, is an old philosophical adage, and surely a*' true one in every respect. But where are we to look for the cause of cheerfulness? It is a well-known fact, and one equally true, that the expression of the countenance is a faithful miror of the soul. Holy Scripture tells us that our Lord during His sujourn on earth always and everywhere exhibited a countenance calm and serene. Sadness' and sorrow, humanly speaking, were His lot. As man, He was subject to all the infirmities of our nature, sin excepted. He is known to have shed tears over Jerusalem, the proud and obstinate city, but never was the gentle expression of His countenance effaced, never its holy serenity disturbed. Men, too, that live pure and holy lives are always calm, cheerful and affable. This is not, however, the case with persons whose souls are tinged with crime, and whose consciences are laden with guilt. There is no peace for these, far less cheerfulness or joy. A soul pure and undefiled, a conscience free from guilt and stain, are the primary causes of cheerfulness. A guilty consciences on the other hand, is but the fruitful source of sorrow, melancholy and gloom;	M. L;
182	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—The Paris Exposition "will devote a special division to electricity, in order thatjall the systems of electric lighting may be tested comparatively.
—Mr. A. Boucard, who has spent five months studying the ornithology of Costa Rica, collected 250 species of birds, many of which are new to science, and others are of rare occurrence.	'
—The Paris National Library has lately added to its internal machinery a pneumatic tube leading to all parts of the building, through which may be sent notes from readers inquiring for books.	»
—The French Government is taking measures to irrigate the Departments of the Mediterranean region. The waters of the Rhone will be utilized to supply systematically that large and fertile country with the moisture that has been hitherto lacking.
—The French Consul at Bosrah, Mr. de Sarzeck, has discovered in Talao, not far from the river Hai, the ruins of an ancient Babylonian city (perhaps Zergulla, or a city of the same group). Several bronze figures and marble slabs have been discovered among the ruins.
—Capt. R. F. Burton has written a book on Midian, containing the results of his visit to that country last year, but awaits the Khedive’s permission to publish it. It is the author’s purpose to organize a new exploration of the country, and a partial investigation of the mines which he discovered there.,
—Experiments in driving by electricity have been made in France. An elector-magnet is placed beneath the coachman’s seat, from which one wire is carried along the reins to the horse’s bit, and another to the crupper, so that the whole length of the spine froms part of an electric current. A sudden shock, which the driver can administer at discretion, will, it is said, arrest the most furious runaway.
—The Committee of the Palestine Exploration Fund will publish a popular account of the entire work of the survey, written by Lieut. Conder. A prominent feature of the book will be a description of the native population, their creeds, customs, language, etc. A chapter will be devoted to Damascus, Hermon, and Baalbeck; and one to the fertility of the country and the prospects of colonization.
—A writer in Nature suggests that it is the odor, and .not the color, of flowers which attracts insects. He has observed that bees particularly, and also butterflies, confine their visits to a particular species of flower, although others of the same hue may be growing in close juxtaposition. The object of this discriminative selection appears to be fertilization, so far as the flower is concerned ; and it probably subserves some purpose, at the same time, in the economy of the insect.
—Artificial parchment is made by dipping a sheet of strong paper into a solution of sulphuric acid, mixed with a tenth of its weight of pure water. It is held in this liquid for about three seconds, and then washed thoroughly in water and dried. Experiments lately made in Dresden show that the paper thus prepared has a power of resistance four times as great as before its immersion. The pro-cessis sometimes used in Germany for less delicate services, as envelopes for sausages and dynamite cartridges.
—The traces of twelve foreign languages are easily distinguishable in the various dialects spoken along the frontiers and coasts of Italy. They are Greek at Reggio-Calabro, and near Ajaccio, in Corsica; Albanese in Sicily and Calabria; Arabic in Malta and the island of Sardinia; Bulgarian in the province of Molise; Catalanian in Alghero; Provencal in the province of Nice; French in the valley of Aosta; Romance in Ticino and Trent; Burgundian in the valleys of Aosta, Sesia, Maggia; Bavarian in the province of Verona and in the Friuli; Wallachian in the Istrian peninsula; Slav in Friuli and Istria.
—The Fever Tree (Australian giant tree, Eucalyptus globulus) has become an important object of trade. One single farmer in California has planted 80,000 trees of this kind upon 140 acres; about 30,000 of them are now 12 feet high. Demands for these trees are now increasing from all
parts of the country. It is asserted that a kind of tea, prepared from the leaves of this tree, is an excellent remedy for fever, and the editor of the San Diego World asserts that by drinking this tea he felt at once relieved from a severe cold. He also says that several of his friends have been freed from rheumatic complaints by the same remedy. At Sandhurst, in Victoria Colony, a kind of oil is distilled from the leaves which will probably take a conspicuous place among standard medicines. The opinion in which it it is held by the physicians at Victoria is generally very favorable. This oil is said to be very effective against rheumatism and fever, as well as a balsam for wounds. In catarrh and other complaints resulting from cold it has proved as good a specific as the juice of the leaves.
—The Neto York Tribune says: The ease with which some ready w’riters can spin theories is curiously illustrated in a recent article in Reform, a journal published at Hamburg, in which the effect of climate on the people of the United States is discussed. The theory assumes that we are beginning in this country to resemble the North American Indians. The assumption is first made that our people are chiefly of English descent. Our skins have become dry. Our glandular system has shrunk to a minimum. Our necks are long; our heads small. Onr cheekbones project. Our eye cavities are deep. Our underjaws are full. In all these particulars we are approximating the Indian. Furthermore the Englishman is heavily bearded, the American lightly, the Indian not at all. Our hair is straightening. Our extremities are lengthening, so that American gloves have to be made with long, slender fingers. But this is not all. The change extends to our manners and customs; for instance, the lynch law of the border and the polygamy of Utah show the proclivity towards the ways of the aborigines. Even the negroes here, we are told, are yielding to the climate, and are bleaching gradually.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Miss Harriet Hosmer, the sculptor, has a musical cousin, Miss Alice Hosmer, who has just been giving a grand concert in Washington.
—A new composer has risen to fame in Italy, with an opera entitled “ Mephistopheles,” that has been received everywhere with great favor. Arrigo Boito is his name.
—Messrs. Osgood & Co. will soon add to their galleries of the great masters two large quartos containing each twenty-four heliotype engravings. One will reproduce the best works of Millais and the other of Faed.
—The Society of the Liverpool Art Club has opened an exhibition of fans embracing nearly 200 specimens. Prefacing the descriptive catalogue of the exhibition is a pleasant account of the art and history of fan-making. -
—The French Government has placed the four pictures purchased this year in the great hall of the Luxemburg. They are “La Vierge Consolatrice,’' by Bo.ugereau; “La Glaneuse,” by Jules Breton; a portrait of Emilie Angier, by Edouard Dubufe: and a landscape by Belly.
—The bust of the celebrated, composer Petrella has been finished by Bagnasco, the sculptor of the statue of Donizetti; and will be placed in position next month. It is curious that the municipality which allowed Petrella to die in poverty in a common hospital rewards his memory by ordering his bust to be chiselled after death.
—When Thiers was President of France, he ordered copies for the Louvre of all the masterpieces of sculpture and painting in the great museums and galleries of Italy, Germany, and Spain, to be made by French artists. The collection was begun and pushed under his administration, but has not yet been completed.
—The injuries which Strasbourg Cathedral suffered during the Franco-German war, together with those inflicted by the slow waste of time, are being thoroughly repaired. Sculptures and pinnacles are being replaced, or erected in positions not before occupied. Imperial statues on horseback are prominent among the new sculptures used in the restoration.
—The unique collection of specimens of the ancient art
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
183
of Cambodia brought to Paris in 1873 consists of seventy pieces of sculpture and architecture, including several remarkable statues of Buddha and a stone group of two giants, one of whom has five heads and ten arms. They were found in the midst of a dense growth of forest along the banks of the Tonkin river, in the kingdoms of Cambodia and Siam.
—-The author of “ One Summer,” speaking of Liszt and his pupils, says: “In regard to the style of playing prevalent in the Weimar school, and to speak of it quite hastily and superficially, its prominent features seemed to bedash, brilliancy, individuality, and freedom. On the other hand, although the artists here are mostly fledged, there seemed to be far less distinctness and fulness of tone and faithfulness of interpretation than are the results of the much discussed, abused, misunderstood, and enthusiastically admired ‘ Stuttgardt method.’ ”
—In the Polyglot Library of the Propaganda Fide, a fine collection of Syrian poems, of which the MS. was recently found in the Vatican Library, has just been published. The author of these poems, which date from the 12th century, is Gregory Bashcbree. The editor is the Rev. Father Augustin Scebabi, a regular priest among the Maronites, and a professor in the Greek College at Rome. These poems, which are full of piety and of sublime sentiments, breathe sweet whispers from the Holy Land, carrying to the West the pious sentiments of Mt. Libanus.
—The Van Loon collection of painting at Amsterdam, lately purchased by the Rothschilds for 4,000,000 francs, is to be divided into five parts, one of which will fall by lot to each branch of the family, who divide the cost equally. The collection comprises two magnificent Rembrandts,— portraits of Willem Dacy, magistrate of Almaar, and his wife, dated 1634 and 1643 respectively. They were purchased from a decsendant of the family in 1798 for 4,000 florins, and sold a year later for 10,000 florins, or about $5,000. Their present cost is §150,000. Among other pictures in the collection are two small Paul Potters, examples of Cuyp, Wouvermans, Van de Velde, etc.
—W. W. Story, the sculptor, has been talking to a writer in the Boston Herald about the growth of American art abroad, and how it compares with that of other countries. He does not think that our painting is.any thing to brag of, ' but as to sculpture he says: “It has developed to such a degree that I think it compares excellently with England, or almost any other art nation. The idea of building soldiers’ monuments has given a considerable impetus to American art. Some very fine ones have been made in Rome.” Of American artists abroad, Mr. Story says that Florence is becoming a more favorite place for them than Rome, and that generally there is among them much genuine goodfellowship.
—Rev. Father Vincenzi, a very learned professor of the late Roman University, has just published a most erudite work entitled a “New Dissertation concerning the Writings and Doctrine of St. Gregory of Nyssa and of Origen, with an Appendix treating of the Acts of the Fifth (Ecumenical Council.” This -work is a real gem of theological science. The learned author has also given another proof of his profound erudition in another work entitled “The Sacred Monarchy among the Jews and the Christians, and the Infallible Magistracy in each of these Monarchies.” This worthy theologian, an honor to the clergy of Rome, has preferred poverty to a lucrative position at the Government University, for he would not dishonor himself by apostasy.
—The event of importance in the musical circle in Hamburg is to be the second centenary jubilee of the Town theatre. On the 2d of January, 1878, it will be two hundred years since the first opera in Germany was performed. The theatre was begun in 1686 and finished in 1677. • First adopted for plays and dramas, it was afterwards devoted to opera. The first opera given was “Adam and Eve,” libretto by Richer, music by Franz Sheil. This was followed by “ The Devil Is Loose,” which some believe to have been its precursor; to one of the two, at any rate, the distinction of being the first German opera ever played at this theatre is due. The coming festival on the 2d of January will be one of peculiar attraction, and if the score exists, to compare the past with the present, “The Devil Is Loose” with “Der Ring des Nibelungen.’’
—The celebrated St. Thomas school of Leipsic, so intimately connected with the history of Bach, is about to be removed from its ancient locale to a new building in another part of the town. This school, which is indisputably the oldest academy of music in existence, formed part, from 1222 until the Reformation, of the Convent of Angus* tinias. Its cantors, or ccnductors are not all known, but among the most celebrated have been Calvisius (1594-1615), Johann Schelle (1677-1701), Johann Kuhnau, the author of the celebrated church service (1701-1722), Johann Sebastian Bach (1723-1750), Doles (1789-1800), Moritz Hauptman (1842-1867), and the present occupant of the office, Ernest Friedrich Richter. As in Bach’s time, the famous choir still perform on alternate Sundays at the Leipsic churches of St. Thomas and St. Nicholas, and they are also frequently heard at the Gewandhaus concerts.
—The manager of the Royal Bavarian Theatre announces that the king has offered prizes, 1, for a tragedy of elevated tone; 2, for a drama of the present day, one dealing with German life preferred, but the dubious issues of the time to be avoided; 3, for a comedy of the higher kind, dealing with German' society, and vigorously eschewing everything appertaining to the farcical. The prizes are to be $600 each, and the competition is to be open until Aug. 31,1878. The productions must be entirely original, and not have been put before the public heretofore. They are to judged by a commission that will select the two plays of each kind that they consider the best, and these six are to be performed on the stage in Munich in public on successive nights. A certain number of critics, lovers of art, and theatrical people, after witnessing the performances, are to assemble and determine which three of the six plays should receive the prizes. The plays that are performed will net for their authors the usual ten per. cent on the receipts; and the three that get the prizes are to remain the property of their authors. The usual precautions against favoritism, fraud etc., are to be taken.
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the November number of that most excellent musical monthly, The Musical World, are: I, The Home Concert; II, Biographies of American Musicians; HI, The Master’s Grave; IV, Correspondence; V, Literary Notes; VI, Home Department; VII, Convention Notes; Vlli, Obituary; IX, Musical World Letters; X, Monthly Musical Review; XI,TradeNotes; XII, Comical Cadences; XIII, Our Letter Box; XIV, American Musicians; XV, To Teachers; XVI, Thanksgiving Day; XVH, New Lectures on Music; XVIII, Children’s Music; XIX, Mr. Mathew’s New Book; XX, About the Opera and its Prospects; XXI, Educational Column. The music of the number is I, Will the Dear Old Times Come Back Again? II, On Butterflies Wings’; IH, Speak As of Old; IV, Heather Bell Mazurka; V, Dwight. S. M.—Beyond. S. M.—Bonar. S. M.—From the “ Galaxy,” the new book by J. W. Suffern. Terms §1.50 per annum. Single copies 15 cts. Published by S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, Ohio.
Recueil de LECTURES.By a Sister of St. Joseph. New York:
The Catholic Publication Society.
This is a manual of select French literature for the use of schools. It is divided into two parts: the first containing careful and judicious English instructions in the pronunciation of the French language, with copious exercises in French reading as illustrations. The second aud larger part of the work consists of a series of pieces, mostly original but mingled with choice selections, which cannot fail, under the guidance of a competent teacher, to form in the pupil an excellent knowledge of the peculiar merits of French literature. For self-culture, the book is also to be recommended, but it must be understood that even the best rules for French pronunciation given by the aid of English sounds, are incompetent to supply the place of oral instruction. The authoress is one of those many gifted and cultivated ladies whose names and lives are hidden -from the world in the sacred privacy of a religious life; but whose works will nevertheless be useful to that world whose praise they do not seek.
1^4
THE KOTRE DAMS SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, November 17, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry} Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all; •
Old Students sitotiLD take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per A.Tijau.m, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC}
Notre Dame, Indiana
Religious Societies.
We are happy to see such activity reigning in the different religious societies. It is unquestionably the best sign that the good spirit which has up to the present animated the students of the different departments will be kept up. For anything better we have but little desire to ask. The Juniors were the first in the field, the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception being now over six weeks in working order. It has at present a membership of more than forty, and all enter into the spirit of the exercises with such earnestness and good will that the semi-monthly meetings are looked forward to as events unusually attractive and enjoyable. The Senior Arcbconfraternity has recently reorganized with an active membership of forty-five. In number, ability and deportment, it certainly outranks any other society of the institution. The first regular meeting on Monday, Nov. 12th, was a most imposing reunion. The deep and thoughtful attention with which the remarks of Very Rev. President Corby were listened to clearly showed that all were fully alive to a true sense of the importance of the object for which the Confraternity exists. This new departure of both religious organizations is a step, and a great step, forward in the right direction ■ Our religious societies should hold the same relation to other societies, literary or scientific, which religion holds to science and letters. The importance of attaching himself to some religious society should appear at first sight to the student; “ Man lives not on bread alone ” we know, and there are cravings in the heart which cannot be satisfied by proficiency, however great, in literary or scientific matters. It was, therefore, to minister to these wants—to do for the education of the heart what the other associations propose to do for the education of the mind, that the Archconfraternities were established at Notre Dame, and we hail the fact that the students are awakening to a just appreciation of
the advantages which these societies confer as an ali§picious sign that good and great things are to ba accomplished amongst them.
Little by Little.	.
A wise hermit having been asked if the way to perfection were very long, answered that “ the virtues accompany one another, and if a man would, he might in one day attain a proportionable measure of holiness. Indeed our virtues are all conjoined in our actions, our actions in the hours, the hours in the day, the days in the month, the months in the year, and the years in the ages. Every day is a little map of our life, and the way to be soon perfect is to use much consideration and perfection in the performance of every day’s action.”
And, in like manner, were we asked if the way to the acquirement of knowledge was long, we would, like the good hermit, though without pretending to his great wisdom, answer that if a student would, he might in one day acquire a proportionable measure of knowledge. Indeed, all our acquisition of knowledge is conjoined in our methodical study, our study in the hours, the hours in the day, the days in the year, and the years in our lifetime. Every day is a little map of our life, and the way to acquire much knowledge is to use method, system and strict attention in our daily studies.
Students frequently are apt to look upon things in the aggregate, and forget that the whole is made up of small parts. They will at times forget that great knowledge is attained only after long and serious study, and that it is necessary to master many small truths before great truths are fully understood. No one ever came to great knowledge with one effort. It requires long and patient toil over dry text-books, and then continued labor over musty • volumes, before one can be looked upon as a man of erudition. In the attainment of knowledge it is the same as in making a fortune; and if we laugh at the idea of some would-be Astor, Vanderbilt or Peabody despising small gains and profits before acquiring wealth, with equal reason should we smile at the idea of any one passing by the small bits of knowledge to be acquired each day, and attempting to attain it all at once. And yet, absurd as this is, we nevertheless not unfrequently see young men who without giving each day to acquiring the knowledge they are fitted to thoroughly comprehend, rush on and endeavor to complete in a few years that which should in reality require from the brightest students six years at the very least. If they cannot do this they are apt to despond, and give up the race for knowledge. Had the elder Astor, when a poor man, given way to idleness and despondency instead of persevering sedulously in his traffic with the Indians—had Peabody not striven with might and main to amass little by little, cent by cent, dollar by dollar, the first hundred dollars, which he himself said cost him more trouble than all the rest of his vast fortune, the chances are a hundred to one that they would have lived and died poor men, instead of becoming millionaires. This should encourage the hard-working student who day by day applies himself zealously, adding mite after mite to the beginning that hereafter may—and undoubtedly will, if he perseveres, and takes the right method—develop into a store of knowledge ample not only for himself but of which he can hereafter impart a portion to others.
Greenleaf has been termed by some one a moving math-
THE NOtHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
185
ematical mass of matter, but he, like all other men who have become eminent in their line, did not come all at once by this fund of knowledge; he had to labor zealously for years in developing bis mental faculties; he had to work the crude ores in his mine of learning, to analyze and refine them by patient study ere they shone forth with the lustre that eventually characterized them. Richard Anthony Proctor, when well advanced in years, was unknown to the world of science, and perhaps he himself was as yet unaware of his signal talent for astronomy, but after a close r application of ten years to this study he has become one of the first astronomers of the day, second only to the illustrious Jesuit, Rev. Father Secchi. Hid these eminent per-. sonages paid no attention to the rudiments of science, had they given it up because they could not acquire eminence in it in a year or two, or in three or four years, they would still be unknown to the world, like many other men of greater genius but less industry.
Therefore, young men, do not become discouraged be cause you have to plod along the road to knowledge; all that have ever become eminent, either in arts, science or literature, have had to make the same efforts to develop their faculties that you now do, many of them even more strenuous ones, and at greater disadvantages, but by persevering effort they eventually succeeded in obtaining the goal of their ambition. Guard well the flying moments and make a good use of them, for hours are composed of moments, days are made up of hours, weeks of days, months of weeks, and years of months; thus it is also with the f greatest mass of erudition that has ever been acquired by any single person, it was but made up of parts, and those parts were developed and linked together only after years of painstaking labor, heavier and more onerous as they . approached the crude beginning.
The Scientific Lectures.
On Thursday evening last, we were given the first of the series of Scientific Lectures to be delivered this scholastic year by the Rev. Professor of Chemistry and Physics in Phelan Hall. The subject of the lecture, of which a resume is here given, was “ Water and its Constituent Elements.
Water, to us a most common and trite substance, is yet in the eyes of the chemist and physicist a marvel, and affords unceasing thought to the scientific mind. Thales of Miletus, the first of philosophers, laid down that water is the principal substance from which all others are formed. This theory and that of Empedocles divided the scientific world until the days of Lavoisier. Empedocles taught that there are four elements, fire, earth, air and water, from which all else are formed. Aristotle said all bodies are either hot or cold, moist or-dry; by warmth and dryness, fire is formed; by cold and moisture, water; by warmth and moisture, air; by dryness and cold, earth. He further stated that one could be transformed into the other, and by this communication of properties all things are produced. Both of their theories were proved false by Lavoisier. The old theories still have a fascination for the mind of some, and we yield to have this love for their ideas. They, it is true, were founded wholly on metaphysics, and disregard facts, as shown by experience, and yet in modern science they seem to have a wonderful supporter. They were wrong in taking the properties of mat
ter or force as forming the essence of substance and in considering bodies compound as simple. Yet their idea of the principal element or substance from which all are formed is seen in the statement made by Prof. Cook) one of our most illustrious chemists, that he considers that there is but matter and force in this universe, matter one, and force one. ’Tis the old alchemists’ idea of transmutability supported by modern science.
Water, according to modern science, is compound and formed of two gases known as oxygen and hydrogen. This is proved both by analysis and by synthesis. The experiments shown for the proofs were well performed and most varied; we will number the most striking. Sodium or potassium thrown on water will decompose it, evolving hydrogen and forming sodic oxide. A current of electricity being passed through water will decompose it, and the gases may be collected, and their relative proportions determined. The casting of the process on the screen by the aid of the lantern was most striking, and showed to fine advantage. The well-known experiment of burning hydrogen in air and collecting the resultant steam was then shown. Also two or three experiments exhibiting the union of the two gases by electricity or by heat. In using the eudiometer, the lecturer took occasion to explain, the law of definite proportions as set forth by Dalton in the beginning of the century, which law is the base and foundation of modern chemistry.
Hydrogen and oxygen, the component gases, then claimed the attention of the lecturer. The properties and qualities of both were thoroughly shown and explained.- The preparation and collecting of both were treated of, and their occurrence in nature told. The experiments, with regard to the properties of these gases, are too numerous to be told, but the experiments showing the supporting of combustion by oxygen deserve special mention as being most varied and striking. The oxyo hydrogen blowpipe was explained, and the effects were shown. - The intense light and heat produced by it were treated of, and numerous experiments therein made, the most striking of them be-being the combustion of zinc and other metals.
The occurrence of hydrogen, in nature was told of, and the absolute dependence of life on the gas oxygen as distributed in air. The great abundance and the marvellous use of water were explained. After a fitting close, showing the unity of plan and the stability of laws in the-works of God in Nature, the lecturer dismissed his audience, well repaid for their attention by the able and lucid explanation of the marvels of one of God’s greatest gifts.
Personal.
—	C. N. Riopelle (Commercial, of ’61,) is practicing law in Detroit, Mich.
—	W. B. Smith (Commercial, of ’67,) is in the real estate business in Chicago.
—	E. J. Nugent (Commercial, of ’72,) is in the dry-goods business at Louisville, Ky.’
—	Charles Wheeler (Commercial, of’72,) is practicing law at Mechanicsville, Iowa.
—	Robert McGrath (Commercial, of ’75,) is keeping books for his father at Lafayette, Ind.
—	Our friends should not neglect this department of the Scholastic but send us plenty of personals.
—	Frank W. Phelan (Commercial, of ’72.) is keeping books' for F. A. Drew, 421 N. 6th Street, St. Louis, Mo.
—	J. B. White (Commercial, of’65,) is in the book and
186
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
stationery business with J. J. Daly, No. 316 N. Main Street) St. Louis, Mo.
—S. L. Moore, of ’63, is with Oliver, Finnic & Co., Memphis, Tenn. Morre was once of the editorial staff of the Scholastic. .	-
—Frank Frazee (Commercial, of ’75,) is in the employ of Walker, Doolittle <fc Co., Portsmouth, O., where he is prospering
—Herbert H. Hunt (Commercial, of ’75,) is in the employ of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway Co., in their office at Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Local Items.
—The Band was out serenading on the 10th.
—The 29th of this month is Thanksgiving Day.
—The boats have been put away for the winter.
—When is the first musical soiree to take place ?
—Indian summer came to us magnificently on Saturday last.
—An important debate will take place this evening in the Columbian Society.
—Owing to the approach of frost, the work in painting the new church has been discontinued till spring.
—The South Bend Tribune of last week contained a long account of the visit of the Ladies’ Literary Club to Notre Dame.	'
—The reading from the Junior pulpit one day last week was backed by about 160 pounds avoirdupois. Pretty well ballasted.
—A woolen scarf was picked up near the printing-office a few days ago and left with us. The owner may have it by calling for it.
—After the “ Squaw winter ” at the beginning of this month, the Indian summer at the beginning of the week was really enjoyable.
—The Nimrods feel quite indignant to think that anyone would be so vicious as to circulate a report that a boy was in search of three stray geese!
-r-The Curator of the Museum returns his thanks to Mr. J. A. Williams and Master W. Coolbaugh for a number of fine specimens donated to the Cabinet of Mineralogy.
—We believe that everybody will bear us out when we say that the meetings of the Archconfraternity are among the most pleasant held by the societies at Notre Dame.
—The Corresponding Secretary of the Columbian Society forgot to mention that Bro. John honored the Society by a visit He was well pleased with what he saw there.
—The last of the stained glass windows was put up in the new church this past week. They make the appearance of the interior of the church much finer than before.
—Although we have had, as a rule, delightful weather, yet to have all things ready for the winter when it sets in the storm-doors have bien put up about the College building.	-
—A vole of thanks was unanimously tendered by the Columbian Literary and Debating Club to Professor Stace for the very interesting reading with which he favored them at its last meeting.
—The psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are Dixit Do-minus, page 15, of the Vesperal; the Confitebor tibi, page 8; the Beatus'oir, page 3; the Laudato piieri, page 2; and the Luada Jerusalem, page 7.
—The Philopatrian Society had a pleasant time last Tuesday, it being the Feast of their Patron, St. Stanislaus. They wTere treated to an oyster supper by their worthy President, Professor J. A. Lyons.
—The Nimrods having shot a number of wild geese, they7 had them served up in grand style, and with other delicacies made quite a fine lunch. AU who attended the lunch speak of it in high terms; they say it was grand.
—On the Feast of St. Stanislaus the members of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society sat down to a fine oyster
supper. That the boys did justice to the table need not be	,
sworn to; everyone knows they did. We thank them for	i
an invitation to it, which we accepted.	i
—Our friend John says he is going to be on the Roll of	i
; Honor one of these days. If he does, we think the boys	,
J will get “ rec.” Wishing to be on the Roll of Honor and
' trying to get on it are two different things. Nothing eas-	•
ier, though, if he makes up his mind for it.
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-	•
thean Association took place last Tuesday evening. At	1
this meeting essays were read by Masters G. Cassidy, G. F.	:
Sugg, C. Clarke, and F. Carroll. Declamations were de-	:
livered by Masters A. Widdicombe, J. Healy and W. Jones.
—Several beautiful instruments illustrating acoustics and electricity were received last week for the Cabinet of Physics. Among them are a number of fine pieces of apparatus devised by Lissajous and Koenig for the study of . sound by the optical method, which especially attract attention.	*
—At our American hotels a poor boy is thought nothing	j
of, but in France a pour boire is a very important affair. A	।
traveller who presents himself with a goodly-sized pour	;
boire commands every attention—not on his own account,	j
mind you, no matter what his position may be, but solely	i
on account of the pour boire.	j
—Speaking to some persons who lately attended the St.	i
Cecilia and Philopatrian debates, they seem to be of the	*
opinion that the societies are stronger than they have been	>
for many years. They go so far as to say that they were	;
better pleased with the St. Cecilia debate than with any	;
they ever heard.	j
—Detentions are scarcely ever heard of now. This is	j
about as strong a note in favor of the boys of ’77-78 as any	I
that we can think of. There is an occasional “ 5 ” for con-	।
duct, however, that looks very bad for some of the young-	j
sters. Couldn’t it be laid on the shelf?—it is rather a • heavy note to carry, and is neither useful nor ornamental.
—At the last regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, held Sunday evening, Nov. 11, the Society was favored with select reading by Professor Stace, which was highly appreciated by all the members present. Mr. Fiscbel read a very fine criticism on the proceedings of the last meeting, after which he delivered a declamation.
—The South Bend Uercdd came outlast week in an entirely new dress and greatly enlarged! We are gratified to see this evidence of prosperity, and hope that the lively paper may count among its subscribers all the citizens of St. Joe' County—and, for that matter, all other counties in Indiana.	;
Of the Herald, the Register, and the Tribune, South Bend may well be proud.
—On Sunday last Professsor Stace was kind enough to entertain the Columbian Literary and Debating Club with a select reading. He selected a play in which several char- ~ acters were hard to take, but Professor Stace brought them out perfectly and in such a pleasing manner as to make the President as well as the members laugh. The Columbians tender their sincere thanks to Professor Stace and hope	<
that early iu the future he may favor them again.	J
—Professor Gregori is engaged on designs for the east end 'w of the transept of the new church. Now that the scaffold-	*
ing is down, the work already completed begins to show to advantage. Everyone speaks in its praise, and those who have seen many churches throughout the country say that	j
we have here one of the very handsomest in the United	|
States. We ourselves, having seen but few, are incapable of judging; we give what is said; let those who are judges	'
decide whether these remarks are flattering or otherwise.
—The Chicago Tribune says of “The Upstart,” Professor Stace’s adaptation of Moliere’s Be Bourgeois Gentilhomme:— “ This English version, adapted for representation by male characters only, has been performed on several occasions with success at the University of Notre Dame, and has recently been published in neat pamphlet form. The comedy necessarily loses much of its vivacity by the elimination of female characters and the changes incident thereto;	j
but the satire remains, and much fun can be got out of it as	I
it is.”	•	J
—The members of the Archconfraternity of the Immacu-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	187
late Conception went to Holy Communion in a body on the Feast of St. Stanislaus. It was an edifying sight to see the young gentlemen approaching the altar in regalia. The manner in which this religious Society is conducted is worthy of all praise, and the interest manifested by the members is great. A student receiving high notes renders himself liable to suspension. As a consequence, this Archconfraternity numbers among its members the elite of the Catholic students of the Junior Department.
' —The 10th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held November the 12th. Masters French and j. Carrer were elected members. The debate was exciting and able, and resulted in favor of the negative side. The principal speakers on the affirmative were Masters L. Sievers, F. Pleins, E. Walters, K. Scanlan, J. Lemarie, J. Byrne, W. McCarthy, C. Van Mourick, and J. Heffner. On the negative were E. Pennington, T. F; Clarke, J. Gibbons, J. McNellis, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, A. Abrahams, T. O’Hara, and A. J. Burger. The Society was honored by a visit from Bro. Leander and Bro. Paul, each of whom addressed the meeting.
—The sacred concert at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, on the evening of the 11th, was a grand success. The Orchestra-from the College played the overtures to Figaro, Pretiosa, Martha, and Leichte Cavalrie. The string Quartette from the College played Kreutzer’s Night in Granada and Rossini’s Tancredi. The choir of St. Patrick’s Church sang the Gloria from Farmer’s Mass in B flat, and God of Night;' Mrs. and Miss Bulla, and Messrs. Sautschi and Keltner sang Star of Descending Night, and the Cecilians of South Bend, Sweet Good Night. The voluntaries on the organ were well rendered. Everybody who attended was well pleased, and the church was filled with people.
—The Seniors thinking that by a more careful selection of their players they would have no difficulty in defeating the Juniors, challenged them to a second game of foot-ball on the 10th. A new foot ball was bought for the occasion, each party paying half the cost of the ball, which was to go to the wining side. At 4 o’clock the contest began, and a more exciting game was never played at Notre Dame. From the long and hard-fought struggle of the Juniors, it was easily seen that the captain of the Seniors had made a good selection of kickers. The Juniors, however, drove the ball -within the goal and won tire game, the odds against the Seniors being too great. A difference of rules in deciding the game of foot-ball in the Senior and Junior Departments led to a misunderstanding, but as the game was played in the Juniors, yard it was "decided according to the Juniors’ rules.
—We are glad to see another generous donor inscribing his name on one of our beautiful stained-glass windows; and doubly glad, because the gift comes from the first student recorded on the register of Notre Dame in 1844. We always rejoice whenever we find any of our former students kindly remembering their Alma Mater. It is not the first nor the second time we meet Alexis Coquillard’s name on the list of our best friends; this new proof of liberality is only one among many; and for it we thank him the more heartily, wishing him a continuation of his well-deserved prosperity and enviable popularity in the community at large. After all, there is a philosophy in attaching one’s name to a monument already called unique in the West; for on its sacred walls it will remain bright and admired long after the best of the numerous wagons and carriages turned out fiom his celebrated shops shall have disappeared.
—The students concluded last Wednesday to have one of the old-time games of foot-ball, Juniors vs. Seniors. A picked team of twenty-five Seniors challenged the Juniors —the winners to have the ball used in the game. The game was a very exciting one, in fact a little too much so, and we think it would be better hereafter for the members of each Department to play amongst themselves. We were on our way to the office when we met a Junior running at a rapid pace. Inquiring the cause of his hurry, he smiled and remarked that there was going to be a hot time on the Campus. He said the Seniors and Juniors were to play a game of foot-ball, that he was going to prepare for hard work, and was then on his way to the shoe-shop for a heavy pair of boots that he was getting soled. We noticed that he did good work during the game. Before the game
started one of the spectators produced a mammoth apple, offering it to the one that first kicked the ball inside the goal. It was won by Master Lemarie, a New Orleans boy, who made good use of his feet during the game. The ball was tossed in the air at 4 p. m. amid a deafening shout. After a struggle of twenty minutes the Juniors got the ball inside of the goal. Cheer after cheer rent the air. The Seniors then concluded to change their tactics, but to no purpose; in three quarters of an hour the bill entered the goal a second time, and the game was decided in favor of the Juniors. A claim of foul was then claimed by the Senior, team, but it was not allowed. The Seniors played well, but they were outnumbered. It would take men with constitutions like horses and the endurance of army sutlers to win against such odds.
—A meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place on the evening of the 12 th of November. The meeting was honored by the presence of Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Kelly, Hudson, Zahm, and O’Keefe, and Profs. Lyons, Edwards, and others. The evening ten-minute sermon, an admirable and effective one, was given by Very Rev. President Corby, after which Mr. Mattimore gave a short and concise account of the Agnus Dei, and Mr. Ewing of the shrine of St. James of Compostella. Mr. J. P. Quinn read a short sketch af the Life of St. Francis of Assisi. The Archconfraternity is in a flourishing condition, and numbers over forty members. The hymns sung at the beginning and close of the meetinsg do much towards making the meetings agreeable, while the ten minutes’ instructions, the essays in answer to the questions given out, and the prayers, make the meetings instructive. The rule of the Confraternity is that no one receiving high notes can remain a member, thus confining the membership to the very best Catholic students in the Senior department; membership in the Confraternity is, therefore, in itself an honorable distinction. It is to be hoped that the general conduct of the members will be such that no suspension will take place during the year. We believe it is their intention to appear in church on great festivals in regalia. The Archconfraternity can do a great deal of good, and we are confident that the members will see that it accomplishes it. The oldest society in the College, it to day possesses as much vigor as any other, and bids fair to live while the College lives.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who dur. ing the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Barry, M. W. Banno'n, T. Barrett, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, I. Chatterton, B. J. Claggett, J. Carroll, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport, E. Dempsey, J. M. Devine, J. J. Dougherty, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. Fitzgerald, T. Fischel, F. Fulkerson, R. Francis, J. Feuerstein, E. Gramling, A. Ginz, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, A. J. Hcrtzog, J. J. Houck, W. Hoyt, M. Hogan, L. Horn, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, R. Hazlett, A. W. Hettinger, J. O. Hamilton, J. Q. Johnson, A W. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, A. Keenan, B. Krautzer, J. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, L. D. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, V. T. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. P. McConlogue, T. F. O'Grady, W. Ohlman, W. L. Prudhomme, J. L. Perea, E. Poor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, O. P. Rettig, E. W. Robinson, J. Rice, A. K. Schmidt, T. Summers, G. Saxinger, J. J. Shugrue, C. L. Stuckey, S. T. Spalding, F. Walter.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Arentz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M.T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. M. Byrne, F. T. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, G. H. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, P. Frain, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, A. Heitkam, C. L. Hagan, J. E. Halloran, A. Hamilton, G. L. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, J. L. Lemarie, J. D. McNellis, W. J. McCarthy, A. A. Miller, J. Mathews, G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, A. Reitz, M. Roughen, G. E. Sugg, W. B. Walker. •
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, W. A. McDevitt, M. Herrick, W. A. Coghlin, C. Crennen, Jas. Courtney, J. A. Seeger, W. J. Coolbaugh, J. Inderrieden, N. Nelson, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, G. Knight, O. Farrelly, C, Crowe, C. Garrick, C; Herzog, S. and C. Bushey,
188
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Jos. Iiiderrieden, J. Devine, I. and J. McGrath) C. Welty, E. Herzog, T. O’Neill, F. Farrelly, C. Long.
Glass Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who hate given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.'
T. Barrett, B. J. Claggett, J. E. Cooney, E. Dempsey, E. C-Davenuort. T. Fischel, F. Fulkerson, B. Francis, J. Fitzgerald, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, M. Hogan, P. Hagan, W. Hoyt, B. Kratzer, J. J. Kotz. F. C. Luther, J. McConlogue, J. Murphy, W. Ohlman, M. Regan, J. Rogers, T. Summers, F. Walter, E. Ward, J. Arentz, J. M. Byrne,"F. T. Clarke, H. Canoll, F. Carroll, C. J. Clarke, D. Coddington, E. Donnelly, P. Frain, H. Gramling, L. Garceau, J. Guthrie, J. Halloran, A. Heitkam, G. Ittenbach, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, J. McNellis, R. P. Mayer, A. Miller, G. Orr, T. P. O’Hara, J. O’Donnell, A. Reitz, J. Schoby, L. Sievers, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter.
minim department.
J. IL Scanlan, C. Crennen, W. A.Coghlin, Jos. Courtney, P. P.-Nelson, A. M. Coghlin, A- J. Bushey, G. J. Rhodius, J. A. Seeger, W. J. Coolbaugh, John Inderrieden, N, Nelson, F. Gaffney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, O. Farrelly, C. Crowe, H. Snee, J. Inderrieden, F. Farrelly, C. Garrick, J. Devine, P. Fitzgerald, H. Kitz, C. Herzog, J. Crowe, C. Bushey, F. Berry, T. O’Neill, I. McGrath, E. Herzog.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] Reading and Orthography—A. Sievers, J. Halloran, A. Abrahams, J. B. Ittenbach, L. Home; Grammar—R. Johnson, W. B. Walker, J. B. Ittenbach, C. Stuckey; Arithmetic—F. Luther, J. Rice, B. Kratzer, R. Francis, L. Sievers, L. Garceau, D. Coddington, H. Canoll, A. Heitkam; Geography—J. Gibbons, J. Guthrie, C. Van Mourick, J. Rogers, L. Horne, F. Fulkerson, C. L. Stuckey, T. Barrett; Christian Doctrine—E. J. Pennington, J. O’Donnell, L. Garceau, C. Cavanagh, A. J. Burger, J. Gibbons, K. L. Scanlan, F. Clarke, E. S. Walter, W. Jones, W. McCarthy, W. A. Widdicombe; Algebra—W. Ohlman, J. Lemarie, J. Fitzgerald.

—Next week a description of the new Studio will be given.
—Mother Superior has been expected for several days Business has detained her, but it is announced that she will surely arrive this week.
—After the distribution of points on Sunday evening, selections were read by the Misses A. Piatt and B. Reynolds in English, and by Miss. A. Reising in German. St. Hubert was her subject. Little Ella Mulligan also read a beautiful piece in French.
—A. Kirchner and D. Gordon certainly sang very sweetly for Juniors at the late" little Entertainment, while little Addie Geiser was noticed as a fine performer for one of her age. Miss B. Wilson performed her part of the evening’s Entertainment in a really skilful manner.
—On Tuesday, the 6th inst., the classes taught by the Assistant Superioress took occasion to honor the patronal festival of their teacher by presenting a Soiree in commemoration. They took the liberty of transferring the Feast from Sunday the 4th, to a week-day. Below we insert the programme.
—By mistake the name of Miss Bridget Wilson had been omitted in the honorable mentions of the French Class for several weeks. It was from an inadvertance, for which the delinquent party humbly begs pardon. Miss Wilson has for a long time been recognized as one of the very first
in her French Class. At no time has she failed to main1 tain her position as possessed of superior quickness and ability in acquiring the language.
—On Sunday morning at High Mass the Gregorian music was well rendered. The choir, alternating with the pupils, sang the Miss-z Regia from the Kyriale. The usual instruction after Mass in the Chapel of Loretto was remarkable as among the best of those always so admirable given on Monday to the Children.of Mary. The subject was the Patronage of the Blessed Virgin. The impression cannot fail to be most profound upon the minds of those who are in earnest to copy the beautiful traits in the life of “ the purest of Creatures.’’
Soiree Given in Honor of Mother M. Charles. Galop Brilliant—(Sponholtz)......The Misses Winston
Chorus—...................................Vocal Class
Address—Graduates.........................Miss Harris
Etude de Concert....’.......................Miss Spier
Song—“ Echo ’’—(Ganz).................Della Gordon
Address—Seniors.......................Miss H. Russell
Last Hope—(Gottschalk)...............Miss L. Kirchner
Recitation—“St. Louis Gonzaga ’and St. Charles,”
Miss M. O. Connor.
Vocal Trio—(Randegger)
Misse L. Kirchner, Usselman and Reising. Intermezzo—(Von Bulow)...............'......A. Geiser
Recitation—“Santa Clara,t he Princess of Poverty,”
Miss N. McGrath.
Song—(Randegger).....................Addie Kirchner.
Valse No. 1 (Chopin)......................Miss Wilson
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds, A. Harris, A. Piet, N. O’Neill, A. Hennebcrry, M. O’Connor, A. Reising.
1st Senior Class—Misses H. Russell, C. Boyce, M. Ewing, S. Moran, B. Wilson, I. Fisk, E. Lange.
2d Sr. Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, N. Keenan, H. Hoag, N. McGrath.
3d Sr. Class—Misses C. Ortmeyer, J. Burgert, K. Riordan, M. Halligan, M. Wagner, M. O’Neil), L. Tighe, E. Shaw, H. Millis, L. Otto, K. Hackett, A. Thomas, K. Lloyd, L. Hoag, L. Schwass, L. Papin, M. Sullivan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses J. and M. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, A. Farrell.
2d Prep. Class—Misses E. Thomas, E. Miller, A. Peak, L. Neu. honorably mentioned in the junior department.
3d Sr. Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Ewing, A. Gordon, A. Morgan.
1st Prep. Class—Misses A. McGrath, A. Geiser, L. Chilton.
2d Prep. Class—Misses J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, F. Fitz.
Jb. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, T, Van Namee, F. Sunderland, L. Ellis, N. Hackett, M. McFadden, L. French, M. Lyons, L. Wood.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Sunderland, J. Butts, E. Wootten, M. Cox.
2d Jr. Class—Misses E. Lloyd, L. McFarland, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, P. Felt.
LANGUAGES.
honorably mentioned in the
1st Latin Class—Misses J. Cooney, A. Piatt.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Plattenburg, M. Luce, O. Franklin, H. Hoag.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—Misses N. McGrath, B. Wilson, C. Silverthorne, A. Harris, H. Russell.
2d Class—Misses M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds, J. Burgert, H. Millis, A. McGrath, S. Moran, M. Ewing, A. Geiser, M. Cox.
3d Class—Misses M. Winston, L. Kirchner, M. O’Neill, I. Fisk, M. Burch, M. Wagner, A. Ewing, E. and M. Mulligan, J. Butts.
4th Class—Misses A. Dopp, E. Shaw, Z. Papin, M. Casey, M. Danaher, L. Chilton, L. Fox, L. French, E. Wright.
GERMAN.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A. Gordon, L. Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses A. Reising, C. Ortmeyer, L. O’Neill, S. Rheinboldt, 8. Henneberry, K. Barrett.
3d Class—Misses 8. Hamilton, C. Boyce, E. Miller.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
I ;
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
189

3d Div.—Misses A. Geiser and C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Miscss L. Kirchner, A. Harris, N. Keenan.
2d Drv.—Misses L. O’Neill, M. Spier, E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses Whiteside, M. Usselman, A. Henneberry.
2d Div.—Misses L. Neu, A. Gordon, J. Burgert.
4th- Class—Misses H. Millis, A. McGrath, A. Reising, N. McGrath, A. Kirchner, E. Lange, E. Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses A. Farrell, K. Hackett, C. Ortmeycr, J. Cooney, A. Morgan, P. Gaynor.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, M. Donahoe, F. Cregier, H. Hoag, M. Mullen.
2d Div.—Misses L. Papin, M. White, L. Hoag, K. Riordan, E. Shaw, K. Barrett, B. Thompson, L. M. French, M. Way, M. Cleary, J. Winston, E. Richardson.
6th Class—Misses N. Hackett, C. Van Namee, A. Ewing, 3. Rheinboldt, L. Schwass, E. Thomas, M. Ewing, O. Franklin, C. Boyce, M. Halligan, A. Thomas, M. Mulligan?
2d Div.—Misses M. Lambin, I. Fisk, M‘. Hake, B. Parrott, E. Tighe, M.Plattenburg, M. Casey, E. Wright, A. Peak, A. Brown.
7th Class—Misses M. Burch, 8. Hamilton, A. McGinnis, L. Chilton, L. Fox, M. Cox.
Sth Class—Misses L. McFarland, L. Ellis, J. Kingsbury, L. Wood, E. Mulligan.
9th Class—Misess E. Wooten, M. McFadden.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Harmony —Misses B. Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A. Reising.
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, L. Otto. K. Hackett, A. Brown.
4th Class—Misses J. Winston, K. Riordan, M. O’Neill, A. Farrell, S. Rheinboldt, A. Geiser, M, Casey.
5th Class—Misses M. Mulligan, B. Anderson, L. Schwass, M. Hake.
Chorus Singing—Misses B. Thompson, N. Hackett, J. Butts, L. Van Namee.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED
Promoted to the 2d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
4th Class—Misess JI. Spier, 8. Rheinboldt.
Promoted to the 4th Class—Miss N. Davis.
5th Class—Misses T. Whiteside, M. PJattenburg, J. Burgert, A. Kirchner, A. Farrell, J. Butts, E. Thomas, 8. Hamilton, L. French, L. McFarland, E. Mulligan.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Burgert, L. Otto, M. Way, 8. Rheinboldt, C. Ort-meyer, A. Brown, T. Pleins, J. and M. Winston, E. Shaw, H. and L. Hoag, A. Dopp, B. Parrott, M. Brown, E. Miller, H. Buck, K. Lloyd, M. Halligan, Z. Papin, M. Luce, M. Mullen, K. Hackett, L. Kenna, H. Millis, N. McGrath, M. Danaher, M. Wagner, M. Cleary, J. Barnes, K. Barrett, I. Fisk, B. Anderson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Chilton, L. French, A. McGiath, L. Ellis, M. Lambin, A. Ewing, F. Fitz, L. McFarland, E. Mulligan, N. Hackett, J. Kingsbury, B. Haney.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misess 8. Moran, L. Kirchner.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, E. Lange.
3d Class—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED TN PLAIN SEWING.
Misses A. Harris, L. O’Neill, K. Barrett, K. Reordan, M. O’Neill, K. Lloyd, 8. Rheinboldt.
DRESS-MAKING.
Misses B. Thompson, M. Plattenburg, M. Brown, C. Boyce, M. Cleary, E. Lange, L. Otto, M. Hayes.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Coriect Deportment
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Harris, A. Henneberry, L. O’Neil], M. Spier, M. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, A. Reising, A. Piet.'B. Reynolds, H. Russell, M. Ewing, 8. Moran, B. Wilson, I. Fisk, M. Casey, C. Silverthorne, 8. Hamilton, L. Kecna, M. Luce, L. Tighe, M. Danaher, K. Reordan, M. Halligan, H. Millis, M. Brown, H. Buck, M. Wagner, T. Pleins, M. Plattenburg, K. Hackett, L. Walsh, J. Burgert, L. Hoag, C. Ortmeycr, M. O’Neill, B. Parrott, F. Brazclton, L. Papin, M. Sullivan, M. Winston, M. Mullen, S. Rheinboldt, M. Cleary, A. Farrell, E. Wright, L. Neu, J. Barnes, E. Richardson, N. White, 100 par excellence. Misses E. Lange, C. Boyce, M. Way, N. Keenan, H. Hoag, N. Davis, M. Burch, L. Kirchner, K. Barrett, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, L. Otto, A. Brown, A. Thomas, L. Schwass, J. Winston, M. Usselman, M. Hayes M. Whiteside, E. Miller, A. Thomas.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, A. Gordon, A. Morgan, A. McGrath, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, N. Hackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, F. and J. Sunderland, L. Van Namee, M. Lyons, M.Cox, L. Wood,E. Mulligan, L. McFarland, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Mulligan, A Kirchner, L. Chilton, L. French, E. Wootten, J. Butts, N. Lloyd, F. Pelt.
THE SUN.
1878.	NEW YORK.	1878.
As the time approaches for the renewal of subscriptions, THE SUN would remind its friends and wellwishers everywhere, that it is again a candidate for their consideration and support. Upon its record for the past ten years it relies for a continuance of the hearty sympathy and generous co-operation which hare hitherto been extended to it from every quarter of the Union.
The Daily Sun is a four-page sheet of 28 columns, price, by mail, post paid, 55 cents a month, or SU.5O per year.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is an eight-page sheet of 56 columns. While giving the news of the day, it also contains a large amount of literary and miscellaneous matter specially prepared for it. The Sunday Sun has met with great success. Post paid, $1,20 a year.
Tile Weekly Sun.
Who does not know The Weekly Sun ? It circulates throughout the United States, the Canadas, and beyond. Ninety thousand families greet its welcome pages weekly, and regard it in the light of guide, counsellor, and friend. Its news, editorial, agricultural, and literary departments make it essentially a journal for the family and the fireside. Terms: One Dollar a year, post paid. This price, quality considered, makes it the cheapest news-paper published. For clubs of ten, with $10 cash, we will send an extra copy free. Address
PUBLISHER OF THE SUN, New York City.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOURNAL
irjin.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
PPP-OVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre, ’ Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS:
One Year...............................................$ 2 50
Five Years.............................................10 00
Clubs of Teu (and over, at the rate of §2 each)........20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre
Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St. New York.
190
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law. I Michigan Central Railway
BROWN «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio. •
SPEER	MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
milOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '62] Attorney at
L Law, Notary Pnblic and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJN’NIN’G «fc HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN IP. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & BODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T.	(of ’Gl),
Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich. .
WILLIAM J. CLARKE (of’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES	O’REILLY—of ’69—Attorney at Law,
tJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. MoCORMICK-of ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City snd . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHU R J. STACE {of ’61], County Surveyor for 11. St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COUJNIBTAJN’.pub'ishcd weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum. ’
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE jVVE MARIA, a Cat hblic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.	•	•
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74> $1.59 per annum.	.	”	.
I-lotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, a. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St.. Chicago, Ill. All Notre Danie visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.	-
Visit in" Cards.
Qn CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name 40 neatly printed, for 19 cents. ’ E. A. Wilkie, Mishawaka, Ind.
Time Table-June 2-1, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 09 a m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
	10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “		12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	6 39 “		3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	3 15 p.m	9 59 p.m	6 05 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	6 10 “	2 45 a.n	9 30 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	9 00 “	12 53 “	12 16 s-m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 a.m	4 24 “	2 35 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	5 47 “	4 05 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 30 “
IN Iles and Soritli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame— 837 ••	635 *• Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	n. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A.. Chicago, Ill.	Gen’I Sup’t, Chicago, HL
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s speciesnumber, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Ncnber of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox
Crystals and fragments		$ 59	$1-	$1 50
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6
Amateur's size, 2J4 in. x 1K................
High School or Acad, size, 214x3 % in. shelf specimens
College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens... |
100	200	300
				
$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
5	10	25
-10	25	50
25	50	100
500	100	3'0
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and. Mineralogy,
Fellow of Ike American Association for the Advancement of Scienc, ■ Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural S<A(-ences and of the American Museum of natural
*	History, Central Park, new York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
191
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday. May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 to p m; Cleveland 10 30 p m; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express,’ over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo G 52 a in.
0 12 p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
40 a m: Cleveland, 7 (5am; Buffalo, 1 05 p in.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4=3 am, Toledo’ Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago Gam.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. ArnvesatLapoite5 50am; Chicago 20 a m.
4= 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
S 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.
S 4=5 and 0 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Apt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago. .
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TATILE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and- Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		' No. 1,	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3,	No. 5,
		Fast Ex.		Night Ex	Mail.
Pittsburgh,...	...Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,....		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,			3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.!	5 35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			446 “	2.30 “ 1	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,....		7.00 “	• 4.40 “ !	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,		. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	945 “	3.50 “
Crestline,		...Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,					9.25 “	7.35 “	11.15 “	
Lima			10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,....		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Ply mouth,....		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,		..Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.					
		ho. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
		Night Ex.	Fnst Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mai'.
Chicago,		... Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.00 a.m.	5.15 P.M.	
Plymouth,....		2.46 a.m.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft. Wayne,....		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,	 Forest,			8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
	...Arrive	10.10 “	5.20 “	248 “	
Crestline,			11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline,		...Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	1.40 A.M.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield			12.35 “	7.44 “	205 “	6.55 “
Orrville,			2.30 "	9.3S “	3.40 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.05 “	11.15 “	5.03 “	11.20 “
Rochester,....		6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	69	“	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,....	..Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	70 p.m.	3.30 “
NOTRE DAME AM) ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
f. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate cod stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Slmaa House, Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CzIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS I TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, Chicago, • • ’ • TTiUinsrois.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY..
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
j	Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh
; daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
' THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
1	That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to
*,	Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without
>	change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket oilices at
the lowest current rates.
7	F. R. MYERS, G- P. & T. y
M. Livingston & Go.,
THE
Leading: Merchant Tailors in South Bendc MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
192
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BI THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religions instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the pub'ic religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day. and furnished with alt modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charmng seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both J when they visit their sons and daughters
For further particulars cone srning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentv-Second Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1877-8, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
Noirs Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, E. I. & Pacific.
Through trains arc run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttoiitc to Califoi’nia.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation.................. 5	00	p.m.	9	35	a.m.
Night Express.......................10	00	p.m.	6	50	a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minne apolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAT AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Keuosha and Milwaukee. ‘
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 345 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, comer W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	’
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dcpo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 1*22 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, II., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via ,
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.;.......7	30	am	9	00	pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
•T. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Danie, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal house young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures I to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, No. I Notre Dame, Ind.	■
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
- TZSrDTA-TTJL.
Founded 1842*	. Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance, ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study arc established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under J3 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to • children of tender years. Personal, neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, -who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.