The Scholastic.
X
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
TUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper ■victwrvis; vive quasi eras moritwrus.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE, 23, 1875
Number 39.
'	Prologue '
TO THE PLAY OF VILDAC.
Spoken in Washington Hall, Notre Dame, June 22d, 1875, by H. C. Cassidy.
Most Reverend, welcome and expectant friends, To-night the old year with the new year blends,— To-night you gather, as in other days Gone by, to view and listen to onr plays,— To-morrow brings its pleasure and its pain,— Its joy to us to meet you once again ;
But when our little drama here"is o’er.
Old friends must part to meet, perchance, no more.
This year, dear friends, although so passing brief, Bore on its wings to us the greatest grief That we have ever known. A sainted form. That guided us through many a tempest storm,— Director,—friend,—a pure and stainless soul, Burst from the bondage of this Earth’s control And soared aloft, one dim October night, To realms of love and everlasting light.
“If I should live, I’ll come to you,” said he;
“ If not, I trust that you will come to me.” Our faith and fortitude were sadly tried,— He lived for us,—he faded,—and he died ;— Alas! our love and tears we may not tell,— But God is good, and “doeth all things well.” How much we misshim it were vain to say. Dear friends, you lost a Rather too that day.
Despite our grief, the year has swiftly sped; And now in memory of our honored dead We twine this wreath—crude product of the Muse,— A loving tribute he would not refuse.
Our brother Thespians in the days of yore Have greeted you on this time-hallowed floor,— And we have sought, with many an anxious thought, The same perfection that their magic wrought.
. We wish to thank you in our happiest tone For kindly thoughts and favors often shown ; We wish to please yon;—you need only say What you would like—unquestioned we obey.
Our play is simple, yet ’tis one of worth, Comprising passion and the humblest mirth ; It combats Avarice, rooted in the soul, Whose fierce desires never knew control. Its hero dared defy the will of God, Despised His law—on His Commandments trod,— Gained wealth and fame,—vain, paltry, puny things, And felt the weight of both beneath the stings Of Conscience—that true, deathless guide Ambitious man can never set aside.
He comes before yon with the fatal dower
, Of wealth, estates, and plenitude of power.
" He is unhappy—he has deeply erred, And seeks forgiveness not by deed or word. A baleful serpent round his heart has coiled, Poisoned his life and all his visions foiled. At last repentance comes, and with it, shame Falls on his house and blackens its fair name.
’Tis ever thus, dear friends—and you Who criticise will find the moral true: No one is truly just; our one safeguard Is virtue’s gift—which brings its own reward. Learn to divine and measure Passion’s force, But leave its victim to his own remorse.
Ths Commencemeat Ezercises.
SOCIETY DAY.
The audience which assembled on Monday afternoon, June 21st, to witness the Society Exercises as laid down in the programme, though not large, was select. Many of the parents of students, and friends of Notre Dame, did not arrive here until Tuesday, and were thus unable to attend. They lost a rich treat, for the Exercises of Society Day are of a more literary character than those of any of the days set apart for the Annual Commencement. We hope always to see Society Day with a large audience.
The programme was as follows:
Entrance March............................N. D. U. C. B.
O verture.....................................O rehestra
Latin Address...........................James	E. Hogan
“ The Progress of the Natural Sciences”...Thomas Grier Music—Piano and Violin....................Prof. J. Paul and Carl Otto
Greek.......'.................................C. Walter
“ Science and Religion”...................T. J. Murphy
Commercial Address.....................Thos. M. O’Leary
Music.........................................Orchestra
Address—Archconfraternity.................John G. Ewing
Address—Scientific Association............John J. Gillen
Music.....................................N. D. Ui C. B.
Address—Philodemic Society....................John Ney
Address—Thespian Society..................Rob’t Staley
Address—St. Cecilia Society....  .........D. J. O’Connell
Address—Philopatrian Society........................H.	Quan
Music—Piano.......................................Carl	Otto
Address—Holy Angels’ Society................Colly Clarke
Address—Columbian Literary Club.....................J.	Soule
Poem—Academia.................................W.	T. Ball
Closing Remarks........................Rev. J. M. Toohey
March......................................N.	D. U. C. B.
As we devote one article to the “ Music of Commencement Day ” we will here say nothing as to the character of it, but refer all who wish to know of its character to that article. Here we will speak of the Entertainment only as an exhibition of the literary abilities of the different young men who took part in it.
The firstperson to deliver an address was Mr. J. E. Hogan, who spoke in Latin. His subject was “ De Existentia Dei.” It was the endeavor of the young gentleman to show from reason that a God exists, and this he did with much cogency of reasoning. His address was not a mere philosophical thesis in which the subject was treated in a dry and, to people generally, uninteresting manner, but was an oration. He showed conclusively that the grand and beautiful scenes which Nature on every side presents for considers, tion, the general structure of this earth of ours and of the whole universe are. unerring marks of the existence of God. The address was very good.
Mr. Hogan was followed by Mr. T. H. Grier, who delivered an excellent address in English on the “ Progress ot Natural Science.” The literary character of the address was such as to receive the praise of all, and the delivery was well made. Mr. Grier in his address spoke more of simply the physical sciences than of any other, which was of course to be expected, as he is pursuing the Scientific Course.
The next address was by Mr. Charles Walters, in Greek. The young gentleman spoke of Greek poetiy. He began
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY.
No. 1OO Van. Buren. St., Chicago, Illinois.
5S2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
by showing the influence which the climate and the manner of living exerted on the poetry of nations. Then pointing out the principal employment of poetry in the early days of the world, demonstrating the fact that poetry is the most eminent of the arts, and showing the influence of poetry-over the human mind, he went on to prove that the climate’of Greece and the disposition of its inhabitants, together with the power of the Greek language, were eminently adapted to the cultivation of the art, aud that Greek poetry remains the model for all succeeding bards. Then after showing the grandeur and sublimity of the masterpoets of Greece, with a graceful peroration he concluded. The address was both handsomely written and spoken.
Mr. T. J. Murphy spoke in English on “ Science and Religion,” a subject which he treated with skill. He showed conclusively that there is inrealitynOjConflict between science and revealed religion, but that the sciences are in harmony with revelation, and that they may go hand in hand with religion. It was not the sciences which warred with the word revealed, but the speculations and beliefs of certain men who have used ihem for a bad purpose. The. address was listened to with much interest; it was well composed and delivered.
Mr. Murphy was followed by Mr. Thos. M. O’Leary, of the Commercial Department, who spoke at some length of the many blessings and benefits accruing to mankind from commerce, touching upon the glory and power of the great commercial citic s of the Middle Ages. With a farewell to the members of the Commercial Department he brought his address to a happy conclusion, having delivered a well prepared speech in a happy manner.
Mr. John G. Ewing, representing the Archconfraternity, spoke on the “ Tendencies of the Age.” It was his aim to show that the tendency of our age is to paganism. He averted to the fact that man always in this century has words of praise for ancient paganism, and sees naught but beauty in its practices, while on the other hand he decries Christianity, its teachings and its practices. This admiration for the one, and contempt for the other, may be seen in every nation. The tendency of man towards paganism may be seen in literature, in art, in politics, in everything. Having shown what the tendency of the age is, the speaker proceeded to point out what would be the consequences resulting from it, and then showing that Christian Faith and the Sign of the Cross were alone the barriers with which to check the evil, he made a graceful close. The address was full of good points and well delivered.
The Scientific Association was ably represented by Mr. J. J. Gillen, who spoke of “ Nature’s Uniformity and Simplicity.” He treated of the simplicity and regularity with which all the works of the Creator are arranged; of the grandeur and unity of design which is manifested, and how the philosopher looks upon the universe as a vast book from w’hich he is to interpret Nature as she really is. He demonstrated how all sciences show an ever-increasing tendency towards agreement, and are found at last to lead, to onecommon goal; how the solar system (uniformity per-' sonified) is guided and sustained by one simple law, gravitation ; how the invention of every instrument of science, as the spectroscope, etc., tends to show the simplicity and uniformity of Nature. Everything in matter he stated can be reduced to motion, and then proceeded in showing how matter once created can never be destroyed, remaining always the same in quantity and merely undergoing transformations; in a word how the whole system can be epitomized in these words: Atoms and motion form the universe. Mr. Gillen is one of our best speakers, and he acquitted himself with great honor. The style of the oration was equalled only by its delivery.
Mr. John Ney represented the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association. He said that the Exercises of the day were to be considered as a celebration of the success and triumphs of the closing year. Then speaking of the thoughts peculiar to the occasion; of the profound admiration of the munificence of God which all must feel when they consider the many duties which are about to devolve upon them, and the many things which combine in harmony to cause them happiness; of the happiness which all felt on
No. 1OO Van Buren St., Chicago, Illinois.
the present occasion was peculiar to the American character, and was earned no less by the contemplation of well-spent lives than by those great historical facts, climate and physical features which belong to our country, and which always exert, an influence on the character of the people of a nation who possesses them. Then looking at the present celebration in the light of a national institution, we find, he said, that it contains all the requisites for true happiness. With a few parting words to his companions he finished his address, which was well received by the audience.
The Thespians were represented by Mr. Robert Staley. After making a few introductory remarks he addressed himself to the main subject of his discourse, namely, “ The Drama ” He commented upon the ancient classic drama and the modern imitations of the works of the three great princes of the classic-drama, JEschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. After showing what the drama is, and what it should be, he exhorted his audience to encourage, and so far as they might be able, to guide its healthful development. The drama, he said, should be ennobling; it should give expression to the great, the beautiful, the pathetic, the humorous and the witty; let it not be irreligious, immoral, unkindly or scoffing, and then will it be worthy the commendation of all good men.
He closed with a short society valedictory urging the members to do honor to themselves and their Society on the great stage of real life; always bearing in mind the simple motto of the S ciety—“Act well your part!” He received well-earned applause from all assembled. Mr. Staley’s delivery is worthy of commendation, and the excellence of the composition received the approval of all.
The St. Cecilians were represented by Master D. J. O’Connell, who spoke sensibly and charmingly about “Vocations.” He spoke of those things which every young man should consider when choosing his vocation for life; what he should not be guided by in his choice, and what he should be. The conclusions which he deduced from his arguments were that great -pains should be taken in the choice, that the person should ask assistance from heaven by prayer, that he should aim high, encouraged by the example of great men. Then speaking of true nobility, he descanted on the character of the Christian gentle man—the only title which is given to Americans, and which is the most glorious of all titles—he closed his address. Master O’Connell, having a pleasing appearance on the rostrum, and having his address well written, represented the St. Cecilians as well as any of the young gentlemen forming that Association could desire.
Henry W. Quan mounted the stage as the representative of the Philopatrians. Mr. Quan has a good voice and an easy manner, and showed to great advantage the Society which he represented.
The Sodality of the Holy Angels chose as their representative Mast. Colly Clarke, who spoke with ease and grace. The Minims always appear with great eckit on the stage, and they lost nothing on this occasion.
Mr. John Soule appeared as the representative of the talent of the Columbians. The address which he delivered was carefully written, and spoken in good part. He spoke of the Columbian Literary and Debating Society; of its organization and progress, and lastly of the exercises which take place at their meetings, and the advantages which students derive from their membership. Mr. Soule has a manner with him which at once secures the kind feeling of an audience. His address was excellent.
Mr. W. T. Ball, the representative of the Academia, read a beautiful poem. We will print it in our next edition, and hence as our readers will have an opportunity of reading it we have no need to speak farther concerning it. The reading of it was gracefully done, adding even more beauty to the rythm of the already beautiful sentences.
At the conclusion of the exercises, Rev. J. M. Toohey, the efficient Vice-President, addressed the members of the associations in words of praise, and wishing them and their societies the same and even more success next year than they have achieved this one which has just drawn to a close.	'
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 1OO Van Buren St., Chicago Illinp: =
THE SCHOLASTIC.
58a
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren St., Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday Evening’s Entertainment.
(. The exercises, of which the great part were performed by the members of the Thespian Society, last night, June 22nd, were eminently successful. The literary exercises • were all that could be desired; the music was excellent, . and the dramatic part exciting and entertaining. It is un-fj necessary for us to mention who were present at the enters tainment. All the many visitors to the College were there.
A mention of them may be seen in our columns, under the head of personal. All without exception were pleased with the excellent bill of fare presented to them. The first part ■ of the programme was as follows:
Music......................................N.	D. U. C. B.
Overture “ Ceneremtola Rossini.................Orchestra
Poem of the Alumni.....................M. H. Keeley of'72
Duett from Lucia di Lammermoor
:	..............T. M. O’Leary and E. J. McLaughlin
1 Oration of the Alumni....................T. F. O’Mahon v of'72
’ Prologue.........................................H.	C. Cassid y
Music......................................  N.	D. U. C. B.
. The poem of the Alumni was read bv the regularly ap ‘ pointed poet of the Association, Mr. M. H. Keeley of '72. It :	abounded in fine poetic thoughts and passages, and the whole
, tenor of it was deserving of praise. Many of the passages were highly poetic, the imagery was beautiful, and the whole poem was well received. We are sorry that we are unable to procure a copy of it for publication, and we regret it the more as we feel confident that many more beauties would be seen on perusal of it than were noticed on the one reading.
The oration of the Alumni was one of very best of its kind ever delivered at Notre Dame. Every person knowing Thos. F. O’Mahony of ’72 knows well that a good speech r would be delivered when he rises to address an audience. He said that he had experienced considerable difficulty a in selecting a subject suitable for the occasion. Finally however, he read an article in one of our leading Western newspapers on the “Public School Question,” which was so replete with false and unjust aspersions on the spirit of our Catholic fellow-citizens that he thought a few words ।" .on that subject would not be out of place at the present time. The writer of the article, he said, took occasion to impugn the motives of Catholics in their opposition to the „ Public School System in this country, and covertly insinuated that that opposition was the natural consequence of । their antipathy to free institutions and popular education. Although the absurdity of such an imputation was palpa-; ble, nevertheless it was often heard during the cliscus-sion of the Public School question from men who occupy high positions and exercise a considerable influence on public opinion.	.
He then entered into an historical argument to show that the Catholics are not the aggressors in this controversy. For fifteen hundred years prior to what has been called the Reformation, he said, the Catholic Church was the great educator of Europe. During that time she founded schools and colleges in every country, and nobody questioned her right to educate her own children. The spirit of publis education since the Reformation in Germany, England, and subsequently in America, has been hostile to the Catholic Church. The public school system in this country < orginated among the Puritans of New England, who were the most implacable enemies of Catholicity; and when we consider that it was at first a religious as well as a civil institution, we are not surprised to find that it was, if not ea:-professo, at least in spirit, inimical to the Catholic Church. And subsequently, when the system was adopted by the several States, and when it was found expedient on account ' of differences of religious opinion to exclude all positive religious instruction, even then the original spirit of hostility to Catholicity was retained, as may be proved by examining the works on history and geography which have been in use in the Public Schools for many years. The Catholics then, he said, have not been the aggressors in
this controversy; but they stand in the position of a class of men who have been unjustly dealt with, and who plead for a restoration of their rights and privileges. He justified the conduct of our Catholic citizens in this matter also by considerations drawn from the theory of education. The Church has always taught that no system of education can be complete and beneficial unless it is essentially religious; and he cited the words of Dr. Priestly, Mrs. Edgeworth, Herbert Spencer, and others, in behalf of this theory. After speaking briefly concerning the inherent defects of our Public School system, he concluded by assuring the American people that, whatever might be the issue of the controversy, they might rest assured that our Catholic citizens were actuated by the purest motives of religious patriotism and would act in the matter with wisdom and moderation.
An excellent prologue to the play of the evening was spoken by Mr. Henry C. Cassidy, which may be read in another column. Mr. Cassidy spoke the prologue in a really artistic style, bringing out its many good points with great effect. “Vildac,” the principal play ofthe evening, isa drama in three acts, translated from the French and arranged expressly for the Thespians. It is a good translation, and if we overlook the fact that the language employed is that of the latter half of the nineteenth century while the play itself belongs to the twelfth, we cannot pronounce the rhetoric other than faultless. It is however, rather monotonous,the speeches are long, and there is scarcely stage effect enough.
Don Vildac, lord of Acostra, is a powerful Spanish nobleman. To come into possession of his vast estates he commits a great crime—the imprisonment of his father— which in the last act is shown to the audience. Recognizing the enormity of his crime, he is unhappy, and dreads the sight of his son, the young Lord Adolphus, who is a valiant young soldier in the king’s army. Through the assistance of Ricardo, Vildac’s villainous accomplice, the old Count Don Vildac is kept for twenty years closely guarded in a dungeon of the Castle, and the young Lord Adolphus is detained away from home, first at school, and afterwards as a soldier. Adolphus returns home in the course of events, accompanied by Sergeant Scorchbeard (a brave soldier, but too fond of wine), and the plot turns on his discovery, through the help of his servant William, of the aged Count. It then transpires that the old Count Don Vildac murdered his own father to get possession of his estate, and it was the just vengeance of Heaven that he should suffer at the hands of his son. In the last scene the old Count forgives Vildac and dies. Vildac becomes sincerely repentant, and gives up his estates to his son Adolphus. Zozo, a foolish peasant, and Scorchbeard, the soldier are introduced chiefly for the sake of comedy.
The characters in the play were sustained as follows:
Count Vildac.............................E.	J. McLaughlin
Vildac (His Son)................................J. J. Gillen
Adolphus (Son of Vildac)......................R- J• Staley
Riccardo (Valet of Vildac)....................B. L. Euans
William (Servant of the Count)..................W. J. Ball
Zozo (A Peasant)...........................J-	B. Crummey
Scorchbeard (A Sergeant)......................E.	G. Graves
Bluetie (A Peasant)...........................F.	J. Devoto
Peasants, Recruits, etc.
The Thespians have in years gone by upheld a reputation for good acting. The names of many of the actors have come down to us with a local fame for dramatic skill which is really great. To this day the names of Chamberlain, Ed Brown, Ryan, Moriarty, and others of later date, like’ Berdel and others, are still familiar to many persons here who have no personal acquaintance with the owners of the names. It would only be natural that the Society should not always possess the same amount of talent, and. if we are not mistaken it is expected of it that it will some years be possessed of only mediocre talent. For the three years before this one now past, the talent for acting in the Society was perhaps greater than ever before, and this year was set down by many persons as the off year, the year for poor acting But the persons who expected this to be the ---------------------------------------------------------
No. 1OO Van Buren St., Chicago, Illinois.
’ P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
584
THE SCHOLASTIC.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
case calculated wrongly. The Thespians during the year, if they did not (what was not expected of them) excel their predecessors in acting, certainly did not remain in a state of mediocrity. They maintained the good fame of their Society, and appeared with much success a number of times during, the year. On this occasion they did better than at any other exhibition during the year. They played with much spirit and grace, and if they did not play like professionals it was simply because they are not professionals.
Mr. McLaughlin (Count Vildac) has for some years held a great reputation as an actor of old-men characters, and last night he did not lose any in his reputation. His old man was as natural and pleasing as ever. Mr. J. J. Gillen (Vildac) acted his character with much truth, finely portraying the melancholy character which he sustained. Mr. R. J. Staley (Adolphus) played his part with great spirit and life, executing a very difficult role iu fine style. Mr. B. L. Euans (Riccardo), W. J. Ball (William), J. B. Crummey (Zozo), E. G. Graves (Scorchbeard), and F. De-▼oto (Bluetie), aU-filled therdies with great honor and credit. Altogether, the play was very successful; and moreover, as it was entirely new to all the audience, afforded a great deal of enjoyment.
The evening’s entertainment ended with a farce entitled the “End of the Tether, or a Legend of the Patent-Office,” acted by the Thespians. The characters were taken as follows:
Mr. Bland Smyle (Bubble Company Promoter and
Finance Agent)...........................J. Murphy
Stephenson Gearing (An Enthusiastic Inventor)....T. II. Grier Lord Adolphus First Water | Twin Sprigs of < . H. C. Cassidy Lord Augustus First Water J the Aristocracy (..J. F. Rudge John Gearing (Brother to Stephenson, and Steward to the Lords) ..............................J. E. Kelly Drudge........................-................J.	G. Ewing
Quill..........................................C. Proctor
Tubbs..........................................F. Devoto
Jukes (A Detective).........................)
Ephraim Cadge (A Benevolent Society Toutcr).. >-R. W. Staley Bullford (An Escaped Forger)................)
All the characters were played well. The members who took part in the last plays seemed determined not to leave their brothers who acted the “Vildac” walk off with all the honors, and determined to leave the audience in doubt as to which play should be considered the best; and in this they were successful. As to the music which was given on the occasion, a full notice of it will be found in another article devoted to the music of the Commencement Day.
WEDNESDAY MORNING EXERCISES.
The Exercises of this morning were held in the unfinished church, it affording better accommodations than Washington Hall. A large audience assembled at 8 o’clock A M., for the purpose of attending the last Exercises of the past year and the commencement of the scholasticate year of 1875-6.
The Valedictory, delivered byMr.E. J. McLaughlin, was of the first order of merit. Mr. McLaughlin is an elocutionist of ability, and his happy delivery added to the literary merits of his effort. He spoke of the word “ Farewell,” of the sadness it causes all who are forced to say the word. Especially was it sad for the student—he who has studied and played with companions gathered together from all quarters of our broad land—to say the word. He then adverted to the pleasures of home that await the student, and of the fresh vigor with which he returns in September to recommence his studies. But how different it will be for those who leave their Alma Mater never again to return as students! He spoke then of the great contrast between boyhood and manhood. With a young man at college,each day wasspentininnocent sport and the hard toil of storing the mind with knowledgeand preparing the boy for manhood’s days. The day comes for him to leave College: then must all the sports and pastimes of youth be cast aside, and he must take upon himself the duties of the man. He
exchanges the pleasures of college life for the business and cares of the world. Life will no longer flow smoothly along on its way to eternity. The stream becomes strong, and while overcoming the difficulties which lie at the bottom, it becomes restless and turbulent. He then touched upon those difficulties which lie in the way of all, and after dwelling slightly upon each, he bid farewell to all—to Professors, to Prefects, to classmates and to all the students.
' The Valedictory was admired and praised by all, especially by the students whose companion he was for many years.
The oration of the day, by the Hon. J. S. Morris, Attorney General of Mississippi, was an effort that riveted the attention of the audience. We would give the substance of his oration in this issue, but we expect to print it in full in our next edition, and do not wish to give an outline of what we will publish in full. When we say that Judge Morris is an able orator, we do do not give him half the praise he deserves. We will give our readers in our next issue an_opportunity of judging of the merits of his oration, and regret that any of them were prevented from hearing the words coming fresh and living from his mouth.
After the distribution of premiums, class-prizes and honors, the award of diplomas in the Commercial Course, and the conferring of degrees, Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. 8. C., President of the University, arose and addressed the audience in that manner so characteristic of him, and which takes so well among the students. It was a beautiful address, and was received with the loud applause which it deserved. As he concluded, the Band struck up,and amid the cheers of the students the exercises of the day te»mi nated.	.	.
The following is a list of the degrees conferred, diplomas, class-prizes, and honors awarded, and premiums distributed:
DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS :
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Joseph Emanuel Garcia, Rio Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Thomas F. O’Mahony, Lake Forest, Dlinois, Mark M. Foote, Burlington, Iowa. Dennis J. Hogan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Master of Science "was conferred on John Di McCormick, Lancaster, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Charles Walter, Fort Wayne, Indiana. Edward J. McLaughlin, Dubuque, Iowa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on Thomas Murphy, Ravenna, Ohio. Thomas F. Grier, Geneva, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Batchelor of Laws was conferred on James F. Edwards, Toledo, Ohio,
The Degree of Civil Engineering was conferred on Cassius M. Proctor, Elkhart, Indiana.
■ Medical Certificates were awarded to
Edward J. McPharlin, Detroit, Michigan. George Crummey, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph O’Connell, Newark, New Jersey.
Commercial Diplomas -were awarded to Valerio Baca, Las Vegas, New Mexico. Perry L. Shaul, Waukegan, Illinois. . John J. Larkin, Loogootee, Indiana. Michael Egan, Manistee, Michigan.
Arthur O’Brien, Loogootee, Indiana.
F. W. Montgomery, Montgomery, Indiana. Charles W. Robertson, Sandusky, Ohio. John Thornton, Sharon, Pennsylvania. John A. Rice, Detroit, Michigan.
Richard Downey, New Orleans, La.
Henry McGuire, Sing Sing, New York.
Martes Allen, Nashville, Tennessee. Herman A. Korty, Lafayette, Indiana.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 1OO Van Buren St., Chicago, Illinois.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
585
P. I.. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Frank Frazee, Portsmouth, Ohio. Philip L. Best, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. George F. McNulty, Alton, Illinois. Matthew J. Murphy, Brooklyn, New York. George Roulhac, Hickman, Kentucky. P. Skahill, Cascade, Iowa.
Thomas Solon, Lafayette, Indiana. August Schmidt, Chicago, Illinois. 0. Welty, Wheeling, W. Va.
F. Weisenbukger, Defiance, Ohio. Carl Otto, Havana, Illinois.
James E. Wood, Savana, Illinois.	.
Morton Burge, Nashville, Tennessee. George J. Gross, Reading, Pennsylvania. James Girard, Mt. Morris, Michigan. Herbert H. Hunt, Burlington, Iowa. John H. Lyons, St. Paul, Minnesota. Frank Scrafford, Seneca, Kansas. Anthony Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.
Robert Staley, St. Louis, Missouri. Malcolm L. Keeler, Union, Michigan. John P. Flaherty, Niles, Michigan. Frank Foxen, Detroit, Michigan.
John Claffey, Bertrand, Michigan. Thomas O’Leary, Valparaiso, Indiana. Luke Evers, Sing Sing, New York. Thomas Monahan, South Bend, Indiana. George Rudge, Youngstown, Ohio. Frank Wilhelm, Defiance, Ohio.
Charles Hake, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
The Class Prize Medals were awarded as follows:
CLASSICAL COURSE.
SENIOR class.
The Quan Gold Medal was awarded to Charles Walter, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
JUNIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to	’
Thomas F. Gallagher, Lynn, Massachusetts.
SOPHOMORE CLASS. Medal awarded to
Henry 0. Cassidy, Youngstown, Ohio.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to
John G. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
.	SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
’ JUNIOR CLASS. Medal awarded to
John J. Gillen, Lawrence, Massachusetts. SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Medal awarded to
James A. Browne, Brownsville, Texas.
FRESHMAN class.
Medal awarded to	'
William T. Ball, Chicago, Illinois.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
SENIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to
James E. Wood, Chicago, Illinois.
The Honors were bestowed as follows:
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
	first honors awarded to -	
M. Keeler, J. F. Rudge, B. L. Euans, E. Monahan,	J. Matthews, J. F. Soule, C. Hess, W. Ball, J. Kennedy.	T. Hansard, -J. A. Browne, V. Baca. G. Crummey.
	second honors awarded to	
F. J. Brady, J. Berringer,	. G. Kelly, J. Larkin,	F. Montgomery, W. McGavin,
W. Hughes, S. Kennedy, Peter Mattimore, W. Ryan, R. White,	R. Maas, E. Maas, T. O’Leary, F. Wilhelm, P. Shaul, J. Caren.	P. Mattimore, J. Kopf, J. Thornton, F. Schlink, P. Skahill,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.		
FIRST HONORS AWARDED TO J. E. Wood,	E. Gramling,	James Smith, J. Dore,	J. Del Vecchio, J. Golsen, A. Schmidt,	H. Quan.		
SECOND HONORS AWARDED TO		
G. Budd, F. Hoffman, A. Burger, F. Klaner, J. Colton, C. Larkin, M. Murphy,	F. Foxen, H. McGuire, J. T. Foley, ’ H. Webber, J. Griffith, C. Whipple, T. Solon, E. Washburne.	J. Perea, F. Rosa, A. Reinke, H. Korty, G. Sugg, L. Evers, R.JMcGrath,
MINIM DEPARTMENT. FIRST HONORS AWARDED TO		
Frank Carlin, Louis Goldsmith,	John O’Meara,	Thomas Hooley, C. Campau.
second honors awarded to
M. McAuliffe, g	F. X. Campau,	L. Frazee,
C. Moody,	C. Bushey,	Otto Lindberg,
A. Bushey.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS.
Premiums were given to the following persons: senior department.
F. Brady—First Accessit in Second Grammar; Second Premium in First Geography and History; Fourth Accessit in Penmanship; Second Accessit in Execution of First Book-keeping.
J. Berringer—Second Accessit in Third German; First Accessit in Guitar.
R. Barret—First Accessit in Penmanship.
L. Busch—Accessit in First Orthography.
W. Ball—First Accessit in’History; Second Accessit in Third Algebra; Third Accessit in Piano.
J. Caren—First Accessit in Public Reading.
J. Crummey—Second Accessit in Law.
J. Campbell—First Accessit in English Composition.
J. Claffey—Second Premium in First Arithmetic; First Premium in Geography and History.
W. Canavan—First Premium in Second Grammar; First Premium in Second Orthography; First Premium in Second Arithmetic.
J. Dryfoos—First Accessit in Violin.
F. Devoto—First Premium in Vocal Music.
W. Doherty—First Accessit in Letter-writing; Third Accessit in Second Orthography, Fifth Accessit in Penmanship.
M. Egan—Third Accessit in Penmanship.
B. Euans—First Accessit in Sixth Latin; Second Ao cessit in Public Reading.
J. Ewing—Second Accessit in Dogma; First Premium in Fifth Greek; Second Premium in Public Reading.
W. Fullerton—First Premium in Second Arithmetic (Jr.); Second Accessit in Second Grammar.
J. Flaherty—First Accessit in First Arithmetic.
T. Gallagher—Third Accessit in Public Reading.
H. Hunt—Third Accessit in Histoiy.
H. Hoffman—First Accessit in Theory of Second Bookkeeping.
W. Hughes—Third Accessit in First Grammar; First Premium in Execution, and Fourth Accessit in Theory of Second Book-keeping.
A. Hertzog—First Premium in Fourth Algebra.
M. Keeler—Second Accessit in Seventh Latin; Second Accessit in History.
P, L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois*
5§6
THE SCHOLASTIC.
P. L, GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY.
No 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois,
S. Kennedy—First Accessit in Second Arithmetic; Second Accessit in Second Geography.
J. Larkin—First Premium in First Grammar—Third Accessit in First Arithmetic.
J. Logsden—First Accessit in First Grammar; Fourth Accessit in First Arithmetic’; Third Accessit in Theory of Second Book-keeping.	-
J. Lambin—Third Accessit in Geography and History; First Premium in Penmanship; First Accessit in Figure Drawing.
F.	Montgomery—Second Premium in Letter-writing; First Premium in First Orthography; Second Accessit in First Geography; First Accessit in Execution of Fust Book-keeping.
N. Mooney—First Premium in Fifth Latin; Second Accessit in Fifth Greek; Third Accessit in Vocal Music.
E. McPharlin—First Accessit in Third German.
G.	McNulty—First Premium in Second Algebra.
R. Maas—First Premium in English Composition; Second Premium in Second Geometry; First Accessit in Third Algebra; Second Accessit in Violin.
J. Matthews-Second Accessit in Essays in First Rhetoric.	.
E. J. McLaughlin—First Premium in Dogma; First Premium in Public Reading.
Patrick Mattimore—First Accessit in Third Grammar; Second Accessit in Second Orthography; First Premium in Third Arithmetic.
E. Maas—Second Accessit in First Orthography; First Premium in Guitar.
L. Moran—Second Accessit, Theory, Second Book-keeping.
A. J. Mohan—Fifth Accessit, Theory, Second Bookkeeping.
E. Marshall—Second Accessit Third Arithmetic.
J. Ney—Third Accessit in Dogma; First Premium in Sixth Latin: First Accessit Fifth Greek; Second Accessit First Algebra.
T. O’Leary—Third Accessit, Theory, First Book-keeping; Second'Accessit in Fifth Latin; Fourth Accessit in Geography and History; First Accessit in Vocal Music; First Accessit in Band. •
J. Obert—First Accessit, Theory, First Book-keeping.
Carl Otto—First Premium in First Geometry; First Accessit Second Algebra; First Premium in Piano’; Second Accessit in Band.
A. O’Brien—First Premium in Letter-writing; Second Accessit in Penman ship; First Premium, Execution, First Book-keeping; First Accessit in Fifth German.
‘ J. O’Connell—First Premium in Second French.
C. Proctor—First Premium in Linear Drawing.
G. Roulhac—Second Accessit in Sixth Latin; First Pre' mium, Essays, Rhetoric; Third Accessit in Fourth Algebra.
J. H. Betz—Third Accessit in First Grammar.
W. Ryan—First Accessit in Dogma; First Accessit in Fifth Latin.
J. Rudge—First Premium, Recitation, First Rhetoric.
C. Robertson—Second Accessit in First Grammar; Second Accessit in Letter-writing; Second Premium in Piano.
M. Regan—First Premium in Third Grammar; Second Accessit in Second Arithmetic.
J. Reidy—First Accessit in First Reading; Second Accessit in Second Orthography; First Premium in Second Geography..
P. Shaul—First Premium in Third German.
W. Schultheis—Third Premium in Third Penmanship.
T. Solon—First Accessit, Recitation, First Rhetoric; Second Accessit in First Geometry.	-
P. Skahill—First Premium in Seventh Latin; First Accessit, Essays, First Rhetoric; First Accessit in First Geometry; First Premium in Law; First Premium in First
• Algebra.
F. Schlink—Sixth Accessit in Theory 2d Book-keeping; 2d Accessit Piano.
E.	Siebert—First Accessit in Law.
W. Stout—First Premium in Reading; Second Accessit
First Arithmetic; First Premium, Theory, Second Bookkeeping; First Premium First Telegraphy.
J. Soule—First Premium in History; Second Accessit First Rhetoric, recitation; Second Accessit Second German.
J. Thornton—Second Premium in First Grammar; First Premium First Arithmetic; First Accessit Geography and History; Second Premium Penmanship; First Premium Theory, First Book keeping; First Acc. Piano.
F.	Wilhelm—Second Premium Second Orthography; Third Accessit Execution, First Book-keeping.
. R. White—Second Accessit Third Grammar; First Acc. Second Geography.
A. Wisner—First Accessit Third Arithmetic,
C. Wisner—Second Accessit Reading.
C. Welty—Third Accessit Second Geometry; First Accessit First Algebra.
JENIOS DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold—2d Premium 4th Grammar;’ 1st Premium 2d Geography.
E. Arnold—2d accessit Letter-writing; 3d accessit 1st Orthography.
A. Bergck—2d accessit 3d Reading.
A. Beucher—2d premium 3d Orthography.
A. Betcher—1st premium 3d Reading.
A. Burger—3d acc. 2d Grammar; 3d acc, 1st Geography ; 1st acc. Orchestra,
L. Best—2d prem. 1st Orthography; 1st acc, 1st Arith.;-1st acc. Penmanship.
W.’ Bryne—4th ac. Second Grammar; 1st ac. Fourth German; 1st ac. Violin.
J. M. Crummey—2d premium 2d Arithmetic.
J. Colton—2d accessit 1st Reading; 1st.premium 2d Orthography.
J. Del Vecchio—1st accessit 2d French; 1st premium Violin; 1st acc. Choir.
R. Downey—3d accessit Public Reading,	.
J. Dore—1st premium Catechism; 1st acc. 1st Geography; 1st premium 1st Bible History.
J. W. Davis—3d accessit 1st Reading; 1st accessit 4th Grammar; 3d accessit 2d Orthography; 1st accessit Catechism.
L. Evers—1st accessit 2d Geometry £ 2d accessit 2d Algebra.	.
F.	Frazee—1st premium 1st Orthography; 2d accessit 1st Arithmetic; 1st acc. Essays, 2d Rhetoric. . .
G.	Frauenknecht—2d acc. 2d Grammar; 1st accessit 3d Orthography. ‘ r,
H.	Faxon—4th premium Penmanship; 2d accessit Execution, 2d Book-keeping; . 2d accessit Essays, 2d Rhetoric.
J.	Foley—3d accessit 1st Grammar; 2d premium Catechism; 2d premium 1st Arithmetic; 2d accessit First Geography; 1st premium 2d Bible History.	-
J.	Griffith—2d premium 1st Grammar; 1st accessit Catechism. .
E. Gleason—2d premium 3d Arithmetic.
J. Golsen—1st accessit Recitation, 2d Rhetoric, _
G. Gross—1st premium Recitation and 1st premium Essays, 2d Rhetoric; 1st accessit 4th Algebra; 1st premium 1st French.
E. Gramling—1st premium Landscape Drawing.’
J. Hayes—2d accessit 2d Bible History.
C. Hake—3d accessit Letter-writing; 2d accessit 1st Orthography; 1st premium 1st Arithmetic; 1st premium 1st Geography; 3d acc. 1st Bible History.
C. Hitchcock—1st accessit Third Reading.
H. Harvey—1st accessit Third Arithmetic.
J. Haffey—1st premium 3d Grammar; 2d ac. Catechism; 3d ac. 2d Arithmetic.
M. Katzauer—2d accessit Second Arithmetic.
F. Kleaner—2d accessit Third Orthography.
H. Korty—1st premium First Grammar; 2d premium First Geography, 4th accessit, Theory, First Book-keep-
P, L. GARRIY, CANDY FACTORY,
'No, 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago Illinois.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
587
" P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
ins;; 1st premium Second German; 1st accessit First Bible History; 1st premium Second Telegraphy.
H. Kinsen—1st premium Fourth Arithmetic.
M. Kramer—1st premium First German; 1st accessit Second Bible History.
C. Larkin—2d accessit Fourth German.
A. Leitelt—1st accessit First Grammar; 6th accessit Penmanship; 2d accessit Second Geometry; 2d accessit Fourth Algebra; 1st accessit Linear Drawing; 1st accessit First German.	.
J. Leitelt—1st premium Second Beading; 1st accessit Third Grammar; 3d accessit First Arithmetic.
J. Lynch—1st accessit Letter-writing; 2d accessit Second Orthography; 1st premium Catechism; 3d accessit Choir.
H. McGuire—1st premium Letter-writing; 1st premium Catechism; 5th accessit Penmanship; 1st accessit Second German; 3d accessit Orchestra; 2d accessit, Theory, First Book-keeping; 1st accessit Seventh Latin.
F. Monahan—2d accessit First Grammar.
P. McBride—2d accessit Catechism; 1st premium Third Geography. .
T. McNamara—1st premium Fourth German; 2d accessit Choir, 2d accessit Public Reading.
J. McIntyre—1st accessit Second Telegraphy.
J. McHugh—4th accessit Public Reading; 2d accessit Orchestra.
R. McGrath—1st accessit Second Grammar; 1st premium Second Geometry; 1st premium Fifth German; 2d premium First Bible History; 2d accessit Linear Drawing.
J. Minton—1st accessit First French; 2d premium Public Reading.
M. Murphy—2d accessit Penmanship.	•
W. Morris—1st accessit Fourth Arithmetic.
AV. Nelson—2d premium Penmanship.
W. Nicholas—3d accessit Third Grammar.
D. O’Connell—1st premium Public Reading.
C. Post—1st accessit -First Reading; 2d accessit First Orthography.
J. Perea—1st premium Penmanship.
A. Pilliod—1st premium Flute.
Fi Phelan—1st accessit Catechism; 2d accessit Fourth Arithmetic.
II. Quan—2d accessit Catechism; 4th accessit, Execution, First Book-keeping; 2d accessit, Recitation, Second Rhetoric; 2d ac. First Bible History.
T. Quinn—1st premium Second Grammar; 1st accessit Second Orthography; 3d accessit Catechism; 1st premium Third Arithmetic; 1st accessit Second Geography.
E.	Riopelle—2d accessit Vocal Music.
F.	Rosa—2d accessit Second Reading; 3d accessit Third Orthography; 2d accessit Third Geography.
A. Reinke—1st premium Piano.
F.	Rollin—1st accessit Second Reading; 3d accessit Fourth Grammar; 3d accessit Fourth Arithmetic.
J. Rice—2d premium Second Grammar.
G.	Sugg—1st Premium Third Orthography. ]	’
£ P. Schnurrer—1st premium Sixth Greek.	.
I L. Smith—1st accessit, Execution, Second Book-keeping.
E. Slichtenoth—Premium Fourth Grammar.	.
A. Schmidt—3d premium Penmanship; 2d ac. First German; 1st premium Figure Drawing; 1st premium Choir; 1st accessit Public Reading; 2d accessit Violin.
• E. Sugg—2d accessit Third Arithmetic.
H. Sickle—2d premium Third Grammar.
W. Stick tenoth—Premium Third Geography; 1st accessit Piano.
W. Smith—1st premium First Reading. "	.
G. Serrille—2d accessit Second Geography; 2d accessit Piano.
R. Walker—1st accessit 6th Greek.
J. Wood—1st premium 3d Algebra; 1st accessit 3d Telegraphy.
F. Weisenburger—2d premium Letter-writing; 2d premium 2d Orthography; 4th accessit Penmanship.
E. Washburne—2d accessit oth German.	'
H. Weber—1st premium 4th Grammar; 1st accessit 2d Arithmetic.
G. Woodward—1st accessit 3d Grammar; 3d accessit 3d Arithmetic. .
N. VanNamee—3d accessit Penmanship.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Bushey—2d accessit Reading.
C. Bushey—1st premium Sixth Reading.
S. Bushey—2d premium Sixth Reading.
O. Bell—2d accessit Third Orthography; 2d access! Third Reading.
H. Colton—1st accessit Fourth Reading; 2d accessit Fourth Geography; 2d accessit Fourth Orthography.
W. Cunningham—1st premium Third Orthography; 1st accessit Second Geography.	.
F. Carlin—2d premium Penmanship; 2d premium Christian Doctrine; 2d accessit Second Orthography; 3d accessit First Grammar.	_
A. C. Clarke—1st premium Penmanship; 1st,accessit First Arithmetic; 2d accessit Catechism; 1st accessit First Orthography; 1st accessit First Grammar; 1st accessit History; 1st premium First Reading.
J. Carrer—4th accessit Penmanship.	_
W. Cash—1st premium Fifth Geography; 2d accessit Fourth Arithmetic.
C.	Campau—1st accessit Third Reading; 2d accessit Third Geography.	.
F.	Campau—1st premium Fourth Reading; 1st accessit Fourth Geography; 2d accessit Third Arithmetic; 1st ’ accessit Fourth Orthography.	-
J.	Duffield—3d accessit Penmanship; 2d accessit Landscape Drawing.	|	-
L. Goldsmith—1st accessit Fifth Reading.
R.	Golsen—1st premium First Orthography; 1st premium History; 2d accessit First Grammar; 2d accessit First Geography.
S.	Goldsberry—2d accessit First Arithmetic; 2d accessit First Grammar; 1st premium Second Geography.
L. Frazer—1st premium Second Orthography; 2d accessit Second Reading. - - .
R. Haley—1st premium Third Reading; 1st accessit Third Geography.
T.	Hooley—1st accessit Catechism; 1st premium Fourth Geography.	'
W. Coolbaugh—2d accessit Fifth Geography.
W. Lindsay—2d accessit Penmanship; 2<1 accessit Fifth Reading; 1st accessit Third Arithmetic.
O. Lindberg—1st accessit Second Arithmetic; 1st accessit Second Orthography; 1st premium Second Reading.
M. McAuliffe—1st premium Catechism; 2d accessit First Orthography; 2d accessit First Reading; 1st accessit First Geography.	•
F. McGrath—2d accessit Second Arithmetic; 1st acces sit Second Reading; 2d accessit Second Geography. _
C. Moody—1st premium Second Arithmetic; 1st accessi-Third Orthography; 1st premium Third Geography. .
P. Nelson—1st accessit Penmanship; 1st premium Third Arithmetic; 1st premium Fourth Orthography. .
H. Ordway—1st accessit Fifth Geography; 1st accessit Fourth Arithmetic.
J. O’Mara—3d accessit Catechism; 2d accessit History.
E. Raymond—1st premium First Arithmetic; 1st accessit First Reading; 1st premium First Grammar; 1st accessit Landscape Drawing; 1st premium First Geography.
W. Van Pelt—1st premium Fifth Reading; 1st premium Fourth Arithmetic.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
In this Department are admitted young boys under ten. years of age, who are carefully taught—by highly competent lady teachers—Spelling, Reading, Writing, and the Elements of English Grammar, Geography, History and Arithmetic; so as to fit them, after a lapse of time more or less extended, for the higher branches of study.
. P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
5S8
THE SCHOLASTIC.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The Alumni.
Solemn High Mass, that is with three priests, was sung for the Alumni at sis o’clock, Tuesday morning, the ceremonies of the Mass being carried out in their full splendor. Contrary to the usual practice at Notre Dame, a figured mass was sung. Gregorian chant, the regular music of the Church, and Cecilian music are sung during the year by the Choir; but on this occasion, by special request of the resident members of the Alumni, Guonod’s Sfesse Solonnelle was sung by the Gillespie Choral Union. The music was extremely well sung; Messrs. Schmidt, Del Vecchio, McNamara, O’Leary, McLaughlin, Hobertson and others taking the solo parts with much skill, and giving a faithful rendition of the music. The choruses were well executed, and reflected much praise upon those who took part in them.
ALUMNI MEETING.
The Associated Alumni held a business meeting at nine o’clock, at which business of importance was transacted, a full report of which, written by the Secretary, will appear in our next issue. The officers for the coming year were elected as follows:
President, Very Rev. E. Sorin; 1st Vice-President, Rev. P. J. Golovin; 2d Vice-President, Rev. W. F. O’Rourke; Secretary, T. A. Dailey; Treasurer, J. A. Lyons; Orator, John M. Gearin; Alternate, 0. A. Berdel; Poet, J. D. McCormick; Alternate, D. E. Maloney.
ALUMNI BANQUET.
The Alumni Dinner, tendered to the Alnmni of the Uni versify, came off in the afternoon. In addition to the different members of the Association quite a number of visitors sat down to the well supplied tables, to -which they did even justice. The dinner was a most enjoyable affair. Every year the meeting of the Alumni becomes more and more interesting, and we have not the least shadow of a doubt but that in a few years the number of those who attend will be far greater than the Association’s best friends can expect. Much more life is infused into its meetings, and there is moreover more enjoyment at the dinner-table.
Quite a number of letters from members regretting their absence were received, and speeches were made by Very Rev. Father Sorin and Rev. Father Golovin, Profs. Broder, Howard and others.	■
The Seat Race.
The boat:race which took place on the 22nd was a very good one. Long before 3 o’clock p. m., the time appointed for the race, the banks of the lake were thronged with ladies and gentlemen, who took an interest in the contest for skill between the crews of the rival boats.
A little while before 3 o’clock the judges and umpires took the place allotted to them; the “Minnehaha’’ and the “Hiawatha” were rowed out from the boat-house, and, greeted with cheers, took their positions. The crew of the Hiawatha was composed of the following young gentlemen viz., E. G. Graves, Cap’t and stroke; H. G. Cassidy, 2nd; E. S. Monahan, 3rd; J. S. Kennedy, 4th; A. J. Lonstorf, 5th; T. H. Grier, bow; and T. Pugh, coxswain. The crew of the Minnehaha was as follows: viz., B. L. Euans, Cap’t and stroke; W. J. Ryan, 2nd; J. B. Flaherty, 3rd; J. E. Kelly, 4th; J. Ney, 5th; J. J. Gillen, bow; and J. B. Crummey, coxswain.
The two boats started off in good style. Each boat had its favorites on shore, who shouted to them words of encouragement. The race as arranged was the length of the lake and return; the boats made it in good time; the Hiawatha coining in 2 lengths ahead, thus winning the race. The victorious crew were heartily cheered by the people. They worked well for the honor, and deserve it.
Rersoual.
—The Alumni turned out in force on Commencement Day.
—The old students enjoyed themselves here on Exhibr tion day.	'
—There were many old Students here on Commencement Day.
—Mr. Powell, the gentlemanly ticket agent of the M. S. & L. S. R. R., South Bend, drove out to the College last week.
—H. Blaine Walker and his sister, of Helena, Montana, made a trip of two thousand miles to be present at the Commencement Day.
—A very welcome letter was received from Rev. Father Carrier last week. He wishes to be kindly remembered to his friends at Notre Dame.
—Rev. Jno. H. McManus of ’64 writes: “ I received an invitation to attend the annual exercises at- Notre Dame this year, for which I return many thanks. It is a matter of regret to me not to be able to attend. I would certainly wish to see Notre Dame once more on Commencment Day, before all those whose kindness made my Alma Mater so dear to me pass away from their stage of usefulness in this life. Many have gone already—to a better home, I feel convinced; but still, poor human nature is so selfish, we would almost like to see them back again.”
■ —We were much pleased to form the acquaintance of Mr. Alfred Arrington, of Washington, who arrived here a. few days ago, on his way to Glaveston, Texas, which he intends to make his future home. Mr. Arrington is son of the late Judge Arrington, of Chicago, and brother to Mrs. W. H. Naulty, of this city. Mr? A. is a handsome and splendid specimen of young manhood, and is sure to make his mark wherever he makes his home. He is a graduate of Columbia Law school, Washington, and has fine and recognized abilities. He left for Galveston this morning.— Little Rock Evening Star.
—Among the .persons present at the Commencement Exercises were: Hon. P. B. Ewing and daughter, Hon. Judge Morris, F. G. Blum and lady, S. J. Powell, P. Sullivan, Mrs. Cunningham, Mrs. Coleman, John Quill, Louis Hibben, John W. Buehler, H. Barnes, R. B. Metzger, George Ruger, Rev. W. O'Mahouy, M. W. Lloyd, S. B. Jennings, W. H. Buecker, Prof. Paul Broder, Rev. P. H. Brown, Jas. Finley, Rev. D. Tighe, Mr. and Mrs. Grace, Miss M. Murphy, Miss Z. King, Rev. T. Sullivan, Father Campbell, Rev. P. Conway, M. Kramer, M. Dryfoos, Bryan Mattimore, W. Locke, M. S. Foote, H. Faxon, Thos. Nelson, T. B. Arnold, Sam’l E. Arnold, D. J. Hogan, J. D. Hogan, Mrs. Maggie Riopelle, Miss Kate Long, Blaine Walker and sister, Jno. McIntyre, Rev. F. Smith, G. A. Kurtz, J. Koch, Mrs. Stace, Miss M. Bonney, C. W. Spiers, H. V. Hayes, L. Hayes, W. Dodge, Jas. Cunnea, H. W. Walker, G. Berdel, P. E. Cochrane, L. Hibben, W. Hake, L. Sanders, M. P. Roulo, Mr. Schultheis, Ed. Lafferty, L. A. Campau, R. L. Campau, Miss A. Campau. D. A. Clarke, G. F. Robinson, Mr. McDonald and lady, Mrs. Lacy, Mr. and Mrs. Dowlins, Mr. Devine, Mr. McNulty, Mr. M. J. Moriarty, Mr. Rosa, Miss Mary Walsh, Misses B. and M. Meagher, D. W. Curtin, Mrs. and Miss Flaherty, Mr. Sphmidt, P. J. O’Connell, Mr. Caren, Mr. Crummey, Mrs. Clarke, Mrs. Bushey, Mrs. Campau, Mrs. Harper and Harry Fitzgibbon.
—There were a great number of old students back on Commencement Day, Lew Hayes, Hal Hayes, Phil Coch; rane, Johny Rourke, Charlie Berdel, Dan Maloney, the Messrs. Hogans, Kizer, Harry Walker, Willie Dodge, Blaine Walker and many others, all of whose names will appear in our next issue. We are glad to see the great number of the students of other days here on-Commencement Day, and hope that next year there will be more.
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois. •
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
589
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois
The Music on the Commencement Days.
The music furnished at the different exercises of Commencement Day, was, barring the fact that we think there should have been more that was new to the students, worthy of commendation. We hope that the Orchestra the coming year will add to their repertoire a large number of shorter pieces taken from the masters; for to play three or even two overtures at one entertainment, when there are literary or dramatic exercises on the programme, must necessarily prolong the entertainment to such a length as to to make it somewhat fatiguing. A short morceau by Beethoven or Mozart would give variety to the programme and cause no fatigue. We hope it will be so next year.
The Band played at the Exercises on each of the three days. Were we to judge of the Band by comparsion with Gilmore’s or any professional Bands in the country, the ' members of which are musicians who make it the business of their lives to play brass instruments, we might find much to condemn in the rendition of music by its members. But we ought not to judge of the proficiency of the Baud in this manner. We should consider that it is an amateur Band, the members of which are students; that each year some members leave, and fresh ones take their places, and that none ever intend taking an instrument after leaving College. When we consider this, we are forced to praise the playing of the Band. We do not believe there is a college band in the country which is superior to the Band which played here on Commencement Day. And more: there are not many Bands in the cities in the United States which excel, even if they equal it, in the beauty aud expression with which they play. The “Leichte Cavalerie ” by Suppe, was executed as well as any amateur band could I execute it, and the mere fact that the members attempt such difficult music is evidence of its proficiency. .
The Orchestra has at various times furnished first-class music at the exhibitions given now and then during the year. The music furnished by them on the days of Commencement was as follows: Overture to “Fidelio,” Beethoven; Overture to “ Cenerentola” Rossini; Overture to “A Day in Vienna,” Suppe; Overture to “Zampa” Herold; “ Potpourri,” A’wppe; and Overture to “Tannhauser,” Wap-ner. The Orchestra has been improving each year, until now it has reached a high standard of excellence. In the Orchestra there are many of the instruments played by the teachers of music here; and hence, although the majority of the performers are students, we have a right to demand of them first-class music. The members have answered our demands, and have given us some excellent music, rendering the overtures above named with a thorough knowledge of the spirit ot the compositions. Still, as we said in the beginning of this article, we honestly believe that were the Orchestra to possess itself of a number of shorter pieces it would appear with far greater eclat at the different college exercises. The Orchestra next year will contain almost all of the members of this year, and we look with pleasure for much good music with the commencement of the scholastic year of ’76.
We were disapointed in looking over the programme to see that vocal music seemed to have been deprived of the rights it should enjoy. The number of good singers here at Notre Dame is by no means small. Four or five good quartettes could without the least difficulty be formed, all of which would be able to take part in the entertainments not only during the year but on Commencement Day. It is strange that, after having taken part in nearly' every exhibition during theycar, the Choral Union should not have taken greater part in the exercises on the Commencement Days, What singing there was, we found very good, and worthy of praise; what we find fault with is that there was not more of it. The Duett from “Lucia di Lammermoor,” rendered by Messrs. E. J. McLaughlin and T. M. O’Leary, ■was sung in pleasing style. Mr. McLaughlin’s basso is quite rich, and with more cultivation could be made very effective. Mr. O’Leary’s tenor also wants cultivation; it
is strong and clear, and with proper culture can be made a voice of much sweetness and power.
The musical part of the Commencement exercises, barring the defects we have noticed, was successful, and we hope that with each succeeding year these defects may diminish, until at last the music at our exhibitions may be, if not faultless, at least very near perfection.
Art Notes.
—Gerome’s “ Sabre Dance ” in the Paris Salon has been sold for the enormous sum of §18,800.
—The income of the London Art-Union last year was §94,630, the largest amount ever received by the society.
—The Fine Arts Jury has decided that no picture in this year’s Paris Exhibition is worthy of the Medal of Honor.
—The four American artists who contribute to this year’s exhibition of the Royal Academy are Miss Lee, Mr. Bradford, W. J. Hennessy, and George H. Boughton. Mr. Bradford has the advantage of the patronage of royalty.
—The Statue of Columbus at Paris.—The figures placed at the four angles of the statue of Christopher Columbus in the Champs-Elysees are: Leon Diego, who saved the great navigator from the Inquisition; Juan Perez de Marchena, Superior of the Monastery of Rabida, and one of the co-operators in the discovery of the New World; Bishop Las Cases, the first missionary to America; and lastly, one of his disciples, with a crucifix in his hand, instructing a young Indian. On the pedestal are two bas-reliefs : one, the landing of Columbus, and the other the construction of the first Catholic Church on the Western Continent.
—Concord, which is well known to be one of the points at which the superstructure of earth rests upon the foundations of all things, is busy establishing its claim to be. considered, like Gen. Washington, “First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of its countrymen.” The Centennial established the first clause,—at least to the satisfaction of Concord people. “ They may do what they please at Lexington,” said a Concord gentleman, “ we will write the history.” The Centennial has been followed by an article on “ Concord Books ” in Harper's, to the author-slii p of which the absence of Miss Hannah Hudson’s name points suspiciously, since her claims as a poet would scarcely be overlooked by any writer but herself. And now comes a second claim to high place in the arts of peace in the following item, and it may be doubted if any other village of 2,000 or 3,000 inhabitants can match it:
Miss (May) Alcott, the sister of Louisa Alcott, the children’s story-teller, has started an Art-Academy, as she jestingly called it, in Concord, in a room formerly occupied as a Masonic hall, over the brick engine-house near the common. It is a large, finely decorated room, with high walls, and windows on three sides, with close shutters inside, so that the lights can be properly managed. Concord people take to art like young ducks to water, and some boy or girl in every family is drawing, or modelling, or decorating, panels and boxes. Miss Alcott has contributed her drawings and plaster models, and invited others to do the same. Miss Wheeler will meet her drawing class of eight or ten young ladies there daily, and anybody else who desires to see the room is invited to set up an easel and go to work free of charge. The leading idea is to collect such drawings, paintings, and models as the village may afford, and to give the aid of sympathy and mutual instruction to all comers. The benefit derived from Miss Alcott’s supervision will insure a successful season whether the enterprise develops into a permanent “ Art Academy ” or not. It will be remembered by readers of fine-art news that Miss Alcott last year reaped the reward of long and enthusiastic devotion to the practice of art, and won the commendation of Mr. Ruskin as the best copyist of Turner’s pictues in existence. Michael Angelo’s saying, “ True
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
593
THE S C H O L A S T IC .
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY
No.- 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois,
genius is infinite patience,” used to stand as a motto over her studio door. Her copies of Turner and original sketches of English ruins, etc., are now highly valued in Boston.
—Twenty American artists have sent pictures to the Preach Salon this year. Of these, Mr. Charles Vo'kmar has contributed two paintings and three etchings, all of ■which have been accepted by the jury. The Paris Continental Herald of May iOtli speaks in the following eulogistic terms of the paintings: “A few steps further (in hall V to W) M. Charles Volkmar, of Baltimore, Maryland, has two good paintings—“ Le Gue sur l’Aumance” and “Le'Chataignier pres d’Herisson, Allier” (1972 and 1973). The first is correct, the second is remarkable. In it a masterly touch is apparent; the light in the background is clear and softly receding, while the harmony in the composition is exquisite. There is great vigor in the pencilling of the huge tree, and extreme minuteness in the design of its rugged bark; and the foliage on the straggling branches and boughs, so lightly and naturally drawn, is an evidence of the author’s full comprehension of real nature.”	.
—At the beginning of the present year there appeared in Paris a hebdomadal illustrated review called L'Art, which is probably the largest and most expensive artperiodical in the world. Its editor-in-chief is M. Eugene Vernon, and its literary contributors comprise many of greatest names in literature on the Continent. Among the list, numbering upwards of eighty, are Taiue, Renan, Jean Rosseau, Paul de Musset, Levasseur, Louis and Reno Menard, Gherardi, President of the Royal Academy of the Beaux Arts d’Urbino, Dabouche, DesCamps, Duplessis, Champier, and Gotti, General Director des Musees de Florence. The only Englishman on the staff is P. G. Hamerton, editor of the Portfolio and author of the “ Intellectual Life,” etc. Among its art-contributors, all of whom are distinguished, are Theophile Chauvel, Didier, Flameng, Gilbert, Jacuemart, Martial, Hedouin, Raconet, and many others of equal merit as artists. The subscription price of L'Art in Paris is 120 francs a year; in England and Spain 140; in Russia, 153; in the united States, 160. The Rev. Dr. Horatio N. Powers, of this city, has lately been invited by its management to become one of its -literary contributors, which is the first recognition of the kind, we believe, that anjr American has received.
Musical Notes.
—Next month the Boieldieu centenary is to be celebrated at Rouen; M. Gh. Limoureux will direct the music during the festival.
—Gottschalk, youngest brother of the famous pianist, will join the Camilla Urso troupe in this country next season. He is said to be a remarkably fine basso.
—Edward Dannreuther, the Cincinnati musician,, who has for some years undertaken to popularize Wagner in London, has the first of two papers on opera in the May MacmiUaii's-
—Mr. Arthur Sullivan’s new oratorio, “ David and Jonathan,” and the re-engagement of the three chief singers of England, will be the novelties al the forthcoming Norwich Musical Festival.
—A one-act romantic opera entitled Per Geiger ran Gemund, has been successfully produced at the Stadt-theatre Dusseldorf. The libretto is' by Herr Hermann Hirschel, and the music by Herr Josef Stich.
—Lecocq. the composer of “Fille de Madame Angot” and “ Girofle-Girofla ” is nearly as fleshy as Rossini was. He is lame, wears spectacles, has a melancholy temperament, and has an utter abhorrence of work.
—Mlle. De Murska has reached San Francisco, where she has been singing with flattering success. The com
pany has averaged tw-mty-three' performances per month since last October, and they have visited every large city hroughout the country.
—Mannheim Mozart’s Zauhcrfotc was performed, on the Sth inst., at the Grand-Ducal Theatre for the 200th time. The performance was ushered in by a “ Feastspiel,” the chorus was increased; even the smaller characters were sustained by leading artists; and everything was done-to celebrate worthily the occasion.
—Miss Adelaide Phillips, who has won such a worldwide fame as the American Contralto, was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, England, and is in her forty-third year. She has resided in America since her childhood. She studied under Garcia in Paris and made her debut in New-York at the Academy of Music, as Azucena in “ Il Trova-tore,” March 1856.
—Jarrett & Palmer’s Madrigal Boys in their full uniform are to try the effects of music’s charm upon the Bulls and Bears of Wall Street. They will give a soiree in the rooms of the Stock Exchange, and will give the theory that “ music hath charms to sooth the savage breast ” its fullest test. If they succeed, Messrs. Jarrett & Palmer will have conferred a blessing upon its long suffering public by their philanthropic act.
—In consequence of the great success, which has attended the production of Verdi’s Requiem, we understand that Signor' Verdi has decided to remain in London a short time longer in order to give two special extra performances. These are to take place on Saturday and Saturday week, with the same advantages which have so materially contributed to the success of the previous performances. The tickets will be reduced to the ordinary concert tariff.
—At Oldenburg, a monument in honor of J. F. Herbart, writer on philosophy, will be unveiled on the 103th anniversary of his birth, next year, he having first seen the light here on the 4th May, 1776. Herbart possessed considerable talent as a musician, composed Pianoforte Sonatas, and was the author of a work entitled: “Physiological Considerations on the Theory of Tone ” There is an interesting article concerning him in H. Mendel’s Musicalisches Conversations-Lexicon.”	.
—The annual election of officers of the Oratorio Society of New York has taken place with the following result: President, W. F. Goodwin; Vice-President., D. S. Gregory; Secretary, R. M. Martin; Treasurer, M. Reno; Librarian, P. Schoen; Superintendents, Leo Goldmark, Dr. Janes, Mr. Knisely, L. Jacoby; Directors, W. A. Pond, Dr. Fr. Zinsser, P. V. Inten, B. L. Harsell, J. M. Heard, H. Oben-dorfer, G. P. Warner, F. Hyde. Dr. Leopold Damrosch will retain the position of conductor as heretofore. .
—The International Mozirt Institution in Salzburg, through their representative in London, Mr. Sigmund Menkes, sent an address to Sir Julius Benedict., on the occasion of the presentation to him of the testimonial at Dudley House. Sir Julius Benedict has acquired for himself the gratitude of the institution as one of its greatest and most zealous fosterers. He conducted last year the Mozart Festival at Covent Garden Theatre, and has promised to-do the same at the grand concert which is being prepared at the Alexandra Palace during the present season.
—Liszt played recently at a concert in the Theatre Royal, Hanover, in aid of the fund for erecting a monument atEisnach in honor of Johann Sebastian Bach. The programme, composed exclusively of works by that great master, included a Church Cantata for Solo Singers, Chorus, and Orchestra; Sonata for Pianoforte and Violoncello ; “ Praludio, Sarabande, and Bourree for Violoncello; two Chorales (the Cathedral Choir); Concerto in C major, for two Pianofortes, and Fantasia with Fugue on the notes BACH; and Liszt’s Variations on the Basso continuo from the sacred cantata.- Wicnen,—Llagen—Sorgen—Zagen.
—Liszt has been in Weimar for some little time, and
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Til in pis,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
501
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY, I
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
•with a few short breaks, intends remaining the whole summer. Tristan und Isolde was to have been performed ■on the 15th and 19th insh, with Mdme. and Herr Volg, from Munich, as representatives of the principal parts, but the performances had to be put off in consequence of the artists having sustained a severe loss by the death of a child. Preparations are being made in Weimar for a memorial service to Mad. von Mouchanoff, who died last year. A Requiem by Liszt will be included in the programme. •Wagner will come over expressly from Bayreuth for the occasion. Mad. von Mouchanoff was the lady to whom— .greatly to her annoyance—Wagner dedicated his treatise; “ On Judaism in Music."
—The Academy states that some manuscripts of value for the history of music and its professors have recently been added to the stores of the British Museum. These include quartets, sonatas, etc., by Joseph Haydn, written by an amanuensis and corrected by himself between the years 1784 and 1817, and some letters of Joseph Haydn to W. Forster, music printer, 1787 and 1788; a bill of lawyers’ costs in business connected with transactions of Haydn with Forster, 1781-1788, etc.; a Greek Sticherarion of the seventeenth century, for the services .of the year, with musical notes; Greek hymns of the same date, with musical notes, for services from February to the octave of Whitsuntide; Greek Liturgies and ordination services. A. D. 16G4, with miniatures, in the old binding of velvet, and some seventeenth century hymn tunes of the Greek Church.
—Theodore Thomas brought out a new work, the other day, of which the New York Tribune says: “ The symphonic poem by Saint Saens (Op. 31), however, had never been played in New York until last week. It is called ‘ Le Rouet d’Omphale’ (Omphale’s spinning-wheel), and illustrates the myth of Hercules serving as a slave to the Lydian Queen and wearing female attire as he sits spinning by her side. It begins with an elegant little movement in which the music of the wheel and distaff is very happily imitated, chiefly by the violins. Then there is a second part, a broad and highly-colored monody in a minor key, which, of course, represents the disgraced hero’s lament. But Omphale, as we know, used to rap Hercules over the knuckles with her slipper when his spinning did not suit her, so the lament soon comes to an end, and the buzz of the wheel is resumed. The symphonic poem is short, bright, neat, and lively, and a good specimen of the very best French style. It was interesting to contrast it, as we had several opportunities to do last week, with the flnest of all the many spinning-wheel songs, that in Wagner’s “Flying Dutchman.”
Literature.
—Joaquin Miller will represent a London newspaper at ' the Philadelphia Centennial.
—Sir Edward Creasy has in the press a new book, entitled, “First Platform of International Law.”
—A new edition of “ Sketching from Nature in Water Colors,” by Aaron Penley, will shortly be published by Messrs. Cassell, Petter, and Galpin.
—A Volume of metrical translations from the Swedish Eoems of Runcberg, by Air. Eirikr Magnusson and Prof. E.
I. Palmer, is in course of preparation.
—Professor J. Sichs, of Wurzburg, is engaged in the preparation of a history of botany, which is expected to be ready for publication in the course of the present year.
—The little book published by Pelletreau & Raynor, showing the funnel marks, fligs and signals of steamships and yachts, will supply an important want to yachtsmen and ocean travellers.
—Some valuable manuscript materials for a vocabulary, grammar, and dictionary of the Assyrian language, brought together by the late Edwin Norris, Ph. D., have been added to the Egerton Library, of the British Museum in England.
• P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
—Earl Cadogan has, says the Academy, presented to the British Museum two manuscript volumes, filled with curious medical recipes, and recipes for preserves and pastry, collected by Elizabeth, wife of Sir Hans Sloane, at the beginning of the last century.
—A memoir of Gen. Burgoyne, from the pen of Mr. Barrington de Fonblanque, nephew of the late Albany Fonblanque, will shortly appear. It will contain many unpublished letters of the most eminent English and American statesmen of the time.
—The Hon. Miles Gerald Keon, Colonial Secretary of Bermuda, died on the 5th inst. Mr. Keon entered on the duties of his ufiice in 1859. He was a man of extensive literary attainments, the author of many popular books, and connected with many literary and scientific societies in Europe.
—Emile Ollivier will shortly publish a book to explain the “lightness of heart” with which he counselled Na-polean III to indulge in the late fandango with the old man of Berlin, who turned out to know more about chassez-croisez and to be less weak in the knees than was supposed by the Paris partners.
—Sir William Stirling-Maxwell, M. P., will shortly publish “The Procession of Pope Clement VII, and the Emperor Charles V.,” on the occasion of the coronation entrance of the great German Sovereign into Bologna on the 24th of February, 1530. The magnificent series of engravings are drawn and designed by Nicholas Hogenberg, and have been reproduced m facsimile from an unique copy.
—The original manuscript of Gray’s “Elegy in a Country Churchyard ” was sold in London on May 29 by Messrs. Sotheby, Wilkinson & Hodge. It contains many variations from the poem as now printed, notably the names of “ Ctesar ” and “ Tully ” instead of “ Milton ” and “ Cromwell,” and many alterations, erasures, and corrections, which show the anxious care bestowed upon its composition. It was bought by Sir William Fraser for £230, having been sold by the same firm about twenty years ago, in the Penn collection, for £131. In the same sale were the manuscript of Dickens’s “Christmas Carol,” which was bought by Mr. Harvey for £55. A signed autograph letter of Queen Elizabeth to Henry IV of France, thanking him for the portrait he sent, and closing with many professions of friendship, £51. Two autograph letters of Napoleon I, £34. Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilton, £21.
The SriniT of Faith ; or, What Must I Do to Believe ? Five Lectures delivered in St. Peter’s, Cardiff. Bythe Rt. Rev. Bishop Headly, O. S. B. New York : The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1S75.
We have received from the Catholic Publication Society of New York, the most energetic and enterprising Catholic publishing house in this country, the above beautiful volume. The five excellent lectures delivered by Dr. Headly are well worthy the perusal of all persons, whether Catholics or not. The book is issued in that attractive style for which the Catholic Publication Society are so well known. A Full Catechism of the Catholic Religion. From the
Geimau of Rev. Joseph Delia;be, S. J. By the Rev. John Fander. New York : The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1S75.	.
This Catechism is one of the very’ best that we have seen. We have seen notices of Father Mhller’s Catechisms in many of the papers, but we do not like them. Keenan’s Doctrinal Catechism and Deharbe’s, we believe, are the very best catechisms in the English language. Deharbe’s possesses this advantage over Keenan’s that it does not deal merely in questions of controversy, but also treats of the moral questions which it is necessary for young Catholics to fully understand.
—It was an Irish coroner who when asked how he accounted for an extraordinary mortality in Limerick, replied, sadly: “I cannot tell. There are people dying this year that never died before.”
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
592
THE SCHOLASTCI.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Death of Francis E. Fosen.
It is with the utmost pain that we announce the death by drowning, on last Saturday morning, of Master Francis E. Foxen, of Detroit. Together with several other students, he had obtained from the Boat Club the use of one of their boats; and at the time of the sad accident the whole company, some in the boat and the rest swimming about in the water, were enjoying themselves within a few feet of the pier at the east end of the lake. Another boat with two fishers was quietly anchored at a short distance, while the adjacent shore was lined with students enjoyed in sports. Without a word of warning, there was a cry from one of the swimmers that Frank was going down, when those near him went quickly to his rescue. But, owing as would seem to his utter inability to help himself, it was impossible to save him from sinking. Nor did he rise again, as everyone expected him to do; from which it is inferred that death was immediate, and probably from asphyxia rather than from drowning proper.
The body was recovered in the course of an hour, and in the afternoon an inquest was held by the coroner, who returned a verdict in accordance with the facts. Saturday evening, Br. Marcellinus left for Detroit to bear the body home to the afflicted family, and to give them whatever consolation they can receive from the heartfelt sympathy of the authorities of the University, and indeed of everyone at Notre Dame.
It is but two or three weeks since Mr. and Mrs. Foxen with their bright little daughter were at Notre Dame, paying a birthday visit to their son; and those who saw how pleasant and affectionate thatmeeting was, will know how sad is this sudden separation. It will, however, be a consolation to remember that their son was an exceptionally good youth; and that, within a few days, strengthened by the Sacraments of the Church, he was, so far as man can judge, well prepared to die.
Master Foxen was a young man of more than ordinary promise. He was seventeen years .of age, and had just graduated with the highest honors in the Commercial Course; and was a member of the Choral Union, and of the St. Cecilia Society, in which he received the diploma of merit. Maybe rest in peace; and may7 the Consoler of hearts assuage the grief of his sorrow-stricken parents and friends.
Local Items.
—Farewell 1 -
—“Eh, ’Gustus?”
—Go to Louis Nickel’s.
—A jolly7 vacation to all.
—The Juanitas are Champions!
—’Rah for Commencement Day!
—“Ya—as, I think so, ’Dolphus.”
—The Minims.had a picnic last Thursday.
—Good-bye will be said pretty often to-day.
—Enjoy yourselves as well as you can, boys!
—The big chimney is being built very rapidly.
—Bro. Robert is getting his garden in a fine shape.
—Don’t forget Louis Nickel, Jr., No 85 Main Street.
—Last Wednesday evening the Church was crowded.
—The championship games were finished last Wednesday.
—Some of the Societies have had very good pictures taken.
—Notre Dame will be a lonely place for the next two months.
—Pictures were exchanged rather freely those past few days.
—Times during the past week have been very busy for nearly all.
—The new fence in front of the College is a decided improvement.
—All the Catholic students wore the red badge on last. Wednesday7.
—The Students’ Lunch Room is kept by Louis Nickel, Jr., No. 85 Main Street.
—Bless Examination! It makes a fellow feel sheepish, if he misses anything.
—Our friend John gees to Burlington, by way, we believe of a village in Wisconsin.
—During the past week there has been a general cleaning up around the College.
—The new Sanctuary Lamp was hung up in the old Church on last Wednesday.
—We will expect to see the many faces that leave to day, back again in September.
—Next year we will send the Scholastic gratis to any one procuring us flee subscribers.
—It took Mr. Bonney only forty minutes to take a group of six of our “ pretty ” boys the other day.
—There was life in the Scholastic Office, the past week; printing badges is what troubled the boys.
—The examinations, which commenced on the 14th and ended last Friday, were generally successful.
—Just think! the first spelling class in the Minim Department can’t be puzzled in the spelling book.
—Of all the badges on Society and Commencement Days, those of the Academia were the neatest.
—See Mr. H. Pollack’s advertisement in another column. He is just the man for the students to patronize.
—The side altar on last Wednesday was very beautiful. It showed that those who built it have very7 good taste.
—Tbe Novitiate building looks better since the Cross and the painting of St. Joseph have been placed on the dome.
—Baxter & Woolverton, of South Bend, are the great plumbers of South Bend. Read their card and give them a call.
—Tbe St. Joseph Hotel of South Bend is an excellent house. Its card maybe seen in this edition of the Scholastic.
—Almost every Society have their badges this year. We like this, and hope Societies in future will follow their example.
—The best group Mr. Bonny has taken this year is the group of six—the S. J. M’s., otherwise known as the “ Sandwich Six.”
—The firm of Richards, Shaw, Fitch & Winslow is one of the largest in the drygoods line in Chicago. See their advertisement.
—O'Connor & Read, of Chicago, are excellent commission merchants. Their advertisement may be found in another column.
—In our issue of last week we mentioned the house of Jansen, McClurg & Co., of Chicago. Read their advertisement in this number.
—The South Bend Woollen Co. do as good work as can be desired. Read their card and then have your work done by the Company.
—We are sorry that we could not accept Bro. Albert’s invitation to accompany the Minims last Thursday. We thank him all the same.
—One of the most enterprising shops in South Bend is that of tbe Eagle Company, the advertisement of which may be found in this issue.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
THE SCHOLASTIC
593
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
—Where are you not going this vacation? We ask this 'r question because we have heard so many enumerate all the places they were going to.
—A. Fitzpatrick & Co., of New York* are dealers in stained-glass church decorations. We call the attention of our clerical friends to their card.
—The firm of A. S. Barnes & Co., of New York, is one of the largest school-book publishers in the United States. See their advertisement on the first page.
—The advertisement of A. Coquillard in this issue should be read with care. Mr. Coquillard is one of the largest manufacturers of wagons in the United States.
. —The Catholic Universe of Cleveland, Ohio, is the liveliest Catholic paper published in the West. Lookover its .	advertisement in this number of the Scholastic.
—If you wish to procure either old or new books you can do so by calling on Eastman & Bartlett, of Chicago. Their card may be seen in this number of our paper.
—The advertisement of Mr. Keegan, of Chicago, may be found in another column. He is the. Western Agent of the publishing hous of Butler & Co. of Philadelphia.
—P. M. Almini & Co., of Chicago, are first-class Fresco Painters and are dealers in Artists’ and Painters’ Materials. Their card appears in this issue, which we request all to read.
—The Annual Commencement Exercises of St. Angela’s Academy Morris, III., occurs Tuesday June 29lh, at 3 p. m. Nine (9) young ladies are to receive the gold Graduating Medals.
—The subsciiption price of the Scholastic for next year will be one dollar and a half 1.59). All persons not returning next year should make arrangements to have it sent to them.
—For steam and gas fittings, wrought iron pipes, etc., etc. we advise our friends to consult the Crane Bros. Manutac, turing Company, of Chicago. See their advertisement in another page.
—See the advertisement of John Church & Co. in another column. Mr. Church is one of the largest music dealers in the West, and we can safely commend him to all persons desiring sheet music, etc.
—Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., whose agent in Chicago is Mr. Edward Cook, form one of the great firms of school-:	book publishers in the United States. Their advertisement
may be found on our last page.
—The Catholic Publication Society of New York is the livest and best Catholic publishing house in the United States. It deserves the patronage of Catholics who desire good books. Its advertisement may be seen in another page.
—South Bend has in its vicinity not only one of the most prominent educational establishments, but it has in its corporate limits the Great Studebaker Wagon and Carriage Works, an advertisement of which may be seen on another page.
—Bro. Francis, at the Franciscan House, has received a new supply of religious articles from New York. We state this for the benefit of the people living in the neighborhood of Notre Dame and who may stand in need of such articles. His stock now is very good, the additions lately being of the best description.
—There will, probably, be published about the first or fifteenth of August a number of the Scholastic giving information as to any changes made in the faculty, etc. All students should advise us of where they are spending the ’	their vacations, and how. We wish to make that issue the
great personal number of the Scholastic.
—Our friend John came to us the other day and requested us to give him a "puff.” He said we abused him very often this year and now we ought to say something in his favor. Well, John, were your place of business
No. 100 - Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
some other place we could readily comply with your request, but now it is a hard thing to do. Anyhow what would a “puff” amount to in your case? Take a friend’s ' advice and never ask a printer for a “puff,” because he might give you one you wouldn’t like.
—The day which was set apart by our Holy Father Pope Pius IN, for the consecration of the Universal Church to the Sacret Heart was appropriately celebrated at Notre Dame. On Wednesday, June 16th, Benediction was given by the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Prior to the Benediction, one of the most beautiful sermons ever listened to at Notre Dame was preached by the eloquent young pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, the Rev. Wm. F. O’Mahony, C. S. C. The sermon received high praise from all who had the pleasure of listening to his burning words of eloquence. At the conclusion of the sermon the same Reverend Father read the Act of Consecration, after which the Benediction was given, the Choir singing a beautiful 0 Salutaris and Tantum Ergo from the repertory of the Cecilia Society.
—The first game for the baseball championship was won by the Star of the East over the Excelsior ,• the 2d was won by the Excelsior over the Star of theEiist; the 3rd by the Star of the East over the Excelsior; the 4th by the Juanita over the Star of the East; the 5th by the Star of the East over the Juanita, and the 6th and last by the Juanita over the Star of the East. Under the rule here at Notre Dame the Juanita Club is the Champion Club. Tne Excelsior won 1 game of the championship series, the Star of the East won 3 games, and the Juanita won 2 games. The Excelsior played in three games, the Juanita in three, and the Star of the East in six. The total number of runs made by the Star of the Eist in 6 games was 96; by the Excelsior in 3 games 57; by the Jnanita in 3 games 53. In the Star of the East Club, Caren in 2 games made 6 outs and 5 runs; Marks in 6 games 21 outs and 8 runs; Monahan in 6games, 14 outs and 16 runs; Lonstorf in 6 games, 26 outs and 9 runs; Ball in 4 games, 5 outs and 13 runs; Soule in 6 games, 21 outs and 9 runs; Devoto in 6 games 19 outs and 10 runs; Ratigan in 6 games, 15 outs and 12 runs; Ryan in 6 games 19 outs and 8 runs; Watson in 5 games, 11 outs and 6 runs; Dougherty, in 1 game, made 8 outs and 0 run. In the Excelsior Club' the nine remained the same in all three games. Hayes made 8 outs and 8 runs; Frazee, 7 outs and 5 runs; Perea, 9 outs and 5 runs; Minton, 10 outs and 7 runs; Gross, 7 outs and 6 runs; Downey, 10 outs and 7 runs; Kelly, 6 outs and 8 runs; Murphy, 7 outs and 8 runs; Pillion, 12 outs and 4 runs. In the Juanita Club, Culliton in 2 games made 8 outs and 5 runs; Logan in 2 games, 6 outs and 5 runs; Campbell in 3 games, 8 outs and 7 runs; Seibert in 3 games, 5 outs and 8 runs; Busch in 3 games, 10 out and 6 runs; Lyons in 3 games, 9 outs and 5 runs; Crummey in 3 games, 8 outs and 4 runs; O’Brien in 2 games, 6 outs and 5 runs; Gross in 3 games, 9 outs and 5 runs; McKinnon in 1 game, 6 outs 0 run ; Otto in 1 game, 2 outs and 3 runs; Grace in 1 game, 4 outs and 0 run.
—The Minims return heartfelt thanks to the President, Rev. P. J. Golovin, for the grand picnic he gave them last Thursday. A picnic, all know, is a grand affair, but this one was exceptionally grand. We shall give a brief description of it for the benefit of our friends who may wish to follow our programme on future occasions, though in doing so we feel we shall only spoil the thing; the description will fall so far short of the reality. At eight o’clock the happy band, numbering thirty-six, with their kind Prefect, Br. Albert, started, accompanied by Very Rev. Father Granger, Rev. Father Frere, Mr. L. Oliver, Br. Leopold and Prof. Paul, and after a very ples-ant ride reached the St. Joseph Farm about ten o’clock, where they were most cordially welcomed by Rev. Father Ford. After the students had saluted the Farm with loud hurrahs they were taken to a cool apartment, where was prepared some nice lunch, Sister Good Shepherd and her Sisters forseeing that the little fellows would need some re-
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicogo, Illinois^

591
THE SCHOLASTIC.
P. L' GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
freshment before dinner. The lunch being over, the crowd dispersed in various directions, and it is scarcely necessary to say that the Farm is just the place where little boys, and grown ones too, can enjoy themselves to their heart’s content. At one o’clock dinner was announced, when we were shown into a refectory expressly prepared and tastefully festooned for the occasion. The tables were full to overflowing with exactly the viands one would relish after a few hours’.ramble around the prairies —such as roast beef, ham, chicken and cold tongue, with any amount.and variety of dessert, not omitting a superabundance of ice cream. How heartily all partook of the things set before them could be best proved by the appearance of the tables when the party prepared to make their exit from the refectory. At three, we had a grand concert. Br. Leopold and Prof. Paul played some very fine pieces, and towards the conclusion of the entertainment Rev. Fr. Ford, who is also a splendid musician, gave us some sweet tunes from his flute. The concert concluded amidst thundering applause; the crowd disappeared, and were lost for sometime in the woods, until recalled again to the refectory, where was prepared a magnificent lunch, which was disposed of in as satisfactory a manner as the dinner. But we had almost forgotten to notice that “ our friend John ” was one of our guests. Yes, and he positively declared that never, since he entered the University, did he see the students of any of the departments have a “bigger day.” He acknowledged that he looked forward to the Minims' picnic for something unusually grand, but that still it exceeded his most sanguine expectations. About six o’clock, all feeling that they had thoroughly enjoyed the day, prepare d to return home; and if the morning ride was delightful, the evening one was no less so. All agreed that the picnic had realized all their anticipated pleasure; and with music and song we reached Notre Dame,. our only regret being that it got late- too soon. The Minims, and all who were at the picnic, return sincere thanks to Rev. Father Golovin and to the good Sisters at St. Joseph’s for the kindness received on the occasion.
voidably absent during examination; and lastly, those . whose percentage was so low that we spare them the dis- -honor of publishing their names.	/-
- SECOND SESSION.	‘
SENIOR DEPATMENT.	Z
Alen 73, Baca 77, Brady 86, Brown 79, Berringer 55,	/ 0
Barret 61, Burch 66, Ball 84, Caren 93, Cochrane 36, Cas- .	-
sidy 86, J. Crumraey 75, G. Crummey 64, J. Campbell 43, Z \ Claffey 84, Crelly 61, Carroll 79, Canavan 88, Dryfoos 67, Devoto 87, Doherty 68, Egan 89, Euans 85, Ewing 94, i A Foley 77, Fullerton 74, Favey 59, Flaherty 81, Grier 88,	'V / ’
Graves 87, Grace 68, Gallagher 81, Gillen 80, GroverJ53, X Hansard 85, Hunt 61, Hogan 69, Hoffman 64, Hertzog 73,	/
Keeler 72, S. Kennedy 77, J. Kennedy 72, Kopf 79, J. Kelly - 61, S. Kelly 75, Larkin 83, Lonstorf 57, Lyons 66, Logsdon ! , A V x 79, Lambin SO, Montgomery 82, Mooney 85, McPharlin 82f i 4 tz 01 McNulty 77, Maas 84, Marks 66, Murphy 83, MeGarin 68, Monahan 74, Matthews 73, McLaughlin 91, Mattimore 86,-------zE. Maas 51, Peter Mattimore 72, Moran 63, Mohan 74,---------,
McKinnon 25, Marshall 55, Ney 82, O’Leary 84, Obert 68, Otto 86, O’Brien 74, O’Connell 85, Proudhonne 75, Proc-	I
tor 94, Puge 76, Roulhac 87, Retz 74, Ryan 85, Ratigan 57,	J
Ruope 7S, Robertson 81, Regan 69, Reidy 75, Shaul 88,	|1
Shultheis 71, Solon 76, Sclilink 66,- Siebert 73, Stout 90	|
Soule 79, Thornton 95, Whelan 71, Walters 85, White 67,	I
Wilhelm 78, C. Wisner 68 Wisner 65, Welty 67, Wells 59‘ Watson 40.
Keecl’s Temple of Music. .
92 Van Buren St., Chicago.
We desire to call attention to the splendid assortment of Pianos and Organs that we are now offering for sale at the very lowest panic prices for cash or long time, to suit the purchaser. Our leading specialties are the Chickering Pianos, the Most Durable in the World—proved by their use during the past fifty-two years. The Sweetest. Toned in the World—caused by Chickering’s new invention, applied to every string. Haines Bros.’ Pianos, which have attained a first-class reputation, by reason of the splendid service which thousands of their Pianos have rendered during the past twenty-five years. And Reed & Sons’ Organs, which contain the very latest improvements, have a deep, smooth, rich quality of tone; a very quick, easy action, and newest and most elegant style of case. Lowest priced first-class Organ in the United States. We desire to state that anyone who may order from us by letter may rdy upon obtaining equally as good an instrument as if they came to Chicago expressly to buy it. We cordially invite everyone to call and examine our pianos and organs, even if they do not wish to buy.
A. Reed & Sons.
' The Examinations, 1874-5.
students’ average.
Tn the following list of averages, three classes of students are omitted: firs’ly, those who were unwell during the time of the examination, and who either-missed it en tirely or partially; secondly, a number who were una-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Arnold 65, E. Arnold 48. Bergck 70, Beucher 55, Betcher -73, Burger 86, Budd 58, Best 86, Byrne 87, Carlin 75, Crummey 71, Clarke 48, Colton 88, Carrer 69. Del Vecchio, 80, Downey 95, Dore 68, Dryfoos 50, Davis 89, Ewing 80,	’
Evers 84, Edwards 68, Fitzpatrick 60, Foxen 65, French,	.
61, Frazer 81, Frauenknecht 57, Faxon 67, Foley 73, Griffith 83, Gleason 64, Golsen 61, Gross 87, Grambling 57, R. Golsen 75, Goldsberry 70, Hayes 62, Hoffman 64, Hake 90, Hitchcock 62, Harrey 52, Haffey 79, Jones 63, Kelley -'4 65, Klaner 55, Korty 96, Kinson 71, Kramer 73, Katzauer 63, Kurtz 63, Lonstorf 50, Larkin 73, A. Leitelt 77, J.	r
Leitelt 87, Leonhardt 71, Lynch 80, Ludwig 72, McGuire	*
90, Monahan 80, McBride 82, McNamara 65, Mitchell 55, -	•
McIntyre 58, McHugh 77, McGrath 92, Minton 84, Mur-	1
phy 90, F. McGrath 70, Morris 59, Meyers 68, Nelson 63,	, I
D. Nelson 53, W. Nelson 75, Nicholas 68, Nestor 71, Norris 64, Neuman 53, O’Connell 85, Ottaway 63, O’Hara 62, Post 77, Peltiers 72, Perea 75, Pilliod 59, Phelan 54,	.
Quan 59, Quin 82, Riopelle 59, Rosa 71, Runke 55, Roelie	|
71, Retz 77, Sugg 66, Schnurrer 76, J. Smith 60, Stichtenoth 58, Schmidt 91, E. Sugg 66, Sickle 76, W. Stichtenoth 73,	'
Smith 58, F. Smith 86, Sirreli 74, Walker 60, Willis 66,	j k
Whipple 73, Wood 89, Walsh 63, Weisenberger 79, Wash-	L
burne 54, Weber 82, Woodward 63, Van Namee 72.	f
MINIM DEHARTMENT.
Haley 90, McAuliffe 100, O’Meara 100, Clarke 100, Raymond 100, Carlin 100, Goldsberry 100, Carer 80, McGrath 100, Golsen 100, F. Campeau 80, Campeau 80, Bushey 80, C. Bushey 80, Bushey 80, Duffield 75, Moody 100, Bell 80, Van Pelt 75, Lindsay 80, Frazee 100, Ordway 85, Gold-	|
smith 85, Hooley 90, Lindberg 100, Colten 75, Cunningham 100, Kulbaugh 100, Campbell 90, McDonald 75, Nelson 75.	'	-	, j
FIRST SESSION. .	\...
----	7
Arnold E., 57; Arnold W., 52; Allen, 69; Avers, 81; a . j Armstrong, 55; Beegan, 78; Bergck, 57; Buecker, 63;	... ‘
Betcher, 55; Burger, 82; Budd C,72; Best, 77; Byrne,	A, <,
69; Baca, 61; Brady, S3; Brown, 93; Berringer, 65; Burge, '	,t. i
84; Bearss, 53; Barrett, 69; Connolly, 82; Crummey, 60;	.
Colton, 81; Courtney, 61; Claffy D., 60; Carrer, 60; Cui- A ’■ i liton, 86; Corcoran, 59; Caren, 87; Cochrane. 50; Cassidy, . t ’ i JI 91; Campbell, 63; Crummey G,. 69; Claffey Jno., 71; [	। j|
Caldwell, 82; Chamberlain, 91; Crelly, 55; Cullen, 87; f fl Carroll, 77; Clarke, 74; Del Vecchio, 78; Downey, 59 ;aT r. II Dore, 74; Dryfoos N., 49; Davis, 68; Dryfoos J. M., 54	fl
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois. ' Ja '	O'	fqM
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
THE SCHOLASTIC,
595
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Devoto, 88; Darst, 66; Doherty, 82: Dailey, 95; Ewing _	F., 72; Evers. 76; Edwards, 45; Egan M., 81; Euans, 82;
Ewing J. G., 83; Egan P., 74; Fitzpatrick, 66; Foxen, 68 ; ' French, 58; Frazee F., 79; Frauenknecht, 66 ; Faxon, 80;
Foley J„ 84; Fawcett, 46; Farrell, 78; Foley M., 75; Forbes, 67; Flalierty, 65; Fullerton, 96; Green, 71; Griffith, 76; Gleason, 55; Golsen J., 61; Greenleaf, 78; Gross, 89; Gramling, 58; Goldsberry, 65; Girard, 88; Graves, 81; .	Grier, 92; Grace, 81; Gallagher, 83; Gillen, 83; Guilloz,
A-'	77; Gault, 73; Hayes, 67; Hansard W., 46; Hoffman F.,
58; Hake, 69; Hitchcock, 63; Harvey, 59; Haffey, {60, - Hoyt, 90, Hansard T„ 70; Hess C., 65; Hunt. 87; Handley, 81; Hogan, 70; Hoffman H., 61; Hebard, 67; Johnson, 56; .. Jewell, 68; Jones, 66; Jenkins, 80; Kelly P., 51; Klaner, --	72; Korty, 87; Kinson, 45; Kreigh, 58;'Kramer M., 86;
. ~	Keeler, 87; Kramer A., 42; Kennedy S., 67; Kennedy J.,
'	69; Kopf, 83; Kelley J. E., 56; Kelley G. M., 73; Katzauer,
.	- 59; Kurtz, 46; Lonstorf G., 75; Larkin, 70; Lambin, 64;
Leitelt J., 68; Leitelt A., 82; Leonhardt, 61; Lynch, 68; Lawrence, 76; Logan, 65 ; Lonstorf A., 72; Lyons, 81 ; Logsdon, 73; Monohan E. S., 81; McGuire, 80; Monohan L ’ T.-, 68: McLaughlin, 88; Maas E., 65; McBride, 66; McKin-F non, 36; McNamara, 76; Mitchell, 66; .McIntyre, 55; Mc-
Hugh, 78; McGrath R., 86; Meyer, 70; Mosser, 45; Minton, 70; Murphy M., 91; McGrath F., 67; Montgomery. 87 ; Mooney, 74; McPharlin, 79; McNulty, 81 ; McDonald, 70; ' Maas R., 93; Marks, 80; Murphy T., 81; McManus, 68;
Mattimore P. J , 60; Moran, 59; Mohan, 76; Mathews, 71; ‘ Nelson J., 56; Nelson D., 48; Nelson IV., 77 ; Nestor, 58;
Norris, 65; Newman, 67; Ney, 82; Nicholas, 54; O’Con'	nell D., 47; O’Mahony, 51; O'Leary, 82; Obert, 88; O,	Brien F., 35; Otto, 87; O’Brien A., 90; Ottoway, 53;
Pilliod, 77; Pugh, 75; Post, 55; Palmer, 58; Peltier, 67;
Perea, 67; Proudhomme, 68; Proctor, 94; Petrie, 57; Rayne nd, 67; Riopelle, 61; Rosa, 45; Reinke, 50; Ro-elle, 83; Rice, 63; Roulhac, 91’; Retz, 57; Ryan, 85; Rati-gan, 81; Rudge F. J., 85; Rudge Geo., 94; Robertson, 80; Reagan, 65; Sugg, 56; Schnurrer, 91; Smith L , 61; Smith | '	J., 59; Sucl.tenoth E., 54; Schmidt, 73; Sugg G., 56;
Soule, 77; Sickel, 73; Stichtenoth W., 64; Stout W., 68;
Smith Wd., 68; Shaul, 80; Schultheis, 78; Solon, 75; Ska-k hill, 76; Schlink, 54; Scrafford, 55 ; Siebert, 79 ; Swj’gart, 43; Studebaker, 74; Schwabacher, 41; Staley, 94; Tobias, '	38; Treanor, 84; Talbot, 56; Thornton, 85; Walker, 76 ;
Willis, 59; Whipple, 82; Wood, 86; Walsh, 86; Weisen-burger,84; Washburn, 61; Webber, 80; Welty, 86; Woodsy ward, 64; Wilhelm, 71; Walter, 81; White, 52; Whalen, 58; Wisner C., 53; Wisner, A., 44; Vanamee, 63 ; Ver-ment, 71; McGavin, 63; Mattimore Peter, 55; Bushey A., I 93; Bushey S , 100; Bushey C., 100; Bell, 95; Clarke, 96; -____ Carter J., 90; Carlin, 95; Campau C., 100 ; Campau F., 98 ;
Colton, 98; Duffield, 99; Frazee L., 98 ; Goldsberry S., 92; Goldsmith, 100; Golsen R, 98; Haley, 98; Hooley, 96; Lindberg, 98; Lindsey, 100; McAuliffe, 98; McGrath F., 99; Moody, 95; Nelson P. D., 96; O'Meara, 93; Ordway, '	97; Raymond E., 98; Van Pelt, 100.
Holl of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. Allen, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, L. Busch, W. Ball, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey. H. Cassidy, T. Carroll, W. Canavan, J. Dryfoos, M. Egan, B. Euans, J.'Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Graves, T-. Grier, T. Gallagher, T. Hansard, W. Hughes, A. Hertzog, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, G. McNulty, E. McPharlin, W. McGavin, E. McLaughlin, P. MeCaw-ley, J. Marks, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, Peter Mattimore, Patiick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan. E. Marshall, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, P. Proudhomme, C. Proctor, G. R<>ulbac, J. Retz, E. Ratigau, J. Rudge, ?. Skahill, F. Schlink, W. Schultheis, P. Shaul, J. Soule, J. Thornton, J. Whalen, C. Walters, R. White, C. Wisner, C.
•‘elty.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, A. Buecker, L. Best, W. Byrne, A Bergck, G. Budd, J. Buckels, A. Burger, J. Crummey, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, N. Dryfoos, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxon, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, G. Frauenknecht, J. French, F. Frazee, W. Edwards, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross, F. K. Goldsberry, J. Griffith, J. Golsen, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, F. Hoffman, W. Hansard, H. Harvey, J. Haffey, C. H. Hitchcock, P. Kelly, J. P. Kurtz, M. Katzauer, H. Korty, F. Kleiner, W. Kreigh, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. Leonhardt, G. Lonstorf, J. Lynch, P. McBride, A. H. Mitchell, F. Mitchel], T. McNamara, R. McGrath, J. P. McHugh, H. McGuire, T. Monahan, W. G. Morris, M. J. Murphy, W Nicholas, W. P. Nelson, C. Ottoway, D. J. O’Connell, C. Peltier, C. R. Post, J. L. Perea, H. W. Quan, A. Reinke, .L. Smith, J. A. Smith, A. Schmidt, E. Sugg, G. Sugg, T. J. Solon, H. Sickel, N. Vanamee, C. Walsh, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. R. Willis, R. J. Walker, J. E. Wood, F. Weisenburger, 1E. Washburn, J. K. Jones, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, F. Rollin, G. R. Serrill, W. Roelle, J. Rice, O. Ludwig, W. Smith, J. Nelson.
’ MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Edward Raymond, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, John O’Meara, Michael McAuliffe, Joseph Carrer, Colly Campau, Samuel Goldsberry, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, Otto Lindberg, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Lee Frazee, Robert Haley, Joseph Beal, Thomas Hooley, Albert J. Bushey, Francis Campau, Hugh Colton, Willie Lindsay, Harry Ordway, Willie Cash, Louis Goldsmith, Peter Nelson, Harley McDonald, Willie Coolbaugh, Sylvester Bushey, Charlie Bushey, Walter Cunningham, Willie Campbell, Frank Schwuchou, Cicero McKinnon, Benny Morris, Willie Van Pelt.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JUNE 17.
Senior Class—T. Giier, T. Murphy, C. Walters, J. Hogan, E. McLaughlin.
Junior Class—E. Graves, F. Devoto, T. Gallagher, J. Caren, G. Kelly, J. Gillen.	'
Sophomore Class—J. Kelly, H. Cassidy, B. Euans, J. Brown, T. Hansard, G. Crummey.	-
Freshman Class—J. Ewing, N. Mooney, E. Ratigan, E. McPharlin, M. Keeler, J. Rudge, D. O’Connell,- J. McHugh, T. McNamara, J- Mathews, R. Maas, J. Ney, J. O'Connell, W. Kyan, J. Soule, G. MeNulty, C. Otto, C. Welty, J. Lyons, W. Ball.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Edward Raymond, John O’Meara, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Michael McAuliffe, Joseph Carrer, Colly Campau. Samuel Goldsberry, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, Otto Lindberg, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Lee Frazee, Robert Haley, Walter Cunningham, Willie Campbell, Cicero McKinnon, Fran Schwuchou, Joseph Beal.
SAZ2TT MAPI’S ACADEMY.
—The Graduating Class has been examined in Geometry, Metaphysics, Geology, and History.
—The Annual Commencement Exercises begin at 11 A M. of the 23d inst. Invitations have been already sent to the parents and guardians of the pupils.
—The Closing of the Musical Examination will take place on the afternoon of the 22nd. The Compositions of the Graduating Class will be read on the same day. The exhibition of the work executed by the pupils of the Art School will take place in St Luke’s Studio.
—As the notice of the reception given the Papal Envoys at the Acari°my was exclusivly devoted to the artistic view of it, we w 11 give the Programme of the Musical and Elocutionary matures of the same. The young ladies tneniioned did credit to themselves, and gave great pleasure to the noble visitors.
—The Examination in Christian Doctrine, in French, and German has been going on during the present week. The Examination in English studies commences this morning, and will continue till the 19th,. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Vagnier and Toohey, C. S. C., and and Professor Ivers, have presided and assisted at severa of the Bureaus.
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
596
THE SCHOLASTIC.
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois.
—The specimen of flexible sandstone presented to the Museum by Mrs. Crane of New York is quite a curiosity. During the past ten days very many visitors have called at St Mary’s, among whom we mention Hon. William EL C. Etosmcr and daughter Florence, of Avon, New York, Mr. Sirs, and Miss Jerome of Niles, Mich., Miss Agnes Manning of San Fransi«co. Principal of one of the Public Schools of that city; Mr. and Mrs. Holliday of San Francisco, who bring their daughter to be educated at St. Mary’s.
ABT NOTES.
—ISEiss E. Lappin, Miss E. Lange, and Miss E. Thompson, have just finished their spheres, in a manner which deserves special notice. Another year will see them speeding on the road to artistic excellence.
—Miss R. Neteler sketched in and shaded a spray of columbines, the other day, very charmingly. The accuracy of the forms, the decision and yet delicacy of the shadows, give happy evidence of the study which Miss Neteler has been giving to casts for several weeks.
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending June 12.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, ‘Amiability, Correct. Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the followingyoung ladies are enrolled:
Out-Door Sports,
—The 3d game for Championship between the Star of the East and Juanita nines was played June 16th; the folowing score shows the result of the game:
JUANITA.
Seibert, c... McKinnon, s. s. Campbell, 2 b.. Crummey, 1. f. Busch, lb.... Otto, r. f... Grace, e. f.. Lyons, 3 b... Graves, p. c...
Total.....
	o.	R.	B. H.
	1	2	3
	6	o	o
	1	3	o
. . . .	4	0	0
	2	2	o
		3	
	4	o	o
*	2	2	1
		2	o
			
	371	wl	5
			
STAR OF THE EAST.
Marks, c. f........ Lonstoff, lb....... Monahan, s. s...... Soule, 3 b......... Devoto, c.......... Dougherty, r. f.... Watson, I. f.;..... Ryan, p. c......... Ratigan, 2 b.......
Total..........
o.	R.	B.H.
4	1	0
0	0	0
2	2	1
3	1	0
3	1	1
3	0	0
4	0	0
1	2	1
2	1	0
27	8	3

Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie. A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A- Smith, L. Dra-goo, A. Clarke, J. Fanning. H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Den-nehey, L Arnold, A. St. Clair, M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennetts J. Nunning, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady. S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Pritchard, R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, R. Klar, A. Byrne, M.Roberts. B. and K. Spencer, M. Bryson, E. Mann, M.Poquette. S. Hole, A. Duncan, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, E. O’Connor, M. and E. Thompson, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes. M. McKay. N. McFarlane, D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle. S. Reising, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, D. Allen, N. King. C. Maigrey, L. Johnson, L. Bosch, G.Hills, S. Swalley, L. Ryan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, E. Lange. M. Schnhheis, A. Cullen, M. and B. Siler, B. Golsen, J. Brown, S. Cash, M. Hooper, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L Hutchinson, C. Yates, L. Walsh, H. Kraus, E. Lappin, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, M. Redfield, M. Derby, K Morris, K. Hudson, and M. Bell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, C. Hughes, I. Mann, C. Trull, E. Smipson, A McGrath, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier and A. Morris.
—Music is.the child of prayer, the companion of religion.
—Patti has made §10,000 worth of furs out of the Emperor of Russia. That comes of singing in “ furriu parts.’’
—When'Henry was a small boy his mother reprimanded . him one day for some misdemeanor. Not knowing it, his father began to talk to him on the same subject. Looking up in his face, Henry said solemnly, “ Mother has tended to me.”
—The people at a railroad depot in Boston were astonished by the sight of a man getting off the cars with his mouth wide open, and kept so distended to its utmost capacity in what looked like a permanent yawn. He had ■while gaping thrown his jaw out of joint, and was on his way to an hospital to get it repaired.
Juanita
Star of the East
Importers and Dealers in
OLD AND NEW BOOKS
Supplied at Very Low Rates by
Call-balls—Juanita, 17; Star of the East, 8. Past-balls—Juanita, 7; Star of the East, 7. Umpire—F. Frazee.
Scorers—H. H. Hunt and T. Hansard. Time of Game—2 hours.
132 South Clai-lc Street, CHICAGO . ^g'For particulars please call, or address us by mail.
INNINGS.
1	2	3	4	5	! 6	7	8	9	
1	1	5	0	0	4	0	1	2	—14
0	0	1	1	1	2	2	1	0	— 8

And Wax Blower Goods Church Decorating and Fresco Painting, 246 State Street, CHICAGO.
ARTIIL'R FITZPATRICK & CO.,
Artists from London (Pupils o! the Great A. W. Pugin),
Church Windows § Decorations
In the highest style oi European Art.
Office and studio 105 Foiirm Avenue, New York; Wks at Stauleton,L..L
Designs on Application.
N. B.—Successful Exhibitors at the Royal Academy and International Exhibitions of London.
—We were unable to procure in time for this issue that-.’ names of all the numerous persons who attended -th^X Annual Commencement Exercises ; however we hope to hyD able in our next issue to give the names of all without? exception.	’	“5



a
a*
P. L. GARRITY, CANDY FACTORY,
No. 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Illinois,