The Scholastic.
JDevoted to the Jntei\ests of the JStudents.
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 20, 1875.	Number 22.
JN0.H1GKRTV, City Judge.
L. G. TONG, Notary Public.
JJAGERTY &}T0NG,
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, -Indiana.
024-1y s
Before going elsewhere, go to
Jjj. *	•’ Dealer in
' HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS,
Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
J) J. HOLLAND, & Co.,? Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS LN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
£) E. CUMMINS,	•’	-
DENTIST,!
JTtf. 96 Michigan, Street, ;	- South Bend, Indiana.
' (Over Wyman’s.)	^o24-3m'G
Do you want a drive ? Go toJJ
J$EN COQUILLARD’S LIVERY STJLBLES Corner*of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THEJ
BOND HOUSE
Niles, -	-	_	-	- Michigan.
A. McKlY, Proprietor.
Feas Htsk to and from all trains, for guests of the hous •	'	noTSS-xtf. ‘
■g NICAR & Co., .	■
’ HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, TNDTANA
HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.*
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., o24-tf
y" NICAR,
DEALER IN HARDWARE,
OX MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. .	o24-tf
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
Orders expeditiously attended to. 4EJ
Office with M. Stover, ICooin 22, over Wills £ Stem* Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-34 tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
South Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Bailway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find daring their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from, the College and St. Mary's can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor,
nov 7-8m
QEORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND OENEBAL DEALEB IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Dp Stairs.)
M. A. Smith.	E. P-Holloway.
SMITH & -HOLLOWAY, '	.
Dealers in
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys and Musical Instruments.
No. Tl, Washington St., J - ■ 'SOnja BEND, IND J
d«e5-K8a
1
308
THE SCHOLASTIC.
jjALMER & VanWINKLE,
Dealers in
. CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
Newspapers, Periodicals, magazines, Etc. _
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
JP^DUBAIL,	..
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St.,	... South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
-QR. C. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
J£DWARDBUYSEE,
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. JJ-tf
A BANAUER, .
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
■	Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
~	BUEKE’S •
EUROPEAN HOTEL.
M. BURKE^ Proprietor.
140 and 149 jVTacllson Street.
(Between Clark and LaSalle,) CHICAGO, -	. . ILL.
 f63m.
J^ E. MAYR,
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges. - -	-	-
.	’	’ <«cl-Jftf.
JRELAND & SON,
’ PBOPBIETOBS OF
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54 MICHIGAN St,	- SOUTH BEND, IND.,
(.Opposite the Dwight House).
---o——
HACK JLEN2E
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!’’
DBOP IN AT	gy
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”	St
and
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
_____________________________________________;
THE OLD “RELIABLE”	H
DWIGHT HOUSE,	■
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.	Ill
TV MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the I®' _1V1_ above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and SB furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public aB may rely on finding the best accommodation.	W
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary's will w find here all the comforts of home during their stay,	S
JERRYKN1GHT,	f
captain MILLS, j-Fropnetow.	f
o24-tf	’	|
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE! ------------0- . s.
M. LIVINGSTON & CO; i I
04. Micliiffaii St; Sontlx Bend, Ind.,	।
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
F® ■
-AND-
FURNISHING- GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything ® you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. ® Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely St ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH 3B LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. 9g Money is scarce but do tiling is Cheap. If you don’t ® believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.	W
Our Merchant Tailoring Department 8 is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths, Cassl- j meres and 'Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. v| We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than | any other house in the business.	o24-tf.	£
__________________________________________________ b
ICECREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS! |
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
00 MAIN STREET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!	’
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, "
ALWAYS ON HAND!	<•
Fbesh Candies’Made Daily.	<
*	W J
The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
TUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 20,1875.	Number 22.
Facts Versus Fancy.
BY J. M. J.
I.
When statesmen, like Gladstone, grow frantic and/ou— When stale politicians begin to look blue ;
When premiers and peddlers and puppets look wise • While telling mankind the most wonderful lies; When Fancy, with scarecrows, is frighting the weak, Common sense and plain facts should rise up and speak. From Judas to Gladstone, Lord Acton & Co., The hypocrite/riend is a treacherous foe, Ye traitors to Heaven ! what swift, blasting fame Shill tell to the Future the tale of your shame ? Then, seen in the light of a happier day, Your hate shall appal and your falsehoods dismay I— Know ye not, base, truculent champions of lies, The warning of ages,—“ Who strikes the Pope, dies!” Read the page of the Past, and tremble, for Rome Is as far above kings as night’s starry dome ;
Pluck the sun from his place in the sky, if you can,— Put the universe under your sapient ban— Command the great globe to pause on its path— And menace the meteors with your highest wrath,— Decide where the flowers of the forest may grow,— Where the tall cliffs may frown and the swift rivers flow,— Say to the tide, with the monarch Canute,
“ Back, slave,—back again ; nor my power dispute J ” Do all this, ye pigmies, and then ye may hope To triumph o’er Christ in His Vicar, the Pope!
n.
The Assyrian and Persian once boasted their power, Mankind was their slave—the whole earth their dower; A few scattered tribes among Palestine’s hills Bow not to the tyrant nor think as he wills.
The empires—lost! lost, when the demon inspires !— Went forth and extinguished the sacred fires, Smote the faithful by river, and forest and flood, And camped where the Holy of Holies once stood,— Stamped their heel on the blessed, sanctified sod, And laughed at the vengeance of Israel’s God-But vain were their efforts; their madness and pride Were vanquished at last by the power they defied, And of all these vast empires behold I what remains !— A few crumbling pillars upon the lone plains, While Truth grew in glory and strength till the Earth Saw her perfectest form at Our Blest Saviour’s birth. Then uprose two giants against the God-Word, Greece, empire of Thought; and Rome, Power of the Sword ; The Gladstones of Athens with poison-tipped pen Betrayed holy Truth for the plaudits of men, And fanned the red flame of the terrible doom Which the Bismarcks were framing in haughty Rome. They flourished the keenest of wit and satire,— They covered the faithful with calumny’s mire— They scornfully laughed at the Name of the Just,
While casting libations to Murder and Lust; Secure in their palaces, statesmen blasphemed, Nor heeded the lurid North lights when they gleamed, But the Lord in His majesty passed on the breeze. And spoke to the tribes by the Northern seas, And they moved in their myriads, host, after host, From the midst of the gloom of their ice-bound coast, And they stood by the Tiber like spectres of Fate In the midst of an empire that once was great.
And they roared their wild war-songs by Danube and Seine, Drank mead from the whitening skulls of the slain,— While the Lord, from high Heaven, looked down on the tide* And laughed at the empires cast down in their pride.
Ye nations, beware I for, from that same North, The doom of your empire may one day come forth!
nr.
The Lord spoke to Chaos, and Order sprang forth, So, He spoke, through his Church, to the tribes of the North, And the barbarous myriads fell on their knees,— Forever renounced the dark gods of the seas.
And the hearts that once shook before Thor and false Wode Now melted to tears at the foot of the Rood.
From ruin new civilization arose, And order was born in the Empire’s death throes, Vast cities stood splendid by river and plain And the red battle-fields grew yellow with grain, And the woods and the forests re-echoed no more, With the shout of the warriors crimson with gore, For the hills and the valleys grew peaceful and calm, Or awoke to the chant of the holy monks’ psalm, And the hands once ensanguined with pitiless deeds Now clasp Holy Cross and sweet Mary’s good beads. Then man, in his gratitude, blest the great Pope, And the nations looked to him as Order’s sole hope. But ever the demon has aped Heaven’s plan, And he strives to empoison God’s blessings to man; Behold I o’er the desert he casts his dark spell, And calls forth Mahomet’s wild legions of hell;
Like locusts of Egypt they pour on the West, With dread words of blasphemy writ on the breast;
Then civilization with awe stood aghast. And shook like a reed ’neath the sirocco’s blast ' -The Eden of Europe which Christian lore made, Heard the lithe Arab’s cry,—saw the flash of his blade, And still as men looked with mixed trembling and ire The turbans poured up from their deserts of fire, Cloud after cloud, with strange banners on high. They came, while their crescent shone bright in the sky, Came madly until their far-stretching, swarth ranks Pitched their tents on the turbulent Danube’s green banks, Then uprose a shout from the pale, leagured West— From Warsaw the brave, to the Isle of the Blest, And heralds went forth through the kingdoms and states, To tell how the Moslem was at Europe’s gates;
Far blazed the bright beacons from tower and dome Set on fire by the magical mandate of Rome.
From temple and palace, from workshop and field,
806
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Rushed forth Christian heroes with good sword and shield. And the plains and the Tallies grew loud with the cry:
“ God wills it! God wills it!—let us conquer or die ! ” And the foemen that came in their might to enslave, Saw the crescent set bloody upon their cold grave. Lo 1 the remnants of Araby’s tribes fill the air With the dirge of false Islam,—a wail of despair;
- And the face of the desert grows heavy with gloom,— She weeps for her swarthy sons’ terrible doom ;
And the bones of-Mahomet seem to stir in the grave, ' When Islam’s sad matrons mourn loud for the brave,— .And the sound of their weeping arises on high,
Where the lofty palm-trees touch the clear, azure sky, And the tribes o’er their misery silently brood, ’Mid the ruins where Memnon’s dread oracle stood.
Where are ye to-day, ye legions of hate—
Whose powers once shook every brave, Christian State ’— Ye stand, like a pauper, at Europe’s strong gate, For the bulwarks of Rome were your doom and your fate.
[to be continued.]
Submarine Structures and Builders.
There are in the vast depths of the sea, where the eye of man rarely penetrates, gorgeous tree-like structures and gardens, decked with shrubbery of the richest hues, crowned with the most brilliant blossoms, and rivalling in beauty and symmetry our stately terrestrial trees. So striking, indeed, is the resemblance between these two botanical domains, that for the long period of 2,000 years the opinion of Theophrastus, an old Greek botanist, that their productions were due to one and the same cause—vegetal forces— was accepted by the scientific world. As science progressed however, the theory was investigated, and in 1751 Peysson-nel presented a paper to the Royal Society maintaining that these ocean-forests were the productions of little animals. The question now became one of general interest to the world of botanists: Reaumur considered the matter too absurd to be discussed; Linnaeus admitted the animal, but would not deny the vegetable, and named the wonderful little toilers of the sea animal-plants. But the true position of the coral-polype has long since been assigned to it in the animal-kingdom. The little animal is of a sac-shape, hav-2ng a series of arms or tentacles surrounding a circular aperture or mouth, and they seize and draw in food upon which the animal lives and grows. However insignificant these animals appear, the part they play in Nature is as astonishing as it is grand! They do not content themselves in the construction of giant trees, as stated above, but their aim, it appears, is to vie with Terra, and outshine in beauty, strength and vastness her caverns, grottoes and massive mountains. Slow in their constructions, yet inconceivable in numbers, ever busy like the little ant, their power has been felt like the terrible earthquake; and the upliftings and depressions of the earth’s crust are due in no small measure to jelly-form polypes. The multitudes of islands that extend thousands of feet above and below the surface of the sea, and our extensive beds of lime-stone, were formed by the secretions of these very animals.
The true polypes are divided into two classes: those which secrete coral, and those which do not. The latter have soft, leather-like bodies, and are attached to different substances upon the bottom of the sea, by a sucker-like dish, the contraction and expansion of which gives them the power of locomotion. The former is fixed to the stone Which they form. In the polype, the stomach or digestive
sac, with its appendages, constitute the .whole animal. The tentacles surrounding the mouth, by their motion, bring currents of water to the animal, in which are solid particles to be appropriated to the formation of the calcareous skeleton.
The animal protects itself by stinging barbs, which cover its tentacles, mouth and stomach; these are said to produce j a painful sensation, even upon the human hand when brought in contact with them. The polype constructs its skeleton somewhat similar to the manner in which an oys-ter constructs its shell: the secretionsail take place around and underneath the animal, never in the interior.' What first suggested the idea of corals being of a vegetable nature^ g especially the reef-building species, was that the young ® polypes were produced by buds from the parent. The bud, R with its small aperture or mouth, appears on the side of Sg the parent; continually increasing in size, it soon equals the parent. Thus an indefinite number of buds are found, and form a group all connected together by a tissue, through which fluids readily pass. The great work of coral-building, is carried on principally by the star polypes, so called from their star-like cells; the brain coral, named from its resem- K blance to the convolutions of the human brain, and a few B others. They are almost all flexible, and are continually ■ ' changed in position by the moving waters. All the corals ■ are covered with cells, and each cell is the habitation of a I single individual; these cells in different species are im- ’ mense. Agassiz has estimated 14,000,000 individuals in a mass, not more than twelve feet in diameter. Upon examination it is found that the large masses of coral are dead throughout, save a small crust upon the upper surface, not exceeding a half an inch in thickness; in this respect, they resemble our large trees, which grow by layers of wood at the outer margin, the inner portion of the tree d being already dead. The coral is also perforated with small holes, which being filled with carbonate of lime, and W other substances and aided by chemical changes, the mass becomes solid coral-rock, and ultimately common limestone.
We now come to an interesting feature of corals—their growth. The rate at which corals grow is not at present fixed upon, for the want of sufficient observation. It is as- B certained, however, that separate masses will grow more S rapidly than when in reefs; the latter having been ob- S served by Prof. Agassiz at Key West, indicates a growth S of aboutsix inches in 100 years; and he also states: “ If we B allow twice that rate of growth, not less than 7,000 years ■ would be required for the formation of the great reef at | that place, and hundreds of thousands of years fir the f coral growths which form the peninsula of Florida.” From the above statement, and similar ones, we are to con
clude that more than 1,000, 000 years have elapsed since the foundations were laid of some of the great Pacific reefs. The depth at which these submarine builders are found is also an interesting fact; it was long supposed that the different species had their respective latitudes, each forming | its particular layer of coral, above or below which it did not proceed; but it is now well known that below a depth ‘ of 120 feet no important reefs are formed. To account, therefore, for the enormous depth of coral-reefs in many K of the islands of the Pacific, some of which are 2,000 feet | | in thickness, we must admit the fact that a general subsi- S I dence of the land and ocean-bed has taken place. The W | great coral-reefs are found only in the zone of the greatest® j heat; surrounding most of the tropical islands there ar eW two reefs, one near the shore called the fringing-reef, a®--.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
309
Il
second about 15 miles distant called the barrier-reef, while the intervening space is filled with smaller reefs. West of the two larger Feejee Islands are 3,000 square miles of reefground, and along the western shore of New Caledonia there is a reef S50 miles long. Outside the bordering reefs of many islands, patches of coral, varying in size are very often visible; the corals on arriving at the surface, cease their growth upward, and form lateral projections; in this way the trunks of adjacent trees are joined together forming a floor, as it were, supported by massive pillars, constituting one of the grandest spectacles of the deep. We have already seen that coral-reefs can attain no greater thickness than 120 feet, unless there is a subsidence of the land on which they are based; when such a subsidence takes place, the area of the island diminishes the sea, with Its accompanying corals, closes in attaining a basin-like shape, and forming a lagoon, as soon as the bottom of the island disappears. The encircling reefs with the lagoon are called an atoH or coral-island, which is beautifully described in the words of Dana: “When first seen from the deck of a vessel, only a series of dark points is'descried above the horizon. Shortly after the points enlarge into the plumed-tops of the cocoa-nut trees, and a line of green interrupted at intervals, is traced along the water’s surface. Approaching still nearer, the lake and its belt of verdure are spre&d out before the eye, and a scene of more interest can scarcely be imagined. The surf beating loud and heavy along the margin of the reef, presents a strange contrast to the prospect beyond. There lie the white coralbeach, the mossy foliage of the grove, and its embosomed i lake with its tiny islets.”	i
Before we drop this subject we must consider the coral i island in its relation to life. On many of the islands there are about a dozen species of plants, some kinds of fishes and a few migratory birds. On some of the islands, however, tropical birds and a few rats and mice are found. The coral-m ide land owes what it has to the winds and waves, which have transported thither many organic germs. Man is here found savage, swarthy, indolent, filthy and barbarous. In a word, a coral island in its most flourishing condition is but a miserable abode for human development, physical, mental, and moral.	T. J. M.
Peculiar People.
There are strange people in this strange world of ours. Did you, gentle reader, ever reflect upon this truism? There are men whom you meet in business circles, on the railroad trains, the street cars, on the avenues, in the ballroom, in the crowded assemblages of students,—everyone with whom you associate, transact business, and pass by; and so far from understanding them, you find ycurself utterly bewildered in trying to assign plausible motives for their strange behavior. The men who pretend to make a study of human nature have a few terse rules which, sensibly or otherwise, they regard as a fixed ratio, and with which they attempt to reduce every phase of human conduct, and to which, in their nearsighted obstinacy, they require every action to conform. They square the circle of cause and effect, and reduce absurdities to rational consequences as deftly as the schoolboy, with the aid of a ruler, draws a straight Une. To me, such men are empirics and as fit subjects for speculation and study, as the great mass of humanity which they affect to understand and in
terpret ; for I know that thefe are multitudes of men whom they do not, cannot, understand, and multitudes of actions whose real motive is as far removed from the cause which they assign as is the atom from the boundless infinite. I am well aware there are men of limited capacity, whose minds are narrowed down to a few controlling ideas, be? yond whose sensible attraction they never attempt to pass, and these men will, in the course of a few casual conversations, furnish you with sufficient data to construct for yourself the whole orbit of their thoughts. They are good-natured, cheerful men, as a rule, and perhaps proficient and even talented in their own particular vocation, but through lack of habits of intellectual training, they have become poor conversationalists, and an accomplished critic will worm from them the extent of their mental calibre ere they are aware of his design. In such cases th® judge of human nature has no onerous task, but when he meets with men who will tell him the very opposite of what they believe in order to laugh at his credulity; when he meets with men who insist that the sequence is the cause, and, after relating the circumstance with all its variations, for the tenth or twentieth time and, becoming convinced of their error suddenly turn round and take the opposite side, insisting that they were advocating it all the time, he is morally certain, in his own mind, to agree with, me that he knows nothing of human nature. And again when he sees men dressed in the garb of clowns whose wisdom, he feels certain, would adorn the hails of legislation I and men in the costume of princes who would not make respectable clowns, he must become convinced that one little mind cannot trace the devious path of even an ordinary career, nor fathom the subtleties of a trivial action.
We meet men every day who are constantly doing the most unaccountable things, and perhaps, doing them as quietly as if they were quite commonplace. They will purposely tread on your toes for the sake of making an apology, and while you are suffering the torture, they will smile in your face and excuse themselves as blandly and as politely as if it were the most unpremeditated accident imaginable. They will lead you down a long lane of dubious conversation, and at last strangle you with a pun which they had reserved from the first to accomplish that very purpose. They will sacrifice the most interesting conversation for the sake of a witticism. They are as alert as a spider, and spread their webs for some human fly, with far more tact than judgment, and having secured a victim, they will impale him on the point of a merciless joke without the most distant regard to his delicate sensibility. With such men, conversation is a desperate measure which nothing but dire necessity can justify. An hour’s conver. sation with such a man, is more exhausting than a week’s sickness; and, as a witty author remarks, weakens one more than ten day’s fasting would do. There are others, who are constantly striving to say sharp things, but they never succeed. Their jokes are always old, or else they ruin the point by omitting the climax. To this class belongs the consummate bore, who is always annoying you with stale conundrums and anecdotes at the moment when you have some duty to perform which requires all your attention, and cannot be delayed. This is more insufferable than the former,—a man may forgive being slaughtered by the point of a fine pun, but he can never reconcile his conscience to suffer -being hacked to death by rusty old saws. There is still another class, with whom you may not
$10
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Converse without suffering for your timerity,—I mean those restless flighty men who are as much an exception io every known rule as is a Chinaman.' They will rattle you over the cobble-stone pavement of great questions like a four-horse omnibus running away, and keep up such a continued din, that you hate opportunity neither to think nor reply. The figures in the kaleidoscope are not more susceptible of change than are their thoughts. They are constantly saying the most brilliant things, but they are Utterly incapable of utilization, for, though brilliant figures in themselves they are seldom the garb of any particular idea. The gorgeous scenery of the spectacular drama is resorted to in order to disguise the real insignificance of the play itself. They will discharge whole broadsides of birdshot at you from every conceivable direction, leaving you no possibility of escape; and defeating you in the most inglorious manner. After an hour’s unnatural torture with such a flighty companion, a talk with a dull, good-natured fellow i< a positive relief. There are numberless other phases of human nature, which we can never understand, try as we may—individual motives and idiosyn-cracies which nS species of generalization can ever reduce to a system. We must meet strange people every day, and we cannot escape them; so the only question that remains for us to answer is, shall we laugh to scorn their weaknesses and follies, and thus keep our minds in a constant state of turmoil and excitement over matters which We can in no way improve; or call"to our aid the boundlesss, beautiful spirit of Christian charity, which easts its kindly mantle alike over the peculiarities, foibles and weaknesses of all mankind ?	Tr A. D.
Essays on Divers Matters,
*	— V
St J. M. J. G;
■ • .
No. V.—Elocution.-
I will give you a hint which is worth its weight in gold. Never speak in order togain popularity or applause. Anyone who fishes for a clapping of hands or a grin, is a mountebank of the first water. Those nomadic blockheads, male and—I am sorry to say—female, too, who are making country-towns and villages hideous with their howls and caterwauliitgs^peak for money; therefore, applause means to them a good prospect for greenbacks. But a man who feels the noble’ soul of oratory breathing sweet harmonies within that hidden world—that veiled sanctuary of genius—which is his being and hrs life, despises with unspeakable contempt those base pretenders whose aims are low, and sordid, and mean. Not for them the heavenly fire that glowed upon the Prophet’s lips. Not for them those mysterious outbursts of melody borne upon winds which cany upon their bosoms the songs of angels. Not for them that majesty of Truth, before which the highest as well as the weakest intelligence is compelled to bow with childlike reverence. They know not Truth: they have never caught a glimpse of her glorious form; they have never understood her voice; they have never stood before her pure shrine. Their inspiration is the meanest egotism ; their object and aim, Self. They shape their utterances according to public opinion, and seek less to vindicate the right than to elicit -popular applause. They may storm and rage in an ecstasy of pretentious bathos, but it is a commotion in the Sahara desert, an impotent, barren
fury. Weakness is theirs, because their purpose is neither : high nor holy. The silly outpourings of imbecile platitudes which spring from mediocrity seeking its own ends neither elevate the human understanding nor enlarge the J best sympathies of the soul. Look at Fourth of July	I
Orations,—with a capital O. Why is it that, with few	>;
exceptions, they are the laughing-stock of the world? Simply,- for the reason that the sonorous geniuses who in- ! dulge in that kind of expansive oratory are political’ trick- - , sters whose highest idea of liberty is the liberty to intrigue , for sinecures, and pocket the people’s money. Take away . from their rhetorical repertoire that Eagle, the Rocky ’ I Mountains, Our vast Prairies, Washington, Valley Forge and the “Constitootion” and what remains? Vox et ip'I .. .,	is? I,
preterea nihil.	|
But should a speaker despise popular applause ? By no y. means. He should be glad that his oratory elicits a favorable judgment from the public, not on account of the personal interest such plaudits may subserve, bat because his;jH influence for good becomes strengthened thereby. More-‘J| over, applause when merited is always in good taste, as a in sensible expression of adhesion to the views propounded by n the speaker. Like a word of praise spoken judiciously and S honestly, it encourages a mau, and spurs him on to those 8 fine efforts in which the whole powers of his mind are set ■ in motion. It goes farther,—it manifists, in a forcible 1 manner, the fact that the popular mind has been moved, ’ and emotion is closely allied to conviction.
Yet, keep this in mind, the best speakers are not those who receive most applause. We must carefully distinguish between the praise of good, honest men, and the shouts of the mob. In this century, demagogue ideas are paramount, hence the demagogue ranter alone is popular. Go . before nine-tenths of American or European audiences, < roar about the rights of man and that anarchy which the ( times call liberty; insist upon independence of all laws, human and divine; sneer at authority, insult religion,^ laugh at virtue, contend for the perfect equality of all men in all circumstances, applaud dishonesty, inculcate some beastly ’ism, defy God and His Providence, lie, calumniate j|| and misrepresent, and you will be applauded to the echo.m Such applause is alike disgraceful to the speaker and theW audience.	9
Eu&miBg-Bud?.	9
Amongst the many beautiful little creatures of the I feathery tribe existing in our forests, there is none perhaps 1
; more interesting to the admirer of nature than the Humming-Bird. This interesting specimen of Natural History is found chiefly in the West Indies and the warmer climates of America. They live upon honey and insects; ' hence they dwell in the beautiful gardens of nature where flowers abound. Both from Indian and Naturalist, they , have received names portraj ingthe admiral ion with which J they strike the beholder; such as Sunbeams, Murmuring-Birds, Flower-kissers, Sun-seekers, and many other such i] fanciful appellations, though their common name is.derived from the buzzing sound of their wings in flight. These |l little natives of the forest are remarkable for their strength |l of wing, which is greater, in proportion to their size, than || any other bird. So quickly do they flash through the air| 11 that their course can hardly be traced by the eye, and foy ? ' hours they can be. seen hovering, without the least sign m . weariness, over some delicate blossom, whose delicious
M I • |
THE SCHOLASTIC.	Ml
honey they feed upon. They are very careful about their nests, and will defend them against all intruders, with a valor truly wonderful. They have even been seen to attack and drive away the king of birds, the eagle, when encroaching upon their territory. Considering their diminutiveness, they are remarkable little heroes, and set an example in defending their rights which might be worthily imitated by more intelligent beings.
All the known species of these birds are Very small. One of the minutest specimens is the vervain hummingbird of Jamaica, whose total length is less than three inches. The largest bird of the class is known as the gigantic humming-bird of Chili, being nearly eight inches in length. The family of humming-birds is very large; consisting, perhaps, of between four and five hundred different species. Their bills seem to be particularly adapted for the kind of flower from which they secure their food; all being very slender and sharp. Their tongue seems to be differently constructed from that of any other known vertebrate animal. It consists of two very small tubes, lined by partial tubes resembling in substance horn or thick parchment. These tubes are joined together for some distance, when they separate, and gradually narrow down to a point. It is supposed they extract the honey from their flowery cells by a sucking or pumping action, using their tongues, as it were, for sucking-pumps. Perhaps the most charming feature about these little fairies of the forest is the dizzling and ever-varying hue of their plumage. Even the dullest observer could not help but be struck with admiration at the many and beautiful colors which flash from their wings as they flit to and fro in their leafy homes. As we watch them darting from bough to bough, or soaring aloft in the sun’s brilliant light* they resemble so many winged gems; for the sun, flashing Open them in their rapid flight, reflects back all the various and enchanting colors of the most brilliant gems; now showing a delightful emerald; then changing into a brilliant ruby; again a sparkling topaz; in fact portraying in such rapid succession all the beautiful aud varied tints of the rainbow, that the eye is dazzled and delighted at the multi, plicity of changes which take place in the plumage of these little fairies. Amongst the birds where a metallic lustre is prevalent, the feathers appear as if formed of scales. The birds have these feathers on different parts of the body. The greater number have them on the throat; some on the head and breast; others on the tail; while a few have them on all parts except the long feathers of the wing, which are mostly of a purplish brown.
The nests of these enchanting little creatures are a study in themselves, and are constructed in the most cunning and expeditious manner. As material, they generally use the fibres of the silk-cotton tree, or other vegetable mat. ter, which they weave into a texture resembling felt. They cover the outside with moss, spider-web and lichen, using their saliva to fasten the parts together. Their nests are mostly cup-shaped, and are built in the most imaginative and romantic spots. Some can be found located amidst the branches of a shrub overhanging the murmuring waters of some rippling stream; others maybe found in the towering palm-tree, snugly ensconced beneath the shade of one of its broad leaves; still others may be seen waving in the gentle breeze from some minute twig, and many choose the bold and lofty precipice, against which they build their aerial home. ' They lay two eggs, oval-shaped and white, but so transparent that they appear tinged with the color
of the yelk. The ruby and topaz humming-bird is so called from the color of the head and neck—the head being of a brilliant ruby tint, and the neck of a gleaming topaz. The head of the male bird is adorned with a beautiful crest) which can be elevated or lowered at pleasure. This species of the humming-bird inhabits the West Indies, and different parts of South America. On account of its beauty it is in great demand by dealers, and large numbers of them ate killed yearly. They are used as cabinet curiosities, and from their feathers are made flowers, pictures, and many other beautiful and interesting ornaments. They are sometimes shot, but this generally injures them so much that it is better to capture them by means of the shooting tube, which merely stuns them, without injuring in any way their beauty. Their nests, composed chiefly of cotton or fine grass, can be found hidden beneath a leaf, or gently swaying from some twig, and sometimes secreted amid the foliage of a small bush.
The bar-tailed humming-bird is distinguished by the finely developed, splendidly-colored tail of the male bird. The feathers are quite broad; the outer ones being five or six inches in length, and the others becoming rapidly shorter as they approach the inner ones. As the light falls upon them, they vary in color, sometimes appearing as a bright orange, and again seeming to be tinged more strongly with red or yellow. The feathers are tipped with a black bar, and when the tail is closed it appears as if striped with five black bars. This species is found in Bolivia, but migrates during the winter season to Eastern Peru. They seem to be rather friendly, and not the least intimidated by the presence of man; for they not only feed upon the wild flowers found in their forest haunts, but even venture to sip the nectar from the blooming orchards and the shrubbery of the cultivated cottage gardens.
There, is another very beautiful species of the humming, bird, which perhaps excites a greater interest in us, as it may be found adorning with its beautiful plumage our own woods and forests. The ruby-throat, so called from the brilliant, ruby-colored feathers encircling the neck, migrates into Louisiana and Florida in the early part of March. As the weather becomes warm, they gradually wend their way towards the north, and can be admired in Pennsylvania during the latter part of April, and in New York and Canada in May. Audubon, in speaking of this beautiful bird, says: “The nest of this humming-bird is of the most delicate nature, the external parts being formed of a light gray lichen, found on the branches of trees or on decayed fence-rails, and so neatly arranged round the whole nest, as well as to some distance from the spot where it is attached, as to seem part of the branch or stem itself. This species seems to be quite domestic in its nature, and there are several instances on record where they have been easily tamed; although when first caught they readily die or feign death. They prefer to feed upon such flowers as the honeysuckle, thorn-apple, etc., though their special delight is a fine gooseberry-patch in full bloom. Thus we see these little fairies of the forest are one of the most interesting and delightful studies in Natural History, and it would well repay anyone having the occasion and time to seek them in their forest haunts, in order to study and learn their nature and habits; for there only in their leafy homes can a true idea be obtained of their beauty, their elegance of form, their swiftness of flight and that brilliancy of plumage which has caused them to be likened to ‘ breathing gems.’ ”	Camuk.
812
THE SCHOLASTIC.]
Th® Schulastii), Published every Week during Term Time at NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Ifotre Dame, Indiana.
’	TSRM8:
On* year.....................................$1 00
Single copies (dets.) can be obtained at the Students' Office.
The Scholastic fen? the 2nd Session. •
• The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents., Address: Editor of ths Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O,, Ind.
—We have received from the publisher a copy of the Illustrated Annual of Phrenology and Physiognomy. Now, though we never have been believers in phrenology, it is not on that score that we wish to find fault with this Annual. The Editor has chosen to give a picture of a man and child that must be shocking to any community which honors men for preserving sacredly what they have taken an oath to keep. The picture represents Sir. Loyson, better known as Pdre Hyacinthe, and his child. Loyson is a man who, by receiving Orders, bound himself never to many. More, in addition to the obligation he then took upon himself, he made a solemn oath, when he made his religious profession, never to marry. He violated this oath made to God, and took to himself a Mi 3. Merriman as wife-Having.taken the oath never to marry, this pretended marriage with Mrs. Merriman can never be recognized by the Church of God as marriage, and though Loyson is a father, he is not a husband, and this Annual exhibits a man whose soul is either perjured to God or to the woman with whom he lives, as worthy of our admiration. The additional statement made that Loyson resembles the preacher of Plymouth Church ought not at this day be anything to his recommendation.
In connection with the picture, the Editor of the paper asks; “ Why may not priests, who are well-formed, well-educated, high-minded and noble men, marry, as those who are less gifted and less developed do?” A sufficient answer to this question nfght be because the discipline of the Church has always been precisely what it is now, that no priest shall allow himself to be encumbered with a wife. A priest is one who gives himself up to the work of God, and, being solicitious for the things of the Lord, studies how to please the Lord; and knowing well that he that is with a wife is divided between the world and God, does not marry. It is unnecessary to quote the Scriptures to show that celibacy especially of the clergy is right and proper; they are known to all. From the time of the Apostles, the Church has made it a rule that her clergy should be unmarried. The Fathers of the Church are unanimous on this point. Origen, who lived in the third century, says: “ Wherefore it appears to me that it belongs to him alone to offer the unceasing Sacrifice, who has devoted himself to an unceasing and perpetual chastity.” St. Cyril of Jerusalem, who lived in the fourth century, says-tbe same thing, only couching his statement in different words. Eusebius also says this; and it is worthy of remark that in his Ecclesiastical History. Eusebius attempts to prove that the Therapeut®,
described by Philo, were Christian, using as one of his arguments the fact many amongst them, both male .and female, practiced virginity, spontaneously, to the end of their lives. St. Epiphanius, St. Ambrose, St. Ciricius, the Council of Neocasarea, the Fifth Council of Carthage and the Council of Orange, show us also that the discipline of the Church was in the fourth century precisely the same as it now is. And from the fifth century down, the Church has never, in any age, relaxed from her severity in this point of discipline. It is, then because the Church has during all ages, from the time of the Apostles to our own, insisted on the celibacy of the clergy, that priests do not marry.
The Editor of the Annual before ns asks t “ Can man get behind, around or above the requirements which the Almighty has put upon his organization and nature?” Can mankind lead lives of celibacy? The words of the Holy Fathers of the Church would lead ns to believe that they can; the rule of an Infallible Church tells us they can; the lives of saintly priests, in all ages, show us they can; the Sacred Scriptures themselves show us they can. It is not necessary for mankind to marry in order that they live chastely, and the whole article in the Annual is nothing more than an insult to the many worthy Catholic priests throughout our land. These men would truly feel them* selves insulted when they have the example of Loyson held up as worthy of imitation. It has falsely been charged that Catholics believe that they are not bound tv keep faith with heretics; the Annual would have them not keep faith with their God.
-—It seems as though a calumny once started can never be completely killed off; every once in a while it is sure to appear again. It makes no difference bow many times it may be shown to be untrue, it is simply shown to be so for the time. Another year or in another place the calumny is repeated and gains credence. Then there are calnminies that have such a hold on the minds of the people, that it is impossible for all the argument in the world to make the people cease repeating it. 8nch a calumny is that concerning the persecution of Galileo. People have read in their schoolbooks, and in after-life in what are called histories, how be was persecuted by the Inquisition because he felt a conviction of the truth of the Copernican system and openly taught it, and how he was thrown into prison, and forced to abjure it. And then it is complained that the Church has opposed herself to the progress of science, and the case of Galileo is made to confirm the assertion. It has been proved time and again that the case of Galileo has been distorted, and that, in the garb in which it appears it is untrue. But what of that ? It is asserted every day in the year, by men who ought to know better, and it is believed bybundreds who do not question the case-They have been taught so in their school days; they have beard it asserted by lecturers, and read it in “ history,” and so they believe it.
Galileo was arraigned before the Inquisition; that is true. But he was not brought before it as an astronomer. He was a bad theologian, though a good astronomer, and it was for his bad theology the Inquisition condemned him. His endeavor to prove the truth of the Copernican system form the Bible, was the cause of his summons to Home to appear before the Inquisitors, and all his troubles arose from his own restlessness of mind.	- -
He was received in Borne by Cardinals and other distinguished men with great favor hut was in the name of the -
THE SCH
OLASTIC.	31S
Pope, forbidden merely to blend his astronomical theories •with the Bible. The Pope himself gave him a favorable audience. Tjiis was about the year 1611. He did not for low the caution of the Pope, though he was urged to do so by many learned prelates. Some years afterwards he attempted to raise the system of the rotation of the earth to the diginity of a dogmatical tenet. He was then summoned to Home, to answer not as to the truth of the Copernican tenetj but to answer as to the association of the Bible with this system. He was not cast into a miserable dungeon, but lodgings were assigned to him in the Palace of Tuscany and the apartments of the Attorney General, where every facility was given him for exercise, etc. He was not, as we said before, tried as to scientific studies and systems; it was for his theology he was condemned. Hav ing made a recantation of his theological errors, he obtained leave to return to his native country, to which he retired loaded with favors. Such is the true statement of the great case of Galileo, of which so much is made.
Dants aad. Fops Celestine V.
Already, through the labors and researches of Signor Dominico Venturini, many passages of the Divina Commedia have been rectified by arguments drawn from philological and historical, no less than from scientific and philological, considerations. It would be too long to give even a resume of these, and therefore I will merely indicate some of the principal reasons adduced by him in the interpretation of those celebrated verses of the third Canto of the Inferno:
“ When some of these I recognized, I saw
And knew the shade of him, who to base fear
. Yielding, abjured his high estate.” *
Venturini, in place of the common reading, guardai e vidi “ looked and saw,” adopts another, vidi e conobli, “saw and recognized,” sustained by many of the most respectable codices and demanded by strict philological exactness.
In his first paper, read before “ Gli Arcadi," Venturini proves that the common interpretation, according to which Pope Celestine V is made to be “ the one who to base fear yielding, abjured his high estate,” is erroneous. His principal arguments excluding this supposition are three in number. The first is historical. Dante never saw Celestine on earth, and consequently could not recognize him in hell. The second is philological. Celestine did not refuse the Papacy, which was offered to him, but renounced it after having accepted it, and held it for five months and some days. To refuse is one thing, to renounce another. One renounces what he possesses, and refuses what is offered to him. The third argument is drawn from the very conception of the Divina Commedia. Celestine in retiring from the active and embracing the contemplative life, did precisely what Dante teaches jn his poem. According to Dante, if there is happiness in the active life, it is found in a much higher degree in the contemplative life, and he could not, then, consistently have condemned the Pope for embracing what he—Dante—considered to be the better part.
In his second paper, Venturini shows who he was who, “ to base fear yielding, abjured his high estate.” After a very accurate and erudite examination into the history of the times, he shows conclusively that it must have been one of the house of Vieri de’ Cerchi, known to Dante, chief of the Bianca party, and the inveterate enemy of Corso Donati,
Vidi e conobliTombra di colui, Chifeceper vittate il gran rifiutb.
head of the faction of the Neri. To some on e of the Cerchi all of whom were most wealthy, loved by the people, and supported by the most powerful families, was offered the seign-ioiy of Florence, but, notwithstanding the repeatedly expressed wishes of his adherents, he constantly refused, per iilta, “ through base fear,” says Dante, piu volte, “ several times,” writes the historian Dino Compagni, who states that he was on one occasion present when this offer was made, and that he himself urged him to accept, at least for his country’s sake, the proffered seigniory.
Venturini, moreover, on the testimony of Compagni and Giovanni Villani, proves that one of the house of Vieri de* Cerchi had died about a year before Dante commenced his Comedy, and that two others of the same house had been poisoned, as it was supposed by Corso Donati, and, consequently, that Dante having known on earth one of the Cerchi who had “ abjured his high estate,” could have recognized him in hell.
But could the non-acceptance of the offered seigniory be called gran rifiuto ? About this there can be no doubt, if we consider the numberless evils which afterwards in consequence hefel Florence. Here it was that Corso Donati, treacherously aided by the arms of Charles of Valois, overcame the Guelphs of the Bianca party, and where subsequently the sentence of banishment, and later on, that of being burnt alive, was passed on Dante himself. Great, then, was the refusal and weakness of mind of the Vieri de’ Cerchi, who although counselled and urged to accept the seigniory of Florence, pusillanimously declined.
In fine, Venturini has considered the question under every aspect, and answered all objections, not indeed by ingenious cavils, but by the most explicit declarations of history, which repeatedly asserts that only “ base fear ” was the cause of the “great refusal.” This outline, although necessarily very brief, I deem sufficient to give you an idea of the diligence of research and correctness of reasoning displayed by Venturini in the elucidation of the most obscure and controverted passages of the Divim. Commedia, for which he deserves the gratitude not only of the readers of Dante but of all f. iends of literature. F. P. B.
Have We Deponents in English?
In the English language, logic usurps the functions of grammar. Our nouns have no inflections, properly so called; the possessive a, with its attendant apostrophe,—that baffler of orthographists,—being probably nothing more than an abbreviation. Our genders are philosophical, except when we poetize or romance. The pronouns, it is true, have cases, but their possessive is only to be distinguished from an adjective pronoun by a system of hair-splitting; and what is called the objective case does duty for both accusative and dative; thus, the ambiguity of the order to “Knock me at this door ” is turned to the confusion of its author with terrible emphasis by the muscular and roguish servant. Our verbs can scarcely be said to have inflection or conjugation either, in the strict sense of the term. Five or six simple forms, combined with auxiliaries, are made'to represent all the voices, moods and tenses in which other languages are so rich. Probably, however, we can develop as delicate shades of meaning in our combinations of three, four or five words as the Greeks do with their appended polysyllabic terminations. Some of our verbs show sign of a middle voice, or at least of a deponent use of the passive voice, thus:
Sbu
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Active : I mistook you for your brother.
Deponent : I took you for your brother—I was mistaken.
Passive : Ton were mistaken for your brother.
The form Iwas mistaken, in the second sentence, having the same meaning as I mistook in the first; the only deference being that the deponent is not susceptible of the same complement—the phrase with “ for”—as the active. The verb “to rot” affords another example. Both its active and passive forms may be used in an intransitive sense. . Active Transitive : Moisture rots wood.
Intransitive: Wood rots, when exposed to moisture.
Intransitive, Passive in form : That piece of wood is rotten.
The difference between tbe active and passive forms when the verb is used intransitively, seems, in this example, to be that the active expresses general priucip.es, and the passive, particular instances of their application. Probably, the last is uot really a passive form, but simply tbe adjective “rotten” predicated of the subject. At any rate, we cannot form all the perfect tenses of either voice iu the usual way by adding “rotten” to the auxiliary “have.” We never say: “It has rotten’’but we form the tenses by a medley of active and passive forms.	8.
Personal. -
[We will give each week a great number of Personals, for the purpose of letting the old students know the whereabouts of their former comrades.]
—Prof. Broder is prospering at Beloit, Wis. •
—Arthur Riopelle, of’72, is in Detroit, Mich.
—Bro. Francis Xavier called at the office on Tuesday.
—Dan McGinniss, of ’74, is studying law at Ottawa, Ill.
—Antoine M. Martineau, of ’74, is doing well in Oconto, Ill.
—Rev. Father Paul Gillen is expected here in a few days.
—Nat. S. Mitchell, of ’72, is prospering in Davenport, Iowa.
—Patrick J. O’Meara, of’74, is in business at Delmar, Iowa. '	'
—Very Rev. Father Granger wTent to Milwaukee last Monday.
—Anthony J. Mooney, of ’74, is book-keeping in Chicago, Ill.
—Robt. E. Doyle, of ’73, is a heavy contractor in Cincinnati, Ohio. .
—T. A. Dailey, of ’74, is pursuing his law studies at Notre Dame, Ind.
—Jas. P. Sewell, of ’69, is engaged on the Inter-Ocean, Chicago, Ill.
—Lee Sanders, of ’74, is doing a good business in Battle Creek, Mich.
—Harry Fitzgibbon we met in Chicago lately. He is in good health.
—George Darr, of ’72, is with Engelhold & Jenner, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—A W. O’Malley, of ’61, is now residing in Ashton County, Wisconsin.
—John H. Schutt, of ’61, is County Clerk of Ashton County, Wisconsin.
—Jas. P. Van Dusen, of ’74, is reading medicine in the Chicago Medical College.
—John McNulty, of’58, is a partner in .the great New York house of Devlin & Co.
—Prof. T. O’Mahony, of ’72, is one of the greatest walkers at Notre Dame, Ind.
—A L. Kreichgauer, of ’74, is in a wholesale house at 44, East 28th Street, New York city.
—Bros., Vincent and Augustine, the oldest members of the Community at Notre Dame, enjoy excellent health. ■
—Of the graduates, of ’49, but one is now alive, the Rev. R. Shortis, now at St. Laurent College, near Montreal.
—J. P. Devine, who was prominent a few years ago in the Commercial Course, has returned to follow a higher course of studies.
—We were pleased to meet our old friend O. T. Chamberlain, of, ’63 the other day. He has a fine law practice in Elkhart, Ind.
—Prof. D. S. Moriarty, having given up for many years the teaching of the young idea, is now County Treasurer at Muskegon, Mich.
—The Misses Rose and Frank Howe, who visited the Universiiy a few days ago, are both accomplished writers for the Ace Maria.
—The Reverend Pastor of St. Joseph’s will be here on the 23rd. We hope he may be prevailed upon to make the-closing remarks at the conclusion of the Exhibition.
—Of the five graduates, of ’62, two are clergymen? one is a lawyer, married and doing well; one is a distinguished professor, and married; and the other is a professor still rejoicing in siugle-bles-edness.
—Mi-na'gi-shig,—Hole-in-the-Day,—Chief of the Chippewas, Gash-tchi-tchi-ghi shig, Ghi-gue-dge-ga-baw and We-dja-ni-mi-gon—in company with Rev. Bro. Gonzaga, from the White-Earth Chippewa Indian Reservation, Minnesota—were at Notre Dame, Saturday and Sunday last.
—Robert A. Pinkerton, of’65, is in the detective business. He recently recovered $6,700 stolen from a bank in Carbondale, Pa. The money was stolen by ten persons and divided among them. Bob recovered the whole of it, besides arresting all the thieves. The Scranton Republican says: “Mr. Robert A. Pinkerton, under whose skilful superintendence the affair has been carried out, although a young man, possesses the tact, shrewdness and self-possession so highly es-ential to his profession, and throughout the entire affair he acquitted himself towards all parties concerned in a manner becoming his arduous position.”
—Just before making up this issue of the Scholastic, we were shown the following special despatch in the Chicago Times :
Jerseyville, III., Feb. 17.—The funeral of William V. Shephard, which took place from the Catholic church in this city this morning, was largely attended. There were three priests from abroad in attendance, besides Father Harty, the pastor.
The deceased was a brother of Harry V. Shephard, of ’74, and F. B. Shephard of ’70.
Local Items.
—Whoa 1	'
—Not much 1
—O! be joyful!
—Oh! give me an item I
—Conference next week.
—Where are all the fasters 1
—“ Humph! big injun me P
—Cold weather, but no skating.	’
—Tuesday night—the Thespians.
—See Mr. Kehoe’s advertisement.
—And now those dogs are about again.
—The Brigands will be out on Tuesday.
—“ Come again, when you can’t stay so long.”
—Remember the Exhibition on Tuesday night.
—How did you like the Indian Entertainment ?
—There’s not much pie sold nowadays. It’s lent.
—Everybody seems pleased with ihe Scholastic.
—Tommy Gegan keeps the Apprentices interested.
—The click of the sounder may be heard in the hall.
—They have a pretty rough walk over from the Novitiate.
THIS SCHOLASTIC.
Mi
—Bishop Vaughan’s Reply to Gladstone can be had for 25 cts.
—“ Cherry Bounce” on Tuesday at the Thespian Exhibition. _
—There are not a great many persons on the fasting table.
—A part of the Laboratory has been moved into the College.
—Prof. Gregori is hard at work on the remainder of the Stations.
—The Juniors monopolized the Indians on Sunday afternoon.
—The classes at the Manual Labor School are progressing finely.
—Bro. Constantine is fixing up his sales-rooms with new counters, etc.
—The next number of the “ Aye Mabia ” will appear in the new cover.
—The sleighing the past week has been good, but the wind has been cold.
—The little Indian was a “brick,” so they say. He received most of the applause.
—The gentle Luna again sheds her silvery rays earthward when the night has come.
—“The Life of Washington,” by Irving, has been read by the readers in the Senior Refectory.
—The College Librarian acknowledges th e receipt of several valuable works from Rev. Father Carrier.
—Billy thought his scalp was in danger when the “big Injun” “made for” him, last Saturday evening.
—Little Wee-Johnny—we forget the remainder of his name—was the favorite of the Indians here last week.
' —The Thespians have been very busy with their rehearsals. At the same time, they have not neglected study, nor class.	.
—50 cts. is the price of Archbishop Manning’s Reply to Gladstone; see advertisement of the Catholic Publication Society.
—“The Sign of the Cross,” from the French of Mgr. Gaume, is the book now read in the Senior Refectory. It is quite interesting.
—We return thanks to our many contributors, for excellent articles. A number of them have been copied by many Catholic papers in the United States.
—Valentines from all quarters poured in upon onr friend John—nice, beautiful ones, in red and blue and all colors, though some of them were not complimentary to him.
■ —Father Cirrier doesnot forget his old Museum since going to Texas, and every once in a while Rev. Mr. Zahm receives from him a contribution to the Herbarium, etc.
—“ There’s music in the air,” is what he sung. " Well, let it be there,” says our friend John; “there is almost too much of it in the steam-pipes every morning about 4J4 or 5 o’clock.”
—We paid a visit to the rooms of the telegraphers, the other day, and were pleased to see how well the students can manipulate the key, and read the sounder. Mr. Rud-diman is doing well with his class.
—As you may see by the Catholc Publication Society’s advertisement, Bishop Ullathorne’s Reply to Gladstone can be had for 25 cts. This reply is one of the most masterly that has been published. Buy it.
—The Chief of the Indians honored the Students by dancing at the entertainment given by the Indians, on Saturday last. We are told that it is but seldom that he dances. He considers it beneath his dignity.
—And now our friend John savs that he can give the war-cry as well as any Indian. To judge from the way in which he yelled the other day, just because of a pin having been placed on his chair, we believe he can.
• —See the advertisement of the Catholic Publication Society. Dr. Newman’s, Archbishop Manning’s, Bishop Vaughan’s and Bishop Ullathorne’s Replies to Gladstone can be obtained from this publishing house for a very small sum of money.
—Although all students are required by the rules of the University to attend the regular services on Sundays, etc?., there is no attempt on the part of the authorities to force any person tochange bis religion. No person is baptized at Notre Dame without the consent of his parents.
—All persons not receiving regular invitations to the Exhibition on Tuesday night next, will, if they wish to attend, be required Jo pay an admission fee of 50 cts. for front seats, and 25 cts. for back seats and gallery. The students, of course, are not required to pay an admission fee.
—The inhabitants of th e third floor must be very friendly. Our friend John says that he passed by certain rooms as visitors were coming out, and, every time, he heard them receive urgent invitations to “come ag; in also, sincere wishes that they might sleep well and have pleasant dreams' were loudly, and, he thinks, sincerely expressed.
—Just now it seems as though there was an Order of some kind established at Notre Dame. We do not know whether the order is a secret one or not, but the members may be known by the regalia which they wear. Its color s red, and it is worn close to the neck. It is not allowed o make the regalia of silk—it must be of flannel.
’ —For one dollar and a half you can purchase the masterly replies to the calumnies of Gladstone, by Archbishop Manning, Dr. Newman, Bishop Vaughan and Bishop Ullatborne. These books are the right kind for Catholic young men to read. We hope that none of our students will fail to get at least one of them. Any of the students wishing to purchase one or .more of them, can send for them through the Editor of the Scholastic. Call at the sanctum.
—The Elocution Class started off in grand style last Monday night. The class was opened bj the Rev. Father Cooney, the able Professor, in his usual taking way. A number of the members of the Faculty attended ihe opening of the class; among them were the R>v. P. J. Colovin, Profs, Lyons and Edu ards, and others. The class numbers some thirty or forty members, among whom we noticed the ablest speakers and debaters in the different societies of the house.	'
—Last Saturday, the 13th inst., we were favored with s visit from Mi-na-gi-shig, the great chief— Ogvma Kitchi— of the Otchipwe Indians. He was accompanied by three minor chiefs of his tribe, and Bro. Gonzaga. O. S. F. Bro. Gonzaga is Missionary to the Indian Reservation of White Earth. Minn., and is now seeking means to erect an Industrial School for ihe Indians of that place. We hope the efforts of the good Brother will be generously seconded by liberal contributions f’om all to whom he may apply for assistance.
Mi-na-gi-shig,—Hole-in-the-day,—as yet only 17 years of age, is a fine specimen of the red man. The names of his three companions are Gash-tchi tchi-ghi-shig. aged sixteen; Andreas Ghi-gwe dje-ga-baw.—He who Stands Examining,—aged twelve years; and We dja-ni-mi-gon,— He who is Troubled,—now in the tenth year of bis age.
In the evening they gave an exhibition in Washington Hall, consisting of Indian war-dances, Indian games, etc. They remained at the College during Sunday and Monday, seeing what was to be seen, and on Tuesday, bade farewell— Madgag—to Notre Dame, and departed for Cincinnati, whence they intend to go to Washington, and probably also to France.
The tribe to which they belong, unlike most of the other Indian tribes, is constantly increasing, and numbers at present about 20,000 souls, three-fourths of whom are Catholics. The number now dwelling at White-Earth varies from 1,500 to 3,000. They have two schools in this place, a Catholic school and a public school; the number of pupils attending the former is about 200; tbatattending the latter from 45 to 75. The Catholic school is supported by contributions from the States and from Europe, and is now in a very flourishing condition, under the direction of Bros. Gonzaga, Louis of Japon, and Meinach, a novice, all members of the Order of St. Francis. The parish priest of’the place is Father Thomasin. The Indians under his charge are quiet and docile, and everything presages for the little Mission a happy future.
316
THE SCHOLASTIC*
—Th e following is the programme of the Exhibition to be given by the Thespian Association on Tuesday evening, Feb. 23rd, at 7 o’clock:
PART FIRST.
Grand March,............................  N>	D. U. C. Band
Song and Chorus^—“Hark I Hark!”—Bishop,. .Gillespie C. Union Oration of the Day,............. >E. J. McLaughlin
Music,...................................N. D. U. C. Band
PART SECOND.
THE BBIUAND. A Romantic Drama in Two Acts.—Remodelled for the Occasion*
Characters ;
Allesandro Massaroni,.......................  R-	S. Staley
Prince Bianchi,...........................    J-	J. Gillen
Nicolo,........................;.........E. J. McLaughlin
Albert,....................................T. J. Murphy
Theodore,...................................  J-	E. Kelly
Pietro,....................................    .J.	G. Ewing
Octavio,........................................W. Ball
Count Carrafa...............................  E.	J. Graves
Fabio and Corbini,............................T.	H. Grier
Rubaldo,..............................................B.	Euans
Spoleto,....................................J- F- Rudge
Cariotte,....1.......................  ....C.	M. Proctor
Yager,..............................................J.F.	Rudge
Guests, Servants, Brigands, etc.
Music, (“Pot-Pourri"— Suppe),.................Orchestra
Declamation,........................     Jos.	P. McHugh
Song—“ Angel so Fair,”......................T. M. O’Leary
To Conclude with the Farce Entitled CHERRY BOUNCE. Mr. Oldrents,............................E. J. McLaughiln
Gregory Homespun,.............................R.	W. Staley
Gammon,.........................................B. Euans
Spinage,........................................T. Grier
Old Homespun,..................7..............E.	J. Graves
Doctor’s Boy...............-................. F.	B. Devoto
Closing Remarks, .............................
Music,...................................N. D. U. C. Band
A Little Valentine for 0. M. S.
To your “ Jack-at-All-Trades ” I’d reply,
Though my office must make me a roamer,
Quite “ at home ” in Surveying am I, While in Greek I may be, p’r’aps, at Homer.
County Survetob.
' Literature.
—Monsignore Nardi has written a powerful reply to Gladstone.
—Robert Browning’s new poem, entitled “Aristophanes’ Apology,” is in the hands of the publishers.
—In England, twelve thousand copies of Dr. Newman’s Letter to the Duke of Norfolk were sold ou the day of publication.	.
—Very Rev. Dr. Russell contributes an article on “Michael Scott, the Wizard,” to the Irish Monthly for January.
—Captain Mayne Reid, the author of the great stories for boys, is recovering from his late illness and is preparing a new story.
—The Watertown Collegian lies on the table before us. Though small in size, and only monthly, it will no doubt fulfil the ends for which it is published, and add to the pleasure and knowledge of its many readers in Watertown. We wish it every success, and give it the right hand of fellowship.
—The Complete Offices of Hoey. Week, according to the R>>man Missal and Breviary. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 4, Warren Street, 1875.
All persons w’ho are unacquainted with the Latin language will find this Manual a useful work. It will give them better ideas of the Holy Offices which the Church celebrates than would regular treatises-on the subject. With its aid they are enabled to understand the sense of the words
which are chaunted by the priest and choir, and, as a conse* quence, the laity- should possess copies of it. As Holy Week is fast approaching, we would advise all our readers to procure immediately this Edition of the Offices of the Church for that sacred season,
—Tae Young Talks' Monthly is the largest, completest, and, considering the size and quality, the cheapest magazine that is published for the young people. The regular single subscription price is $1 50 per year, with 10 cents for the postage,—$1.60 in all. The publisher is offering to every one Who sends before the 1st of May next, the above subscription price, a gift of an order on D. M. Ferry & Co., the well-known seedsmen of Detroit, Mich., for twelve of their ten-cent packets of seeds, either vegetable or flower, or both, postpaid, and also a copy of their beautiful illustrated Seed Annual for 1875, from which to make up lists of seeds. This is a great offer, and hundreds of our sub- ' scribers should take advantage of it, to secure the best periodical for their young folks of all ages, and get their seeds for the coming Spring, free ! Single numbers of the magazine are 15 cents; but a sample copy and further particulars, if desired, will be sent for six cents. Address H. N. F. Lewis, Publisher, Chicago, Ill.
Correspondence.
Mr. Editor :—
Dear Sir : Have just read in the Scholastic of the 16th inst. a statement to the effect that the most elevated body of water in the U. S. lies iu California. Have you forgotten the magnificent Yellowstone Lake, situated in our great National Park, of world-wide reputation,—a lake, wnich, if I am not mistaken, has but one rival in point of altitude on the Western Hemisphere? According to Prof. Hayden’s Geological report of ’71, tins great body of water, has an elevation of 7,427 feet above the ocean. With feelings natural to a resident in this land of wonders, I wish to see the grand natural features of our country receive their just due. 97 feet does not seem so much of a difference, but if it was only 97 inches I would claim it and feel happy.
Respectfully,	E. B. W.
Society Notes.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held February 14tb, 1875. At this meeting, D. J. O’Connell was elected First Vice-President, and Mr. Minton Second Vice-President. After this the following declaimed: Messrs. T. McNamara, H. Rice, A. K. Schmidt, E. Arnold, and J. P. McHugh. The President then paid a well-deserved tribute to the energy and ability of Mr. J. F. Beegan, who has retired for awhile on account of ill-health. He said that Mr. Beegan showed his manliness on every occasion, particularly in his farewell speech to the members.
—The first regular meeting of the Thespian Association for the second session of the scholastic year ’74-5 was held Wednesday evening, Feb. 3rd, for the re-election of officers which resulted as follows: Rev. P. J. Golovin, Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; Prof. T. F. O’Mahony, Practitioner; Prof. T. A. Daily, Vice-President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Honorary Officer; R. W. Staley, Recording Secretary; T. J. Murphy, Corresponding Secretary ; E. J. McLaughlin, Treasurer; J. J. Gillen, 1st Censor ; J. E. Kelley, 2nd Censor; J. Gillespie, Prompter. At the second regular meeting, held Feb. 12ih, W. Ball, after fulfilling the conditions, was elected a member, and the parts of the plays, which are to be presented on the 23rd, were assigned.	-
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patriau Society was held on Feb. 12th, 1875. At this meeting C. Walsh after fulfilling the conditions was elected to membership. The following delivered declamations : Louis Pilliod, J. Crummey, C. Roelle, H. Quan, J. Delvecchio, E. Raymond and J. Hayes.
—The Thespians "will give an Exhibition on Tuesday, February 23rd,	.
THE SCHOLASTIC
SIT
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held their 3rd regular meeting of the second Session last Tuesday evening, Prof. Dailey in the chair. The question of debate “Resolved, That Trial by Jury should be Abolished,” was well discussed by Messrs. Gillen, Keeler and Caren on the affirmative, McPharlin and Ney on the negative. The first member on the affirmative having been called away before closing, the President withheld his decision, on account of the irregularity. The business of the evening being finished the meeting on motion adjourned.
—At a regular meeting of the Sodality of the Holy Angels, the following' persons were elected officers to fill vacancies: D. J. O’Connell, President, vice Meyer, resigned; J. Minton, Vice-President, vice Beegan, resigned; H. W. Quan, Secretary, vice O’Connell elected President, and H. Faxon, 2nd Censor, vice Minton, elected Vice-President.
Musical Notes.
—Brainards’ Piano Method is the one in general use in the Music Department.
—The Musical World, which was always a welcome visitor here, has not made its appearance lately.
—There will be good music at the Thespian Exhibition on Tuesday. The Orchestra, the Choral Union and the Band will do their best.
—We beg leave to suggest to the Cacilia not to recommend a Mass as “liturgically correct" which is not complete in the text,—as for example Uhl’s Mass, Op. 4.
—The Ccecilia for February contains among other interesting matter on Church Music an English letter from Herman Allen, organist of the Cathedral in Chicago, who seems to take the lead in “working in the good cause,” as he expresses it, of adopting “ Caecilian” music.
The Supplement contains a Panis Angelicas, by Carl Greith, a Regina Cali by Z. Oberhoffer, a leading member of the German Caecilian Society in Luxemburg; also a Veni Creator by Kaim. A new Mass, by this talented composer, Will be commenced in the Ccecilia next month.
—We have received the February numbers of ChurcKs Musical Visitor, Cincinnati; the Orpheus of New York and Boston; also the Vox Humana of Cambridgeport, Mass.,—all filled with excellent reading-matter on musical subjects, and supplemented with good selections of music.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
' W. Armstrong, V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, F, Bearss, L. Busch, J. Caren, G Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, W. Canavan, R. Doherty, B. Enans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, E. Graves, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, E. Gault, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, A. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, F. Hebard, W. Hughes, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, F. Keller, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J. Logsdon, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews, E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, Patrick Mattimore, Peter Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, V. McKinnon, J. Ney, J. O’Connell, T. O’Leary, F. O’Brien, C. Proctor, T. Pugh, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, E. Ratigan, J. Rudge, M. Reagan, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, W. Stout, J. Soule, J. Verment, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
L. Best, A. Bergck, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, F. E. Foxen, W. Edwards, J. Griffith, E. Gramling, E. D. Gleason, C. Hake, H. Harvey, C. Jewell, P. Kelley, A. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, G. J. Lonstorf, P._McBride, J. McIntyre, T. McNamara, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, J. Minton, M. J. Murphy, J. Nelson, C. Ottoway, C. Peltier, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, A. Reinke, F. Raymond, L. Smith, J. A. Smith, F. Smyth. W. Smith, T. J. Solon, T. Summers, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, F. J. Weisen-burger, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, F. Rollin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Francis Carlin, Michael McAuliffe, Ralph Golsen, Edward Raymond, Colly Clarke, Colly Campau, Eddie Dubois, Joseph Carrer, Walter Cunningham, Francis Campau, Harley McDonald, Charles Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Harry Ordway.
Class Honors-
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18. LAW, MEDICINE AND FINE ARTS.
Law—P. H. Shakill, R. Staley. H. Hayes, E- Siebert.
Medicine—E. McPharlin, G. Crummey, J. O’Connell. • Civil Engineering—C. M. Proctor.
German- G- Roulhac. W. Meyer, A. Schmidt, C. Whipple, J. Golsen, E. Sugg, P. Gnilloz, W. Nelson, G. Sugg, C. Welty, J. Soule, J. Connolly, J- Dryfoos, J. Marks, A. Leitelt. W. Ball, H. McGuire, J. Wood, M. Kramer, P. Shaul, G. McNulty, H. 0. Robertson, Korty, E. Gramling, J. Berringer, J. Leitelt, F. McGrath, H. Hunt, E. McPharlin, J. Lyons, R. McGrath, M. Egan, J. Rudge, T. McNamara, J. Grace, W. Byrne, F. Carlin, J. Kennedy, R. Golsen, E. Washburn.
French—G. Gross, J. Minton, J. Delvecchio, L. Best, V. McKinnon.
Telegraphy—J. Wood, W. Stout, T. Carroll, J. McIntyre, E. Gault, T. Logan, E Ayers, W. Jenkins.
Music—T. Culliton, G. Hoyt, E. Stichtenoth, H.Cassidy, W. T. Ball, W. Schultheis, C. Otto. W. Nelson, F. Schlink, J. Campbell, A. Reinke. W. Roelie, E. Sugg, G. Su«g, A. Lonstorf, C. Leonhardt, H. Quan, T. O’Leary, C. Clarke, M. Clarke, T. Quinn, J. Thornton, F. Kleiner, J. Gillen, W. Stichtenoth, C. Robertson, H. Sickle,- G. Gross, J. Colton, J. Lynch, R. Staley, J. Dryfoos, R. Maas, J. Delvecchio, P. Guilloz, F. McGrath, A. Schmidt, G. Roulhac, J. Lyons, W. Byrne, J. McHugh, G. Crummey, A.Hess, J. Berringer, L. Pilliod, R. Doherty, E. Maas.
Vocal Music—N. Mooney, E. Riopelle, F. Faxon, T. O’Leary, F. Devoto.	-
Band—P. Guilloz, G- Roulhac. T. O’Leary, R. Maas, G. Crum, mey, T. Logan, H. Hunt, J. Kennedy, F. O’Brien, E. J. Me. Laughlin, J. Campbell.
Drawing—J. Delvecchio, J. Kurtz, J. Carrer, R. McGrath, P. Lawrence, J. Obert, A. Leitelt. E. Gramling, J. Cullen, C. Proctor, G. Sugg, E. Courtney, H. Kinson, J. Lambin, R. Golsen, E. Raymond.
Minim Department—Walter Cunningham, Francis Carlin, Ralph Golsen, Colly Clarke, Colly Campau, Lee J. Frazee, John O’Meara, Or car Bell, Samual Goldsberry, Joseph Carrer, Edward Raymond, Francis McGrath, Otto Lindberg, Michael McAuliffe, William Van Pelt, William Lindsey, Harry Ordway, Hugh Colton, Francis Campau, Albert Bushey, Sylvester Bushey, Charles Bushey, Thomas Hooley.
Chapsl of Our Lady of Lourdes.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY OF REV. A. LEMONNIER, C. S- C.
Mr. Jno. Carr, Loughrea, Ireland..............$11.00
Mrs. L. Cherrier, Prarie du Chien, Wis.........10.00
Master W. Schultheis, Detroit, Mich............ 2.00
Mr. O’Neil, Charlestown, Mass................... 1.00	’
Mrs O’Neil,	“	“	  1.00
Miss M. Quirk,	“	“	  1.00
Miss C. Harkins,	“	“	  1.00
Mrs. M. Kilroy, Brookline, Mass................ 2.00
Mrs. M. McDonald Charlestown, Mass............... 50
Miss A. Murphy, S. Boston...................... ’ 50
Very Suspicious.
Soma time since, St. Patrick’s Church was burned at Hartford, Conn. Its value was $150,000. The pastor suspected that the fire was the act of an incendiary. Close upon the heels of this comes the news that St. Patrick’s Church in New Haven, Conn., and St Mary’s at Putnam, Conn., have been destroyed in a similar manner. These disasters, following one another so rapidly, furnish us with serious grounds for suspecting that the spirit which conceived the Blue Laws has broken out in a new form in Connecticut. New England bigotry is capable of anything, and though we should not judge hastily on ordinary occasions, yet the ruins of Charlestown Convent and similar relics of the barbarism of hate, renders suspicion of foul play very reasonable. The vipers of Native Americanism, Know-Nothingism, etc., were hatched from New England eggs. Puritanism has always shown itself true to its traditional instincts of hatred, malice and persecution, wherever, and whenever Catholic interests are involved. A searching investigation into the cause of these conflagrations should be instituted at once. • — ■ -	....
818
THE SCHOLASTIC.
SAINT MART’S ACADEMY.
—Mrs. Hooper, of Chicago, has been spending a week at St. Mary’s.
—The new impetus given by the Examinaton is felt everywhere.
—Mrs. Russell accompanied her daughter on her return to St. Mary’s.
—Mrs. Kavenagh, of Des Moines, passed a few days at the Academy.
—The Indian rice, presented by the Chippewa Chief, is hereby gratefully acknowledged.
—Rev. Father O’Mahony and Professor Tong, of South Bend, were present at the reading of Rosa Mystica.
—The Editresses of Rosa Mystica were the Misses L. Bradford, G. Walton, and J. Stimpson. The paper was highly praised.
—The Indian dance of Monday evening created more excitement, and greater interest, than that of the boarders, on Tuesday evening, the 9 th inst.
—The fine geological specimens from Mr. William Graham, of Carbondale, Pa., are most gratefully acknowledged ; also a beautiful specimen of copper ore, from Mrs. Hill.	.
—The young Sachem of the Chippewas, and his companions, enlisted the attention of every one at St. Mary’s, and their gambols, harangues, etc., were novel and amusing in the extreme.
—The Misses Rose and Frankie Howe paid St Mary’s a visit on their return from their long European trip. Their cousin, Miss M. Wicker, of the Graduating Class, was glad to meet them after a separation of six years. They regretted the absence of Mother Superior, very much.
—St. Mary’s has enjoyed a few days’ visit from the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne. He met the Minims on Saturday evening, and his tarry at the Academy they will register as pleasant days. It is hard to say who appeared the most delighted, the Bishop in their society, or they in the preference shown them by the Bishop. He preached a sermon at High Mass on Sunday, and was also present at the reading of the third No. of Rosa Atystica, on Sunday, at five o’ clock, at which time he also distributed the points to the young ladies.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
We attended with great pleasure a private soiree, last Wednesday evening, given by the -young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy. Visitors have praised the ease with which these ladies attacked and conquered difficult passages in many of the pieces played during the Examinations and other entertainments through the year; but Wednesday showed “ how the difficulties of elaborate compositions are made perfectly easy to the you'ng amateurs.” A pleasant hour was spent in listening to “ Technical Exercises,” the object of which was explained, rendering the mode of playing intelligible to all present. Miss Julia Kearney played several exercises by “ Clementi; ” contraction in fingering, irregular accent, and contrary motion formed the principal object. M>ss Greenleaf gave broken chords and arpeggios. Miss Kate Hutchinson rendered the minor scales beautifully, and exercises in velocity. It is refreshing to hear “runs ” clear and rippling; no better means to form a graceful touch than faithful practice of scales in a proper manner. Miss Julia Nunning performed an excellent morceau in C minor, exhibiting smooth runs, extension, and sudden contraction; her position at the piano was much admired. Miss A. Smith followed with an exercise on staccato playing, the left hand keeping the “air” in a flowing, graceful form; she also played major and minor scales. Miss Rosemary Green gave one on fluent style, the right hand moving in soft runs, the left in decided broad style; this might not strike the uncultivated ear, but all musicians have felt the difficulty of perfect independence of the two hands. Miss H. Foote made steers in twos, very effective double thirds,
skips and octaves, and with a loose wrist gave a pleasing change to the electric touch which came in occasionally. Miss E. Quinlan’s purity of tone, and brilliant octave leaps, wrist-motion, and elegant manner, was extremely admired by her competitors of the evening. Miss Rose Spier played an exceedingly brilliant exercise on fluency, alternating with full chords the abrupt change from finger to arm, and wrist-motion, which showed her at home in every mode of touch. Miss J. Kreigh, not being present at the SemiAnnual Examination, played a composition by “Mills” in a manner which took the audience by surprise, and formed a fitting end to an evening enjoyed by all. The beautiful simple Scotch airs of “Kelvin Grove’’and “Charlie is my darling,” around which glistened a rippling stream of melodious, fairy-like notes, was well-chosen, taking in exercises of almost every style to form the brilliant whole.
The Music Classes have all been reorganized, and the notes of progress and standing sent to parents. We defer the usual honorable mentions this week, to give the pupils time to execute the many good resolutions taken after the Examination.
TABLET OF HONOR.
FOB THE WEEK ENDING FEBRUARY 14.	.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled :
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith.
1st. Sb. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H Foote, M. Riley, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sb. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dailey, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L Wyman. J. McGuire, E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, J. Bennett, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady.	'
3rd Sb. Class—Misses S. Harris, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, R. Canoll, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan. J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts, F. Tavlor, B. and K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann. M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, Tillie Gaynor, M. O’Mahony.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, N. McAuliffe, M. Quill, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham.
2nd Pbep. Class—Misses E. Edes. S. Reising, E. Bots-ford, L. Gustine, L. Ryan, G. and F. Wells, B. Johnson, L. Johnson.
3bd Pbep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, M. Railton, L. Bosch, L. Schwass.
HONOBABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses H. Foote, E. O’Connor, L. Henrotin, E. Haggerty.
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer, J. Riopelle.
2nd Class—Misses M. Wicker, J. Kearney, M. Riley.
2nd Div.—Misses J. Locke, A. Smith, E. Dougherty, L. Arnold, C. West.
3rd Class—Misses C. Morgan, L. Kirchner, M. Walker, A. Curtin, S. and I. Edes, E. Edes, M. Walsh, A. Walsh.
2nd Div.—Misses J. Bennett, L. Walsh, A. Koch, M. Anthony.
.	junior department.	■
Misses M. Cravens, A. Harris. B. Wilson, M. Ewine, A. Pool, E. Lange. M. Schultheis, A.. Cullen, M. and B. Siler, B. Golsen, H. Peak, J. Brown, L Kirchner, N. McGrath, C. Yates, A. Goewey, M. Hoean, L Hutchinson, H. Kraus, L. Walsh, M. Hoffman, A. Koch, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, C. Orr, K. Hudson, M. Bell, M. Derby.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson, I. Mann, R. Goldsberry and Y. Mier.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
311
Wow Ready.
THE
Vatican Decrees
AND
CIVIL ALLEGIANCE.
IN ANSWER TO MR. GLADSTONE.
By His Grace
ARCHBISHOP MANNING.
One vol., 12mo., paper,...50	cents.
ALSO,
Werg ft.
REPLY
TO
MR. GLADSTONE.
One vol., 12mo., paper,
50 eente-
ALSO,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
JiOTE^E pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy i ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appearthatnaturehadanticipatedtbeuseto which the grounds were to be applied, and Jiad disposed her advantages to’meot the requirements of such an .establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
JAMES BONNEY,
PH0T0GRAPHER,
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.,
(her Coonlay's Drug Store,
South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring I
o24-tf -
gt. gev. f bling Gaughan’s
REPLY
TO
MR. GLADSTONE.
One voi., 12mo., paper, ...	25 cents.
ALSO, BISHOP ULLATHORNE’S REPLY TO AIK. GLADSTONE.
One vol., 12mo,, paper, ....	23 cents.
Sent by mail on receipt of price.
THE CATHOLIC PUBLICATION SOCIETY.
LAWRENCE KEHOE, General Agent.
0 Warren Street, .	.	. New Topic.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Prices Still Conttste at
P. L. GARRITY’S
CJkJSTIDY FACTORY 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	-	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 35c.
Choice Mixed Candy ...	35c.
Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately Low Prices to "W nole-sale Cash Buyers.
[Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door. k	oM-tf i
320
THE SCHOLASTIC
Now Ready.
VERY BEV. DR. NEWMAN’S
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, ls74.
REPLY TO GLADSTONE,
ENTITLED
A LETTER ADDRESSED TO
His Grace the Duke of Norfolk
ON OCCASION OF
MR. GLADSTONE’S RECENT EXPOSTULATION.
BY •	.
JOHN HENRY NEWMAN, D.D.,
	Going East.		
Trains.	• Mail -	- Day Express -Accommodation Atlantic Express Night Express -	Leave Chicago. 5 00 a m - 8 30 a m - 3 35 p m - 5 15pm - 9 pm	Leave Niles. 9 02 a tn 11 47 a m 7 35 p m . 8 55 p m 12 45 p m	Arrive at Detroit 5 45 pm 6 30 pm 8 45am 3 50 am 8 00 am
	Going	West.	
Trains. Mail .	.	. Day Express -Accommodation -Evening Express Pacific Express -	Leave Detroit. 7 00 a m - 10 20 a m 1 50 p m - 5 40pm - 10 00 p m	Leave Niles., 4 05 pm 5 20pm 6 30 am 2 3<>am 5 00 am	Arrive at Chicago. 8 05 pm 9 00pm 10 35 am 6 3o a m 830 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 630 pm, *9 am, *7 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8 45 a m, 3 55 p m, 710 p m *9 40 a m, * 7 40 p m.
Leave Niles—6 30 a m. 9 20 a m, 5 10 p m, * 8 a m, + 5 d m. ’
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 am, 555pm,+840 am, t540pm
Of the Oratory.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
AUTHORIZED EDITION.
Paper cover, ......	50 cents.
New York:
THE CATHOLIC PUBLICATION. SOCIETY,
LAWRENCE KEHOE, Gen. Agent,
Going East, via Kiles. _
Depart—807 am. 0,38 pm. + 9 07 am, +7 07pm.
Arrive—7 07 a m, 9 42 a m, 5 46 p m, 18 32 a m, 15 32 p m
Going West, via Kiles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus » + run Sunday only.
C. D. W HITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ihd.
_ B. CELESTINE^ Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH, General Passenger Agent,' Chicago.
W.B. STRONG,
General Superintendent, Chicago.
eb6-i%
9 Warren Street, New York.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
as follows:
GOING EAST.
a.35 10.12 11.57
9.11
8.00 5.44
3.18
5.24
5.31
5.44
8.00
9.15
a. x. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. x.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. x.: Cleveland, 9.50
a m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo 4.20 a. x.
p. x.(No. 61, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. x.
p. x. 'No. 10) Toledo Express. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,’2.30 a. x„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1'10 p. m.
p. x. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
a. x. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. x.
a. x. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 Chicago, 8 30 a. m.
p. x. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Araves at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. x.
p. x. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 6.35; Chicago, 9.
a. x. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. m , Chicago 11.10.
a. x. [No. 71 j Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
. J. H PaRSONS, Sup't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. 3. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
CJiicago, Ttocli: Island and Pacific H. H.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticketroffice, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Tbaixs.	leave."	abbive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p	m
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a	in
JCight Express’	10.30 p m	6.15 a m	.
AWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near (Jp Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City and Denver Fast Express, via, Jacksonville, 111., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis an d Spri ngfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, HI., ana Louisiana. Mo.,
abbive.
♦8:10 p.m.
♦2 50 p m
•2:50 p.m.
•9:20 a.m.
17:30 a.m.
§7:30 a.m
LEAVE.
•9:40 a.m.
• 12 30 p.m.
•12:30 p.m.
•4:30 p.m.
19:45 p.m.
$9:45 p.in.
♦ Except Sunday. $ Except Saturday. I Daily. § ExceptMonday •
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis aaily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on dll day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON, *	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	= CHICAGO
I’EXNSYLVAMA CENTRAL DOUBLE TEA0K EAILE0AD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars.arerun between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change. •
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. I Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m.«
3rd train “	“	9.00.p.m. |	“	«	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannefield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCDLLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CRElGHTuN, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Pliielphia.
F. R. MYEK8, Geu’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. •Second day. -	.	"	'
