Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disc® quasi semper victTULTiis; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAT 22, 1880.
Number 37.
[For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
The Exile’s Farewell.
TO E. M.
Farewell to thee, my native land, To whom my bosom fondly clings!
When forced to leave dear Erin’s strand, I felt the pang affliction brings.
The pall of death hangs close ’round thee Its sombre shades thou oft hast seen,
Presaging grief and misery,
On mountains, dales, hills, valleys, green.
The dancing waves in doleful tones
Sad tidings bring to other climes;
They hear a dying people’s groans, Ill-fated land of direful times!
’Tis sweet to know amid thy woes,
Thine exiled sons remember thee, Whose grief, and misery,' and throes
Are keenly felt across the sea.
The voice of Reason’s heard at last, And England feels the wrongs she did.
Lift up your head: your sorrow’s past; Hereafter famine—God forbid!
The shroud of death is slowly raised From off the sore-afflicted nation;
The holy will of God be praised!
We see for thee emancipation.
The wreath of glory on thy brow
With brightest gems wDl soon be decked;
Thy virtues will illumine now
The records which lank Famine checked.
Albus.
Food and Health.
animal, vegetable, and auxiliary foods.
n.
With regard to composition, food may be divided into proteids, fats, amyloids, and minerals. The chief proteids are the gluten of flour, the albumen, or white of eggs, the fibrin of blood, syntonin, which constitutes the principal bulk of flesh, and caseine, which forms the basis of cheese. All of these are also called nitrogenized food, stuffs, because they are the only kinds that contain nitrogen, besides the ordinary elements of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Fats being made of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen only, include all the fatty matters as well as all vegetable and animal oils. Amyloids consist also of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. The difference between fats
and amyloids is, that the latter contain oxygen and hydro-gen in the exact proportion to form water, i. e., two atoms of hydrogen to one of oxygen. The chief representatives of amyloids are: starch, dextrine, sugar, and gum. The mineral food-stuffs includes water, salts, and the different alkalies, earths and metals as well as the pure oxygen in the air used for breathing. This is the scientific classification of food, but for convenience it would be better to classify it into the three classes of animal, vegetable, and auxiliary foods, which classification I shall follow in this essay.
As regards animal foods, I must indeed give the first place to milk, which may be taken as the type of what every food should be, for it contains within itself all the elements necessary for the support of the animal organism. In some countries it forms the chief diet of the people, and wherever it can be easily procured it is largely consumed. Its component parts are water, caseine, which represents the albuminous group;- cream or butter repre- -senting the fats and sugar of milk. The proportions .of these constituents vary according to the animal from which the milk is derived. According to Dr. Dalton, the composition of cows’ milk in a hundred parts is: water.,. .. 87.03; caseine.... 4.48; butter.... 3.13; sugar of milk.... 4.77; mineral ingredients. . . . 0.60.
But this is only an average statement, as no two cows give milk exactly alike in composition, and even the milk of the same cow varies with the food. Asses’ milk is that which approaches nearest in composition to human milk, but this has less than a third of the quantity of the fatty element; whilst cows’ milk, containing nearly the same proportion of cream, has three times as much caseine, and only two-thirds as much sugar of milk. To make cows’ milk, therefore, a fit food for infants, it is necessary that it should be diluted with water, and have sugar of milk added to it. Cheese, which is the caseine of milk, separated from it by the addition of an acid, contains a large proportion of nitrogen, and is a very nutritious but not very digestible substance. The peculiar taste of old cheese is the result of decomposition, and is then unfit for eating; however, when in this condition, it is said to promote the digestion of other foods, and for this reason is sometimes taken in small quantities as a condiment Butter is also obtained from milk, placed it in shallow pans, and allowed to remain undisturbed for twenty-four hours. During this time the milk-globules, which are the parts that form the butter, rise to the top, owing to their being lighter than the watery parts, and collect in a thick, densely white layer upon the surface, which is called “ cream.” This cream, is placed in a churn, where it is subjected to a continuous beating with wooden ladles. In this way the milk-globules are beaten together and made to cohere into a uniform
576
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	I
______________________;____________________	1
yellowish mass. This mass is called butter. The butter, however, when in this state is very impure, containing a great proportion of caseine and sugar. These are removed from it by careful washing. Butter that is not subjected to this additional treatment soOn becomes rancid, on account of the caseine acting on it as a ferment. Rancid butter is poison for the stomach, and many cases of indigestion, dyspepsia and diarrhoea are traced to this source.
One more consideration we have to add, with regard to the adulteration of milk with water. If much water is added, the best way is to apply the specific-gravity test. The specific-gravity of unadulterated milk is from 1.026 to 1.033; the average is about 1.030. If two parts of water be added to eight parts of milk the specific-gravity will be reduced to 1.024; four parts of water to six of milk will reduce it to 1.018. For practical purposes I would suggest the following very simple and satisfactory method: Take a clean and well polished knitting-needle and dip it straight into the milk; if any milk remains hanging to it, it is adulterated; if the needle remains dry and clean, it is a sign that it is pure. Good milk should be always of a full white color, perfectly opaque, without deposit, and free from any peculiar taste or smell.
The next important article of food that comes under my consideration is eggs; these are both nitrogenous and fatty, and, when properly prepared, are easily digested and highly nutritious. Eggs are best when boiled sufficiently to coagulate the white without hardening the yolk. Hard boiled or fried eggs digest with difficulty. Fresh eggs are more easily digested than old ones.
I come now to one of our commonest articles of food, namely, meat Meat is derived from several sources, but mainly from the ox, sheep, and pig; its nutritive value depends principally upon the proportion of lean which it contains; but, relatively speaking, there is little difference ■ in nutritive qualities between the meats derived from any of these three sources. Horse flesh is very little used in this country, but in France it has a rather extensive demand. Venison, and the flesh of other wild animals, is as nutritious as beef and mutton, and when properly cooked is more digestible. Poultry and rabbits contain very little fat, and are not as nourishing; the broth of poultry, however, has a delicate flavor, and contains considerable nutriment, and therefore constitutes a very valuable article of food for convalescents. Fish, except salmon, eels and mackeral, are deficient in fat, and therefore less nutritive and inferior to flesh. Fish is easily digested when fresh, but salt fish is extremely indigestable, and when decomposition has set in, as many times happens with cod-fish, it becomes a poison to the human system. A man with a delicate stomach should never touch salt-fish that bears in any way the stamp of decay; even those persons who have what may be called a oast iron stomach should not torture it every week with this despicable article of food.
Among the many sources of animal food we may mention crabs, lobsters, clams, oysters, frogs, snakes, etc. Crabs and lobsters as an article of food resemble that of fish, but are much less easily digested, and when eaten in a state of decomposition has often proved fatal to life. Clams and oysters, raw or cooked, are difficult to digest. Oysters are best when eaten raw, otherwise they should either be stewed or roasted. Frog-hams are a delicacy of which few in this country partake. In Europe they are generally the first food for convalescents, and prove a
delicacy. Snakes, are eaten sometimes; however, the ; plurality of mankind gladly cede their share to the few that find an article of food in these abject creatures. However, it is reported that the Indian delights in the meat of * ’ the rattle-snake. Rats are extensively used in China;
while in some countries dog-meat is a staple article of 1 food. The English hedge-hog furnishes, in the estimation j of some, a most delicate meat, and the broth obtained is far superior they say to that of poultry. Many pleasant sto- * ries are connected with nocturnal hedge-hog hunting.
The modus operandi is as follows: The first thing necessary	i ...
is to have a dog trained for this purpose, then a bag to put the animals in; the next thing is to find out their haunts.
This is generally in the meadows on the border of the woods. Let a person pass along the border of the woods, . a dog preceding him. As soon as the dog meets a track he follows it to where the animal is, which, when hearing the dog, rolls itself into a spiny ball; the dog, meanwhile, barks at it till the hunter appears, when he immediately A1 gives up. All the hunter has then to do is to roll the	J
animal into the bag, and proceed again along the banks of	C
the wood. Reader, please excuse this little digression.	,
The second kind of fo'od that demands attention is vege-	,
table foods. Of vegetables, the cereals occupy the principal place; the chief among them in this country is wheat, , from which flour is prepared, and worked into bread, that forms the chief and principal article of food among all j classes of society. Bread has merited the well-deserving 4 ’ name of “ staff of life.” Eighty per cent, of the whole grain ■’ in wheat should be flour, and the rest bran, and nitrogenous matter surrounding this. Flour is obtained by , grinding the grain into a fine powder, and passing it	/
through a series of sieves, which reduces it to its varying	“
degrees of fineness, known as “household” and “best i flour.” For family use, “ household ” is probably the best	'
The quality of flour is best determined by the practical test of baking; still its appearance may be sometimes re- ’ garded. It should contain veiy little bran, and its starch ’ should be white, or the least tinge of yellow. Flour should not be lumpy; or if so, the lumps should give way to the least pressure. Grittiness indicates that the starch-	J J
grains are changing, and such flour will give sour bread.
Good flour, when compressed in the hand, will adhere in a lump, and retain the imprints of the fingers for a longer * . time than flour of an inferior grade. The dough from good flour is elastic, and may be drawn out into long strips or rolled into thin sheets without breaking.	,
The other grains used in this country as food are, mainly, < $ rye, oats, barley, Indian corn and rice. The bread made	J
from rye is of a darker color than that of wheat, and does	I
not rise as well, and soon becomes acid, which makes it in-	h
digestible for some. Oat meal, which is so largely used	;
in Scotland, is made by grinding the whole grain, de-	i
prived of its outer husk, into a rather course powder. It	:
is more nutritious than wheaten flour, but not so easily t < digested, and cannot be made into bread, but is used in the shape of porridge. The grain, when deprived of its ' outer coat, and crushed, is called groats, and is much used for gruel Barley is very much used in the north of Europe. “ It cannot be easily worked into bread, but is generally eaten in the shape of cakes or porridge. When barley is deprived of its husk, and rounded, it is called “ pearl of / Scotch barley,” and is much used for making drinks for ' invalids, and for thickening soups. Maize, or Indian corn, ; has been used to some extent in Ireland, since the famine,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
677
and forms a part of farinacious food used by some of the inhabitants of this country, Italy and Spain. The meal is very nutritious, but has a peculiar harsh taste, and makes poor bread. It is generallyused in the shape of porridge, "with milk. When used extensively, the health of the people is sure to suffer,—diarrhoea is often the result; and in Italy it is said to produce a peculiar disease of the skin, akin to leprosy, accompanied by great depression of spirits and melancholy, with a tendency to commit suicide by drowning. In this country, young green ears are eaten boiled in milk, and form to some a very agreeable dish.	.
Rice is the food of the natives of India and China, but in this country is used more as an article of luxury, than as a necessary article of food. Containing more carbonaceous or heat-forming elements than other cereals, it is a good adjunct to those meats which contain much nitrogen, such as poultry, veal, and fish.
Buckwheat is rich in starch, and is chiefly consumed in making griddle-cakes, which, when warm, are light and
• palatable, but not very healthy for weak stomachs.
Several other varieties of grains are used in various parts of the world, but in this country they are almost entirely unknown, and, therefore, are of very little interest to the American reader.
Next comes a class of foods, known by the name of legumes; the chief varieties are peas, beans, and lentils. Beans are highly nutritious, and rank first among strengthimparting foods. They should never be used whole or with their skin, as these are completely indigestible, and cause iritation and consequent waste of the other food.
. I come now to one of the most important classes of foods, not so much for their nutritive qualities as for their antiscorbutic properties. Of these, the potato ranks first, on account of its extensive use. “ Its flavor is agreeable and constant; its supply abundant, and its preparation easy; its action in the body is unaccompanied by any inconvenience, and in reference to the country population, its cost is small.” As I have said, its absolute nutritive value is not great, and therefore it should be used with nitrogenous adjuncts, as buttermilk, etc. The mealy varieties are the most digestible, and boiled in the skin is the most economical way of cooking them. To the potato we may add, in successive merit, the carrot, the turnip and the onion. Some other classes of the vegetable kingdom send representatives to our tables, but they are rather condiments than food, such are certain sea weeds, mushrooms, truffles, etc.
Of the class of foods called sugars, very little remains to be said; they are so well known, and so universally used, that a description is useless; however, a few words may not be out of place. Sugar is deficient in nitrogen, and is therefore a good heat-producer, and not a tissueformer. Sugar is found in the two forms of solid and liquid. The liquid is generally called molasses. In this country sugar is, for the most part, prepared from the sugar cane or the maple; but in Europe, and especially in France, it is principally made of beet-root.
One more great class now remains, and it is that of auxiliary foods. In this class, we rank all condiments and beverages. Of the condiments, we may mention vinegar, black pepper, Cayenne pepper and mustard. Vinegar is nothing but acetic acid in water and good vinegar should contain at least five per cent of the acid. Commercial vinegar is often prepared of sulphuric acid and water,
and colored with burned sugar. The chief use of vinegar for digestion is that it re-enforces the gastric juices and thus promotes the digestion of the proteids.
Black pepper is a powerful stimulant of the digestive organs, increasing the flow of saliva and gastric juice. Cayenne pepper much resembles black pepper, but is a more powerful stimulant It should not be used habitually, as it enervates, by over stimulus, of the digestive organs. Mustard in small doses is a gentle stimulant; In large doses, it acts as an emetic.
Two classes of food, in some respects antagonistic to each other, may next be spoken of. The first includes tea, coffee, and cocoa; the second, alcoholic drinks.
Tea is grown and prepared chiefly in China, and comes from the tea-shrub. Many varieties are known in commerce, but their difference is probably the result of culture, preparation or curing. Black tea and green tea are the common varieties, of which green tea is th© strongest, producing sometimes nervous tremor, wakefulness, and disturbance in sleep. Sometimes these unpleasant effects are overcome by habit, and probably the best way would be to mix the black and green tea to nen-tralize these effects. Tea is composed of volatile oil, that gives it an agreeable flavor of theine, or vegetable alkali, rich in nitrogen, which is the active principle of tea, and tannic acid, which gives it its astringent quality. Tea is prepared for drinking by rapidly making an infusion of the leaves with hot water. The aroma is destroyed by boiling. The proportion generally used should be about three hundred grains of tea to a quart of water. The tea is first covered with boiling water, and allowed to steep or “draw” fourteen or fifteen minutes in a warm place; and then boiling water is added in the quantity desired. The chief merit of tea is, according to Dr. Edward Smith, that it promotes the vital functions of the body, and assists in the transformation of the fatty and starchy foods, in this way quickening digestion; that it increases the action of the skin and induces perspiration, so lowering the temperature of the body; that it increases the respiratory function, and so causes an increase in the quantity of the carbonic acid exhaled by the lungs. He also refers to the lightness and cheerfulness which follows its use, and have earned for it the title of “ the cup that cheers but not inebriates.” On the other hand, to too excessive tea-drinking, physicians attribute many cases of dyspepsia. Coftee, an article consumed daily by millions, has a better effect on the system than tea. When taken in a moderate quantity, it produces an agreeable sense of tranquillity and comfort, and is chiefly used after exhaustive efforts of any kind. Any one who was in the army knows the true value of a cup of coffee. Army-surgeons say that at night, after a severe march, the first desire of the soldier is for coffee, hot or cold, with or without sugar. Almost every one can bear testimony from personal experience of the effects of coffee in relieving the sense of fatigue after mental or bodily exertion, and increasing the capacity for labor, especially mental, by producing wakefulness and clearness of intellect Hence the custom of writers to use good coffee before sitting down to write. Gocoa and chocolate : s a very agreeable drink, refreshing to the spirits, and highly nutritious. We may add that these different beverages are not used so much for the food they contain as because of their temporarily supplying the place of aliments, and diminishing the demand for nourishment by retarding destructive assimilation. In this statement
578
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
an exception might be made with regard to alcohol, the use of which constitutes one of the greatest of human vices. But this does not detract from the physiological fact of its value, when properly used; and the same may be said of tobacco. Of the alcoholic drinks the chief varieties, in the order of their nutritive qualities, are: beer, wine and ardent spirits. Beer is a liquid prepared from barley and is highly nutritious, and acts favorably on the respiratory system. Wine acts the same way, and is said to be very strenghten-ing, especially to the digestive organs. The fresh color of wine drinkers is produced by the activity of respiration increased by its use, and thus thoroughly purifying the blood and turning it bright red. Spirits should be rarely used as a medicine; but, when properly used, constitute the very best medicine for almost all disorders that flesh is heir to.
I have now considered briefly all the main factors of the food of man, and in my next paper shall describe . the different modes of culinary preparation of foods, and the injurious effects of bad diet.
'	Sanitas.
Cultivation, the Safety of Our Youth.
Years ago, in the good old times which our grandfathers were never weary recalling, there was such a thing possible as passing from “the cradle to the grave,” without inhaling the poisonous atmosphere of infidelity. Then, it would not have been uncommon to meet persons, even among the upper classes of society, who had never heard of the infamous teachings of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Bolingbroke. But in this age of boasted enlightenment the spirit of infidelity has spread from the highest to the lowest ranks of society. Now, even the honest ploughman fills his heart with seeds of certain ruin, by spending his leisure hours communing with the most dangerous spirit of the age—Bob Ingersoll. This all goes to prove that such a thing as avoiding this spirit of infidelity is impossible; the wisest plan, therefore, is to prepare ourselves to meet it,—according to the old maxim—“Forewarned, forearmed.” The best, and, it might be said, the only means is thorough cultivation. It is absolutely necessary that every child should have a clear, comprehensive knowledge of “the faith that is in him”; otherwise, he will become shipwrecked by the first shower of the keen shafts of ridicule, and be left tossed in a rudderless boat on the mad waves of infidelity.
For want of instruction, pious practices are gradually thrown aside. Some think it “so unrefined ” to count one’s prayers on the beads; they leave that for the ignorant poor, thus neglecting one of the most beautiful practices of our holy religion. For I do not doubt but that each fervent, oft-repeated “ Hail Mary ” is a fragrant lily, borne by the angel of prayer to the foot of our Lady’s throne,—not simply is it a graceful and poetical act of our allegiance to her, but a token of our readiness to live and die in the faith. Others, again, seem to think it quite heroic to make the Sign of the Cross in public. Poor, weak Christians! Ashamed io profess their faith in the Crucified! and will they dare to look with hope on that luminous Sign which shall be borne m triumph on the last awful day? Were their hearts thoroughly cultivated, they would look back with pride bn the grand history of that sacred Sign—the dia
mond which has caught and concentrated the most brilliant rays from the sun of faith. '
“ Lofty tree bend down thy branches, To embrace the sacred load;
Oh, relax the native tension
Of that all too rigid wood!
Gently, gently bear the members
Of thy dying King and God.
Sweet the nails and sweet the wood, Laden with so sweet a load.”
It is said “as the twig is bent so the tree is inclined.” Hence, if the thorough .cultivation of youth was neglected, the next question would be skeptic, infidel, or mildly pagan,—scoffing at all written and revealed truths, laughing at the idea of mysteries, yet unable to explain the simplest physical laws; society would become totally demoralized ; Governments corrupted, and religion a name, a chimera which had amused the preceding generation; quiet, happy homes would become the scenes of disagreements between husband and wife, disobedience and rebellion on the part of the children, and of insurbordina-tion and arrogance of the servants. In fine, the age of pagan immorality would be revived; we would become a race of superior animals, more deeply culpable than the pagans, and our enlightened reason, would serve only to bring us to the depths of eternal misery and despair.
N. L. Galen.
The Hand.
Among the numberless gifts which God has bestowed-upon us one of the most useful is the hand. To how many different purposes do we not put this diminutive member of the human body! In every corporal work of mercy we find it an active and willing agent; now preparing food and drink for shivering widows and orphans, then throwing open the door to some weary, homeless wanderer, and again breaking the captive’s fetters, and opening the narrow door of his gloomy cell, leaves him free to rejoin his fellow-men. In the hospitals we find the hand never resting, but always by the couch of the greatest sufferers, assisting in all the good works which the heart and brain direct.
It is the hand that bathes the fevered brow of the invalid, raises the refreshing drink to his parched lips, throws open the window to admit the cooling breeze, gently rearranges the pillows and lays the aching head upon them; and when the patient has breathed his last, will bear his emaciated body away to its last resting-place, and, after the last solemn rites are over, will lower it gently into the earth from which it was formed.
The student finds in the hand a tireless assistant, obedient to his bidding; now penning down his thoughts almost as fast as they are conceived, and again forming the letters or figures of some difficult problem. What beautiful and lofty thoughts have not the poets left us by means of the hand? Had those poems, the admiration of all appreciative minds, been confined to the poet’s brain, of how much pleasure would the reading world have been deprived? Ab, what wonderful, sublime, and useful things has the hand engraven in ineffaceable characters!
Beautiful is the hand of the mother engaged in her ministrations of love; it never wearies, but each day works on through the same round of duties. How worthy of respect
5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	679
is the sun-burned, labor-stained hand of the father as he toils on cheerfully day after day to keep a happy and comfortable home for his family ? How venerable is the hand of the aged grandsire when, on his death-bed, he raises it over his children in benediction, as the holy patriarch J acob did 1 How sacred is the hand of the priest! how holy the duties it performs! It pours the baptismal waters on our infant heads, and marks us with the Sign of the Cross as heirs of heaven. Years are fled, and that hand is raised over us in absolution, again and again loosening our souls from the bonds of sin. At last the happy day of our First Communion arrives; we approach the altar, robed in white— emblematic of purity—and again that holy hand is raised in blessing us, and soon after lays upon our tongues the Lord of heaven and earth, the King of kings, hidden under the consecrated host. Once more this venerated hand is employed for us, when at our dying hour it bears to us the Holy Viaticum, the food for our journey to eternity; and when our senses are forsaking us, and we lay in agony, ’tis the hand of the priest that holds the crucifix before our dying eyes, as his lips pronounce the last absolution. Oh, can we doubt that if the smallest act done for God’s sake be so generously rewarded, the hand will receive a special glory for all the good it has done and in the name of Him that formed it.
E. D. P.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The Crown Princess of Germany paints in watercolors.	.
—Sir Frederick Leighton sends six easel pictures to the London Royal Academy Exhibition.
—Sir John Gilbert has on hand a large composition representing the Battle of the Standard. The design comprises about 500 figures.
—Clark Mills, after a sort of triangular fight over his bronze horse in the Courts of the District, was granted full power to remove it from his place to Nashville, Tenn.
—It is said that Queen Victoria will create Mr. Theodore Martin a K. C. B. in acknowledgment of the manner in which he has performed the task of writing the Prince Consort’s “Life.”
—In a hitherto unpublished letter from the sculptor Leone Leoni to Michael Angelo, whom he addresses as “ very magnificent aud my most honored signor,” he complains in true artist fashion of “ these wasps which sting me.”
—“Think of it for a moment,” exclaims the London Spectator, while reviewing an annual exhibition of paintings in that city, “ here are 670 pictures, drawn by about 400 people, and these people are those picked out of 1,000 others, all of whom, or nearly all, are artists by profession. And, in the full flush of their youth and ambition, they can give us nothing new, and care to attempt nothing, but, to use a swimmer’s simile, wade on still in their miserable six inches of water though the waves are breaking merrily.”
—Mr. James E. Murdoch,—whose dramatic readings are in remembrance by the older students at Notre Dame— after an absence of fifteen years from the stage, commenced a week’s engagement at the Chestnut Street Theatre, Philadelphia, Monday evening, appearing as Charles Surface in “ The School for Scandal.” He received a warm welcome, and there was much in the performance to remind his audience of the early efforts of the now veteran actor. It has been fifty years since Mr. Murdoch first appeared on the mimic stage.
—Miss Genevieve Ward is about to appear in a French play in London. It is stated that Miss Ward intends to come to America in September to appear in “ Forget-Me-Not.” With her will come Miss Kate Patterson, who will take the part of Alice Vernep in the same play, a part in which she has made a remarkable success in England. Miss Patterson is the young lady who accompanied Miss Emily Faithful to this country a few years ago. . Miss Faithful, it is said, will make a second visit here in the
autumn, when she will give her popular lecture on “Extravagance.”
—For the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of Belgium’s existence as an independent kingdom, an international musical competition has been arranged to take place in Brussels on the 25ih and 26th of July, and the 8th and 9th of August next, respectively, for choral, orchestral, brass instrumental, and “ fanfare ” performances. All native and foreign military bands, choirs, and orchestral associations will be entitled to compete for the prizes to be offered, which will consist of golden medals varying in value between one hundred and one thousand francs, and of sums of money ranging from one hundred to four thousand francs.
—Mr. Coventry Patmore has presented to the British Museum a set of the entire works of St. Thomas Aquinas, which was printed oh vellum at Rome in 1570-71, and is believed to be the most extensive work, so far as regards the number of the volumes, ever thus printed. Formerly it belonged to Pope Pius V, who is said to have presented it to King Philip II of Spain, who deposited it in the Escurial, where it remained until the Napoleonic invasion, when it disappeared. It afterwards found its way into the hands of an English clergyman, who recently died, and by whom it was magnificently bound in twenty-one volumes.
—A special meeting of the Washington Monument Society took place lately at Judge Advocate-General Dunn’s. The regular meetings occur on the first Thursday in each month, but this was specially called that the resident members of the Society might confer with the second VicePresident, Hon. R. C. Winthrop. Mr. W. W. Corcoran, the first Vice-President; Dr. Blake, tne Secretary of the Society; Dr. J. M. Toner, General Dunn, Admiral Powell, Hon. Horatio King, Dr. Clarke, Mr. Harkness, and exMayor Berrett were present. It is hoped that about twenty-five feet will be added to the height of the monument by September next.
—The following is a list of the Catholic publications on file at the Reading-Room of the Chicago Public Library: American publications—American Catholic Quarterly Re-vieic, Catholic World, Catholic Review, Celtic Monthly, Donahoe's Magazine, Illustrated Catholic American, McGee's Illustrated Weekly, Notre Dame Scholastic. British publications— Cork Examiner, Dublin Review, Galway Vindicator, Irish Monthly, Dublin Irishman, The Lamp, Liverpool Catholic Times, The Month, The Dublin Nation, The Tablet, Weekly Freeman and Irish Agriculturist, Weekly Northern Whig. German publications—Germania. French publications—L' Univers. Italian publication—Cimtta Catto-lica.
—Macaulay has pointed out that the first English author who really made a good paying business of literature was Richardson, for the good reason that he published his own works. A statement has lately been made that Swift “had no pecuniary interest in his writings; ” but a correspondent of the Athenaum points out that in a letter to Mr. Pult-ney, in 1735, he says: “I never got a farthing by anything I wrote except one, about eight years ago, and that was by Mr. Pope’s prudent management for me.” About eight years ago corresponds with the date of the publication of “ Gulliver,” for which $1,000 is alleged to have been paid. Probably it has earned for the booksellers by this time $100,000.
—The year 1881 will be a mathematical curiosity. From left to right, and from right to left it reads the same; 18 divided by 2 gives 9 as the quotient; 81 divided by 9 and 9 is the quotient. If 1881 is divided by 209, 9 is the quotient; if divided by 9 the quotient contains a 9; if multiplied by 9 the product contains 2 9’s. One and eight are nine, eight and one are nine. If the 18 be placed under the 81 and added, the sum is 99. If the figures be added thus 1, 8, 8,1 it will give 18. Reading from left to right is 18, and reading from right to left is 81: and 18 is two ninths of 81. By adding, dividing, and multiplying nineteen 9’s are produced, being one 9 for each year required to complete a century.
—The Stabat Mater is a well known Latin hymn on the Crucifixion, sung during Passion week in the Roman Catholic Church. Jacobone, a Franciscan who lived in the thirteenth century, is supposed to have been the
580	THE HOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
author of the words. In addition to the ancient setting, probably contemporary with the words, many composers have written music to the Stabat Mater, but the compositions which are best known are those by Palestrina, Pergolesi, the last effort of his life, and Rossini. The first of these three is a noble work, the second is full of pathos and expression, and the last is a quaint unison of operatic effects and florid vocal writing.—Musical Record.
—Mendelssohn’s sister Fanny, with whom he was never tired joking, wrote to ask about the tempi in one of his Psalms, and had for answer the following: “As to the tempi in my Psalm, all I have to say is, that the passage of the Jordan must be kept very watery; it would have a good effect if the chorus were to reel to and fro, that people might think they saw the waves. Here we have achieved this effect. If you do not know how to take the other tempi wrong, ask Q about them. He understands that capitally in my Psalms. With submission, allow me to suggest that the last movement be taken very slowly indeed, as it is called * Sing to the Lord for ever and ever,’ and ought therefore to last for a very long time! Forgive this dreadful joke.”
Scientific Notes.
—At a recent lecture at the Conservatoire des Arts et M&teirs on the Industrial Applications of Artificial Refrigerators, M. Raoul Pictet produced a sensation by coining a medallion in frozen quicksilver of the weight of fifteen kilograms.
—At a recent meeting of the Washington, D. C., Horticultural Society, Mr. John Saul in the chair, an interesting paper on “ Phylloxera in plants ” was read by Prof. Taylor, of the U. S. Agricultural Department. A lengthy discussion ensued, participated in by Profs. Taylor, Riley, Fowler, Saunders, Campbell, Needham, and others.
—M. Yon, one of the administrators of the Paris captive balloon, is publishing a pamphlet on the construction of a new directing balloon, devised on the plan worked out by M. Giffard in his great experiment executed at Paris in 1852. The only difference is, that the motive screws are two, and placed laterally and attached to the ring. A captive balloon fitted up accordingly to the principles practised so successfully by M. Gillard in Paris and in London, is being constructed now at Brussels, in the vicinity of the next national exhibition, which will be opened qn June 19, to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of Belgian independence.
—Prof. Thompson of the Minnesota State University has examined and reported on the great Iowa meteorite which fell last May. The day was cloudless, he says, when the meteorite passed through the air like a ball of fire, and with a rumbling, crashing noise. It was seen along its course lor several hundred miles, terrifying the people greatly, and finally exploded, with two tremendous reports, near Eterville. Two large pieces fell two miles apart, penetrating several feet into hard soil, and many small fragments were scattered. The entire weight was about 800 pounds, the largest mass weighing 470. The material was found to be chiefly iron.
e—At a recent meeting of the Southern Historical Society, in Louisiana, an apron made in the semblance of a Confederate flag, was shown, and its history told. In the spring of 1863, the Eleventh Virginia Cavalry passed through Hagerstown, weary, discouraged, and pursued by Federal troops. A young girl stood in a doorway, wearing this apron. The soldiers cheered enthusiastically, and the Colonel asked her to give him a piece of it for a memento. “ You may have it all,” she said, and it was carried with the regimental colors into a battle on the following day. The youthful soldier who bore it was mortally wounded, but he saved the apron from capture by hiding it in his bosom.
—At the end of a discussion in the last session of the Paris Academy of Sciences, with regard to the dissociation of chloral hydrate in the gaseous state, Prof. Sainte-Claire Deville gave utterance to the following frank expressions of belief in modern theories: I admit neither Avogadro’s
law, nor atoms, nor molecules, nor forces, nor particular states of matter, and I utterly refuse to believe in what I can neither see nor imagine. I confess that if complex combinations were invariably decomposed before undergoing volatilization, my opinion would in nowise be changed. While waiting for absolute proofs, I find that the chlorides of ammonium and of the volatile organic bases, as well as a considerable number of bodies, occupy eight volumes in the gaseous state; and I admit that which I see, as long as I do not believe that my eyes are betraying me, or that I am laboring under a hallucination. It is this which remains to be shown.”
_____With respect to Dr. Schliemann’s discoveries at Mycenae, the Russian savant, M. Stephani, has expressed opinions which have attracted considerable attention in Germany. The learned academician by no means disputes the great antiquity of many of the individual objects unearthed by Dr. Schliemann, but he holds that the remains include objects belonging to very different eras of history. He is of opinion that the tombs originated with the barbarians who invaded Greece in the third century B. C., and made the citadel of Agamemnon one of the chief centres of their dominion. Here he believes they buried their chiefs, and decorated the tombs partly with such ancient relics of an earlier date as had fallen into their hands, and partly with ornamental objects produced in their own times.
Exchanges.
—The Catholic Fireside for May is, like all the numbers of this periodical, varied and instructive as to its contents. We would wish, however, to see its articles a little more pleasing in some respects, and a greater variety of the same; but, again, if we consider that the magazine is as yet but a child, we have reason to congratulate the editor upon his success. The monthly deserves to be well patronized, and if this is done it will no doubt grow in ■ strength with its years.
—The Harp for May is, to our mind, an exceedingly good number. As a magazine of general literature, it is highly creditable to the printer and publisher, Mr. J. Gillies. A portion of its contents are: I, The D’Altons of Crag: an Irish story of’48 and ’49; II, Canadian Essays: Education; IH, O'Connell; IV, The Month of Mary; V, The Hand of God was There! VI, Advantages of a Good Periodical; VII, England arraigned before the Nations; VIII, Religion and Irish Nationality; IX, The Sword Song oi Theodore Koer-nier; X, Ireland Sixty Years Ago.
—The Celtic Monthly for May presents its readers an interesting and excellent table of contents, among which are the following well-written contributions: “May Memories —The Battle of Fontenoy," “ Dublin Tricks,” “ The Beauties of the Stage,” “ The Irish Question,” “A Chapter of Irish History,” “Commodore Cnarles Stuart,” Conceits and Whimsicalities.” The remaining papers of the magazine, both original and selected, are varied in their nature; and so, taken all in all, the contents of the present number of this able monthly cannot fail but to prove interesting to its readers.
—The May number of the Cecilia, a periodical devoted to church music, edited by Prof. Smgenberger, and published by Fr. Pustet & Co., New York, is before us, and an ex-‘ cellent number it is. From time to time we have called attention to this publication, the organ of the Cecilian Society in the United Stales, and we trust that what we said of it has not been said in vain. To the director of a choir the Cecilia is invaluable, and to the general musician its papers inust be of an interesting and instructive nature. There is one draw-back, however, about this publication,—very little of it is published in English. There is too much of it in the German language, and consequently many are thereby debarred from its perusal. However, the publishers may look at this in a different light, and see no real cause for a change. The contents of the present number are as follows: “ The Ecclesiastical Year,” “ Letters for Choirs,” No. 5, “Ecclesiastical Singing Schools,” “ Music for Easter," “ Instructions to Choir Directors.” The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
581
( article on “ Church Music ” discusses the question in rei, gard to the reform, of church music.
I	—The Catholic World for June is excellent in every re-
■ sped. The leading article, “ Modern Thought and Protestantism,” by Arthur Marshall, is a scholarly production, . - and to those interested in the conflict, now waging between ' so-called science and religion, will, no doubt, be extremely interesting. The writer, after discussing at length the I tendency of “ Modern Science,” namely, the total rejection of God, says: “ It is obvious that modern thought, or free thought, or scepticism—it does not matter what we may f call it—mistakes the tyranny of the ignorance of what is true for the liberty of knowing it and possessing it.
-	What is liberty ? The best answer is that in heaven alone
.	is there perfect, ineffable liberty. And what is the liberty
* of heaven? Absolute conformity of mind, will, and heart to the perfectly known wisdom of God. This is also the ■ ‘Catholic’ liberty, modified only by the living by faith instead of the living by sight. Yet the two liberties are >	identical in spirit. The Catholic philosophy makes the
i J	knowledge of God’s truths—which is all one with the key
of salvation—the main object and aspiration of the intellect, and affirms of the intellect that it can only enjoy z	liberty when it is anchored on the Rock of eternal truth.
■ f	Away from that anchorage it is the slave of every caprice,
the plaything of vanity or passion, the mere cork on the ■	waters of speculation—now a little above the surface, now
a little below, it. Modern thought says of liberty that it is the privilege of doubting, the sublime possession of every means of going wrong, plus the total impossibility „ of being assured—that is, infallibly—as to what are the conditions of salvation. And as is this theory, so is its ,	practice, and so is its penalty and its suffering. Who are
r	now the teachers of modern thought, or who are its too
contented victims? It would be indecent to ridicule the apostles of the Unknowable, and happily it is superfluous \ to do so. As to their victims, they are chiefly young men who are grateful for an apology for being heathens, and who know about as much of true science, true philosophy, ' . as they know of the occupations of the angels. These X young men (and also old men) seem to imagine that the Divine Wisdom is to be discovered, like the root of a cab-j bage, by digging downwards but not by winging up' wards; and they always cut themselves off from the whole of their higher nature in setting about to reason on His ' Being. To hear half a dozen Englishmen who have caught the disease of modernism (which, by the way, is no more ‘modern’ than was the imbecility of the first sin), you would imagine that they kept their souls in a cup* board of their intellects, and never permitted them to see the daylight nor to have fresh air. The glorious sun may shine them full in their faces, but they turn away their eyes and ask for candles. The candles are, for the most I part, the ‘ daily newspapers.’ The journalists, who judge everybody, judge everything, judge this world, judge the next world, judge God—and this, too, with such infallible authority that the Sovereign Pontiff might fairly wonder at such powers—are the principal doctors, recluses, and * mystic saints who unravel the truths hidden from the Church. Such teachers are the more listened to and obeyed on the ground that they “represent public opinion.” Sterne was so rude as to call public opinion a long-eared ass; but public opinion does not take that view of itself, and since the press always flatters its readers, and assures them that they are its judges, the public returns the compliment by emputing to its journalists the most superior enlightenment and progress. Whether the writers or the read-► ers are most to be pitied we need not here stay to inquire.
But that both the writers and the readers have lost the liberty of pure reasoning by becoming slaves of caprice or of complacency is so obvious that any grave man who ‘ takes in ’ a daily paper must marvel what the next age will come to. ‘ Whereas the Church loves to appropriate every new step in science as a fresh testimony to the wisdom of the faith—as multiplying the evidences of the exquisite harmony between x the natural and supernatural law—modern thought uses every fresh discovery to cut itself further off from God. St. Thomas in his wonderlul Summary, St. Augustine in his De Civitate Dei, did not treat of science as leading/rom God, but as leading up to Him by perfectly plain proof.
, x The same may be said of the illustrious Cardinal Newman,
and of all the profound thinkers of Catholic ages. It was true also of pre-Christian philosophers that the best of them aspire to know God. Aristotle and Plato would most certainly have been Catholics had they ‘philosophized ’ in the year 1880. They always soared in aspiration, though they lacked that full knowledge which belongs only to the ‘ fullness of time.’ ” The remaining contents of this able magazine are: II, “Homage of the Fine. Arts” (Poem); III, Countess Ida Hahn-Hahn; IV, Genesis of the Catholic Church; V, A Retrospect of Many Years (Poem); VI, My Raid into Mexico; VII, The Reformed Episcopal Church; VIII, Serena’s Vow; IX, The Princeton Review and Leo XIII; X, Pro Patria (Poem); XI, Aspects of National Education; XII, Lord Beaconsfield; XIII, The Outcome of the Channing Centennial; XIV, New Publications.
CoHege Gossip.
—The Stone estate at Malden, Mass., has bequeathed $50,000 to Bowdoin.—The Earlhamite.
—The President of the United States has been elected a member of the Newman Literary Institute of St. Francis’s College, Loretto, Penn.
—The difference between a quack and a physician: The quack’s motto is, “ No cure no pay; ” the physician’s experience is, a cure and. no pay.—Quiip.
—0 Tempera, etc., Horace, 01, IX, BK. 1. Freshman Class: Tides ut cdta stet nice candidum Socrate ’—u See how deep Socrates stands in the white snow.”—Deacon.
—Mr. Bright has been nominated as the next Liberal lord rector of Glasgow University, in succession to Mr. Gladstone, whose term of office expires in November.
—It has become a Harvard custom to confer upon the Governor of Massachusetts Lhe degree of LL. D. on the first Commencement Day after his inauguration.—Register.
—President Eliot, of Harvard, will preside at the annual festival in Boston of the Unitarian churches, Thursday evening, May 27th. Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes is to welcome tne clergy.
—The May number of the Journal of Education contains an unpublished poem by John Howard Payne, with the same sentiment as found in “ Home, Sweet Home,” called “ The Throne and the Cottage.”
—Hon. Clarkson W. Potter, having for many years done the legal work of Union College, has saved her by his gratuitous services, $250,000. The trustees propose to set this amount aside to endow a chair.—The Chronicle
—Arrangements have been made for the erection of a new chapel at Princeton College, which has been given by Mr. Henry G. Marquand. The building will be an elegant one, and is to cost between $80,000 and $90,000.
—Young ladies who lead Dante on Sundays should be more careful how they talk about it. One of them told us last Sunday that just then she was in “ Purgatory,” but in a couple of weeks would be in“ Paradise ” I—Portfolio. •
—There has been a great deal of sickness this term not only in our own villa but across the waters (of the Connecticut), in consequence of which Smith College closed some two weeks earlier, re-opening April 1st.—Amherst Student.
—A certain Senior, who hails from the muddy state of N—J------, applying recently to the doctor for a sick
ticket, was somewhat surprised and shocked to be told that “a hot foot-bath would relieve him of his difficulty.—Amherst Student.
—The. Regents of the California State University require Freshmen to pledge themselves not to join any secret societies. Such pledges are, we think, wrong. Secret societies should be allowed to die a natural death. They are the remnants of sectarian colleges; the atmosphere of pnb> lie universities is not congenial to them.—University Press. We think the facts in this case will not bear out the opinion of our contemporary of the University of Wisconsin.	.
582
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, May 22, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, ■nd others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and'presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day .
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Alxuhliu., Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber falls to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.	•
—There is scarcely a quality or disposition of mind so requisite to each and every individual, no matter in what position of life he may be placed, as cheerfulness. But it is to the student especially that the disposition to be cheerful becomes the sine qua non to success, not only while pursuing his college course, and while drinking at the fountain of wisdom that knowledge requisite to make life a success, but also in aftertime when he will have to take Ins stand in that field of action where those only will be crowned ■with success who are men of enterprise, integrity, and solid worth.
But apart from all this, cheerfulness is a quality that endears a person to the hearts of his companions, and renders him an object of admiration to those with whom he may come in contact.
There is scarcely any one so ill adapted for doing good, for rendering a benefit, for performing a service, or generous action as he whom no one can please—who is constantly grumbling, complaining, and finding fault with every one and with every thing—who is never at ease with himself nor satisfied with the actions of others.
We have men in this world of ours—and plenty of them, too,—who do nothing but grumble—grumble, constantly grumble—ever finding fault with their neighbors, viewing every action of theirs in the wrong light, accusing them of things they never thought of, and attributing a most pernicious motiye to each and everything they do. Among students, too,- this is no uncommon failing—a failing that invariably carries with it/An amount of trouble, as it renders those in whom it is fou'n&!an,object. of contempt, of ridicule, and of uncharitable remarks which, for the most part, are more than simple faults.
Hard to please, and a total want of cheerfulness, may, in
truth, be considered a kind of moral sickness which though not contagious is nevertheless of such an nature as to make every one sick of the person thus afflicted.
A cheerful man is a world of pleasure in himself; his soul is illumined by the light of goodness, affableness, and of whatever constitutes human perfection. When brought in contact with the sullen, morose and hard-to-please individual, what an effect is immediately produced! extremes meet! The brightness of day and the darkness ol night come face to face, yet one does not change; one does not expel or absorb the other.
This contrast may be a little overdrawn. But let this be as it may, it is certain that he who is as sullen and sad as a wintry day—who could not laugh if he were paid for it, will never accomplish much of good, and will always be a sore to those who may be so ill-fated as to be obliged to come in daily contact with him.
We all, it is true, have our faults, shortcomings and failings, and this arises frpm the fact that human nature is human, no matter how we view it. We are prone to be haughty, overbearing, and sometimes anything but good-natured. The charity of Christ is wanting in most of us, and the love that He would have us bear towards one another is, for the most part, repudiated or disregarded. We like to be called and considered cheerful and good, but how careless we are about observing those points that render us eligible to such a title! Pride, and a love of self, form such a prominent feature in our character that whatever else of good may be in us never comes to the surface, but is kept at the bottom, weighed down by the strength and power of these two powerful giants—giants that cause a world of misery both to ourselves and to others.
No man can be constituted judge of himself. Why, then, are men so prone to consider everything they say and do to be just what ought be said and done—and never allow a second party to give advice on questions of even the greatest moment ? It is simply an over amount of confidence in themselves, and a want of sufficient confidence in others.
The man, then, that is not cheerful is not good-uatured; and he who is not good-natured and respectful of every good quality that may be seen in his neighbor must be full of self, and so full, too, that he cannot treat his fellowman in an affable and kindly manner: hence, seldom does he bestow upon him that mark of a generous and loving soul —that index of a good heart—a cheerful smile.
The Betuni of Very Bev. E. Sorin, SuperiorGeneral; C. S. C., to Notre Dame.
The long absence of Father Sorin from his young friends at Notre Dame had caused many heartaches, and his safe return was a source of such general unaffected joy as was never before noted here. Every one among the Community, Faculty and students showed his appreciation of the founder of this now famous institution of learning, and the hearty shake of the hand with which he was greeted was only a slight index of the feeling of thankfulness for his safe return, and gladness for the positive knowledge that for some years at least Notre Dame is still to be his home.
j The early hour of Father Sorin’s arrival did not deter the students to tear themselves from the agreeable slum-■bers of the morning hour, for when the bells announced his arrival in the avenue they sprang suddenly from their
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	583
downy couches, made very hasty toilets, and rushed rather than hastened to meet him, so as to show by their pres-I	ence their love for their benefactor. The bells rang out
i	a peal more joyous than usual, the Band excelled itself,
and the addresses of welcome were feelingly read by H W. B. McGorrisk, F. Grever, and G. Tourtillotte. Mr. . McGorrisk’s address was particularly admired, both for its heartfelt sentiments, clothed in well chosen words, and for the earnestness of the reader, who at times was nearly । overcome by the intensity of his feelings. Father General |	returned thanks for the welcome tendered, retired to the
।	beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart to re-
» turn to the great Father of all praises for His watchfulness during the dangerous journey across the sea, and afterwards withdrew to the Presbytery.
On such an occasion as this “rec ” was of course in order, and during the day the students amused themselves in 1 various ways, and waited rather impatiently for the coming of evening. To the St. Cecilians was granted the honor, of furnishing an evening’s Entertainment for Father i* Sorin and his fellow-voyagers. The reputation of this . Society for doing everything well is so high that great things were expected from them, and most nobly did they realize the expectations of their friends. At 7, p. m., Washington Hall was comfortably filled by students and visitors, and before the Exhibition was under full headway the same hall was crowded. The Band played the ’ opening piece; and in this, as well as in other selections during the evening, it showed careful training and attention to instruction, playing in a manner that brought forth merited applause.
After the Band had ceased to play, Master M. J. Burns । > stepped to the footlights and read an address to Very Rev. Father Sorin. The reading of the address was splendid, but the less said about the subject-matter the better. We are sure that Master Burns is too good and humble a boy r to believe half what he did say. His animadversions on the Seniors and Minims were anything but friendly or charitable; but we think it must have been intended as a huge joke. We do not doubt that the' Juniors are good, very good—splendid fellows; but we, at the same time, do know that a more industrious, well-behaved set of Seniors than the present ones never graced the Campus of Notre Dame, I or of any other institution; consequently, Master Burns should not have ascribed all the good to the Juniors, and the evil to his larger brothers. It was not fair, and we hereby enter our solemn protest against his wild assertions. * Festina lentb is a good proverb, and he should have heeded its warning a little.
Master W. J. McCarthy followed Master Burns, in a r declamation well chosen and well rendered. After this Master A. Tinley came forward and declaimed a beautiful piece. Master Tinley has a good voice, graceful gestures and good memory, and, without fear of contradiction, we ► can say that his address was good, very good, and was, perhaps, as fine a piece of elocution as was ever heard on the stage of Washington Hall. The Orchestra then played ~ an overture, and did it well. There was more accord between the players and their music, and more hearty resolve to do well, than was noticeable in their last appearance, and the result was that they deserved: the ap-j plause they received.
After the overture from the Orchestra, the curtain rose, and the beautiful play of “The Malediction” began. But before speaking of it, we must not omit to remark that 5
much skill and taste were shown in the adornment of the stage, which, up to the time of the play, looked like some fairy grotto, so beautifully was it set off with pictures, Chinese lanterns, and other things, too numerous to mention. The costumes were also extremely rich and handsome, and set off their wearers to advantage. Never before was “ The Malediction ” so well rendered here, and although each character was not a star, yet all may feel proud of the general success of the Entertainment.
M. J. Burns as “ De Gomez ” was good, although lacking somewhat in the ability to express variety of feeling. W J. McCarthy as “Alonzo’’ had a very difficult part to sustain, but did well. Every one knows that to personate insanity is no easy task, and we think that in the crazy scene Master McCarthy was entirely too tame. In the other scenes, however, he was splendid. Master Tinley made a good deal out of his part, the “Conspirator,” although the rendering of his declamation told heavily on his voice. J. Gibbons as “ Tarik ” was a fair representative of the Christian-hating Mahommedan, and thus sustained hia part to the satisfaction of all; while E. Otis was a fine specimen of the truthful, charitable, faithful peasant. The fun of the evening depended on E. Orrick as “Pedrillo,” the man of many words and much boasting. He rendered his part splendidly, and, in our opinion, bore off the honors of the occasion. F. Quinn made a very lively “ Fabricio” ; while A. Caren and W. M. Thompson acted their parts in a way to show care and study. The others had but little to say, but much to do, and the latter was done attentively, and consequently added to the success of the principal acting. All in all, the evening’s Entertainment was a complete success, and the St. Cecilians of 1880 rank favorably with their predecessors of other years.
But what shall we say of Prof. J. A. Lyons, the accomplished director of this well organized Society ? The fact is, anything that Prof. Lyons is at the head of is sure to be a success. He has one principle in regard to plays and entertainments, and he follows it without fear. We congratulate Prol. Lyons, then, on the success of the 14th of May evening’s Entertainment, and hope to see him bring many, many more plays upon the boards of Washington Hall, for when he is conductor thereof everything is well
Personal.
—	W. J. Rea, ’79, is visiting friends in California.
—	Kirk Reynolds, ’78, is doing well at Cassapolis, Mich.
—	J. Krost, ’78, is studying medicine at Crown Point, Ind.
—	N. H. Van Namee (Commercial), ’77, is farming near Elkhart, Ind.
—	John Cooney, ’77, is in the grocery business, Cleveland, Ohio.
—	M. Gustine, Prep., ’76, is attending school at Grand Rapids, Mich.
—	Wm. Abel, ’49, continues to follow mercantile pursuits at San Jose, Cal.
—F. W. Lang, ’79, is in business in Chicago, and expects to visit his Alma Mater next Commencement.
—“ Alek” Rietz, so well and favorably remembered by the Juniors of ’79 and ’80, spent some days at Notre Dame during the past week.
—Rev. Father Reze, C. S. C., arrived here from France on the 14th. He is to remain at Notre Dame in the capacity of General Secretary of the Order.
—Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., President of Notre
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University, lias been elected by the General Chapter Provincial oi the Province of Indiana.
—Rev. P. J. Franciscos, C. S. C., goes, hy order of the General Chapter, to New Orleans, as Vicar of the South. He will be assisted by Rev. P. J. Johannes, C. S. C.
—Frank Reeves, who attended Notre Dame for the past year, has been called home on important business. He, however, expects to be here again by next September.
—Our young friend P. Fletcher, of St. Louis, was called home a tew days ago by the sad news that his father had been mortally wounded by the Indians in New Mexico. Master Fletcher has the sympathy of the Faculty and students of Notre Dame.
—Very Rev. Father Benoit, Vicar-General of the diocese of Fort Wayne, accompanied by Rev. Father Hartney, visited Notre Dame during the past week. Father Benoit and Father Hartney are, we are pleased to say, in good health. We hope tnese Rev. gentlemen will visit us soon again, as Notre Dame has no dearer friends than these good and zealous priests.
—Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., who for a number of years filled the office ot Master of Novices at Notre Dame, has been appointed Provincial oi the Province of Canada. Father Louage left for his new field of labor on last Monday morning. Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. 0., now on the mission at Leadville, Dakota Territory, will replace him at Notre Dame, and will, very likely, iulfil this important office to the satisfaction ot all concerned.
—Right Rev. Monseigneur Montes d’Oca, Bishop of Tamaulipas, Mexico, and one oi Very Rev. Father Sorin’s most respected friends, visited the University last Sunday. By invitation oi President Corby, the Bishop, Fathers Sorin, Granger, and Reze dined with the students in the Seniors’ reiectory. Monseigneur is a member ot one of the wealthiest and most influential of the noble families of Mexico. He finished his studies at the Propaganda in Rome, and was ior a time a member of the Papal Zouaves. Besides being a great linguist, he has translated Virgil’s 2Eneid into elegant Spanish verse, and he is now engaged in doing a like service for Homer’s Iliad.
Local Items.
—Hard study is now all the go.
—Look out for the triple competitions.
—The singing at the May devotions is good.
—The military parades in the evening are very fine.
—The tableaux at the Entertainment the other evening were excellent.
—The recreations after supper are simply delightful. So the boys say.
—The singing on last Sunday at Solemn High Mass was unusually fine.
—The May sermons are, so far, found to be both edifying and instructive.
—Some needed improvements are being made at the Professed House.
—Washington Hall never looked better than on the evening oi the 14th.
—Bro. Robert’s flower-garden is truly wonderful, both in conception and design.
—The laying out of the grounds in the front of the College is fast progressing.
—“The Malediction” was tastefully put upon the boards of Washington Hall.
—The Minims are the happiest and most pleasant of all the students at Notre Dame.
—Mr. Bonney, the photographer, may be found at his usual stand on Wednesdays.
—Competitions next week will be in the Course of Modern Languages and Fine Arts.
—By all accounts, the June examinationswill be even stricter than those of February last. '
—All were enthusiastic over the safe arrival of Very Rev. Father Sorin and his companions.
—It is rumored that the members of the Boat Club are going to have their annual picnic soon.
—The costumes used at the late Exhibition are spoken of by all as being exceedingly rich and beautiful.
—It is about time that the various Societies were thinking of choosing representatives for “ Society Day.”
—A heavy move was made here recently. The scene of operation lay between-------, close to the lower lake.
—A large number of Juniors were out fishing on the morning of Wednesday last. They had the usual luck.
—A large and appreciative audience witnessed the St. Cecelian Entertainment on the evening of the 14th inst.
—A new style of hats is now iu vogue. They are shaped like a boat, an umbrella, and a Chinese lantern.
—The Band redeemed itself at the late Entertainment. The music rendered by it on this occasion was excellent.
—J. B. Berteling delivered an interesting and instructive lecture before the Class of Ancient History on Saturday last.
—Some important changes have been made at Notre Dame by the General Chapter. They will be noticed in due time.
—“ Our Boys ” was beautifully declaimed by W. J. McCarthy at the Entertainment in honor of Father Sorin’s arrival.
—The boat crews practice every evening for the coming race in June. Both crews seem to be pretty evenly matched.
—The Juniors are getting very proud of late. So one would be inclined to judge Irom thier address on the evening of the 14th.
—It looks a little like old times to have Very Rev. Father Granger with us again. We hope God may spare him to us for years to come.
—The month of May has, so far, shown itself both pleasant and agreeable. Not one prediction of our weather prophet in regard to it has been fulfilled.
—Work in the various shops is now quite brisk. One director declares that he is “very busy”; yet, notwithstanding, nevertheless, he is constantly waiting.
—Notre Dame surroundings are beginning to assume their beautiful aspect. To one standing on the banks of the St. Joseph lake the scenery is most magnificent.
—All are unanimous in bestowing praise upon the St. Cecilian Exhibition of last week. Prof. J. A. Lyons deserves special praise for the excellent manner in which the whole was rendered.
—The Juniors have evidently stirred up the mettle of their elder brothers, the Seniors, by their sweeping address at the St. Cecilia Entertainment on the evening ot the 14th inst. The result is anxiously looked for.
—The 26th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held May 17th. Readings and declamations were given by J. Larkin, A. Conyne, J. Devitt, F. Becker, N. Nelson, and E. Croarkin.
—Our horticulturist thinks we have to make restitution for the free manner in which we have dealt with his reputation as a “barer” of the first wata. We may do so, however, but it will be likely on the Greek calends.
—Our friend John is now at ease, and, notwithstanding the warm nights, sleeps soundly. The reason of all this is, he won’t have to wait until the 30th. How good, how reasonable, and how kind is our esteemed President!
—All speak highly of the Entertainment given by the St. Cecilians in honor of Very Rev. Father Sorin’s arrival, and consequently these young gentlemen have good reason to feel proud over the success which attended their efforts.
—The Band and Orchestra now rehearse in the new Music Hall. We are glad of this, as heretofore these organizations were in too close proximity with our sanctum, thus causing at intervals a dislocation of our right ear/
—We would wish to see the grounds in front of the University building put in complete order as soon as pos-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
585
sible. Commencement Day will be on us in a short time, hence the necessity of having things look as they should.
—The Minims study-hall is now what may be called a beauty. No wonder the Minims are smart; if others had such a beautiful place to study they would be smart too. So our young friends of the Junior Department are inclined to say.
—A beautiful statue of St. Augustine was brought from France by Very Rev. E. Sorin. It will adorn one of the niches in the College rotunda, and thus increases the already large number of works of art that may be found at Notre Dame.
—Tutor in Grammar class: “Master-----------, give us the various uses of “ at ” and “ in ” according to Bullion.” Prep., excited, and in a state of mental perturbation: “I could find out, Professor, by writing to---. He is wonderful for distinctions!”
—A large donation of books to the Lemonnier Circulating Library has been received from D. and J. Sadlier & Co., publishers, etc., 31 Barclay St., New York. For this generous act, D. and J. Sadlier & Co., have the grateful thanks of the College authorities.
—On the Feast of Pentecost, Solemn High Mass was celebrated at 10 o’clock a. m. in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. Very Rev. A. Granger was celebrant, assisted by deacon and subdeacon. A powerful sermon was preached by President Corby.
—Several large stone urns for natural flowers have been placed in that quarter ot the Community cemetery where rest the remains of Fathers Lemonnier, Gillespie, and Lilly These vases are to be filled with the choicest plants by the members of the Societies over which these Fathers presided for several years. .
—At the 30th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Phlio-mathean Association, held Saturday evening, May the oih, a unanimous vote ot thanks was tendered to Brothers Leander, Simon and Hugh, as also to Prof. Edwards, for favors rendered in connection with the late Entertainment. Public readers this week are: J. A Gibbons, M. J. Burns, C. A. Tinley, F. A. Quinn, E. C. Orrick, A. A. Caren and W. M. Thompson.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., and founder of Notre Dame University, was welcomed back from France by the officers and students ot that institution on last Friday with becoming ceremonies, in which our citizens most heartily joined. On the evening of this day, the 22d annual summer exercise ot the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of the above-named University took place at Washington Hall. The Entertainment was complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sorin. There was a full attendance.—South-Bend Herald.
—A Senior prefect has the following to say in regard to a local in our last issue about the training of the mockingbird lately added to the ornithological collection ot uie Juniors’ study-hall: “The Senior prefect mentioned in your last issue is well aware of his want of vocal ability, and said knowledge prevents him from making his misfortune a prolific source of excruciating tortures to others. He may, it needs be, ‘get another man ’ to tram the bird; but it is certain that the last one he would apply to would be the writer of the ‘local’ in question, knowing how eagerly he would accept, and also knowing • that the second state of that bird would be worse than the first.’ ”
—Very Rev..Father General has presented the students of the Minim Department with a beautiiul statue representing the Holy Child Jesus when twelve years old. Tne colors are so chaste, the features so lifelike and natural, that all who have seen it say it is perfect as a work of art, and beautifully reflects the stamp of the ininutaole and exquisite taste of Paris. Of course the Minims are de-hguted with this splendid gift—which they doubly prize as coming from the hand of their venerated Patron. But this is not the only gift presented the Minims by Very Rev. Father General, who has many times before given them such proofs of afiection as show that they are his “ Benjamins.”
—The exercises in honor of the return of the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, from Europe, concluded last evening with the 22d annual summer Entertainment of
the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, under the direction of Prof. Lyons. The Entertainment was of a literary and dramatic character, and attracted and pleased a large audience. The play was “ The Malediction,” a drama so well known and so generally admired as to need no further comment. The young gentlemen who assumed the characters showed fine conceptions of them, and in voice and gesture won the approbation of all. This was especially true of the acting of Mr. Tinley, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Orrick and Mr. Burns. Mr. M. J. Burns delivered a splendid address to Father Sorin, and Mr. W. J. McCarthy and Mr. C. A. Tinley contributed declamations, which received the hearty applause their delivery merited. The Kev. Father expressed himself much pleased with the efforts of the students, and spoke of the pleasure he had experienced in being at Notre Dame once more.—South-Bend Register.
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, arrived at 5 o’clock this morning from Europe, having been absent since the loth of last October. He was accompanied by Fathers Condon, Louage and Granger, who have been with him in Europe since the first oi April, Father Reze, who comes from France to fill an important office in the Church in America, and a celebrated vocalist, Mlle. God-bert, who has been engaged as an instructor for St. Mary’s Academy. The joy at Notre Dame over Father Sorin’s return was manifested by the perfect ovation with which he was received on reaching the College at 5.30 o’clock. The students were drawn up in a line down tne avenue and cheered lustily as the party drove up, the church bells sounding a musical accompaniment. The University Band played several choice selections, and addresses of welcome were read by Mr. W. B. McGorrisk, Mr. F. Grever, and Mr. G. Tourtillotte. Father Sorin responded in a brief, but hearty manner, expressing the gratification he felt at being so warmly welcomed, and retired for breakfast. Tne students gave him the College cheer, and dispersed. Tuis evening, at 7 o’clock, a grand literary and dramatic Entertainment will be given in Washington Hall, in honor oi the return of Father Sorin, under the direction of Prof. Lyons, wmcn insures us excellence. Friends ot the University are cordially invited to attend. —South-Bend Register, May 14th.
—Cordial Reception Given to Very Rev. Father Sorin on His jketurn From Sunny France: At sunrise inis morning, tne resonant tones oi tne great bell at Notre Dame reveroeraieu up and down the Sc. Joseph valley, and excited inquiry as to what nad happened at Notre Dame. It was a pean of rejoicing over tne sate return from France ot Very Rev. Father Sorin, SuperiorGeneral and iounder oi Notre Dame. He arrived on tne eany morning train from the East, and was immediately driven out to Notre Dame. Father Sorin and party, on reaching the grounds, found the students drawn up in open ranks on either side of the avenue to welcome nun home after his absence of several months in his native country, la belle France. After the Band had discoursed several pieces, welcoming addresses were made by W. McGorrisk, F. Grever, and G. Tourtillotte, students at the University. Each address was a model of composition, and delivered with a feeling which snowed what a warm place the venerable founder of Notre Dame has in the hearts of its students. At the close of the addresses there were informal greetings before the routine duties of the day began. To-nignt, the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association oi which Prof. Lyons is President, will give the 22d annual summer Entertainment, complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sorin, in Washington Hall, commencing at 7 o’clock. Father Sorin brought with him from France besides Father Reze, Mlle. Godbert, an accomplished vocalist, who will teach at St. Mary’s Academy, and who will be a valuable accession to the already superior faculty of this institution.—South-Bend Tribune, May lath.
—John Allyn, publisher, 30 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.,j has the sincere thanks oi the officers oi the University for the books which he has generously presented to the College Library. Tne donation comprises the following classical works: A Treatise on Logic, or, the Laws of Pure Thought—Francis Bowen; The Metaphysics oi Sir William Hamilton, Arranged and Abridged ior the Use of Colleges and Private Students—Francis Bowen; Domosthenes, on The Crown—W. Tyler; Demosthenes, Plyntinacs, and
586
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Philippics—W. Tyler; Selections from the Greek Historians—0. M. Pernaid; Selections from Herodotus and Thucydides—R. H. Mather; Plato’s Apology and Crito— W. Wagner; Plato’s Phsedo—W. Wagner; Aristophanes, The Acharnians, and the Knights—W. Green; Aristophanes, The Clouds—C. Felton and W. Goodwin; Aristophanes, The Birds—C. Felton; Sophocles, Electra—R. Mather; Homer’s Iliad, I, H, and III books—A. Sigwick and K. Keep; Ancient Greece—R. F. Fennell; Macleaene’s Horace —B. Chase; Macleane’s Juvenal—Hart; Juvinalis Satirae XIII—G. Simcox; Selections from Tacitus—J. Champlin; The First Latin Writer—Bennett; Easy Latin Storiesae Bennett; Ancient Rome—R. F. Pennell; The Latin Subjunctive—R. F. Pennell. The above series of classics are the most elegantly and suitably gotten up text-books of Latin and Greek that we know of. They are invariably preceded by a preface giving the student a fair introduction to the author which he is about to read, and the English notes are of such a kind as to thoroughly elucidate the text, and give the student all the necessary information to fully understand and thoroughly appreciate the piece which he is reading.
—Last evening, at Washington Hall, Notre Dame, the 22d annual summer exercises of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association, of Notre Dame University, took place. The Entertainment was complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sorin, who had just returned from France yesterday morning, and was witnessed by a full house. The exercises began with an opening march by the University Band, followed by the address of the evening, by M. J. Burns. It was heartily applauded. After this were declamations by W. J. McCarthy and C. A. Tinley; the former rendering, “Our Boys,” by Oliver Wendell Holmes, and the latter N. P. Willis’ “ Parrhasius and the Painter.” Mr. McCarthy’s elocution was faultless, and stamps him as one of the coming orators. Mr. Tinley distinguished himseif by his graceful gestures and ease of delivery. Next on the programme was “ The Malediction,” a drama in three acts. Previous to its presentation, E. A. Otis read a witty prologue that brought down the house. There were thirtyseven characters in the play, and, generally speaking, all of them acquitted themselves with credit as individuals and to the Society to which they belong. Those worthy of special mention are E. 0. Orrick, E. A. Otis, J. A. Gibbons, C. A. Tinley, W. J. McCarthy and M. J. Burns. Their acting and stage presence was so far above that of amateurs as to excite the most favorable comment. Mr. Orrick has in him the elements of a good comedian, and kept the house in roars of laughter. At the close of the piece, which was perfectly put upon the stage, under the personal superintendency of Prof. Lyons, President Corby returned thanks to the students, and slated that the remarks of Father Sorin would be reserved for a future time, owing to his great fatigue, having been up for three nights travelling.—South-Bend Tribune,'May 15th.
—On the morning of the 14th inst., Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., accompanied by Very Rev. A. Granger, Rev. Fathers Reze, Louage, and Condon arrived at Notre Dame from Paris, France, where they had been attending the General Chapter of the Order to which they belong. For some time previous, ample preparations were being made tor the proper reception of these gentlemen; hence it was that on the morning aforesaid the University Band, the two Military Companies, under the command of Captain Cocke, together with all the students of the three Departments, were on the road, and, in all becomingness, marched down Notre Dame avenue to meet the honored arrivals. But, as Very Rev. Father Sorin and those accompanying him, came a little sooner than anticipated, the students did not have to march far before the carriages were in sight; and then, amid the solemn peals of the “ big ” bell, and the beautiful strains of “ Home, Sweet Home,” Very Rev. Father Sorin passed through the ranks of the students until he arrived at the portico of the main building, where, after the Band had ceased to play, and the peals of the great bell had died away, Mr. McGorrisk, of Des Moines, Iowa, stepped forward and read to Father Sorin a well written address in the name of the students of the Senior Department Mr. McGorrisk’s address was full of unction and life, and his allusions to Father Sorin’s many trips across the seas, and the joy which now filled all hearts on
his safe arrival, etc., were beautiful in the extreme. Neat and appropriate addresses were also read by Frank Grever, of- Cincinnati, Ohio, in behalf of the Juniors, and by George Tourtillotte in behalf of the Minims. To. these
; addresses Father Sorin replied in his own beautiful way; thanked the students for the sentiments ot kind regard which they expressed for him; that it was with deep pleasure that he met them all that morning; and assured them that though in France he did not forget Notre Dame or her students. At the conclusion of Very Rev. Father Sorin’s remarks the College cheer was given. In the evening, an Entertainment, complimentary to Very Rev. E. Sorin, was given in Washington Hall, by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomalhean Association, for a full account of which see another column.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, F. Brennan, F. M. Beil, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, G. Donnelly, A Dobson, tL Deehan, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, I. J. Git-tings, G. Hams, W. Hesse, J no. Hunt, R. E. Keenan, C. H. Karins, T. Kavanagh, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B Larkin, E. Lynch, F. Lynch, K. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, P. McCormick, E. Molitor, C. Moore, T. A Mattingly, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, L. Mathers, J. R. Marlett, J. Noonan, G. Nester, L J. Newton, R. C. O’Brien, G. Pike, L. N. Proctor, W. Ryan, O. Randolph, T. W. Simms, J. Solon, P. F. Shea, L. Stitzel, J. Smith, F. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, A Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Browne, A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A A. Bodine, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, M. G. Butler, G. C. Castanedo, F. L. Carter, A Caren, A M. Coghhn, L. W. Coghlin, W. S. Cleary, J. D. Coleman, S. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, J. E, Davis, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Fleming, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, J. W. Guthrie, F. W. Greonewald, E. F. Gall, A J. Hintze, J. A. Herrmann, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuan, L. S. Keen, R. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, F. McPnilhps, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. Mc-Cartny, J. E. McCarthy, F. P. Morrisson, P. P. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neil, C. F. Perry, F. B. Phillips, C F. Rielz, F. J. Rettig, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. L. Kose, C. F. Kose, A. M. Kohrback, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, K. C. Simms, R. M. Parrett, C. Schneider, C. A. Tinley, C. H. Thiele, M. A Vedder.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. L Smith, H. P. Dunn, C. C. Echlin, D. Taylor, G. E. Tour-,tiliotte, G. P. Van Mounck, W. M. Olds, J. J. Henry, G. C. Knight, F. Mattes, H. A Kitz, E. A Howard, G. Woodson, J. M. Courtney, J. A Campau, A Van Mounck, H. C. Snee, W. H. Hanavin, A. A Moiauder, W. Ayres, C. Metz, J. A. Kelly, L. J. Young, H. Metz, J. E. Chaves, W. V. O’Malley, W. Miller, H. J. Ackerman, E. C. Campau, C. Young, E. N. O’Donnell, J. E. Johnson, F. B. Farrelly.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE. ■
J. B. McGrath, A J. Burger, J. P. Kinney, J. B. Berteling, F. W. Bloom, W. B. McGorrisk, J Noonan, D. Harrington, R. Anderson, H. Wathen, M. McEniry, R. O’Brien, R. Stewart, A Zahm, M. J. Burns, W. J. McCarthy, T. Simms, A S. Rock, F. Grever, E. Orrick, P. Larkin, G. Sugg.
lost of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy----; Latin—J. B. McGrath, F. W. Bloom,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
R O’Brien, M. T. Burns, J. P. Kinney, A J. Burger, D. Harrington, B. J. Claggett, A Zahm; Greek—J. B. McGrath: English Composition—Y. Phillips, D. Danahey, F, Brennan, C. McDermott, E. Otis; Rhetoric—J. Gibbons, W. Thompson, J. Smith, J. O’Neill; English Literature-; Algebra—K. Anderson, A.
Zahm, M. McEniry, W. McCarthy, C. McDermott; Geometry—F. Brennan, M. English, P. Larkin, J. Kurz, R. Anderson, C. Whalen, J.Osher; Surveying—W. McGorrisk, A Zahm, M. McEniry, R. Stewart, E. Orrick; Logic—R. O’Brien; Ethics—R. Campbell, D. Donahoe, W. McGorrisk. F. Wall; Botany—R. Anderson, M. J. Burns; Physiology—R. Anderson; Zoology—M. Burns, B. Stewart; Geology----; Physics----; Chemistry----; Calculus—G. Sugg; Mechanics—G. Sugg; Descriptive Geometry—A. J. Burger; Astronomy—F. W. Bloom; Machine Drawing—R. Anderson; Architectural Drawing—L. N. Proctor; Trigonometry—M. English; History—J. Berteling,R. Campbell, C. Van Dusen, P. Larkin, A. Rock.
The following names were omitted last week from the List of Excellence in the Commercial Department. Reading and Orthography—T. Devitt, J. D. Coleman, J. Gordon, J. Boose, J. Devitt, A. Hintze, G. Castanedo, T. McPhillips; Bible History— J. Scanlan, R. Fleming, A. Coghlin, J. Gibbons, G. Foster, T. Flynn, F. McPhillips.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—A beautifully bound copy of the Ave Maria, Vol. XV has been presented to the Academy parlor by the Rev. Editor.
—In honor of Very Rev. Father General’s return the young ladies are pardoned delinquencies and are this week on the Tablet, par excellence.
—Visitors: Rev. Father Rosenbaum, Chicago; Mr. John Ryan, Joliet, Ill.; Miss O’Neill (Class ’78), Peoria, Hl.; L. L. Silverthorn, M. D., Charleston, III.; H. C. Cole, M. D., Kokomo; Mr. Arbuthnott, Mr. Smith. Mr. Jacobs, Mr. Jaeger, Chicago; Mrs. Hersog, Mrs. Cost, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. Drake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr. Murphy, Cincinnati; Mr. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.; Mr. Condon, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. Lanron, Paris, France.
—Right Rev. Mgr. Months d’Oca, D. D., Bishop of Tamaulipas, Mexico, honored the Academy by a visit on Pentecost. He was accompanied by Very Rev. Father Sorin, Very Rev. Father Granger, and Rev. Father Condon, of the University. After Vespers the Bishop attended the Academic reunion, and distributed the weekly notes, as also the “ Gifts of Pentecost.” Misses Ewing and Rosing assisted, by handing the cards on which the “ Gifts ” and “Fruits” were printed to Monseigneur Montes d’Oca, who in turn presented them to the pupils. Addresses of welcome were read—in French by Miss Rosing, in German by Miss Usselman, and in English bv Miss Cavenor. At the close of the distribution the Rt. Rev. Bishop repaired to the Vocal Hall, where the Vocal Class sang a chorus accompanied on the piano by Miss Keenan, and Miss Galen played a polonaise Op. 40. Miss Godbert, the distinguished pianist and vocalist, who has just arrived from Paris for the purpose of entering the Novitiate, and consecrating her rare talents and her life to God in religion, sang Air deg Notes de Figaro (Mozart), Air des Dragons de Vidars (Maillart), and Habanera Eqpagnola. In the church she sang 0 Saluta/ris (Lefebure Wely), Hymns d VEucha-riste (Weber).
—On Thursday the good news of the arrival in New York city of Very Rev. Father General was received. In the evening, at the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament and May Devotions, the Te Deum was sung in thanksgiving. At five o’clock, on Friday morning, the jubulant ringing of Notre Dame’s full chime of musical bells announced that with his companions Very Rev. Father General had at last reached home. Though he was expected at St. Mary’s on the afternoon of that day the fatigue of the journey prevented his coming till the following morning. At about $ o’clock a. m., Saturday, the pu
pils, dressed in their uniforms, went out to meet him. Between the double ranks of happy, welcoming faces, he passed with his companions, the Very Rev. Father Reze, Assistant-General, Very Rev. Father Corby, President of Notre Dame, Rev. Father Condon, the Chaplain and Assistant Chaplain of St. Mary’s, down to the priest’s residence, and from thence to the various points where his presence was expected. At about ten o’clock, the Vocal Hall, which had been appropriately adorned for the reception of Very Rev. Father General and his Council, was the scene of the following
Programme: Solo, Dnett, Chorus..........................Mendelssohn
Vocal Class. “ErlKonig”..................................Schubert, Liszt
Miss Keenan. Address.................................Minim	Department
Song—‘ ‘ Why are Roses Red ? ” .................Melnotts
Miss Gordon Address—Juniors.............................Agnes Dillon
Song—“ Lost Birdling ”..........................Centemeri
Miss Kirchner. Address—Seniors.............................Miss McGrath
Song—“ Carnival de Venice”....................J. Benedict
Miss Silverthorn Polonaise Op. 40..................................Chopin
Miss Galen Chorus............................................Fobert
Vocal Class.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
honorably mentioned in the
Graduating Class—Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Keenan, Hambleton, Ewing, Maloney, Neteler. 1st Senior Class—Misses Danaher, Ryan, Cavenor, Sullivan, Hackett, Quinn, Galen, Kirchner, Rosing, A Ewing Farrell, Gordon, Buck, Ward, Semmes. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Walsh, Dillon. Llyod, Claffey, Winston, 8. Smith, Mitchell, Cronin Neu, Otto. 3d Sr. Class—Misses A Dillon, Dallas, Feehan, Fitzgerald, Bruser, De Lapp, Fox, Julius, McMahon, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Bischoff, Gall, C. Wathen, English, Loeber. 1st Preparatory Class—Misses Zahm, Keys, Murphy, Simms, Price, Lancaster, Dessaint, Orr, Butts, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Baroux, C. Campbell, French, O’Connor, L. Populorum, Van Namee, Campbell, Hackley, Gavan. 2d Prep. Class—Misses Horner, Saloman, Thompson, Rasche, . Swayze, S. Semmes, Crummey, Hammond, Fishburne, Papin, Lemontey. Casey, Cleghorn, Wurzburg, Reinhard, Keena, Wall, Purdy, Halloran, A. Smith, McFadden, Leyden. 3d Prep. Class—Misses McCormick, Brown, Kreig, McCoy, Edelen, * Reynolds, Cox, Joseph, Moll. Jr. Preparatory Class—Misses Ginz, Duncan, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Carter, C. Ryan, G. Taylor, Legnard, McCloskey, Chirhart, E. Ryan, E. Populorum, Reutlinger, Paquette, Barlow. 1st Jr. Class—Misses Knighton, Harrison, Clarke, Jaeger, Hutchison, T. Ewing, E. Papin, Considine. 2d Jr. Class—Miss M. F. Fitzgerald.
french.	‘
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Rosing, Lemontey. 2d Div.— Misses L Semmes, Cavenor, A. Ewing, Neu, S. Wathen. 2d Class—Misses Campbell, Callinan, C. Wathen, Butts, Cox
german.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Saloman, Reinhard, Julius, Horner, Regensburg, Greenebaum. 2d Class—Misses S. Smith, McMahon, C. Hackett, Bischoff Engel, Krieg, Loeber, Cronin. 3d Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Ward, Quinn, A Dillon, Ginz, Reutlinger, C. Campbell, Duncan, Butts. 2dDiv.—Misses S. Semmes, Gibbons, Harrison, Chirhart, Carter, Hutchison, Casey, Moll, Joseph, Moxon, A. Smith.
Tablet of Honor.
FOB POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Keenan, Maloney, Hambleton, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, A Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, Semmes, Lloyd, Dillon, Neu, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, S. Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Leober, Fitzgerald, De Lapp, Gall, English, Julius, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, McMahon, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Callinan, Campbell, O’Connor, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Price, Dessaint, Baroux, Orr, Regensburg, Greenebaum, Horner, Hammond, Saloman, McFadden, Purdy, Thompson, Reinhard, Rasche, Halloran, Wright, Cleghorn, Leydon, Engel, Wurzburg, Keena, Wall, Swayze, A. Smith, Edelen, Moxon, Reynolds, Cox, McCormick, Brown, Paddock, Krieg, McCoy, par excellence.
588	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Feehan, Fox, C. Campbell, Butts, French, Populorum, Van Namee, Lemontey, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Papin, Crummey, M. Fishburne, McN. Garrity, J. Wells, E. Dallas, Watson, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Kyan, C. Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, 0. Lancaster, Fleming, Duncan, Reutlinger, Chirhart, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, Ginz, Paquette, Clarke, Hutcheson, Harrison, Zimmerman, Fisk, E. rapin, Considine, Jaeeer, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, I. Hackett, B. Garrity, M. F. Fitzgerald, Wilkins, Robinson, M.Baroux, Chaves, Campau,>par excellence.
'W'eeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSE, an excellent Catholic and family newspaper, published every Thursday. Terms, $2.50 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager and Editor, 117 Erie Street, Cleveland, Ohio.	.
THE CATHOLIC COmnWEBIAklN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, or 70.
THE A. V Jil MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western RaUawy, embracing1 under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and- for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’L, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Seclining Chair Solace Cart fa the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and -PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tile Short IJne txt
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands ‘ and Colorado Health Resorts and Minings districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CABS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Chabltok,	J. C. McMmxnr,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn sL, near cor. of Adams, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
589

>
The Lemonnier Library,
EstMished at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, -which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfnlly solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS,
Notbe Dams, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWEL BY. All Kinds ot Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
iAMAM
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport West Liberty, Iowa City.Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent Eldon, Ottumwa. Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianolaand Winterset: Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas city. Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois ana Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel.
for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Care for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with theL. S.4 M.S., andP., Ft. W. 4C. R.Rds.
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with P., C. 4 St. L. R. R.
At La Salle, within. Cent.R.R.
AtPEORlA, with P. P. & J.; P.D.tE.; L B.4 W.; Ill. Mid.; andT.P.SW. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d Sc Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. & St. P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with the B., C.R. 4 N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M. 4 F. D. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R.B.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction,with B.,C. R. & N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR.R.;W., St.L.4 Pac., and C. B. 4Q. R. Rds. _
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. 4 War.: Wab^ St. Louis 4 Pac., and St. L., Keo. 4 N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch., Topeka 4 Santa Fe; Atch. 4 Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. K. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac^ and Kan. Cent R. Rds.
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest
PTLLMA5 BAI. ACE CARS are run throughto PEORIA.BE8 MOUHES. COUNCIL. BLUFFS. KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVES WORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Kock Island Route,’* are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
for information not obtainable at your home ticket oflee. address,
A, KIMBALL.	E. ST. JOHN,
Qen’l Superintendent.
Qen’l Tkt. and Pass’gr Agt,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
A,
(MAIN BUILDING A.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy fanning region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake “S' : Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at ; Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
- The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of	"*
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.	t
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance._
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President;
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O. Indiana. >