Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vic turns; vivo quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI. r
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 23, 1878.
Number 30.
[Selected.]
Endurance.
’Tis bitter to endure the wrong
Which evil tongues and hands commit; The bold encroachments of the strong, •
The shafts of calumny and wit, The scornful bearing of the proud, The sneers and laughter of the crowd.
And harder still it is to bear
The censure of the good and wise, Who ignorant of what you are, Or blinded by the slanderer’s lies, Look coldly on or pass you by In silence, with averted eye.
But when the friends in whom you trust As steadfast as the mountain rock
Fly, and are scattered like the dust, Before misfortune’s rudest shock, Nor love remains to cheer your fall, This is more terrible than all.
Yet even this and these—aye, more, Can be endured, and hope survive;
The noble spirit still may soar, Although the body fail to thrive;
Sorrow and want may wear the frame, Thank God! the soul is still the same.
Hold up your head, then, child of grief, .
Nor longer to the tempest bend;
For soon or late must come relief—
The coldest, darkest life will end.
Within the heart, hope never dies;
Trust on! your day-star yet shall rise.
Conscious of purity and worth,
You may with calm assurance wait The tardy recompense of earth!
And e’en should justice come too late To soothe the spirit’s homeward flight, Still Heaven, at last, the wrong shall right.
—On one occasion a poor woman applied to Pius IX when Cardinal Archbishop of Imola for alms, and her distress was so evident that he wished to relieve her; but he searched in vain for any money. Taking a silver dish from his table, he told her to pawn it at the Monte di Pieta, and obtain means to relieve her wants. “I can at any time redeem it,” said the good Cardinal. His attendant soon missing the article, made search in vain, and came to report that it had been stolen; the Cardinal’s confusion betrayed his secret, and his attendant knew by experience that the piece of plate had been sacrificed at the call of charity.	'
Thucydides.
BY L. J. EVERS. .
Thucydides, the famous historian of the Peloponnesian War, was born in the year before Christ four hundred and seventy-one, thirteen years after Herodotus and three years before Socrates. He was of a very noble and opulent family, but some of his biographers tell us that his ancestors were not of the “very first” rank. Others contradict this, since he was of the same stock as Miltiades. He was by birth an Athenian. It would be too long a process to trace his ancestors from those of Miltiades, for the proofs in support of this assertion are too strong to be doubted. Plutarch, in his life of Cimon, directly asserts it. A monument of the descendants of the Thracian kings was to be seen for a long time after his death in Coele at Athens, and among the many names inscribed on it is that of Olorus, which some historians averred to have been that of Thucydides’ father. Thucydides in the fourth book of his history calls it Olorus. Such was the family from which Thucyd* ides was descended. His pedigree might even be traced from the gods, since that of Militiades is traced from JEacus. Cicero in his Orator says of him, “though he had never compiled a history, his name would still live, he was so honorable and noble.” His education, no doubt, was such as might be expected from the splendor -of his birth, the opulence of his family, and the good taste then prevailing in Athens, the most polished city that then existed or ever yet existed in the world.
It is impossible to give any direct account of his early education, since all that any have written concerning it is merely of a presumptive, though probable opinion. It is said that Anaxagoras was his preceptor in philosophy, since that philosopher was very great at that period. Anaxagoras, the preceptor of Euripides, Pericles, and Socrates, is also said by Marcellinus to have been the preceptor of Thucydides. He also adds, quoting Antyllus as evidence, that “ it was whispered abroad that Thucydides was atheistical, because he was so fond of the theories of anaxagoras, who was generally reputed and styled an atheist.” But we must remember that the Athenians were a very superstitious people; and the solution of an eclipse from natural causes, and investigating the course of nature, were to them sufficient proofs of atheism. He may have been very well versed in the philosophy of Anaxagoras, but his writings show him to have been no atheist, and without doubt no polytheist. By his manner of speaking of the predictions of oracles, it is plain he looked on them as equivocal, or rather insinuates them to be mere forgeries’ To show the singular bent of his genius and a remarkable prognostic of future eminence, the following story is told of

466
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
him when, in his fifteenth year. His father one day brought him to the Olympic games, and on that day Herodotus read his history to the great crowd of Greeks who were assembled to take part in the solemnity. Thucydides listened to him with the utmost attention, and after a short while he burst into tears. “ Childish tears,” some remarked; but they were tears such as few children would shed on such an occasion. Herodotus is said to have complimented Olorus on his having a son who had so great a passion for letters. In about two years after, he had to commence his martial exercises and the study of arms, to be able to share in the defence of his country; for every citizen of Athens was a soldier. At first they had only to serve within the Pirasus and the long walls; but as they advanced in years and skill they were compelled to join in the engagements of more distant lands. Of hig career in foreign conflicts nothing is recorded; but we are sure that he made himself quite proficient in military tactics, since he qualified himself for the great trust of heading at one time the forces of the state. He is said to have been one of the party which was sent to found the colony at Thuria in Italy. The anonymous historian who relates this fact seems to have confounded Thucydides the historian with a statesman of the same name. The second was the son of Milesius, who being a leader in the oligarchical party at Athens, had the ostracism thrown upon him by the interest and popularity of Pericles, which is attributed to Thucydides the historian. His introduction to the history of the war shows him to have been at Athens for many years before it broke out, and not in Italy. He perceived the storm was gathering, and he well’knew the jealousies of the states which composed the Spartan confederacy. He likewise knew the real strength of Athens, and knew all the measures which Pericles had recommended. He himself seems to have been alert for the eruption, ready with his lance to defend, and with his pen to perpetuate the memory to posterity. His own words, “hoping” and “conjecturing,” seem to denote the great earnestness and attention with which he laid down his mind to the wide field of events about to be opened. He longed to become an historian, and now he saw a fine subject for his history. He set about immediately to take notes of all occurrences, to collect the materials, and was resolved to write the history of the Peloponnesian War before it had actually commenced. He was arrived, at the breaking out of the war, to the full vigor and ripeness of his years and understanding; and according to Mr. Dodwell, his chronol-ogist, he was forty years old. We learn from himself that he was an eye-witness of the whole series of events; and that he was ever present at the .transactions of one or the other of the contending parties. At first he watched those at Athens more particularly; but after his exile those of Peloponnesus. He speaks of Pericles as an eye-witness of his conduct, as one who heard him harangue in the assembly, urging the people not to weaken themselves by ill-judged concessions; that the war would surely be, and that they should gallantly exert that naval power which had made other nations tremble, and by which alone they could be saved. The war commences with vigor; the plague'arises, and he himself tells us he felt its effects. Thucydides bore his part in the war, but he gives us very little account of his own doings, for no man of great abilities is less guilty of egotism than Thucydides, since he never mentions himself except when it is absolutely necessary. His patriotism was one of his most remarkable qualities, and whenever he had occasion to harangue his
countrymen on that subject he would sum up his argument in these few lines of Homer:	■
“...............His	sword the brave man draws,
And asks no omen but his country’s cause.”
Brasidas, a Spartan, was at the head of the troops of the Peloponnesians in Thrace. He had made a forced march thither into Thessaly and Macedonia. By his fine deportment and persuasive address, joined to uncommon vigilance and activity, he carried all before him. He at length endeavored to take by storm the important city of Amphipolis, and very nearly succeeded in his undertaking. * Thucydides, who was then in the Isle of Thasus, was immediately sent for, but ere he had arrived, Brasidas formed a negotiation with the Amphipolians and gained admission for his troops. Next the city of Eion, situated a	\
short distance from Amphipolis, was assaulted, but Thucydides had arrived just in time to have his troops stationed	‘
in the city; and Brasidas, seeing this, reteated. One would believe that Thucydides, who had acted so bravely on this occasion, should be thanked and rewarded instead of being reproached and punished, but the people of Athens •	1
thought he merited the last. For not arriving in time to save Amphipolis, Cleon, then a demagogue of the greatest	।
influence at Athens, harangued the people so that Thucyd. ides was stripped of his command and condemned to exile. It is himself who tells us that “it was his recompense to suffer twenty years’ exile for the affair of Amphipolis.” Though wrongly treated, he scorned to become angry with his country. His temperament was in no way choleric or resentful. ' Discharged from the public duties and avocations, he then betook himself to a solitude where he might qualify himself for handing down to posterity those affairs in which he himself was allowed to take no part. He was forty-eight years old, and entirely at leisure to attend to the grand point of his ambition, that of writing the history of the present war. A modern critic, speaking of him, says: “To judge of him from his history, and we have no other means by which to form an ' opinion of him, he must have been all judgment and no passion.” .He never murmured on account of his undeserved punishment. Great souls are congenial, and their thoughts are of a similar cast.	-
“Sweet are the uses of adversity,
Which, like the toad ugly and venomous, Bears yet a precious gem in his head.”	‘
Plutarch calls exile one of the greatest blessings which the Muses can bestow on their favorites, since then they are free to receive their inspirations, and not when they are busied with the affairs of state or war.	•
His exile lasted twenty-years. It commenced in the , eighth year-of the war, 423 B. C. In the year of his restoration from exile there was an amnesty at Athens, after the overthrow of the thirty tyrants by Thrasybulus. Thucydides was then at liberty to return to his native city, but whether he did so or not is uncertain. Twelve years after this event he breathed his last. He was continually during his last days employed in revising and giving a finishing touch to his history, but before he had time to polish the eighth book death came. After his death his works are said to have fallen into the hands of Xenophon, and he for the first made them public. A chasm exists in Grecian history from the time Thucydides stopped to the time Xenophon commenced. Xenophon is a sort of continu-ator of Thucydides, not in a style so lofty and majestic, < but in a style sweeter and more popular. The place' of his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
467
death and interment was most probably at Scaptesyle, in Thrace. Some say it was most probably at Athens, but this is shown not to be so, since at Athens there was a cenotaph erected to him among the Cimonians. All relating to his family is only conjectured, for we have no authentic vouchers, since neither he himself nor any of his cotemporaries mention anything concerning it. To say anything in praise of his history is scarcely necessary, for nearly every one, whether he understands the Greek language or not, has read it, and must have formed his own opinion of it. The fame of his history has increased with its age, for Thucydides, in addition to his predecessors’ powers of description, was a practical statesman, and was the possessor of great political wisdom. The work is written in the Attic dialect, and in a nervous, animated style. “ The descriptions are very concise and rigorous, the sentiments truly noble, and the reflections interspersed through the narrative equally ingenuous and judicious.” His impartiality deserves the highest praise; but in his whole work there is to be found one fault, and that is in dividing it into summers and winters and thereby paying more attention to unity of time than to unity of action. The greatest compliment ever paid to any historian was that which Demosthenes bestowed on the writer. The famous orator was so deeply impressed with the merits of Thucydides that he transcribed his works eight times, and so frequently had he read them that he knew the greater part by rote.
The Ancient Inhabitants of America.
All through the Mississippi valley, Mexico and Central America are found evidences that this country was once inhabited by a people who, far from being mere barbarians like the American Indians, were at least partially civilized, and had no little knowledge of the arts and sciences. In the Mississippi valley we find remains of their works, such as walls evidently enclosures for the defence of towns and cities, foundations for altars, temples, and places of worship.
In Mexico are found the remains of what were once no doubt magnificent cities.
Now those mounds, pyramids, etc., in the Mississippi valley, and the ruins in Mexico, are so constructed as to prove conclusively that the builders of them had at least a primary knowledge of geometry, astronomy and engineering.
In these mounds have been found vases and many other articles, some of them neatly engraved, showing that they had some knowledge of the arts. Small bright tubes which partially serve the purpose of telescopes, leading us to suppose that they had a knowledge of astronomy, have been found. Pieces of cloth also remain, from which it may be inferred that the mound-builders understood its manufacture, and in the old trenches and ruins of Michigan have been discovered mining implements made of metal, and very well constructed.
That the ancient inhabitants of America had also a form of writing is proved by what is still found upon the remains of their ancient edifices in Mexico. This writing is of a symbolical character, and although some parts of it have been deciphered, it still awaits the coming of some person who shall succeed in giving to the world a translation of its full meaning. At least, whether this writing is ever deciphered or not, it remains a proof of the civilization of the ancient inhabitants of America.
It is quite absurd to suppose that the American Indians
had any hand whatever in the construction of the remains above mentioned. In truth, they are as ignorant as we are concerning them.
With regard to the age of those relics of the aboriginal inhabitants it is generally accepted as a fact that they were built at least as far back as the commencement of the Christian era, and it is conjectured by some that they existed long before that period. Although the Indians must have been in the country four or five hundred years pre. vious to its discovery by Columbus, yet they can tell us nothing of the builders of these mounds and ruins; they simply say that they have existed ever since their entrance into the country.
A great many of these mounds were, when the country first began to be occupied by the Europeans, covered with trees, which science enables us to decide were eight or nine hundred years old. There were also, at that time, in these forests the decayed remains of trees, showing that there had been still an older growth.
In the State of Michigan copper miners continually come in contact with old trenches and mines, from which, at some time long past, large quantities of copper have been taken. Growing over these are forests at least seven or eight hundred years old. These trenches and mines, therefore, have not been worked for eight or nine hundred years, and are so extensive, and such quantities of ore have been taken from them, that it must have required three or four hundred years to accomplish so much, and work them to such an extent.
In some of the mounds, which were evidently used as sephulchres, have been found the skeletons of men, which science enables us to determine, with some certainty, to be about two thousand years old.
In Mexico traces of this ancient nation or nations are everywhere found, but as we go either north or south they become less and less frequent, until they disappear entirely. Hence we are safe in supposing that Mexico was the centre and starting-point of ancient American civilization, and that as the population increased they spread out over the country, north and south of them.
There has been a great deal of visionary conjecturing and theorizing as to who these ancient Americans were, aud where they came from, some holding that they were descendants of the “Lost Tribes of Israel,’’ others bringing forward very plausible evidences that this country was in pre-historic times discovered and colonized by the Phoenicians. It is stated and confidently maintained by others that this country was discovered and settled by the Malayans at a time far previous to the Christian era. Another, called the Atlantic theory, one which presents a great many probable and improbable explanations of the subject, is that there once existed a great peninsula extending from Mexico and Central America far across the Atlantic Ocean, filling up entirely the Gulf of Mexico, and either connecting or nearly connecting America and Africa. In this way the upholders of the Atlantic theory claim that America, far back in times hid in the darkness of the past, was peopled, and that afterwards this peninsula was destroyed by a great convulsion of the earth.
All these views of the subject are rather inclined to be visionary, and until they are proved by some conclusive evidence to be true, will not be generally accepted. The theory which at present is really the most practical, is that this country was peopled from Asia by way of the northwest passage.	A. B. C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Public Speaking.
What is more disgusting than to listen to the speeches of those who rant or go through the subject with the rapidity of an express train that does not stop at the chief stations, or of those who bawl, stammer or hesitate ? Yet of this class we have many; eloquent speakers are in a great minority. Yet, after all, the art of public speaking is by no means a difficult thing to be obtained. Eloquence emanates from a careful formation of the natural qualities. All men may not be eloquent speakers: but many in course of time, by self-exertion and culture, may become elegant orators, and all who have voice and common sense may be taught to set forth their views in eloquent and impressive language.
The first thing necessary in public speaking is that a person should have something to say, and the second is that he should say that something well. Therefore it is necessary to consider the matter of a speech, and the manner of its delivery. It is difficult to decide whether the debate or the set speech is the best for intellectual development. In the set speech there is no interruption to the current of ideas, and time is given for full consideration of and the bringing to aid all the appliances which the mind may suggest On fhe other hand the very necessities of debate afford a vital energy which arouses the mind into activity, in order to maintain positions which our adversaries may perchance assail.
Now, the next thing necessary is the matter. In what you have to say, above all things let it be to the purpose. State your sentiments as simply as possible; a great assistance in this will be to lay hold of the subject at once. Let your exordium be in proportion to the quality, length and subject of your speech.	_
At an exhibition, nothing is so annoying as the tuning of the fiddles; so, whether in a speech or a debate, when the speaker spends a long time in tuning himself, as it were, the operation is very wearisome. In order to be clear, it is necessary to be clear. First, know what you want to be determined upon, and, starting with that, lay out your limits, and make your deduction gradually. Commence with the weakest points, and then gradually ascend until you get to the strongest. When you know that you have struck a hard blow, do not repeat, but proceed with the next, and, above all, stop when you have done; that is, when you have said all you could about the subject, do not talk for talk’s sake. Use the plainest and simplest language possible. Never let your words be loftier than your subject. If you employ words “of learned length and thundering sound,” you will only be laughed at by sensible
P. IL
—Twenty-two thousand children have joined the Pio Nono American Catholic Young Folks. Every member recites each day the prayer for our Holy Father. A gold medal has been forwarded to every organizer of a band of 100 and a silver medal to those of twenty.
—The term of “sick man” was originally used with reference to Turkey by the Emperor .Nicholas, the predecessor of Alexander, the present monarch of Russia. In a conversation of Nicholas with the British Minister, Sir George Seymour, in 1854, the Emperor said: “We have on our hands a sick man, a very sick man. It will be a great misfortune, I tell you frankly, if one of those days he should happen to die before the necessary arrangements are all made. But this is not the time to speak to you of that.”
Massinger.
Philip Massinger was born in Salisbury, in the year 1584. His father was for a long time employed in the household of the Earls of Pembroke. Until the year 1603, when he entered the University of Oxford, he appears to have received his education at home. He spent some years an the university,—not long enough, however, to complete his course. About this time he embraced the Roman Catholic faith, and having on that account incurred the displeasure of his friends he was left to his own resources. The Earl even withdrew his patronage, which obliged young Massinger to retire from college. He suffered all these privations rather than sacrifice his convictions, and he continued a Roman Catholic through life.
It seems that even in college young Massinger’s taste turned rather towards literature than to those more important branches embraced in the catalogue. Poetry and romance afforded him a greater charm than logic and philosophy.
It is evident that he lived in great poverty, and he possessed so delicate a constitution that it no doubt prevented him from undertaking any laborious duties by which he could improve his condition. Some passages in his works also give us to understand that he had never been the recipient of any of the royal favors, so profusely lavished on his contemporaries.
Of Massinger’s life we know little, and of his death nothing more than the inscription on his tomb, which is as follows:—“March 20th, 1839-40, buried Philip Massinger, a stranger.”
Massinger is unquestionably entitled to a high place among the Elizabethan dramatists. His most striking excellences are his conceptions of character, a dignity of sentiment, with grace and melody of style: less imaginative and more deficient in wit than others of the secondary dramatists, but inferior to none in refinement and the blending of gentleness with noble, daring pictures of moral beauty. His skill lay especially in depicting the loftier virtues. In his best plays, we are more obliged to admire the fortitude than to feel compassion for the sufferings of the hero. “ Massinger as a tragic writer,” says Hallam, “ appears second only to Shakespeare; in higher comedy I can hardly think him inferior to Jonson.”
The stories of Massinger’s plays are seldom original, but the plots are carefully worked out; there is sometimes, however, a want of unity of effect; a want of harmony between the various parts of the play. His language and versification are wonderfully perfect. His versification combines smoothness and melody with ease and variety to a degree which has never been surpassed; while his style is clear and unaffected, but at the same time impressive and dignified. His learning may easily be traced, but is never obtruded upon us. In the religious spirit and the purely moral tone which pervades his plays, Massinger is especially pre-eminent. Eighteen of his plays have been preserved, but a still larger number have perished. Those which remain to us are of various classes. Five are tragedies; the others are serious drama or tragic-comedies. Of the former, probably the best are " The Duke of Milan,” “The Unnatural Combat,” and “TheFatal Dowry”; we can hardly recommend to the student a better example of Massinger’s powers in tragedy than the last mentioned. It opens with several powerful scenes, in which the hero,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	4&
Charalois, is introduced in extreme distress, sacrificing his own liberty to save his father’s corpse from his exacting creditors and secure for it the common decencies of burial. He is rescued from his calamities, and his debts are paid by the noble and wealthy Rochefort, who crowns his favors by giving him his daughter in marriage. The infidelity of Beaumelle, the vengeance of her husband upon herself and her paramour, Norall, and the death of Charalois at the hands of Norall’s friend, form the story of the play. Painful as is the story, the mode in which it is treated, is characteristic of Massinger. There is no tampering with the bounds of right and wrong; none even of that gross and animal character about the heroine’s fall, which we frequently find in plays of a similar character. The husband whom Beaumelle wrongs is not the husband of her choice, but a stranger imposed upon her by her father’s will. The man for whom she sacrifices her honor is the man whom she had loved before her marriage. Her repentance is early and thorough, and her punishment severe. Nor is hers the only character in which similar principles may be traced; the moral lessons of the play are in all cases clear and true. The following lines from Charalois to his judges, when arraigned before them for the death of his wife and her paramour, afford a good example of Massinger’s style :
“ Thus I confess, my lords, that I stood bound, When, with my friends, even hope itself had left me, To this man’s charity for my liberty.
Nor did his bounty end there, but began;
For, after my engagement, cherishing The good he did, he made me master of His only daughter and his whole estate— Great ties of thankfulness I must acknowledge. Could any one feed by you press this further ? But yet consider, my most honored lords, If to receive a favor make a servant,	’
And benefits are bonds to tie the taker
To the imperious will of him that gives, There’s none but slaves will receive courtesies, Since they must fetter us to our dishonor. Can it be called magnificence in a prince To pour down riches with a liberal hand Upon a poor man’s wants, if that must bind him . To play the soothing parasite to his vices ?
_ Or any man, because he has saved my hand, Presume my head and heart are at his service ?	•
Or did I stand engaged to buy my freedom .
(When my captivity was honorable)
By making myself here, and fame hereafter, Bond-slaves to men’s scorn and calumnious tongues ? Had his fair daughter’s mind been like her features, Or, for some little blemish, I had sought
For my content elsewhere, wasting on others My body and her dower, my forehead thus Deserved the brand of base ingratitude ; . But if obseqnious usage, and fair warning To keep her worth my love, could not preserve her
What could I do ? Let any free-born spirit	'
Determine truly, if that thankfulness,
Choice form, with the whole world given for a dowry. Could strengthen so an honest man with patience, As with a willing neck to undergo
The insupportable yoke of slave or wittol.”
Of the death of his guilty rival he says:—
“For the last, as of
The former, I confess it; but with what Base wrongs I was unwillingly drawn to it, To my few words there are some other proofs
To witness thus for truth. When I was married—	.
For there I must begin—the slain Norall
Was to my wife, in way of French courtship, A most devoted servant; but yet aimed at
; Nothing but means to quench his wanton heat, I His heart being never warmed by lawful fires,
As mine was, lords; and though on these presumptions, Joined to the hate between his house and mine,
I might, with opportunity and ease, Have found a way for my revenge; I did not. But still he had the freedom as before, When all was mine. And told that he abused it With some unseemly license, by my friend— My approved friend, Romont—I gave no credit To the reporter, but reproved him for it, As one uncourtly and malicious to him.
Vet what could I more, my lords ? Yet after this, He did continue in his first pursuit,	’
Hotter than ever, and at length obtained it.
But how it came to my most certain knowledge, For the dignity of the court and mine own honor, I dare not say.”
We see here unquestionably the conceptions of a lofty genius; the stroke of a masterly hand; the boldness and candor of a man sensitive alike to the maintenance, at any cost, of his manhood and honor.
The “Virgin Martyr,” however, demands our especial notice, not only because it is one of the plays by which • Massinger is best known, but because it is entirely different in character from any of those written at the same pe- -riod. The scene is laid at Caesarea, during the persecution of Diocletian against the Christians. The principal characters are the virgin martyr Dorothea, Theophilus the leader of the persecutors, and others connected on one side or other with the persecutors. But the real subject of the play is the conflict of good and evil, the triumph of good, not indeed in the world but over the world. The real leaders are Angelo, an angel passing as the page of Dorothea, and Harpax, a demon disguised as the servant of Theophilus. No doubt the play was a popular one, being both impressive and strange, and anything but in harmony with the whole tone of thought and feeling in England under James I. The whole would be truly revolting were we to lose the key-note, which is the victory of the Christian Faith through pain and death, and virtue receiving for its reward for suffering here, happiness in the next life. One of the companions of Theophilus is stunned at the fortitude of the little virgin.
“She ascends,
And every step raises her nearer to heaven!
She smiles
Unmoved by Mars I as if she were assured Death, looking on her constancy, would forget The use of this inevitable hand.”
Theophilus, seeing her intrepidity, is overcome for a moment with rage, and exclaims to the executioner:
“ Derided too! Despatch I say! ”
Dorothea rebukes Theophilus, who benefits by her bold admonition, and an angel having appeared to him bearing a basket of fruits and flowers from the gardens of Paradise, he becomes a convert at the close. Miracles are ordinary ' incidents of the play. Can there be anything more beautiful than the words of this little martyr:
“Thou fool!	.
Thou gloriest in having power to ravish A trifle from me I am weary of.
470	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
What is this life to me ? Not worth a thought.
Or, if it he esteemed, ’tis that I lose it To win a better; even thy malice serves To me but as a ladder to mount up To such a height of happiness, where I shall Look down with scorn on thee and on the world! Where, circled with true pleasure, placed above The reach of death or time, ’twill be my glory To think at what an easy price I bought it. There’s a perpetual spring, perpetual youth ; No joint-benumbing cold or scorching heat, Famine nor age, have any being there. Forget for shame your Tempe ; bury in Oblivion your feigned Hesperian orchards:— The golden fruit, kept by the watchful dragon, Which did require a Hercules to get it, Compared with what plenty grows there, Deserves not to be named. The Power I serve Laughs at your happy Araby or the Elysian shades; for He hath made His bowers Better, indeed, than you can fancy yours.
J- M‘
Scientific Notes.
—Dr. Karl Sachs, who was sent out by the Humboldt Institution to study the electric eels at Calaboza, Venezuela, is now engaged in writing out the results of his investigations, in which will be included a description of the country and the people of Venezuela, and the author’s experience in travelling.
—Corsica sends annually from 350,000 to 400,000 blackbirds to France. These birds visit the island in vast numbers every winter to feed on the berries of the myrtle and arbutus, and become very fat by December, while their flesh acquires a delicious flavor and perfume as the result of their peculiar diet.
—The consignment of soles and turbot which left the Southport Aquarium Jan. 3 for the purpose of stocking Massachusetts Bay, having proved a failure,—only one pair of soles surviving the transit,—it is the intention of Prof. Baird to make another attempt to introduce these fish into American waters, about May next.
—The first telegraph-line in China has recently been established, between the Arsenal of Tian-Tsin and the house of the Provincial Governor. The line is about ten kilometres in length, and the apparatus used are Morse’s diewriters, worked by Leclanche elements. A cable was required for the Piho River, which intersects the line.
—Interesting discoveries have recently been made in the underground rooms of a vast palace whose ruins exist at Itayi, Chiapas, Mexico. It is supposed that a library has been found. It consists of a large number of terra-cotta tablets, each six by eight inches in surface, and half an inch thick. The inscriptions appear to be in a language possessed of an alphabet, but they have not yet been translated.	•	•
—A communication concerning the so-called “Rain Tree” of Mogobamba, South America, was read at a late meeting of the London Linnaean Society. It appears probable that the tree is Pethecolobium Saman, and that the so-called rain is the fluid excreta of cicadas, which feed on the juices of the foliage. The whole phenomenon is comparable to the production of honey-dew by the agency of aphides.
—The African Societies of Berlin have determined to combine practical with scientific objects in their prosecution of the work of opening up Africa. They consequently invite German merchants, manufacturers, etc., to join them in establishing a great commerce in Africa, and announce that the German Government is ready to grant a preliminary sum of £5,000 to further the object. A new geographical society has been formed in Switzerland to pursue the same ends.
—Friz Muller, the German naturalist, writes from Ita-
jahy, in Southern Brazil, a wonderful account of a gigantic earthworm which is said to inhabit the highlands in the southern provinces of Brazil, where it is known as the “ Minhocao.” Many persons testify to having seen the animal at different times, and represent it as nearly a metre in thickness, of diverse lengths, and with a snout like a pig. It is said to leave traces along its march, in the form of trenches about three metres broad, and that it even upturns trees in its progress. Nature suggests that the animal may be a relic of the colossal armadilloes that in past geological epochs were abundant in South Brazil.
—Some of the monasteries of Italy and France will send curious inventions to the Paris Exhibition. A Florentine friar has constructed a watch only a quarter of an inch in diameter. It has not only a third hand to mark the seconds, but a microscopic dial which indicates the days of the week and month, and the proper dates. It also contains an alarm, and on its front cover an ingeniously cut figure of St. Francis of Assisi. On the back cover two verses of the Te Deum are distinctly cut. A monastery in Brittany, France, will contribute a plain-looking mahogany table, with an inlaid draught or chess board on the surface. The inventor sets the pieces for a game of chess, and sits alone at one side of the board. He plays cautiously and the opposite pieces move automatically and sometimes, checkmate him. There is no mechanism apparent beneath the table-top, which seems to be a solid mahogany board
Art, Music and Literature.
—The Parisian press numbered in 1877 no less than 836 different newspapers and serials.
—Rev. Joseph Dugas, S. J., has composed a work on “ La Kabylie et le Peuple Kabyle.” It contains 266 pages, nine illustrations and a map.
—Here is a title of a book taken from the catalogue of the Fair at Leipsic: “Goring, uber die Porabrommeta-sulphenylproprions&ure und die Metasulphenylproprion-saure.”
—Mr. Edward Healy Thompson has written concerning “ The Sufferings of the Church in Brittany during the Great Revolution,” to which high praise is given by the London papers.
—A society is being formed at St. Petersburg for the organization of travels for children and for young men. The travellers will be divided into parties, each under the leadership of a specialist, and will be conducted with reference to the study of some branch of science, while gaining an acquaintance with their own country.
—M. Bardoux, the French Minister of Public Instruction, is providing for a Congress of Schoolmasters at Paris during the Exposition. A delegate will be sent from each district, and not less than 4,000 are expected. A proposition is under consideration by the French Government for building 17,320 new school-houses, and enlarging or restoring 12,000 others.
—Mr. Thomas Chitty, the well-known editor of “ Chitty’s Practice,” long the hand-book of practitioners of the old school, recently died at the age of 76. Mr. Chitty was never called to the Bar, but practiced as a special pleader, rose rapidly to a large business, and attracted a crowd of students to his rooms. He entered his profession in 1819, at an unusually early age.
—Prizes are offered for the best four models for a monumental statue to M. Thiers, to be erected at Nancy. The first award consists of 45,000 fr.; the second, of 3,000 fr.; the third, of 2,000 fr.; and the fourth of 1,000 fr. The statue is to be not less than three metres high if standing, and of proportionate height if sitting. The models are to be sent in before June 15.
—The Rev. Johann Jacob Leitzmann, of Tunzenhausen, Saxony, left at his death, some months ago, a numismatic collection of nearly 30,000 specimens which is now offered for sale. Mr. Leitzmann was for a number of years the editor of a learned and influential numismatic paper in Germany. The catalogue and description of his collection cover 1,797 quarto leaves, in five volumes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	471
—A painting by Gabriel Max, now on exhibition at the Austrian Art Union, is exciting attention in Germany. It is called “ The Child Murderess,” and represents a mother with the little baby, whom she had loved and killed, in her arms, crouching in a desolate place by the side of a stream, and giving the little bleeding head one passionate kiss before throwing it into the water. In point of color and execution it equals if it does not excel Max’s most famed work.
—An important new weekly is announced in London under the title of The Statist. It promises tables analyzing and comparing the principal facts as to the state of trade and money market in a new and comprehensive manner; thorough discussions on all matters of trade and finance; and a series of papers on the different rates and conditions of profit in the various descriptions of joint-stock enterprises, particularly railways, banks, insurance companies, telegraphs, etc.
—Composers of orchestral music who have an ambition to sink or swim with other American follies at the Paris Exposition, will be interested to know that, owing to Mr. Jerome Hopkins’s diplomacy, the restrictions at first placed upon foreign works by the committee in charge have been removed, and such works are now to be performed by a local grand orchestra, instead of by imported bands. The lists will close on the 15th. Consul-General Torbert has particularly requested that one of Mr. Hopkins’s works be sent in.
—The late George Cruikshank was, at the time of his death, engaged upon an autobiography which was to be illustrated with designs of his own execution. The work had made considerable progress, and arrangements had been completed for its publication. It is believed that it will now appear under the editorship of his widow, Mrs. Eliza Cruikshank, who was the literary assistant of her husband before his death. The book will no doubt possess uncommon interest, as it will comprise recollections of literary men covering a period of about eighty years.
—The ilusica Sacra, Rivista Liturgica-ilusicale per la ristaurazione della Musica Sacra in Italia, which is published at Milan, has completed its first volume, and contains thirty-two pages of valuable and interesting letterpress, with about eighty pages of useful and suitable organ music. The editor began with organ music, rightly judging that the organists need instruction first. During the present year the musical supplement will be varied, organ music and vocal selections will be alternated. For those who understand Italian, the periodical will be a decided acquisition, and for all Catholic organists andchoir-masters the musical collections are invaluable.
—The Professors of the High School of Medicine for Ladies at St. Petersburg have petitioned the Minister of Public Instruction to grant the ladies who have completed their studies the same degrees as the men. They claim that the five years’ theoretical and practical study at the ladies’ school is quite as extensive as that pursued by the men, and rather more so in the department of female diseases; also, that the monthly and yearly examinations prove that the ladies possess a very thorough knowledge of their subject; and that, moreover, in their service with the army in Roumania and Bulgaria, they gave abundant evidence of high capacity for acting as surgeons.
—Haste trips up its own heels, fetters and stops itself.— Seneca.
—In 1824, a certain Gaetano—a youth of seventeen—was condemned to death for plotting against the Roman Government. When he was being led to execution, a young priest, moved with compassion, besought that the execution might be delayed, and, hastening to the Vatican, obtained the commutation of the sentence into penal service for life. Twenty-two years afterwards the young priest— become Pius IX—remembered Gaetano, and went to visit him dressed as a priest: “I bring you news of your mother.” “Oh! she did not die, then, of grief. Thanks, my good father.” “Why don’t you beg the Pope’s pardon ? ” “I have written over and over again, and without success! ” “ Write again.” “ But I can find no one willing to present my petition to Gregory XVI.” “He is
dead; write to Pius IX.” “ But who will present it to him ? ” “ Myself.” Pius IX went directly to the Governor, who received him rather coldly, and when informed of the purport of his visit, answered, “ You are joking! The Pope is the only person who can grant a pardon.” “ I seek it precisely in his name and by his wish.” “What proof can you give me ? ” The priest answered by imme-diatly writing the order for the liberation of the prisoner,
—We must class Pius IX amongst the most popular of the Popes. One day the news was circulated in Transtevere that Pius IX was ill, and all the population of that quarter of the town wanted to rush to the Quirinal to inquire for the Pope. But on consideration that so many visitors would create disorder, four out of the mass were selected for the purpose, and they fortwith set out for the Quirinal, and with much earnestness begged to see the Pope; but as it was not a day on which audiences were granted, and the Pope was writing in his study, their request was refused., “Then, it is true that His Holiness is really ill,” said they to themselves; and they returned to the charge, saying: “ We must see the Pope; we are deputies from Transtevere; he is ill, and the fact is denied; tell His Holiness that we are waiting to see him.” When Pius IX was informed of their arrival he admitted them so his study. “What do you want,” said he to them. “ Nothing, only to see you; we have heard that you were ill, and we hurried to see whether it is true.” The Pope smiled and said: “ Tell every one that I am quite well, and that you found me writing.” And he gave them his blessing and dismissed them.
—A French soldier came to the Vatican one day and asked to see Pope Pius IX; the attendants assured him it was impossible, but yielding at last to his entreaties, and knowing besides that similar visits pleased the Pope, they conducted him into his presence, and the man throwing himself on his knees at the feet of the Holy Father and bathed in tears said: “ Holy Father, I have sad news to give you; my mother is dead, and I wish to have a Mass said for her. I know what a good heart you have, and believe you will not refuse me this trifling service: here are two francs, pray accept them.” “Willingly, my son,” replied the Pope, “ but on condition that you hear the Mass and go to Holy Communion, and as to the two francs you can give them to me some other time.” On the appointed day the soldier was there, heard the Mass and received Holy Communion from the hands of the Pope. At the close of the ceremony he asked to see the Pope, to give him the usual alms. The Pope declined them, but the soldier persisted that such was the agreement. “ I yield then,” said the Pope, “ but on your part accept this other coin, with which you can get another Mass celebrated for your poor mother.” —Catholic Review.
—Speaking of ants and their habits, a writer says: “These little creatures have armies commanded by officers who issue their orders, insist upon obedience, and on the march will not permit any of the privates to stray from the ranks. There are some which till the ground, weed it, plant the particular grain on which they feed, cut it when ripe, and store it away in their subterranean granaries. There are ants which are as arrant slave-holders as any people on earth ever were. They make systematic raids on the nests of other ants, carry off the unhatched cocoons, and rear them in their own nests to be their servants. There are ants which bury their dead—a fact which was discovered by accident. A lady had been obliged to kill some ants, the bodies of which lay about upon the ground. Presently, a single ant found its dead companions, examined them, and then went off. It soon returned with a number of others, and proceeded to bury the dead bodies. Four ants went to each body, two lifting it, and the other two following the main body, some two hundred in number following behind. The four'bearers took their office in turns, one pair relieving the other when they were tired. They went straight to a sandy hillock, the bearers put down their burdens, and the others immediately began to dig holes. A dead ant was then placed in each grave, and the soil filled in. The most curious part of the proceedings was that some six or seven ants refused to assist in grave-digging, upon which the rest set upon them, killed them, dug one large hole, and tumbled them unceremoniously into it”
472	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Nlai’cli 23, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE-DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above an,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The 17th at Notre Dame.
The Feast of St. Patrick was of course celebrated at Notre Dame. It would never do to let it go by, and no Entertainment. Why, we would as soon expect to have the college building fall down on our heads as to let St. Patrick’s Day go without an exhibition of talent in Washington Hall.
There was of course a large audience, for the weather was really beautiful. Long before the hour appointed a long row of buggies and carriages showed that a large number of visitors would be present; and come they did, until the hall was filled, all the benches and chairs having occupants.
The oration of Mr. M. Bannon was a worthy effort and was frequently interrupted with applause. The young gentleman is to be complimented on the beautiful composition, sound in thought and sentiment, and at the same time there is much praise to be awarded him on account of his delivery. There was no attempt at declamation, but yet everything was brought out in a manner deserving of the highest praise.
Mr. Congar declaimed “ The Ride of Collins Graves,’’ by J. Boyle O’Reilly. Mr. Congar has a very pleasing manner, and of course takes well. His declamation was a worthy effort. Mr. Claggett followed Mr. Congar with a guitar solo which was well received and fully merited the encore given it by the audience. This was followed by the address of the Columbian Club, which was made by Mr. J. Fitzgerald. Good in sentiment and nicely read, it was well received by the audience. The prologue to the plays was then given by Mr. Theo. Fischel, and the curtain rose,—but not for the play. A comic act had been got up by a couple of young men and was put on the stage in first-rate style. It was after the manner of the old “Grecian Statues ” which are frequently given by travelling troupes.
Indeed some of the statues were the same, but the majority of them were arranged by the young gentlemen who took part in the scene. Of course the act took, and an encore was the result. Every one says that it gave him a good laugh, • and as that is what he attends Entertainments for he was glad to see it.
Then came the plays, the first of which was the “ Country Attorney.” This was successfully given, all of the young gentlemen acquitting themselves of their roles excellently. Mr. P. J. Dougherty was “ Pierce O’Hara,” and assumed his character in a lively and taking manner. Mr. S. T. Spalding was the lawyer to a T. He looked the staid lawyer, and acted it to life. Mr. A. B. Congar took the part of “ Hawk.” He showed great skill, and his personation gives great promise for the future. Mr. Fischel (Saunders), took his part very well. Messrs. F. Luther (Maldon), B. Claggett (Charlcote), and J. Fitzgerald (Fielding), all gave a faithful rendering to their parts. The remainder of the actors, Messrs. E. P. McMullen, H. Murphy, R. Routledge, J. Cooney, G. Samson, J. Rogers, T. Barry, and T. F. O’Grady, all did well. The whole play was well liked, was applauded, and may be looked upon as having been very successful.
When “The Country Attorney” had had his say, Mr. P. J. Hagan declaimed “ Shamus O’Brian ” with great effect and was handsomely rewarded at the close by the audience by a round of applause. This declamation was followed by “ The Irish Lion,” a play which suffers considerably by cutting out the female characters; nevertheless it was presented very creditably. Mr. Jno. Lambin as “ Tom Moore,” the tailor, was very good. Mr. A. Keenan was an excellent “ Squabbs,” and Mr. George S. Walter was very affable as “ Fizgig,” and took his character with life and animation. Messrs. C. Nodler (Wadds), J. Shugrue (Capt. Dixon), T. Barry (Ginger), C. Devries (Puffy), and J. Rogers (John Long), took their partswell. “Mr. Echo,” F. Hoffman; “Mr. Crummy,” J. McConlogue; “Mr. Titter,” A. Ginz; “McKenzie,” J. J.Houck; “Mr.Patridge,” B. Claggett; “ Mr. Yawkins,” J. Cooney; “ Mr. Jenks,” J. English; “ Mr. Slim,” S. T. Spalding; and “Mr. Shindy,” L. Eisenman; were all well personated. Both plays were well given and well received, and served to make a fine Entertainment for St. Patrick’s Day.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Corby. They were short and to the point. When these were over the large audience slowly left the hall, well pleased with the evening’s Entertainment.
St. Mary’s Academy, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Under the heading “ Accomplishment of a Great Work by the Sisters of the Holy Cross,” the Daily Tribune of Salt Lake City gives an interesting sketch of the educa-. tional work started there in the fall of 1875 by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and which from the then very small beginning has gradually developed into its present proportions. The Tribune says:
“Of the 150 pupils now attending this school, only about twenty-five are of Catholic parentage. No boys are admitted to the institution except a few under twelve years of age, who are taught in a cottage adjacent to the main building. There are thirty-eight boarders in attendance at present, from Idaho, Nevada, and different parts of this Territory.
“The school is graded as far as practicable, but. as in the other schools, a perfect system of gradation is-found to be al
1 i
J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	473
most impossible to adopt, since the great majority of the pupils attend for such short and irregular periods. The classes are divided into first, second and third senior, first and second intermediate, first and second junior, and minim. Instruction is made very thorough, and no student is graduated who has not passed a thoroughly satisfactory examination in all the higher as well as lower branches of learning. Special attention is given to vocal and instrumental music, which, though optional studies, and not necessary for graduation, are taught with great care by a thoroughly competent Sister. Plain and fancy sewing occupy a large share of attention; and painting in oil and water-colors is taught to those of the pupils who desire to take up the subject.
“The recitation and study rooms are capacious, and are well supplied with convenient desks and all the maps, charts and philosophical apparatus necessary to aid in the instruction of all pupils.
“ The library connected with the institution is altogether too small. A large, carefully selected library is a necessary adjunct to every well-ordered institution of learning, and, financial resources permitting, the library should be at once enlarged so that all the standard works of reference could be consulted by the students.
“The school is not yet out of debt, but is rapidly gaining a sound financial footing, and within a short time it is expected to become firmly established as a self-sustaining institution. The efforts of Sister M. Augusta, Superior, and her co-laborers are worthy of every encouragement. They are certainly accomplishing a good work in the neglected cause of education in this Territory, as the behavior and advancement of the pupils sufficiently attest; and any aid that can be extended to further the interests of the institution by increasing the capacity of the building or enlarging the facilities for instruction, should be proffered at once by those who feel progressively inclined.”
Personal.
—	James K. Murphy, of ’70, is an officer on the IT. S. S. Michigan.
—	John J. Fitzgibbon, of’61, is a contributor to the TPfei-ern Catholic.
—	Ambrose Reid, of ’72, is practicing law at Clarion, Clarion County, Pa.
—	Charles J. Dodge, of’74, writes that he will be on hand as orator of the'Alumni at the Commencement next June.
—	Edward J. Sweeney, of ’71, is with the Hon. James Sill, and will be admitted to the Erie Bar at May Term, at Erie, Pa.
—	We are pleased to see Bro. Philip back again from Lafayette. At the same time we regret to see that his health is poor.	_ ___________
Local Items.
—	Vegetation is now pretty well advancing.
—	Signor Gregori has nearly finished the painting in the new church.
—The horticulturists are engaged in prunning the trees in the.orchard.
—	You may now step in and take a look at the new engine in our press-room.
—	Some carpenters are putting up a new fence at the north’side of the Community grave-yard.
—There was a fine large audience at the Columbians’ Entertainment at the beginning of the week.
—We have been told that a new boat has been ordered from Toledo by the members of the Boat Club.
—ThelMass sung to-morrow will be Missa Parmdorum. Vespers are from the Common of the Blessed Virgin.
—On"Monday night a salute from the cannon was fired from the bank of the upper lake in honor of St. Patrick.
—The Columbian invitations and programmes for the St. Patrick’s Day Entertainment were printed on beautiful green tinted paper.
—The boats belonging to the Boat Club have been overhauled and put in good order. Boating will now be one of the regular pastimes.
—The Boston Pilot, Catholic Universe, and many other papers, contain lengthy reports of the Emmet Centenary celebration at Notre Dame.
—Bro. Paul is under obligation to a kind friend in La Salle, Ill., for one of the neatest and prettiest badges to be seen here on St. Patrick’s Day.
—The Philosophers’ Baseball Club played a match game with the Commercials on the 16th, in which the latter were beaten 10. They played for a ball.
—Bro. Simon, Prof. Howard, Prof. Edwards, and our* selves received a vote of thanks from the Columbians for services at the last Entertainment.
—The pupils of the Manual Labor School celebrated St Patrick’s Day on the 20ih, the same day on which the Mass of St. Patrick was read. They enjoyed themselves greatly.
—Rev. Father Kelly preached an eloquent sermon at Lowel on the 17th. Rev. Father O’Mahony lectured at St Patrick’s, South Bend, to. a large congregation the same evening.
—The 25th of this month is a holyday of obligation, being the Feast of the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin. The Mass sung will be Alissa Regia. The Vespers are from the Common of the B. V. M.
----Messrs. Houck and McMullen deserve great praise as censors of the Columbian Debating Club; and Messrs. McHugh and Schmidt for their artistic skill in ornamenting Washington Hall for the late Entertainment.
—Every one was loud in his praise of the beautiful and learned discourse preached by Rev. C. H. Kelly, C. S. C., on the 17th. St. Patrick’s Day was perhaps never celebrated at Notre Dame with more enthusiasm than it was this year.
—The grounds just in the neighborhood of the Scholastic office were cut up terribly at the beginning of the week by trench-diggers who were engaged in arranging the steam-pipes running from the steam-house to the printing-office.
—Mr. O’Hara and Bro. Sebastian are making preparations for planting their tobacco crop for this year. They are the heaviest planters of this staple in the neighborhood, and we trust there will be nothing to spoil their great expectations.
—The Grecian Statues at the Columbian Entertainment were immense. Of course it put the members of the Club to a big expense to get Delahunty and Hengler to come, but then they were determined to give the audience the verybest of the kind.
—Mr. A. M. Kirsch delivered a most entertaining lecture, in Phelan Hall, on Thursday, the 21st. His subject was “ Man and his Origin,” and was treated in a masterly manner. Next week we will give a synopsis of the lecture, which we are unable to do this week.
—The pupils of the Manual Labor School will give an Exhibition the week after Easter. It will be strictly private ; no one not connected with Notre Dame will be allowed to attend. We are sorry for those in the neighborhood, as they will no doubt lose plenty of fun.
'—The Captains of the Boat Club have selected their crews except the coxswains. As soon as these shall have been selected we will publish the names of the crews. As navigation opened up early this year, the crews will have plenty of time for training before the June race.
—A most interesting game of baseball took place on the 17th instant between the Actives and the Atlantics. The former were victorious by a score of 22 to 17. The chief features of the game were a line catch by Welty of the Actives and some fine plays by Deehan of the Atlantics.
—On the 16th of this month the members of the two Archconfraternities received Holy Communion in a body, offering the Communion for the repose of the soul of the late glorious Pope Pius IX. The same day a Solemn
474
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Requiem Mass was sun?, at which the two Confraternities assisted. This was on the occasion of the month’s mind of Pius IX.
—On the 17th Solemn High Mass was sung, and though the Mass was not that of St Patrick, yet the solemnity of the day was his. The sermon of Rev. C. H. Kelly was, as we have said elsewhere, an excellent effort, one worthy the preacher and the occasion. After the High Mass, the students were delighted to see that the good steward had served up an abundance of turkey, which was partaken of with a relish.
—The regular weekly meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held March 20th, at 7 o’clock p. m. Master D. Clune read “A Sketch of the Life of Sr.
• Aloysius.” P. A. Donahoe read an essay on “ The Rosary,” and J. Fenton “ What is an Indulgence.” The ten-minutes’ sermon was given by Very Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C. After the usual hymn the meeting adjourned. The Sodality is in a prosperous condition.
—The Inevitable baseball nine held a meeting on the 16th, at which the following officers were elected: Bro. Theodore, Director; Bro. Peter, President; M. Bannon, Manager; P. J. Dougherty, Pitcher; T. Fisch el, Catcher; F. Ewing, 1st Base; J. Rothert, 2d Base; F. Hoffman, 3d Base; A. B. Congar, R. Field; E. Ward, Centre-Field; A. Keenan, Left Field; E. Dempsey, Short Stop; F. Barry, Back Stop; A. J. Hettinger and S. Spalding, Substitutes. Doctors O’Grady and Johnson were appointed surgeons.
—At a meeting of the Eclectic Baseball Club held Thursday, March 21st, the following officers were elected for the session: Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Director; Bro. Paul, C. S. C., Hon. Director; F. Carroll, President; A. J. Burger, Sr., Captain; J. Healy, Treasurer; F. Cavanaugh, Secretary; J. Baker, Field-Captain. The following are the players and their positions: A. J. Burger, C.; F. Cavanaugh, P.; G. Crawford, S. S.; K. Reynolds, 1st Base; J.Healy,2d Base; F. Carroll, 3d Base; J. Baker, Left Field; J. Hafner, Centre Field; G. Cassidy, Right Field; C. Cavanagh, substitute.
—If Mr. Tello and Mr. Kelly will promise to attend our banquet on the Feast of St. Francis de Sales, next year, we (D.v.) will guarantee turkey and all the et ceteras sufficient in advance for them, besides keeping in reserve a wing for ourselves.— Notre Dame Scholastic.
Alive and well, and within reach that day, we accept; and we will undertake to keep Mr. Tello within bounds.—Wort/i-westem Chronicle.
Then we won’t go; except the students permit us to fall back with them upon that “reserve” wing.—Catholic Universe.
—A match game of baseball occurred Wednesday, March 20th, between the Mutuals and the Actives. The result of the game is as follows:
INNINGS.
Mutuals		1 2	2 1	3 2	4 0	5 3	6 2	7 3	8 1	9 2	—16
Actives.		.0	0	5	0	0	0	0	0	1	— 6
Umpire—C. S. Hagan.
Scorer—F. Pleins.
Time—2 hours, 10 min.
—Yesterday was St. Patrick’s Day, and true Irishmen in all parts of the world turned out in large crowds to do honor to the patron Saint whose labors for the little isle in the sea are ever to be remembered. In France, whither many have gone, the Irish paraded the streets, and as they passed each other they wished Godspeed the day when “ Ireland, dear old Ireland, should be free.” In the United States, in the larger cities, they turned out in force; and in South Bend the day was not wholly forgotten. Although no big parade had been made, the people were celebrating the day in a humble way. At St. Patrick’s Church, in this city, Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the morning. It was well attended by the people of that denomination, and ot hers whose curiosity led them to attend. In the evening Rev. Father O’Mahony delivered an eloquent lecture on the early history of Ireland, of her trials and triumphs, and how, though persecuted and beleaguered, she still clung to her nationality and her religion. The audience was made up in part of our first citizens; and
they pronounce it very fine. It is a pleasure for us to note that, although it is a holiday among the Irish people, not a drunken affair occurred to mar the pleasure of the day, as sometimes hitherto. At Notre Dame and St. Mary’s exercises were held, and pronounced very interesting by those who attended.—South Bend Register.
—On Wednesday, March 13th, the members of the classes of the Natural Sciences attended a lecture on “Biology,” by Rev. Mr. Kirsch, C. S. C., in the Cabinet of Natural History. It was an introduction to a course of lectures on Biology to be delivered weekly during the ensuing months for the benefit of the students of Natural History. After a few preliminary remarks the lecturer proceeded to trace the origin, progress, and final development of the science of Biology, embracing, as the word indicates, life in general, whether plant or animal. He briefly summarized the most notable works of the great luminaries in Biology, descanting on the merits or demerits of each. He next proceeded to point out how, when, and at what period of the student’s education Biology should be studied. Biology, he said, is a practical science; books, lectures, without practical experiment, do not make a biologist; but patient, careful, and constant experiment, joined to a diligent study, and attentive reading of scientific works, is the only method to adopt in order to become a thoroughgoing scientist; and this is more especially true of Biology and the study of the natural sciences. These sciences treat of life; but life is active, and as such exhibits many and various phenomena. A superficial theoretical knowledge of these phenomena, such as is derived from the mere study of books, will be of no more practical utility to the scientific student than music is to him who knows the theory thereof but could not correctly execute the scale in C major. The lecturer then adverted to the fact that as every age, every generation, cultivates a special field of thought, whether literary, philological or theological, so in these modern times scientific research, scientific questions agitate the world.
Roll of Honor-
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, M. W.Bannon, T.Barrett, E. Bennett, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, E. Calkins W. L. Dechant, A. Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, J. Dougherty, A. Ginz, S. Gooley, L Horn, J. P. Hagan, M. Hogan, A. Hertzog, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, A. W. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. B. Keller, Kratzer, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. C. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, H. Murphy, J. J. Murphy, C. F. Mueller, O. S. Mitchell, E. Maley, V. F. McKinnon, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, O. McKone, J. H. McConlogue, H. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, O. P. Rettig, J. Rothert, J. Rabbitt, T. S. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, S. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, J. S. Smith, J. 8. Sheridan, F. J. Walter, F. Williams, E. Walters, E. Ward, P. Vogle, H. G. Fox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, W. Adams, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, J. M. Byrne, C. J. Brinkman, C. O. Burket, G. H. Crawford, J. F. Carrer, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, J. 8. Cassard, R. French, H. A. Gramling, J. L. Healey, G. A. Heitkam, J. L. Halle, G. Itten-bach, J. B. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, F. W. Lang, J. A. Lumley, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, A. A. Miller, J. T. Matthews, C. A. McKinnon, S. Moslor, H. J. Newmark, L. H. Garceau, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, R.' C. Pleins, S. 8. Perley, K. W. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, A. W. Sievers, C. Van Mourick, W. A. Widdicombe, G. Cassidy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. McGrath, J. Inderrieden, W, Coolbaugh, Jos. Courtney, A. Hartrath, R. Costello, F. Berry, C. Garrick, G. Rhodius, J. A. Seeger, W. McDevitt, W. Rheinhardt, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, H. Kitz, T. O’Neill, C. Welty,'C. Long, E. Esmer, F. Farrelly, T. Barrett, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, Joseph Inderrieden, P. Fitzgerald, J. Devine, C. Herzog, H. 8nee.
475
?! _ .
1	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
*	—— 
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	'
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. G. Baker, T. Barry, M. H. Bannon, P. Daugherty, L. Eisenman, F. C. Ewing, J. Feuerstein, A. Ginz, A.‘ Hatt, J. Healy, F. 8. Hoffman, J. Hoffman, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, A. Hettinger, F. Keller, J. Krost, J. A. Lumley, H. Murphy, W. J. McCarthy, 0. McKone, J. Matthews, T. Nelson, E. Maley, J. Roth-ert, R. Routledge, K. L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, E. Dempsey, Wm. Van Volkenbur'gh, T. S. Summers, C. Walsh, H. Newmark, T. F. Fischel.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, G. Lambin, G. Rhodius, J. Seeger, O. Farrelly, W. Coghlin, W. McDevitt, C. Crennen, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, J. Inderrieden, W. Coolbaugh, 0. Crowe, J. Courtney, James Courtney, A. Hartrath, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, C. Garrick, H. Snee, J. McGrath, T. Barrett, T. O’Neill, J. Devine, I. McGrath, J. Inderrieden, C. Long, S. Bushey, C. Bnshey, C. Welty, C. Herzog, E. Herzog, F. Berry, E. Esmer, P. Fitzgerald, J. Crowe.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned tn this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competions which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—T. Hale, F. Luther, F. Walter, C. McKinnon, W. Doyle, L. Garceau; Grammar—C. L. Stuckey, G. Walters, T. Barry, K. L. Scanlan, A. Sievers, J. G. Baker; Geography and U. S. History—J. Matthews, AI. H. Bannon ; Arithmetic—J. Hoffman, M. Bannon; Book-Keeping—A. J. Hettinger, I. Chatterton, W. Van Volkenburg, F. Hellman, 0. McKone, E. W. Robinson, J. Matthews, H. Newmark, F. Luther, H. Murphy, E. Dempsey; Elocution—E. Arnold, P. Hagan, A. B. Congar, P. J. Dougherty, F. McGrath, J. Perea, W. A. Widdicombe, G. H. Donnelly, Thos. Nelson.

—Mother Superior has been absent for the past week— returned on Saturday evening.
—Active preparations are in progress for the celebration of the Feast of the great St. Joseph.
—The Feast of St. Patrick was the twenty-eighth anniversary of the ordination of Rev. Father R. Shortis, C. S. C., Chaplain of St. Mary’s.
—The prize article in the last No. of Rosa Mgstica was “The Gems in Woman’s Diadem,” contributed by Miss Mary Ewing, of the First Senior Class.	,
—A spirited and very interesting competition in Bible History took place on Monday morning in the Junior Preparatory Class. Laura French, Mary Lyons and Ellen Hackett deserve particular mention for their prompt and intelligent questions and answers.
—At Composition in the Third Senior Class on Friday morning, a little prize was offered for the best composition on the theme “ Learn to think well, and you will learn to live well.’’ Many good ones were written, but the prize was awarded to Miss Ellen Galen; Miss Genevieve Winston’s Composition being second in merit, but nevertheless a finely written theme.
—The third number of Rosa ifystica, volume the fifth, was read in the study-hall on Sunday evening. The editresses were: Misses Gaynor, Cooney, O’Neill, Henneberry, and Reynolds. The table of contents is as follows: Editorial: Our Rev. Chaplain’s Rev. Assistant—St. Patrick, the Apostle of Ireland. Domestic Extravagance—The Gems in Woman’s Diadem—St. Mary’s Grotto of Lourdes— (Poem); A Tribute to dear Sister Rita—Card of Thanks— Cosy Interviews in Mother Superiors Study—Post-Gradu
ates— Death of Pope Pius the Ninth—Souvenir from over the Sea, thanks to Very Rev. Father General—The Roll of Honor—An Ordinary Bridle-party—Floral Progress— Cancellation—Literary Investigation—The Infirmarian refuses to call—Those Mexican Ponies Again—Welcome to New Pupils—The Great Science of Orthography—Learn to think well, and you will learn to live well—Famine and its Uses.—The Royal Academy—Cheerfulness the Sunshine of Life—The Fountain of Youth—Cancelled Post-stamps— “ I cannot do it, for I do not feel like it ”—A Mundane Question—“ My Little Children, love one another ”—Rosa Mystica, Part Fifth—The Visitation.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses Genevieve Cooney, Amelia Harris, Elizabeth O’Neill, Pauline Gaynor, Harriet Reynolds, Mary O’Connor, Minerva Spier, Anastasia Henneberry.
1st Senior Class—Misses Cecilia Boyce, Hope Russell, Mary Ewing, Emma Lange, Bridget Wilson, Ida Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Misses Blanche Thompson, Ellen Davis, Elizabeth Keena, Mary Danaher, Ellen Keenan, Ellen King, Mary Luce, Clara Silverthorne, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Elizabeth Kirchner, Zoe Papin, Catharine Barrett.
3d Senior Class—Misses Mary Brown, Catharine Hackett, Ellen Galen, Anna Cavenor, Emma Shaw, Martha Wagner, Maria Plattenburg, Julia Burgert, Mary Sullivan, Lola Otto, Harriet Buck, Thecla Pleins, Agnes Brown, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Schwass, Alice Farrell, Genevieve Winston, Alary Winston, Florence Cregier, Anna Thomas. Adelaide Walsh, Adella Gordon, Alice 'Morgan, Adelaide Kirchner, Frances Kingfield, Angela Ewing.	•
1st Prep. Class—Misses Sophia Rheinboldt. Mary Usselman, Alargaret Hayes, Alary Cleary, Blanche Parrott, Minerva Loeber, Henrietta Hearser, Anna McGrath, Adelaide Geiser, Ellen Alulligan, Lucy Chilton.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Ellen Thomas, Mary Mullen, Ellen Kelly, Imogene Richardson, Elizabeth Afiller, Julia Barnes, Julia Kingsberry, Alary Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, L. French, Alary Hake, Louisa Wood, Agnes McGuinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Lyons, Ellen Hackett, Frances Sunderland, Lorena Ellis.
1st Jr. Class—Aliases Julia Butts, Ellen Lloyd, Mary Cox, Ellen Wooten.	"
2d Jr. Class—Alisses Pauline Felt, Alargaret Ivers, Bridget and Teresa Haney.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss Genevieve Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Alisses Clara Silverthorne, Alaria Plattenburg, Alary Luce.
1st French Class—Misses Ellen Keenan, Clara Silverthorne, Hope Russell, Bridget Wilson, Amelia Harris, Ellen McGrath.
2d Div.—Alisses Mary O’Connor, Julia Burgert, Anna Alc-Grath, Genevieve Cooney, Harriet Reynolds.
2d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Alary Ewing, Adella Geiser.
3d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Angela Ewing. Alary Brown, Alary Birch, Alartha Wagner, Mary Winston, Zoe Papin, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Frances Kingfield, Emma Shaw, Mary Danaher, Mary Casey, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan.
4th Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Agnes Brown, Lulu Wood, Genevieve Winston, Annie Cavenor, Charlotte Van Namee, Elizabeth Schwass.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Alisses Addie Kirchner, Addie Geiser.
2d Div.—Alisses Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Elizabeth Walsh.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth O’Neill, Anastasia Henneberry, Catharine Barrett, Florence Cregier.
3d Class—Alisses Alary Way, Sarah Hamilton, Mary Lambin, Cecilia Boyce, Emma Miller.
2d Div.—Alisses Ellen King, Minerva Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Blanche Parrott.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Bridget Wilson and Thecla Pleins.
1st Class—Alisses Elizabeth Kirchner, Ciara Silverthorne, Adella Geiser.
2d Class—Misses Alinerva Spier, Ellen Galen, Elizabeth O’Neill, Amelia Harris, Ellen Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Mary Usselman, Harriet Buck, Frances Kingfield, Anastasia Henneberry, Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Julia Burgert, Alatilda Whiteside.
476
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Kirchner, Mary Brown, Alice Farrell, Emma Lange, Elizabeth Walsh, Anna McGrath, Ellen McGrath.
4th Class—Misses Alice Morgan, Anna Maloney, Catharine Hackett, Genevieve Cooney, Pauline Gaynor, Ellen King.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Winston, Mary Way, Imogene Richardson, Mary Mullen.
5th Class—Misses Melicent White, Catharine Reardon, Genevieve Winston, Mary Danaher, Florence Cregier, Catharine Barrett, Zoe Papin, Emma Shaw, Anna Gavenor, Mary Wagner.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Hackett, Louise Wood, Angela Ewing, Blanche Thompson, Laura French, Mary Cleary, M. Platten-burg, Cecilia Boyce, Ellen Miller, H. Hearsey.
6th Class—Misses Ida Fisk, "Minerva Loeber, Linday Fox, Sophia Rheinboldt, Elizabeth Sehwass, Anna Brown, Mary Mulligan, Anna Thomas, Mary Lambin, Mary Ewing, Marcia Peak, Mary Casey.	•
2d Div.—Misses Mary Birch, Mary Hake, Blanche Parrott, Ellen Mulligan, Ellen Wright, Lucy Chilton, Ellen Kelly.
7th Class—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Julia Kingsbury, Sarah Hamilton, Lorena Ellis, Alice Barnes, Mary Cox.
8th Class—Misses Ellen Wooten and Mary McFadden.
Harp, 2d Class—Miss Delia Cavenor.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Lucy Chilton.
Harmony—Misses Bridget Wilson, Thecla Pleins, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorne.
Theoretical Classes.—The one visited last week showed great interest The subject was “Time,” and a lively time it was. The written exercises which are criticized by the pupils bore testimony to patient study.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Delia Cavenor and Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Usselman.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Agnes Brown, Genevieve Winston, Lola Otto, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Reardon.
2d Div.—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Sophia Rheinboldt, Imogene Richardson.
4th Class—Misses Alice Farrell, Annie Wooten, Mary Winston, Clara Silverthorne, Julia Burgert, Annie Cavenor.
5th Class—Misses Ellen Galen, Mary Hake, Matilda White, Ada Peak, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Nellie McGrath, Elizabeth Sehwass, Ellen Keenan, Lucy Chilton.
General Class—Misses Julia Butts, Lottie Van Namee, Elizabeth Miller, Levina Cox, Laura French.
ART DEPARTMENT.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
senior department.
Misses Emma Shaw, Lola Otto, Blanche Thompson, Mary Luce, Catharine Hackett, Anna Thomas, Alice Morgan, Mary Danaher, Mary Brown, Ellen King, Ellen McGrath, Blanche Parrott, Catharine Lloyd, Adella Gordon, Ellen Galen, Mary Birch, Elizabeth Keena, Ada Peak, Ellen Wright, Ellen Thomas, Margaret Hayes, and Julia Barnes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Hake, Mary Lambin, Laura French, Agnes McKinnis, Louisa Wood, Frances Kingfield, Ellen Wooten, Ellen Hackett.
FAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Ellen Davis, Pauline Gaynor, Emma Lange, Minerva Spier.	•
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses Pauline Gaynor, Bay Reynolds.
3d Class—Misses Ellen Davis, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary O’Connor, Delia Cavenor.	'
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE WORK.
1st Class—Misses Louisa Neu, Elizabeth Sehwass, Mary Usselman, Mary Winston, Mary Luce, Ellen McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Adella Gordon, Bridget Wilson, Blanche Parrot, Catharine Lloyd, Martha Wagner, Alice Farrell, Blanche Thompson, Mary White, Mary Hake.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Thecla Pleins, Mary Way, Cecilia Boyce, Mary Plattenburg, M. Winston.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Birch, Ellen Keenan, Annie Wooten, Agnes Brown.
DRESS-MAKING.
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Mary Cleary.
MENDING.
Misses Melicent White, Marcia Peak, Elizabeth O’Neill.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Genevieve Cooney, Anastasia Henneberry, Minerva Spier, Harriet Reynolds, Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Emma Lange, Clara Silverthorne, Mary Way, Sarah Hamilton, Elizabeth Kirchner, Elizabeth Keenan, Mary Luce, Mary Danaher,
Ellen King, Mary Maloney, Catharine Riordan, Emma Shaw, Mary Brown, Martha Wagner, Thecla Pleins, Mafia Plattenburg, Anna Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Ellen Galen, Alice Farrell, Sophia Rheinboldt, Mary Usselman, Mary Cleary, Blanche Parrott, Emelia Miller, Ellen Thomas, Julia Barnes, Ellen Kelly, Alice Barnes, Matilda Whiteside, Henrietta Hearsey, 100 par excellence. Misses Amelia .Harris, Elizabeth O’Neill, Mary O’Connor, Pauline Gaynor, Bridget Wilson, Mary Casey, Florence Cregier, Zoe Papin, Lola Otto, Ellen Davis, Catharine Hackett, Agnes Brown, Elizabeth Sehwass, Adella Gordon, Alice Morgan, Mary and Genevieve Winston, Louisa Neu, Imogene Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Francis Kingfield, Annie McGrath, Lucy Chilton, Adella Geiser, Mary Hake, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses Ellen Mulligan, Julia Kingsbury, Mary Lambin, Lorena Ellis, Lulu Wood, Ellen Hackett, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee.
1
—Father Perrone, the illustrious theologian and the glorious champion of the dogmas of the Church, especially of the Immaculate Conception, for the last few years of his life was unable to say Mass; but he might have been seen every morning in the little Church of Saut’ Andrea al Quirinale, saying his beads with all the simplicity of a child. He would remain there all day loug, did not the Brother charged to take care of him come and lead him home to take his breakfast.
—To make a home-made telephone take a wooden toothpowder box and make a hole about the size of a half-crown in the lid and the bottom. Take a disk of tinned iron, such as can be had from a preserved meat tin, and place it on the outside of the bottom of the box, and fix the cover on the other side of it. Then take a small bar-magnet; place on one end a small cotton or silk reel, and round the reel wind some iron wire, leaving the ends loose. Fix one end of the magnet near, as near as possible without touching, to the disk, and then one part of the telephone is complete. A similar arrangement is needed for the other end. The two are conneetd by a wire. Prof. Barrett says that with this he has been able to converse at a distance of about 100 yards.
—In 1860 two young Frenchmen, one a sincere Roman Catholic, and the other a pronounced Freethinker, obtained an audience with the Pope. The reception being ended, the Pope inquired if any of those around him desired to ask him anything. Some had brought rosaries and medals to be blessed, while others requested some memento or token from the Holy Father. The Freethinker alone stood silent and unmoved. The Pope, attracted by the strangely indifferent demeanor of the young man, approached and said: “ And you, my son, have you nothing to ask of me?” “Nothing, your Holiness.” “Really nothing?” asked the Pope. “Nothing,” was the reply. “ My son,” he continued, “ does your father still live?’’ “Yes, your Holiness.” “And your mother?” “ My mother is dead.” “ Well then, my son, since you have nothing to ask of me, I have a request to make of you.” After a moment’s silence, he added: “ Say a Pater noster and an Ave Maria for the soul of your mother. Will you do me the favor of kneeling with me? ” The Pope knelt and the young man did the same. When the latter arose his face was bathed in tears, and he left the Pope’s presence in great agitation.
—The Irish Monthly, in a notice of the poetical works of Francis Davis, better known as yet by his nom de plume of “ The Belfast Man,” states that he is a recent convert to Catholicity. “ May we not dare to say,” it adds, “ that every true poet is a Catholic at heart—sometimes, alas! without ever suspecting it himself? ” “ Byron, you’ll die a Catholic,” said Scott one day; and the prophecy might have been fulfilled if poor Byron, after longer and more bitter experience, had been brought under the influence of Catholic faith and practice by some holy and enlightened man who could pity and love him. Scott, whose descendants are Catholics, himself died with the Stabat Mater on his lips, and what is that but a magnificent, pathetic Hail Mary ? ‘ There is no sublimity without the Catholic religion,’ said Canova, the great sculptor: ‘there is no beauty without the Madonna.’ So felt in their day Shirley and Crashaw, and so, too, in our day, Aubrey de Vere and Coventry Patmore: true poets, and fervent converts all, like Francis Davis, the Belfast Man.”
I
^3
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
477
Attornevs at Law.
BAtCN \V NT «fc ItJL A. It V Jii iif (E. M. Brown Of ’65), A t-torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «St M1TCHEEL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rrVBCOMA.9 B. CEIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	•
FANNING «& HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of’74], At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and
Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.	■
TOHN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office tJ 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OBVIIuXijE T. CIIAAIIilEKEu^ATlV (of ’61), Attorney at. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind. .
McBRIDE «fc NTIT^Tj A RD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the IT. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WITZT/TA M J• CJLi A. RIL2E (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A., O’REIEEY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
J Oli IV D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. ISYT.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.-	tAtl antic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.m 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ t> 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ ■ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N.Dame— 8 52 -	6 38 “ Ar. Niles—	9 25 “ 715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
L
OTMC. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTEITJ R J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for J_A_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
rplIJE CATHOLIC CODUMT5I AN. published J- weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE AVE "M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, §2.5o.
TELE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray <fc Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) §1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk. rriM Hl BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop.,Niles, MichI igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, III. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson. ,
Book Binders.
WDWAIl D T. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind-ni er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Ci F CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZltJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0 CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address	’
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental' hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger		§ 50 1 50	§1 3	§1 50 6	S 1 5 10	§ 2 10 25	§ 3 25 50
High School or Acad. size,2^x3^ in. shelf specimens College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf specimens					25 500	50 100	1 00 3 eO
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellmoof the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sde-ences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
478
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA..
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into t he regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
, Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Name P. 0., Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, • Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 P.M.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 AM.
Roch ester,	- -		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.58 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,				7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,'.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 am.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,.						9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,				10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft.Wayne,				1.30 p.m.	11.55 “ -	2.40 “	
Ply mouth,............	3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,..	Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,......		9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmnnth..	.		2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft' Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
TnmA,.					8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
T'nrpRt 	 			10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,		..Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline		...Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 A.M.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,				12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.30 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,				4.05 “	1L15 “	*9.00 “	1L20 “
Rochester					6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,....	..Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago io Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticker offices at the lowest current rates.
FjB. MYERS, G. P. & I. A
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
. RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1S77.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		4.35 p. si	12.25 P. M.	7.25 A. ST.
“ Kokomo		7.10 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Pera		8.10 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. SI. 1.14 p. sr. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W„ Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis....	5.30 p. sr.	4.10 A. M.	9.10 A. sr.
“ Kokomo		2.55 “	1.50	“	6.33	“
Ar. Peru		1.50 “	12.38 “	5.37	“
Lv. Pera	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 a. ar.	12.33 A. M. 10.25 p. sr. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
A NEW SYSTEM OF German Penmanship.
By the Professor of Penmanship, in the Commercial Course, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Published by FR. PUSTET, 52 Barclay street, NEW YORK, and. 204 Vine street, CINCINNATI.
This System is adapted to the Analytic and Synthetic methods of instruction, with Principles similar to those tadopted in the best English Systems. The copies are beau tifully engraved.
Explanations and Diagrams are given on cover.
Price, 85 cents per Dozen.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modem improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad.' The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the-health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal .neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
'	Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago, 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher. The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS:
Introduction,	•
Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, The Months—description, etc., January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December,
The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,
A View of Astrology, • Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?
Sonnet,
Mirabeau the Man,
Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella, Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LYONS,
jiXotre Dame, Ind.; or, The Scholastic Printing- Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE	’
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
Jt*. S HICKEY.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40	pm	12	30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00 pm
J. C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lae, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	'
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvix Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
TYPE FOUNDERS, CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. Al I Type cast from best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied ou short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co.; and which has been in constant use for over seven years. .	jan 5-3m
480
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sierra Eonse,
Chicago, Illinois
017 TSE RECEIPT OF FIFTY CENTS, we will send, Postage Paid, to any address, a handsome Chromo of
“ His Holiness, Leo XIII,”
from an authentic Portrait loaned the publishers by his Grace, Archbishop Wood. Address,
CHROMO DEPARTMENT,
TRHMRXL BUREAU OS’ ENGRAVING,
mch2-2t 513 Pine Street, Plilladelplila..
THE “AVE MARIA,”
.A. CATHOLIC JOTrS,3<r^.I.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)	.
Published Every Saturday at Notre Same, 2nd.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-AJSTZD
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AND MY EMINENT PRELATES
SORTH BEND, DSTDIANA.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vebe, Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “ Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
One Year.........................................$ 2 50
Five Years.........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)..20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.	-
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Vin Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen'l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
JAMES BONNEY THE FHOTOGHAFHEB, Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts., SOUTH BEND, USTTDIA-JSTA-
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere’s	•
LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME, and arranged for Male Characters only, By A. J. STAGE; and Edited by JOSEPH A. LYONS.
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St, Cecilia Philomathean’ Association,—the former, present and yet to be.
Price 25 Cents.
“The Upstart” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahoney, Staley, Dum, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
Every Member of the St. Cecilia Phtlomathean
Association,
PAST AND PRESENT, hould procure a copy.
Sent post free on receipt of price.
E. F0Z, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
ST. DOTIS, mo.