Votie Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vloturus; vivc quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 1, 1878.
Number 40.
Charity Repaid.
The sun had capped the western hills, The day was piercing cold;
A light snow-storm lay on‘the ground, In heaps together rolled;
When slowly, through the college gate, A stranger bent his way, And standing near the chapel door.
Beheld the boys at play.
The west wind ’round the corner blew, As if with fury mad,
And rudely sporting in its mirth, It mocked the thinly clad.
His eyes had lost their lustre bright, And silver lined his hair;
The flush of youth had fled his cheek, And left deep furrows there.
Yet one might see, in that bent form, The pride of better days,
Now destined by the blast of fate To tread o’er life’s rough ways; .
And long he stood, no word he spoke, His watch was lone and drear,
And yet he stood, to go aloath, To ask, restrained by fear.
But now it chanced the boys, from play Returning, saw the man,
And forthwith to the almoner With hurried steps they ran.
The almoner in trouble paused, His store was scant and thin, The last was gone, but something said :
“ Fet go and look within.”
When lo ! there lay in bundle tied
A coat of varied hue;
With grateful heart he hastened back To shed his heavenly dew.
Large drops rolled down the old man’s cheek And down his beard unshorn,
As, turning to the boys, he said: “ To beg I was not born.
“ I once was happy, young, and fair, As blithe, as gay as you;
I once had friends, but now, alas!
They are so very few.
In far-off lands beside the Rhine
My sunny days were spent,
Till war, upon my friends and home, Its cruel fortune sent.
“ Since then bereft of all I had, Of wealth and friends and home,
Dependent on a stranger’s mite, Inforeign lands I roam.
But why repine should I at this, I know it is God’s will ?
The cup He sent remains for me To drink it to the fill.
“But may He bless your store with gain, From which His poor you’ve fed;
And may.you never know the want Of those who beg for bread.”
He paused and turned his feeble steps, „ Refreshed, and touched to find
That though the world was cold and poor, Some spirits yet were kind.
But in the crowd that round him pressed To listen to his dole, '
There stood a youth whose face betrayed The workings of his soul;
The old man’s story, truthful, sad, His looks, his accents light,
Sank deep within his tender heart And called for pity’s mite.
How sad, thought he, must be the lot Of those who have no home !
How great their want, how poor their fare, As o’er the world they roam!
How courts the rich this world of ours!
How slights she him that begs!
To those she drops the fairest smile, To these she casts her dregs.
But suddenly a bright thought flashed Across the gentle mind,
Was there not something he could give To poor distressed mankind ?
Within his purse there gleamed a coin, The kind gift of a friend,
It shall be his, he needs it most, ’Tis better thus to spend.
Then watching as the man withdrew, He blushing hastened nigh
And gave the coin, but ran away, Not waiting a reply.
That night the student had a dream, Surprising strange it seemed,
He stood where perfume fill’d the air, And golden sunlight beamed:
Before him walked the same poor man, As when the day before
He gave the alms and ran away, Ashamed it was not more.
But now, as if by magic power, The man had disappeared;
And in his place a stranger stood, With sweat and blood besmeared.
626	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A heavy cross His shoulders bent, His look was mournful grave;
And on His head a crown of thorns
Portrayed the pains they gave.
He, suddenly upon that face, A radiant glow did see, And, smiling sweet, the Vision said : “¥ou did it unto Me.”
And then appeared a precious crown, With rubies glist’ning bright;
And in the midst, surpassing all, A coin fell on his sight.
The student woke, his heart beat quick,
* Was then his Lord so near!
Was it a dream ! a vision blest!
Why should that crown appear ?
And then within, repeating low, A soothing voice heard he,
“ It is the promise, hundredfold, Which lies in wait for thee.”
T. G.
Harmony of Nature.
In spring, when nature awakes from the slumbers of winter, and robes itself in garments green and beautiful; when woods and vales re-echo with the warbling songs of birds; when warm sunshine and cooling rain entice the sleeping germ from beneath, the sod; when river and lake glitter in the bright rays of the sun; in this season, so beautiful and pleasant, it is fit that man too should come forth, view, admire and search into the secrets of nature, so mysterious and yet so plain.
In concentrating our thoughts upon nature, we now more than ever are struck with the beauty, grandeur, nay sublimity it unfolds before the view of him who loves to search into its secrets, and whose heart is captivated and mind enlightened by its charms and wonders.
Order is Heaven’s first law. We can therefore, admitting this to be true, find no disorder, no inconsistency in God’s creation, coming as it does from His Almighty fiat. Apparently there are many and great evils in this world,— evils that seem to contradict the goodness and justice of the Creator. These, however, as philosophers tell us, are not evils in themselves, but in regard to us. But waiving this question now, we will explain the subject proposed.
There is harmony in nature, both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms and in the planetary system. Order is adaptation of means to the end. This we find exhibited in the vegetable kingdom. The object or end of plants is to grow and reproduce their kind. Now, that the conditions for this growth and development are supplied by nature, one cannot help noticing it, if not blind to what is going on around him during this season of spring. In early spring, when taking a walk into the country, we see the germinating plantlet piercing the earth’s crust, and bidding the gentle rays of the sun enliven and give it succor. • As soon as the stored-up food is exhausted, the little plantlet is to seek food elsewhere. Now, it is well known that plants destitute of moisture and heat die. Moisture is gained from the ground, heat from the sun, and light from the atmosphere. To absorb this nourishment their organization is well adapted. Minute porous rootlets ramify around the parent root and imbibe the nourishing fluid from the soil, while the leaves of plants, porous and minute cellular, absorb nourishment from the air in the
shape of carbonic acid. In this manner plants grow and live. In the words of the poet:
“ Circuit ac late plantam defertur in omnem, Panguis nt human os circumvagos irrigalantus.”
When chilling frost and cold winds strip the trees of their foliage in autumn—when trees, shrubs and herbs, from the hoary oak to the tiny flower-stem, wither and decay—it was wisely ordained by Providence that from this very corruption and death, living and future plants should derive their subsistence. And this we find to be the case; the fecundity of the earth is never exhausted, although every foot of ground should be sapped by growing plants, so as to imbibe all nourishment; this would only increase her stores of food, for death is the doom of all animals as well as plants, and eventually the stroke is felt and life vanishes. As in the course of years nations disappear and are succeeded by others, so in the kingdom of plants life and death succeed each other in endless succession. What they took from earth they must return to earth, for such is the law that governs the vegetable kingdom.
It was said above that the object of plants is to grow and reproduce their kind: as regards the flowering of the plants and the formation of the embryo or plantlet in the seed, a few reflections will suflice. In the first place it is noticed that the seeds of plants are so disposed by their figure and weight as to fall invariably upon the ground in the position favorable to germination. The root end of the embryo invariably seeks the ground, buries itself deeper and deeper in order to get a firm hold, while the little stem with the young leaves seeks the fair aspect of heaven. It is therefore evident that there is order in plants, in their organization, in their mode of development, nay even their decay.
Going a step higher, we find that in the animal no less than in the vegetable kingdom order, in many forms and different aspects, is displayed in the various grades of animal creation, from the most diminutive creature to man, the lord of creation and the handiwork of the Creator. In the lower as well as higher classes of animal life there is a mutual relation between organization and the element in which animals live and the food on which they subsist. The myriads of minute microscopic beings that live and move where other animals would scarcely find space in which to move and food upon which to live, find nevertheless abundant supplies of food and ample space for locomotion. Being minutely small, some visible only by a powerful microscope, their food is also minutely small and admirably adapted to their organization. But we can illustrate this point by a few reflections on fishes, which to hunt in their watery abodes is now the sport of many a one. Who has not sat for hours on the banks of some rippling stream, in the cool shade of protecting trees, and watched the fishes, large and small, as in their sport they swiftly glide through the silvery waves, now dart into the stillness of their water, and then again are seen playing in the warm sunshine, almost on the surface of the water ?
How swift are their movements! Although living in the realms of silence, and incapable of social intercourse, as it were, they still exhibit traits which seemingly betray some instinct and intelligence. Is not the element in which they move best suited to their organization ? and, on the other hand, the organization to the element ? Deprive them of water, and you deprive them of life. Their form is admirably adapted to the element in which they
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	627
live. Nature had indeed nowhere presented such elegance of proportions with such variety of form and beauty of color. The head is pointed in order to meet the resistance of the water. Their food they find in the water, and like terrestrial animals subsist on each other. This is, however, not universally the case, and has like all general rules some exceptions.
We now come to a class of animals which by their many and various peculiarities go to prove in a most striking manner the truth of the fact that there is harmony in nature. This class is called by zoologists axes or birds. You do often in this beautiful month of May, when nature unfolds all her charms, take a stroll through neighboring woods and dales, and in the cool shade of a sturdy oak sit down and open heart and mind to the beauties of nature, as displayed wherever you may chance to cast your eyes. If your ear is not insensible to the beauties of sound you must gladly listen to the soft notes of the feathered singers as they sit upon a tiny twig and with melodious voice pour forth their praise of the Creator, at the same time greeting the new-born day. You are listening, and wonder how such beautiful and soft notes could come from such diminutive creatures. Various as are the colors of these songsters, so diversified are the notes that come from the little throats. There is, however, one songster of worldwide fame, which it is our misfortune to miss in the groves around Notre Dame. It is the nightingale. Long ago, I have often in the stillness of night listened to the notes of this enchanting bird. I quote a beautiful description from Chateaubriand: “When the first silence of night and the last murmurs of day struggle for mastery on the hills, on the banks of the rivers, in the woods and in the valleys; when, the forests have hushed their thousand voices; when not a whisper is heard among the leaves; when the moon is high in the heavens, and the ear of man is all attention —then, Philomela, the first songstress of creation, begins her hymn to the Eternal. She first strikes the echoes with lively bursts of pleasure. Disorder pervades her strains. She passes abruptly from flat to sharp, from soft to loud. She pauses; now she is slow, and now quick; it is the expression of a heart intoxicated with joy—a heart palpitating under the pressure of love. But her voice suddenly fails. The bird is silent. She begins again; but how changed her accents. What tender melody! Sometimes you hear a languid modulation, though varied in its form; sometimes a tune more monotone, like the chorus of our ancient ballads—those masterpieces of simplicity and melancholy.”
In such beautiful language has the great writer described the song of the nightingale. Though this melodious songster, on account of the severity of the climate and various other reasons, does not inhabit our woods, we still possess many a plumed warbler, almost rivalling the beauteous song of Philomela. There is the thrush, the swallow, the ringdove. The first, perched on the topmost branch of an elm, defies our solitary blackbird; the second, lodged under some hospitable roof, utters his confused cries as in the days of Erouder; the third, concealed amid the foliage of an oak, prolongs her soft moanings, like the undulating sound of a horn in the forest. The redbreast meanwhile repeats her simple strain on the barn-door where she has built-her compact and mossy nest. But the nightingale disdains to waste her days amid this symphony. She waits till night has imposed silence, and takes upon herself that portion of the festival which is celebrated in the shades.
How pleasant to listen to the chorus, discordant, but still harmonious, of the plumed and lively songsters!
In birds we find the adaptation of means to the end perfectly illustrated. Their wings, convex above and concave below, are perfectly adapted to the element they are designed to cleave. As the weight of the fish is lessened by the bouyancy of the water, so birds are of comparatively little weight when with outspread wing and little muscular exertiou they cleave the air. Besides, the bones of the larger birds are hollow and filled with air, so as to increase the elasticity of flight. And what ingenious springs move the feet of birds! With what ease and grace, and apparent unconsciousness, do they not hop from branch to branch, from twig to twig, in quest of food for their young breed! Their feet are so constructed that when pressed in the centre or at the heel they naturally grasp the object pressing against them. Oft in winter at the approach of a storm you see swarms perched on the topmost branch of a tree. One wonders how they can maintain their position amid the raging storm and in the obscurity of night. But the fact is that amid the raging tempest and roar of winds they, unconscious of danger, are lulled in deep sleep. Every moment we expect to see them hurled from their apparently unsafe position—but the louder the roar of the winds, the more terrific dead the night, the more profound their slumber. As calm as the infant’s sleep on the fond mother’s breast, so amid storms and tempests reposes the bird on the branch of the tree.
Evening dawns upon us. The sun has sunk behind the western hills and colors the evening sky red and beautiful. The shades of night fall fast. Here and there a brilliant star twinkles, and bids, as it were, the earth rejoice, lay aside trouble and sorrow, for it is about to commune with myriads of dazzling lights scattered throughout the deep azure sky. The moon has risen, and walks the heavens like a queen of wonderful beauty. It is night—stillness, breathless silence reigns everywhere. A beautiful scene is laid before your eyes. Above, the heavens, serene, brilliant with lights; around you, silence unbroken. Raise now your thoughts from earthly things, and soar aloft into those regions infinite, where are poised these orbs of light. Count them, if you can. You give up in despair. Do you not read the Name of God upon every one of those suns? Truly unfortunate is the astronomer who can spend his nights in contemplating the stars without beholding inscribed upon them the Name of God. Consider the distance, the magnitude, the number, added to the scientific and astronomical notions you have of the world above, and if the idea of order, of harmony, and with it that of a Creator, does not enforce itself upon your mind, you may, with easy conscience, sleep upon your couch and lead an epicurean life. But such is not the case. Great minds and generous souls have reasoned otherwise when viewing the heavens in the stillness of night. In submission and love they exclaimed: O God! the heavens proclaim Thy glory, Thy power and majesty!
But, object certain so-called unbelievers, where is the harmony, the order of nature you boast of, when so many and terrible evils are pending daily and hourly over mankind ; create disorder in both animal and vegetable kingdoms—sometimes breaking the world with utter destruction ? Why those wars: those terrible disasters, that continually destroy thousands of human lives? How many youths die in the prime of life, like the opening rose plucked off the tiny stem! Countries are laid waste—men, women
628
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and even innocent children put to the sword. The glare of burning cities and towns and homesteads reddens the evening sky. Lamentations—sorrows—death everywhere. Father, mother—sister, brother, are separated—the one in captivity—the other cold and stiff on the battle-field. O war, how terrible art thou! Again, famine, pestilence thin the ranks of life—and fill those of death; is it not true that in these disasters the innocent suffer for the guilty ? Is this your boasted order, and harmony, when earthquakes efface entire cities, with whatever they contain, from the face of the earth, and engulf them in the depths below ? How can we admit a wise Providence, a Supreme Being, in whose hands are the reins of the world, when such numerous and inevitable evils are continually pending over, nay afflicting mankind? To these questions we answer in the words of a celebrated writer addressed to those disbelieving in Divine Providence:—We cannot conceive what a scene of confusion nature would present if abandoned to the sole movements of matter. The clouds, obedient to the laws of gravity, would fall perpendicularly upon the earth, or ascend in pyramids into the air; a moment afterwards the atmosphere would be too dense or too ratified for the organs of respiration; the moon, either too near or too distant, would at one time be invisible, at another would appear bloody, and covered with enormous spots, or would alone fill the whole celestial concourse with her disproportionate orb. Seized as it were with a strange kind of madness, she would pass from one eclipse to another, or rolling from side to side would exhibit that portion of her surface which earth has never yet beheld. The stars would appear under the influence of the same capricious power, and nothing would be seen but a succession of tremendous conjunctions. To those believing in the true God, acknowledging Him as the primary cause of all things, no difficulty whatsoever can arise from the considerations of the many trials, evils, and calamities,.to which man has to submit. As the sun shines upon the good and bad, so God sends these said evils upon the just and unjust, being to the former a source of great reward when patiently endured, to the latter a punishment, and at the same time a warning to leave their evil ways and walk the path that leads to righteousness and happiness.
There is, then, harmony in nature. Minerals, plants, animals, the heavenly bodies, all work harmoniously as one grand whole. And these grand orbs that silently revolve in the heavens above, the deep waters of the dark blue ocean; the myriads of living beings that dwell in its silent depths; the whole animal creation, all these came from the Almighty’s Fiat. From this earth of ours there resounds forever a universal chorus of praise, ascending higher and higher on ethereal waves till it reaches the Throne of God. The rolling of the dark blue ocean, the roar of the cataract, the lightning flash across the evening sky, the reverberating thunder, all tell but feebly the greatness of the Mighty Maker, Nature’s God. L.
The Fan.
As was remarked in this journal a few weeks ago, there are two points in commencing an essay which to ninety-nine out of one hundred students are sure stumbling-blocks. These two points are—first, trying to think of a subject; and the second, which is considered the subordinate, the collecting of their ideas relating to the subject. Recalling to mind the story of Cowper and Lady Austin, which, briefly stated, is, write on the first subject which strikes you,
I concluded to follow this advice, since I was at a loss for a subject. Lounging in the study-hall window the other day, I saw the small man, J-----, of the Junior department, running from the western side of the College towards the J.unior yard, and he was in such a perspiration over his little run, for at a low average he will go near two hundred, that we felt for him. I thought to myself: What could be up that he had made such great strides to get to the yard ? I guessed B. P--------must have come around some corner on the sudden, and here our friend J-------was enjoying a pleasant smoke, or something of the kind. However, in a few moments this delusion was dismissed, for we saw the lunch-basket coming from the play-hall, and the consequence was J------------------------------was “left” Too bad! It then struck me that the next instrument which would be in best play, the lunch-basket being gone, would be that useful little thing the fan, so I concluded upon a description and history of it-for our Junior friend.
The fundamental idea of the fan is said to have been first hit upon many hundred years ago at a grand feast of Lanterns. Among the many high personages present at this feast was the handsome Kan-si, daughter of an eminent mandarin, who finding herself so overheated that, contrary to all etiquette, she was compelled to take off her mask, and partly that she might cool herself and partly that she might hide her blushes, she commenced upon herself the action we now call “fanning.” This violation of the rules of etiquette was at first looked on as disrespect for the rest of the nobles, but very shortly, says the narrator of the legend, “ ten thousand hands agitated ten thousand masks.”
Many other writers have found the origin of the fan in the necessity to which the inhabitants of all hot climates were compelled, to keep off flies and the ephemeral insects which are so numerous in such climates from the things which were to be taken as offerings for the gods, or to keep them from the priest when he was officiating, for he must be so in order to offer an acceptable sacrifice.
In India and the adjacent countries the fan was composed of the two wings of some birds of handsome plumage. The fan of the high priest of Isis was of a semicircular form, and was composed of feathers from different birds. Such too were the fans which were borne in triumphal processions, and which to many Eastern nations served as military standards in the time of war. It is also reported that the Sibyls were accustomed to fan themselves whenever they gave forth oracles. From the last circumstance we may plainly see that the fan was not regarded as being in any way connected with effeminacy, as nowadays.
The fans of the Roman nobles were far different from those of the Chinese or Egyptians. They were composed of small tablets of perfumed wood. The Roman ladies whenever they went abroad were accompanied by flabilliferae or fan-bearers, and in the same country guests were always fanned by slaves especially kept for that purpose. The first reference made by a classical writer to the fan occurs in Euripides’ tragedy of “Helena,” wherein one of the characters relates how according to an ancient custom he fanned the person of a handsome heroine.
Among the persons of high society in the Middle Ages fans were worn suspended from the waist by two chains of gold, and were composed of feathers from the peacock, ostrich, and parrot. They, were an article of great traffic in the markets of Venice, Lyons and many other places. Catharine de Medicis, of the famous house of the Medici,
}	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	629
f	__
!	so renowned during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries,
is said to have been the first to introduce the fan into France, having procured one while on a tour to Italy, Here it was greatly used, not only by the ladies but also
’	by effeminate men. In the time of Louis XIV the art of
f	painting fans was very greatly practiced, and many are
noted for their proficiency in this line, such as Waltham and Boucher. In 1683 a regular fan-making company was established in France. In order to become a member of the guild, one must have served four years apprenticeship and be able to make a masterpiece. However, under certain r	circumstances some were exempted from the masterpiece.
The processes for making fans are numerous. They must be cut, gummed, polished, trimmed, and after having to go through so many hands they can be sold for five cents a piece. Still some fans run as high as four or five hundred dollars. Some fans consist of only one piece, and these are considered the best for all cooling purposes. Another kind is those which have small thin stripes of :	pine or other light wood covered with silk or some kind
s	of gauze. This second kind is more adapted to perform
i	such manoeuvres as young persons of this century are so
1	prone to take pleasure in. There are many other kinds;
i	I might say they are numberless; but from the two kinds
described a general idea of the fan may be formed. Such then is a kind of history of the orgin and uses of the fan. Without the fan what would we do in the suffocating days of summer ? We must in those days have some kind; if we cannot procure an artificial one we will seek out 1	some leafy tree and there lay down and let nature fan us
with her gentle breezes, for after all fanning is nothing
I	more than a mechanical process of putting the air in mo-
tion. Man in making use of the fan does nothing more than copy nature.	J. I.
The Transit of Mercury.
THE PHCENIX, AND THE PHCENIX PERIODS OF THE ANCIENTS.
Nearly all the sacred writings of the ancient Egyptians contain allusions to or present the figures of two birds facing each other: Poneh and Gholi; their only distinction consisting in the one having long feathers on the head and the other none. These are the two birds upon which is grounded the famous myth of the Phcenix.
The Egyptian word Poneh means Phoenix. The hieroglyph on the Flaminian obelisk is interpreted also as Phoenix. The Gholi is the Ghol of the Old Testament, and the Neo-Coptic Alite for Phoenix.
*	Now what can this renowned fable, which was imprinted
on all the coins and obelisks of the ancient nations down to the days of St. Cecilia, mean? The ancients, who perfectly understood the meaning of it, give the following interpretation. There is a certain bird of which but one specimen exists in the whole world. This bird visits, every six hundred and fifty-one years, in company with many smaller birds, the city of the Sun (Heliopolis), coming from the Orient, and going to the Occident. He, after being cremated in the flames of that city, awakes, flies away, and returns in six hundred and fifty-one years. This happens at about the time of the vernal equinox.
It was during the reign of Sesostris, one of the greatest kings of antiquity, 2,500 B. C., that this phcenix is said to have appeared for the first time. It appeared again in 1900 B. C. and in A. D. 50, great pomp and festivities being carried on
*	by the people.
There was also a false Phcenix- (Choi) which went to Heliopolis every five hundred and thirty-nine years, and even oftener, but in the autumnal equinox. This latter appeared in the years 310 and 347 B. C., and in A D. 37, 98,138, 211, 282, 306, 310, and many others.
It has now in the interim been proved, and clearly too, that *this Phcenix was and is none other than the planet llercury. The Phcenix was a symbol of Mercury, as was the Tabula Bambina a symbol of the mysteries of Isis (of which we may in a future issue give a description). As there was with the ancients only one Phcenix, so is there now only one Mercury. Heliopolis, in which the Phcenix was burned, was none other than the Sun itself, in which Mercury, during the transit, appears as a black, burned body crossing the sun from east to west. Just as the old Phcenix crossed the sun every 651 years from east to west, so does also Mercury pass through the sun every 651 years from east to west, in the vernal equinox. During the transit of the Phoenix, innumerable birds were said to accompany it; so are also many millions of stars seen to accompany Mercury. As the Phcenix appeared in the days of Sesostris, Amos and Claudian, so did also Mercury in 2,555 B.C., 1,904 B. G., in A. D. 50, and this year also, on the sixth of May, six weeks after the vernal equinox.
As the/alse Phcenix made its appearance after 539 years, and oftener, in the autumnal equinox, so did also Mercury in 310, and 227, B. C., and in A. D. 37,109,138, 142, 217, 218, 326, 339, etc., etc. In short, there were transit periods of the Phcenix and transit periods of Mercury, of 651 and 539 years. Whenever there was a transit of the Phoenix, there was also a transit of Mercury.
Some one might now ask: “Can I rely on these dates?” to which we would answer that the ancient Egyptians were so skilled in the science of astronomy that they could tell when the Phoenix came, which was always at irregular intervals.	P. S.
Scientific Notes.
—Among the curious objects which Norway has on display at the Paris Exposition are fish-skins tanned for gloves; eel-skins prepared for harness; shark-skins, ten feet long and three feet wide, suited to various purposes; and whale-skins, sixty feet long, for driving-bands for machinery.
—A German paper gives the following simple test for watered milk; “ A well-polished knitting-needle is dipped into a deep vessel of milk, and immediately withdrawn in upright position. If the sample is pure, some of the fluid will hang to the needle; but, if water has been added to the milk, even in small proportions, the fluid will not adhere to the needle.”
Traces of land-plants have been found by Prof. Claypole, of Antioch College, Ohio, in the fossiliferous limestones of the Clinton beds, which are of Upper Silurian age. The impressions resemble the stem of a Lepidodendron, and are probably those of a plant belonging to an allied genus. These are the first indisputable relics of terrestrial vegetation that have been found in America on so low a geological horrizon.
—A writer in L'Illustration Horticole gives some new evidence of the efficacy of the Eucalyptus as an insecticide. He says: “ Lately, my brother-in-law, Capt. Mignard, being very much disturbed in his sleep by mosquitoes, took it into his head to place a young plant of Eucalyptus in his bedroom over night. From that moment the insects disappeared, and fie slept with comfort. I have been following his example with the same result.”
—Mr. J. A. Allen, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard, will contribute to the forthcoming Bulletin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
(Vol. IV., No. 2) of the United States Geological Survey an essay on “ The Geographical Distribution of the Mammalia, Considered in Relation to the Principal Ontological Regions of the Earth, and the Laws that Govern the distribution of Animal Life.” Mr. Allen is also working on a history of the North-American Pinnipedia (seals, walruses, etc.), to be published among the volumes of Hayden’s “Miscellaneous Publications.”
—We read in an exchange that not long ago the cable in the Persian Gulf ceased to work. On investigating the cause of the trouble, a whale was found entangled in the broken cable. The animal was covered with parasites, audit was supposed that, to rid itself of them, it had rubbed its body against the cable and broken it. One of the ends had then coiled around the whale in such a way as to produce suffocation. Submarine cables are subject to injury by animals inhabiting the great deep. The cable between Portugal and Brazil has suffered frequent damage from the sunfish. Splinters of bone have been found thrust through the several coverings of the cable so deeply as to affect the wires.
—Mr. George B. Lennett, of Erie, Pa., has recently published some notes of a naturalist’s tour along the Rio Grande, in Texas. The country traversed by the writer lay between Point Isabel, on the coast, near the mouth of the Rio Grande, and a point a few miles above Hidalgo, embracing a distance of 100 miles of road, or 300 miles of river. The result of the trip was the securing of some 500 birds, three of which are new to our fauna, and one new to Science ; about 1,000 eggs, many of which are new or rare; a few mammals, nearly all of which proved interesting; a number of alcoholic preparations of birds, mammals, and reptiles, and a collection of insects, principally Lepidaptera. The new species was a warbler named Parula nigrilora, and its nest was “ hollowed out of a bunch of pendant moss.”
—The Smithsonian Institution is preparing for the publication of an exhaustive work on American Archeology, and has sent out a circular asking all who have original information bearing upon any phase of the subject to communicate it without delay to the Institution. The work will be accompanied with a series of maps showing the localities and distinctive characteristics of" ancient mounds and earthworks; shell-heaps; cave and cliff dwellings; masonry; sculptured slabs or carved images; inscriptions and rock-paintings; graves and cemeteries; aboriginal quarries and salt-works; caches, or deposits of objects in large^quantities; work-shops, or places of ancient aboriginal industry; ancient roads or trails; and reservoirs and aqueducts.” Persons who have any knowledge of the oc currence of such antiquities in America are requested to forward it for incorporation in the prospective work.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A new and complete edition of the poems of Coventry Patmore will shortly be brought out in London.
—The description of the last English Arctic Expedition, by Capt. Nares, will be issued in London in a few days.
—Mr. Andrew F. Crosse will publish in London a record of journeys in the Banat and Transylvania, under the title of “ Round About the Carpathians.”
—“George Eliot’s” manuscript is said to be “beautiful, clear, and full of character”; while that of Mrs. Oliphant is in so fine a hand as to be very difficult to read.
—A work descriptive of Paris life, and entitled “ Paris Originals,” is about to be published by Mr. A. Egmont Hake, with twenty etchings by M. Leon Richeton.
—The conversations of Nassua W. Senior with M. Guizot, M. Thiers, and many other distinguished persons during the Empire of Napoleon IH., are in press, and promise to be interesting.
—It is expected that Victor Hugo will open the International Literary Congress with an address, on the 6th of June. The Congress will comprise 326 members,—186 French and 140 foreign.
—The interesting volume of “Travels in Portugal,” which was published under the pseudonym of John La- '
touche, was written by Oswald John Frederick Crawfurd, H. B. M. Consul at Oporto.
—The lectures on the “ Origin and Growth of Religion, as Illustrated by the Religions of India,” which Prof. Max Mueller is now delivering in the Chapter-House, Westminster Abbey, will be reproduced in book form.
—An edition of William Blake’s “ Songs of Innocence and of Experience,” and “Books of Prophecy,” is in preparation by Sotheran & Co., London. It will be limited to 100 copies, and will be an exact fac simile of the original works.
—The statement that Mario is in comfortable circumstances is now contradicted. He is quite without resources, and a concert is to be given in London for his benefit, Mme. Christine Nilsson journeying to that city specially for that occasion.
—Miss C. W. Conant, an American artist living at Ecouen, near Paris, will exhibit a picture at the Paris Salon, bearing the mark “ No. 2,” which means that the work was pronounced, by the Committee of Reception, “ exceedingly good.”
—Eighty-five paintings and sculptures have been sent from Berlin to the Paris Exposition. Of these, sixty were from private collections, and the remainder from the Berlin National Gallery. The works were insured in Berlin for the sum of $2,000,000.
—That “ sad, bad, glad, mad ” poet Francois Villon, celebrated by Swinburne, is shortly to be honored by the publication, through private subscription, of a complete, translation, in the original metres, of his poetical works which was made in 1874, by Mr. John Payne.
—The collection of paintings belonging to Ivan Tur-genieff, the Russian novelist, was lately sold at the Hotel Drouot, in Paris. It was composed chiefly of works of the French school, with a few examples of the o Dutch masters. Turgenieff is said to be a fine connoisseur of art.
—Gounod has just published the “ preface ” to his new opera of “ Polyeucte,” a precedent which he establishes in France. Master Wagner, in Germany, has done it many times. Gounod’s theory is that no composer can possibly make the subject and general intention of his opera too clear to the ordinary mind, and that a preface is an indispensable adjunct.
—The Cincinnati Festival is to be foil wed by two smaller festivals, one at Baltimore and the other at San Francisco. The Baltimore festival will take place May 27, 28, and 29, under the direction of Asger Hamerik, the well-known leader and composer. He will have a chorus of 300 voices, and an orchestra of sixty-four, with Mme. Auerbach and Mr. Remmertz, of New York, for soloists.
—A Naples paper has the following paragraph: “ Nicolo Corridi of Corfu furnishes in twenty-four hours a complete comedy; in forty-eight hours a tragedy or the libretto of an opera; in seventy-two hours an entire poem, in stanzas of six verses, with the exclusion of any particular letter or letters of the alphabet. The poet resides in the Hotel de Loudres, Rue Guantari, No. 22, at Naples.”
—The collection of valuable tapestries preserved in the Vatican, which are soon to be drawn from their obscurity, and disposed within sight about the building, owes its origin in good "part to the custom followed by the kings of France for the past two centuries, of sending each year a piece of Gobelins tapestry to the reigning Pope. The collection was also enlarged by contributions, in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, from the manufactories of Flanders.
—Renewed attention is directed by the Academy to the Art College for women in Rome,—an institution which affords young women seriously devoted to art the advantages of a home and of good art-instruction at the lowest possible prices. The school is located in the Via degli Artisti, on the Pincio, but during the summer will be removed to some healthy locality among the mountains. It is under the patronage of the English Ambassador and Lady Paget, Lady Eastlake and others.
—A sumptuous edition of Thackeray’s works is announced by Smith & Elder, of London. It will be richly illustrated by Thackeray’s own designs, and with new
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
631
sketches by eminent artists. The edition will be limited to 1,000 copies, will not be completed within a year, and will cost American subscribers about §8 per volume. Since the publication of the Abbotsford edition of the Waverly novels, nearly forty years ago, the works of no English author have been produced in a s'yle of magnificence equalling that promised in the present instance.
_ —The necrology of painters during the last few weeks includes the names of Jaraslay Cermark, a distinguished pupil of Gallait and Fleury, who died in Paris, April 23; Konrad Corradi, a Swiss landscape-painter, who died April 9, at Uhwiesen, at an advanced age; and Prof. Fred, rick Preller, a protege of Goethe, who died at Weimer, aged 74. In this list may be included the names of M. de la Salle, an eminent amateur of art, who recently made a munificent donation of drawings of the old masters to the Louvre. M. de la Salle had reached the venerable age of 84.
—The concerts by foreigners at the Paris exhibition include three concerts by Mr. Henry Leslie’s choir, July 18,19, and 20; one by Gilmore’s band July 4; two by the Swedish students of Upsala University; one of Scandinavian chamber-music; five concerts by the orchestra of La Scala, under Facchio; three by the orchestra of the Appolo of Rome; three chamber-music concerts by the Conservatoire of Palermo; three concerts, in July, by the Symphoni Society of Madrid; and three chamber concerts with Spanish music. There will also be concerts by a Hungarian orchestra, a Belgian, a Danish, and a Dutch choir.
—The first work of Mr. R. B. Browning, son of the eminent poet, is on exhibition at the Royal Academy. It is denominated by the Athenaeum “a large and important life-size study, ‘A Worker in Brass, Antwerp.’” The painting represents a tall, grey-bearded old man hammering out a brazen dish at the table in his workshop. According to the writer already quoted, the light from the window falls upon the figure with telling effect, and the picture is altogether interesting as a life-like example of a worker in a curious craft. “ The outline is extremely bold, coloring richly harmonious and effective,” and the drawing of the hands notably fine.
—Up to the present, the Boston Music Hall organ has ranked as the largest instrument of the kind in America. It was built by E. F. Walcker & Son, of Ludwigsburg, Wiirtemberg; begun in 1857 and finished in 1863. The cost of the instrument was about $50,000 and $20,000 additional were expended on the case. It is about 47 feet in width, and the two projecting central towers are 60 feet high. There are 89 stops, 5,474 pipes, 13 combination pedals, and 12 couplers. The motor for operating the six large bellows is a 10-horse-power steam engine. The organ just erected in the Cincinnati Music Hall was built by Messrs. E. & G. G. Hook & Hastings, of Boston, Mass., and is the largest one ever built in this country, and ranks about the fourth or fifth in size in the world. It is 50 feet wide, 30 feet deep, and 60 feet high. There are 6,237 pipes and 96 stops. We are informed that the design of the case was drawn by some of the most talented pupils of the Art School. To give an idea by comparison of the size of this instrument, we append the number of pipes and stops in some of the very largest European organs. That in the Albert Hall, London, is the largest in the world. Albert Hall organ, 111 stops, 7,879 pipes; St Sulpice, Paris, 100 stops, 6,706 pipes; Cathedral at Ulm, 100 stops, 6,564 pipes; St. George’s Hall, Liverpool, 100 stops. The interior of the Cincinnati Music Hall is of tulip wood finished in oil. It is 192 feet long, 112 feet wide, and 70 feet high. The stage is 112 feet wide by 56 feet deep.
Books and Periodicals. -
The Love ok Jesus to Penitents. By Henry Edward, Cardinal Manning. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1878.
This little work on the Sacrament of Penance is marked with the same vigorous thought and manly diction so distinctive of the eminent writer.
—The Catholic World for June is very interesting. The
articles as a rule are well written. Take the Catholic World regularly, and one cannot but be convinced that it is the best specimen we have of magazine literature in America. The contents of the June number are: I, Thoreau and New England Transcendentalism; II, The Fountain’s Song (Poem); III, Hermitages in the Pyrenees; IV, Conrad and Walburga; V, Hell and Science; VI, Sorrow (Poem); VII, Kitty Darcy; VIII, Rosary Stanzas (Poem); IX, Relations of Judaism to Christianity; X, The Lessons of the Caxton Celebration of 1877; XI, Malcolm, King of Scotland, to his Wife, St. Margaret, (Poem); XH, Have We a Novelist?; XIII, Anglican Development; XIV, St. Francis of Assisi (Poem); XV, The Socialist Idea; XVI, A Ro-maunt of the Rose (Sonnet); XVII, Helen Lee; XVIII, The Future of Faith; XIX, New Publications: Elements of Ecclesiastical Law—The Book of Psalms—Books for Summer Reading.
A Compendium of the Philosophy of Ancient Histoby. With an Appendix Containing a Dissertation, by E. Von La-saulx, on the Study of the Classics, translated from the German. By the Rev. Henry Formby, Author of *• Monotheism, the Primitive Religion of Rome,” “Sacrum Septenarium,” etc. London: Burns & Oates, 17 Portman Street. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street 1878. The object of this work is, as the author remarks, to make history a more interesting as well as a more useful study by attempting to trace the Divine plan of events for the youthful mind, in place of presenting a mere mass of unconnected facts to the memory. It is his design to show the action of the Divine Providence, which from the beginning prepared the world for the coming of its Redeemer. That he has accomplished his purpose, he who reads this well-written volume must clearly see. Father Formby is a most pleasing writer, and though we may not have the same intense love for the classics which he displays notun-frequently in his work, yet we can unhesitatingly recommend his book to the public, more especially to the student. It will make his study of the classics, and more especially of the great historical works which have come down to us, not only interesting but far more useful.
New Music.
—We have received a copy of the second and revised edition of the Missa Solemnis et Missa pro Defunctorum, by Rev. P. Ignatius Trueg, O. S. B. We are pleased to see that this series of harmonized Gregorian Masses is succeeding so well. It is an evidence that good church music must some day succeed in the United States. Of the series we need only repeat what we have frequently said, that Father Trueg has done his work well. Address Ignatius Trueg, O. 8. B., St. Vincent’s Abbey, Beatty, Pa.
Johnson’s New Method for Thorough Base. An Instruction Book for playing Church or Glee Music, and all other kinds printed in four or more parts on the Organ or Piano. By A. N. Johnson, ($1.00). Boston: Oliver Ditson & Co.
The above full title so plainly describes the intention of the book that but little further explanation is necessary. It may be well, however, for the information of general readers, to define what “Thorough Base” is. The term is an old-fashioned one, and has had various meanings. It is sometimes confounded with “Harmony,” but now means quite a different thing. If a person know that the letters U, E, and G, played at once on the piano, constitute a chord called the chord of C, such a person knows something about Thorough Base. If a person know that playing the chord of C, of F, and of C again, one after the other, sounds well, such a person knows a little about Harmony. Thorough Base is the “ spelling” or orthography of chord music, and Harmony is the grammar; giving rules for the proper succession of chords. It is self-evident that all four-part music should be played by chords. All who wish to play accompaniments, or to play for Sunday Schools, etc., should go through the course so plainly laid down in this ‘Thorough ’ and remarkably plain “ New Method.”
—Friendship is a harmony of two souls.—Ozanam.
—The near miss of happiness is a great misery.—Leighton.
632
THE JSTOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 1, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SO HOT, A STIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved; and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
' Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Obligations to Others.
In our intercourse with our associates perhaps the greatest injury that we can inflict, the one most insidiously destructive to happiness, is that of tacitly refusing to them the right to be kind to us. The right to be kind is the dearest of all to a noble heart, and can be infringed upon in various ways; as by not responding to courtesy, by attaching evil motives to the actions of others, and finally, by never cordially forgiving an injury.
“ To err is human, to forgive divine,” but to freely acknowledge that you stand in need of the forgiveness of your fellow-mortals is a virtue so rare that it has not yet been qualified. It was characteristic of the ages of. faith, but is quite at war with the spirit of our present times; and yet, who is there among us that can raise his hand to heaven and declare that he has never willingly or unwillingly inflicted harm upon others either by bad example, bad counsel, or by neglect in imparting that which is good ? Who is there standing without the need of forgiveness from his fellows; yes, in a special and particular and not in a general sense ? A little child whose mother was a fashionable member of the Anglican Church, was joining in the service and came to the prayer, “ Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners.” The Young-American dignity of the little lady was aroused, and, with a very unmistakable jerk of the head, she exclaimed in a startlingly distinct stage whisper, “ I am not a miserable sinner.” It was beneath her to acknowledge human weakness, for she was in possession of that dignity so common, that dignity which the possessor is bound to “support,” because if left to itself it would perish at the first breath of opposition. She would compromise her “self-respect” by consenting to call herself a “ miserable sinner.” Pitiful self-respect! ignoring the fall of man!
This false dignity is at the foundation of the above-mentioned social plague. Those who are too proud to acknowl
edge a failing in themselves are too proud to forgive the failings of others, however humbly confessed; hence we hear young persons meeting the desire to make reparation on the part of one who has offended, with expressions like the following: “If he will own that much, you may be sure there is plenty more of which he does not speak ”; hence, by admitting or by denying a fault, one is equally shut out from the pale of kindness. How many virtuous impulses have been crushed in this manner; how much good destroyed!
To bestow benefits, to cheer misfortune, to encourage others in the career of virtue, especially if this should cost a real sacrifice on the part of the benefactor, confers a most pure, because a most unselfish, happiness upon the human heart. Why then should we interpose barriers against the interchange of kindly offices ?
Were there no other proof of the existence, and constant interference of evil powers in our affairs, the unnatural and circuitous means by which antipathies, detractions, slanders and misrepresentations are propagated would establish the fact beyond question; but, we alas! too frequently give the precedence to rumor, that bold-faced emissary of darkness, and force modest charity to be overruled in her claims, and to be ignominiously crowded into the background to await the final tribunal of justice before her cause can obtain a hearing.
To say, by either word or action, “I can forgive, but can not forget,” is a virtual contradiction. He who really forgives, at once forgets the injury cancelled.
The avaricious and puritanic, who confess to no such weakness as that of possessing a heart, may affect to scorn and despise the friendships contracted by youths during their university career; but go the world over and you will everywhere find men reverting to the associates of their school days as dearer than those of any other period.
Youth is the'time when friendships founded on virtue are particularly admirable. They partake of the buoyancy, freshness, and strength of that season. They are worthy to be cherished, and if the soul does not become sordid and cold in the allurements of worldly success or the oppression of adversity, such friendships at last will reveal their most exalted beauty in the land beyond vicissitudes and misunderstandings, where charity absorbs all other virtues, and integrity no longer stands in need of defence.
Patient Industry.
There scarcely .passes a day during which we do not hear some young man saying, “If I had the genius or talent possessed by such a person, I too would overcome all obstacles, and lead my class.” How foolish is not such talk! The indiscriminate use of these very words has done greater in. jury to more students than any other. It has been injurious to those who imagined that they possessed these qualities and to those who feel that they are devoid of them. Those who have supposed that they possessed genius and talent have been injured, because they begin to feel that they may put all their trust in their own natural powers, and do away with that application which is necessary to the highest genius. It is injurious to those who have imagined themselves more slightly endowed by nature, because they take it for granted that effort and industry on their part can never make them the equals of the more gifted, and are therefore content to walk in the paths of mediocrity. It is true that some men have been endowed with trans-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	633
cendent genius, and have by their own native ability achieved success in literature, science and art. But these men are not given to the world in every age. These men are born only at intervals in the history of nations, and the talents given to them are God’s especial gifts to the world> not to these men alone. Leaving out, then, these extraordinary instances of great superiority, there is a far less difference in the original mental endowments of mankind than is commonly supposed. That which men call genius is not unfrequently the result of early intellectual habits, and still oftener of thorough and labored preparation for every individual effort. That which passes for talent is nothing more than the judgment and expertness which comes from the judicious and continual direction of native power and a well-balanced mind to some one employment. How-many young men are there not who, having passed with success through the collegiate course, and assumed a high position in society, should attribute this result to their application, and not to genius; who, had they not applied themselves to their studies and formed habits of industry, would be no farther ahead than many of their class ? No man knows whether he is possessed of genius or not until ■ he has given, with the ardor characteristic of genius, some time to that pursuit which is congenial to his natural disposition.
If then a young man would succeed in any undertaking, it is necessary, whether he imagines that he is endowed by Heaven with great mental powers or not, to possess decision of character and cultivate habits of industry. Without these qualities his genius and talent will avail him little. He must choose that calling which is most congenial to ' his nature, and resolve to succeed in it. If he does this, he will succeed, in consequence of his resolution. Let his purpose be single and simple and he will accomplish it. He must have decision and energy: energy to work out that which he has decided upon. Mankind find themselves weak, beset with infirmities, and encompassed with dangers. This weakness may be turned into strength; these infirmities may be healed; these dangers may be braved and overcome. But it is required in him who shall accomplish these that he have the will to do so.
This decision of character is not a special gift to any one person. It is a matter of habit, and can be acquired by all. It is the same as physical courage, which though natural to some maybe acquired by all. When first going to battle, how many there are who face the cannon with trembling limbs and blanched countenances; yet after a few charges and encounters, the roar of musketry and the cheer of men in combat instead of filling them with dismay rouses up all the manliness of their souls.
The young man, then, having decided what he shall do, and having determined to do it, must labor to work out that which he has willed. He should, from early youth, form himself to habits of industry, for all habits are more easily formed when man is young. Labor is necessary for success in all enterprises. Without it man can do nothing. All high positions in life are attained by industry. Who now, in our country, possess wealth, and positions of trust and honor ? Chiefly those who have labored for them hard and long. From whom are they imperceptibly falling? From those who, because of their indolence, are unable to keep them. It is wonderful what mere industry will accomplish. All the progress made by our country is the result of labor; all that man should ever hope to attain will be the result of patient industry.
Personal.
—Peter Hoey, of ’59, is practicing law at Gilroy, California.
—Homer C. Boardman (Commercial), of *69, is in business at, Iowa.
—David Brown (Commercial), of ’73, is in business at Rockford, Ill.
—Joseph Kelly, of '64, is proprietor of one of the largest stores in Joliet, Ill.
—William C. McFarland (Commercial), of ’65, is in business at Tiffin, Ohio.
—Martin O’Brien (Commercial), of’65, owns a fine farm near Kansas City, Missouri.
—Patrick L. Garrity, of ’60, is with Towle & Roper, 41 and 43 Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Ill.
—Alexander Perea (Commercial), of ’65, owns an exten sive ranche near Bernalillo, New Mexico.
—Right Rev. Dr. Sweeny, of St. John, New Brunswick, vtsited Notre Dame on Sunday and Monday last.
—J. J. Brennan (Commercial), of ’75, is the senior partner in the firm of J. J. Brennan & Co., Alton, Ill.
—Charles F. Morgan (Commercial) of ’71, is superintendent of a large manufacturing establishment at Oakland, Cal.
—F. H. Greene (Commercial), of ’64, resides at Grand Rapids, Mich. We have not been informed as to his business.
—Right Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, visited Notre Dame on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of this week.
—Rowland Henrick (Commercial), of ’67, is living in Pittsburgh, Pa. He is book-keeper for the Pittsburgh Oil Refining Company.
—J. W. Montgomery (Commercial), of ’69, resides at Montgomery, Ind. He is the freight agent of the Ohio & Mississippi Railroad.
—Edward J. McLaughlin, of ’76, whois studying theology at the Salesianum, near Milwaukee, Wis., will be ordained this year, we have been told.
—William B. Moon (Commercial), of’68, is a partner in the firm of Harsha & Moon, dealers in drugs, medicines, etc., Deland, Florida. He is prospering.
—Charles J. Dodge, of ’74, the orator of the Alumni for this year, will be at the Commencement. His law practice in Burlington, Iowa, is very good.
—John Hogan, of ’73, is still in Paris, France, prosecuting his medical studies. Two years ago Mr. Hogan graduated from the medical college in Chicago.
—Visiting Laporte, Ind., last Sunday we were delighted to see our old friend Joseph Rumely (Commercial), of ’72. Mr. Rumely has charge of the books in his father’s large manufacturing establishment.
—Rev. Father O’Brien, of Detroit, Mich., who visited Notre Dame with Right Rev. Bishop Borgess, made many friends here. He is a most amiable and estimable gentleman, and we hope to see him often.
—Joseph C- Heinz (Commercial), of ’71, is head book keeper for the Denver & Colorado Railroad Company Colorado Springs, Colorado. Of course being a live man he is remembered among our subscribers.
—Henry Beckman (Commercial), of ’73, is in business at 204 Superior Street, Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Beckman is a good business man and, like all good fellows, shows his kind feeling for Notre Dame by subscribing for The Scholastic.
—Most Rev. Archbishop Lamy, of Santa Fe, New Mexico, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dubuis, of Galveston, Texas, and Rt. Rev. Bishop Dufal, Coadjutor of Galveston, will visit Notre Dame shortly. They are on their return from Europe, and are making the passage with Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
—Rt. Rev. J. Lancaster Spalding, Bishop of Peoria, HI., will be the orator of the day on the Wednesday of Com
634
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mencement Week. Those who heard his learned and saintly uncle, Most Rev. Archbishop Spalding, of happy memory, when here in 1866 at the dedication of Notre Dame will listen to Bishop Spalding with no ordinary feelings of pleasure. .
Local Items.
—The May devotions terminated last evening.
—The Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
—Now for the evening promenade around the lakes..
—The red hot candy last Wednesday was the joke of the day.
—Every day a large number of strangers visit Notre Dame.
—The Juniors have made quite a number of promenade parties lately.
—A great many of the old students have promised to attend the Commencement exercises this year.
—If ever a rainy day was regretted, it was last Wednesday by the members of the Junior department.
—A very interesting letter was received on the 27th from Rev. W. F. O’Mahouy, who is now in the East.
—The Juniors do not fish as much this year as they did last. Long walks through the country is all the go.
—The 20th Annual Spring Exhibition of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association will take place on the 11th.
—The Rogation days’ processions were formed by the members of the Community, during which the Litanies were suug.
—It is said that there will be an unusually large number of visitors from Chicago attending the Commencement exercises here this year.
—The Examinations of the Graduating Class will begin Monday, June 10th. Three hours will be devoted to each of the young gentlemen.
—The students were well pleased with the visits of the three Bishops within one week. In a short while we may expect a number of others.
—The Annual June Examinations will begin Monday, June 17th. There is a general invitation extended to parents, friends, etc., to attend.
—To-morrow week is Whit-Sunday or Pentecost, on which day the members of the Archconfraternities are to go to Holy Communion in a body.
—Quite a number of students made their First Communion last Sunday. In the afternoon the same persons made a renewal of their baptismal vows.
—On Pentecost morning the members of the two Archconfraternities will receive Holy Communion in a body. Every one is expected to wear his regalia.
—The Jacobite Club beat a nine picked from the Universities, the Quicksteps, and Star of the West, on the 22d by a score of 24 to 11, and on the 26th by 9 to 7.
—The Psalms al Vespers to-morrow are those of a Confessor Bishop, p. 48 of the Vesperal; the hymn, Jesu corona virginum, page 53. The Mass sung will be Afissa de Angelis.
—The Jacobites deny that they were beaten, as reported in last week’s Scholastic, by the Quicksteps, the latter club having, it is claimed, thrown up before the game was finished.
—There will be a meeting of the resident Alumni on Monday afternoon at 3.30 o’clock in the rooms of the Director of Studies. All are expected to attend in order to make arrangements for the June meeting.
—The Roll of Honor in the Junior Department is larger this week than on any other during the year. This speaks well for the department, for at this time of the year there is generally a falling off1 in the number of the names. Of course the Director of Studies will keep his word and hold the reunion this evening.
—There were good notes last week, and we understand that the Bulletins for the month of May are about the best of the year. We are always pleased to chronicle such
reports, and our sincere desire is that all will persevere to the end, and that a large number of students will be awarded honors on Commencement-Day.
—We are happy to announce that Rt. Rev. Dr. Spalding, of Peoria, III., has accepted the invitation to give the oration on the Wednesday of Commencement Week. We can assure our friends that a rare treat is in store for them, and we trust that every one will take advantage of the Commencement to hear one of the most brilliant orators of America.
—There are 70 names on the Junior Roll of Honor this week—a larger number, we believe, than appeared on any previous list during the present scholastic year, now nearly at its close. The Juniors deserve credit for this effort, and we hope they will find it so agreeable to be on the roll of honor that they will keep the list up to the end of the term.
—There are here a few would-be mimics that make themselves odious by trying to annoy companions. Who are the would-be mimics? superiors both in education and in the observance of the rules of etiquette ? The man who endeavors to mimic the peculiarities of others with the intention of mortifying them in the presence of others certainly cannot be looked upon as a gentleman.
—Masters F. W. Cavanaugh and G. P. Cassidy evinced heir good will and did excellent service, during part of heir recreation time, in assisting Prof. Kirsch to label the additional specimens lately placed in the Cabinet of Natural Science. These young gentlemen, and those who assisted Prof. Edwards—whose names we do not remember—deserve the thanks of all interested in the Museum.
—On Thursday evening, May 23d, Right Rev. Bishop Borgess, who had that day confirmed a large number of people at Niles, arrived at Notre Dame Station on the Central Michigan, R. R. On Friday morning the Bishop, accompanied by Rev. Father O’Brien, of Detroit, Very Rev. President Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh and Kelly, visited the various halls of study. It is useless to say that he was well received by the students. In each hall Bishop Borgess made brief but pleasing remarks. Rec. was proclaimed, and the day was happily spent.
—The visit of Right Rev. Bishop Sweeny, of St. John, New Brunswick, to Notre Dame at the beginning of this week, was very enjoyable to all at Notre Dame. The Right Rev. Bishop arrived here on Sunday morning, and after saying Mass and resting himself, attended High Mass. On Monday he was waited upon, as are all Bishops coming here, by a large delegation of students, the results following being as usual. We hope that Bishop Sweeny enjoyed his visit as much as did the people of Notre Dame, among whom he recognized a number of old friends.
—On account of the very limited number of soirees given during the year we would be justified in thinking that our young musicians, despairing of reaching the perfection of former stars, such as Otto, Kauffman and others, had resigned themselves to an inglorious mediocrity. This we are reluctant to believe, and we look forward to the musical examination with more than usual interest, hoping to be agreeably surprised by the same display of talent and industry in the musical department which has each succeeding^year kept pace with the other departments of the University. Let each one do his level best for the few weeks that remain and we shall not be disappointed.
—We are pleased to hear that some of our young pianists have consented to play accompaniments to their fello wmusicians on the violin, flute, etc. This shows not only a kind and obliging manner on their part, but also a laudable desire for advancement in the art of music. To play an accompaniment properly requires considerable progress in sight reading, besides taste and judgment, not to speak of the strictest lime. We have often admired the perfection of this branch of the art at St. Mary’s; and sometimes the accompaniments, played so well, with occasionally a few bars of interludes, pleased us more than the artistic solos, in which we lost the time on account of the immense number of notes.
—The Curator of the Museum sends us a few lines returning thanks to Messrs. W. Dechant, J. Coleman, J. McEuiry, J. Ewing and M. McCue for the valuable services rendered
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
635
by them in preparing and setting in order the specimens in the Museum. Their zeal, devotedness and assiduity in this painstaking task, and the cheerfulness with which they sacrificed their recreation time to it, showed clearly that these young gentlemen take no ordinary interest in the study of the natural sciences. Without their assistance it might have taken many weeks, even months, to arrrange the large collections illustrative of zoology and mineralogy, whereas now we have little doubt that everything will be in order in a few days and that the Museum will be ready for the inspection of visitors at the Annual Commencement, now so near.
—On Thursday, the Feast of the Ascension of our Lord, Solemn Pontifical High Hass was celebrated at Notre Dame by Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne. He was assisted by Rev. A. Louage as Assistant Priest, Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau and Shortis as deacons of honor, Rev. C. Kelly as deacon of the Mass, and Rev. T. E. Walsh as subdeacon. Rev. F. C. Bigelow was master of ceremonies, and Mr. A. Morrissey assistant master of ceremonies. After Mass an eloquent sermon was preached by the Rt. Rev. Bishop, and was listened to with great attention by the vast congregaation. The sermon concluded, some ninety-six persons were confirmed, some of them from the College, some from the parish attached, and some from Lowell. As parents expect The Scholastic to let them know mostly everything their boys do, we might name the students who took part in the ceremonies. They were.- R. Keenan, thurifer; Frank Clarke and Frank McGrath, acolytes; E. Walters, mitre-bearer; A. J. Burger, crosier-bearer; M. Burns, book-bearer; and M. Bannon, candle-bearer. The altar boys, some twenty or thirty in number, were from the Sodality of the Holy Angels.
—It seems that there is some difficulty concerning the games of ball for the championship. The game reported this week as the fourth is claimed by the Enterprise Club as only the third. The facts of the matter are these: Each Club had won a game. Marantette, one of the best players in the University Club, was called home. During his absence one of the championship games was played under the following conditions: if Marantette returned, the game was not to be counted, no matter which Club won. If he remained away it was counted. The University Club won the game. On Monday last another game was played, Marantette still absent, and was won by the Enterprise Club. The same evening Marantette returned. The Enterprise Club claim that the game lost by them during his absence should not be counted in the championship series under the contract; but that the game won by them should, as there was no agreement about it. The Univerity Club claim that either both games should be thrown out or none of them. This is about as near a statement of the trouble as we could get. Of course we leave it to the Clubs to settle the matter among themselves.
—The fourth regular game of baseball for the University championship was played May 27th between the Enterprise and University Baseball Clubs. The fielding of both nines was far below the general standard, though the batting of the Enterprise was very good. If these Clubs continue to make such scores-as the following, we would advise the members to confine themselves to playing “ Pussy wants a Corner ” for the future.
ing Library at Notre Dame. He has presented to it a great number of Catholic papers which he has kept on file for many years round, the files being entire series of the papers, others of from two to ten years. Among these papers are the London Tablet, Catholic Standard, metropolitan Record, Boston Pilot, Pittsburgh Catholic, Irish-American, Philadelphia Universe, Belfast Weekly Examiner, New York Freeman's Journal, Philadelphia Catholic Herald and Visitor, Neio York Tablet, Bublin Nation, Dublin Weekly Freeman, New York Vindicator, New York Irish Democrat, Catholic Vindicator, Philadelphia Catholic Instructor, Dublin Tablet, Catholic Mirror, New York Irish News, Philadelphia Daily Age, American Celt, New York Leader, New York Truth-Teller, Irish Democrat, Universal News, and London Irishman. When one reflects on the vast amount of trouble and care required in order to save the files of newspapers, the value of the collection sent by Father Haviland can be appreciated To say that the Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library is thankful to the Rev. gentleman is saying but little of his real sentiments. He fully appreciates his generosity and is abundant in thanks. All of the papers will be bound in volumes and kept in a special shelf to be named after the donor.
—The rain last Wednesday caused a great disapointment to the Juniors, for on that day their annual picnic was to be held, and this year they had intended making it a grand affair. But the rain set in, and kept up all day long. As the ice-cream and the many etceteras had been procured the day before, and as the boys did not care to let some sixty dollars’ worth of eatables go to waste, a grand lunch was set in Washington Hall in the evening, at which any amount of good things were done away with. Music on the occasion was furnished by the Senior Orchestra. Letters of regret were read from a number of old students, among which were ones from Chas.’ Orsinger and M. B. Kauffman. Dancing, games, etc., occupied the evening, until ten o’clock, when all retired to bed. On Thursday it was found that there was still left more than one half of what was purchased, and as the day was fine it was determined to have a picnic in the afternoon. About two o’clock, with flags and the Band, the boys started off for the grove at the Scholasticate, where they enjoyed themselves greatly until half-past four, Vesper time. After Vespers they returned to the grove and partook of an excellent supper, and enjoyed themselves until 8 o’clock. Altogether the boys had a good time, and as they returned to the College loud cheers were given for Bros. Leander, Paul and Laurence, the Prefects of the Junior Department. To Bro. Paul was committed the work of the picnic, and he did it well. He was ably assisted by the following young gentlemen : G. J. Donnelly, R. P. Mayer, Jos. Kelly, F. Lang, R. E. Keenan, J. Cassard, C. Van Mourick, J. G. Baker, J. F. Arantz, E. Pennington, G. Sugg, C. Walsh, J. Healy, J. A. Burger, C. Hagan, Thos. Nelson.
________u.— ENTERPRISE.
o. R
B.H.
UNIVERSITIES.
O.lR.
Williams, 2 b......
Hamilton, c. f.....
Hagan, p...........
Nodler, 1 b........
Ohlman, c..........
Dechant, r. f......
Quinn, 3 b.........
Nevins, 1. f.......
McKinnon, s. s.....
Total............
5
1
1
3
3
2
4
5
3
3
5
6
3
4
3
2 1
2
27 29
0
2
6
0
1
2
2
5
1
19
Deehan, 3 b.......
Schmidt, lb.......
Fitzgerald, c. f..
Hertzog, l.f......
Lambin, 2 b.......
Murphy, p.........
Maley, r. £.......
Hale, ............
McMahon, s. s.....
Total...........
2 2
4 2
5 1
3 2
2717
B.H.
2 0
0
2 2
2 1
1 0
10
Umpire—T. F. O’Grady.
Scorers—Messrs. Davenport and McKone.
—Rev. Arthur P. Haviland, of Philadelphia, Pa., lately made a magnificent donation to the Lemonnier Circulat-
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given sat. isfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. H. Arnold, T. Barrett, J. E. Cooney, A. B. Congar, R. I. Chatterton, E. Calkins, W. L. Dechant, E. Dempsey, P. J. Dougherty, E. C. Davenport, A. A. Dorion, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. J. Fitzgera'd, W. C. Farrar, A. Ginz, F. Hellman, A J. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, P. J. Hagan, M. Hogan, J. 8. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, A. W. Johnson, F. Keller, Jas. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, J. R. Lambin, F. C. Luther, A. A. Lent, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Montgomery, H. Maguire, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, J. Murphy, J. P. McHugh, P. F. McCullough, M. J. McCue, J. J. McEniry, E. J. McMahon, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’. Grady, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn. J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, J. Rogers, J. Rothert, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, J. J. Shugrue, J. 8. Smith, J. 8. Sheridan, R. Van Valkenburg, P. Vogel, F. Williams, E. Walters, F. J. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, W. P. Adams, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. T. Burns, M. H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, A. J. Buerger, J. M. Byrne, J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman, A. J. Bushey, C. O. Burket, G. H. Crawford, H. Canoll, T. F. Clarke, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cav-
636
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
anagh, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, C.'J. Clarke, D. S. Coddington, J. S. Cassard, T. J. Cavanaugh, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, J. W. P. Guthrie, EL A Gramling, L. H. Garceau, J. L. Healey, J. L. Halle, G. L. Ittenbach, J. B. Itten-bach, W. G. Jones, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, F. W. Lang, J. A. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, J. L. Lemarie, J. D. AfeNellis, W. J. McCarthy, R. P. Mayer, J. T. Matthews, T. E. Nelson, P. P. Nelson, H. J. Newmark, G. Orr, J. O’Donnell, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, J. L. Perea, E. J. Pennington, S. 8. Perley, W. Rietz, A. Rietz, K. L. Scanlan, J. K. Schoby, G. E. Sugg, A. W. Sievers, F. J. Singler, W. Stang, J. M. Scanlan, C. P. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, E. 8. Walter, W. A. Widdicombe, F. E. Weisert, C. E. Walsh.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, J. F. McGrath, J. Gibbons, R. P. Mayer, H. Gramling, C. McKinnon, S. Welty, W. B. Walker, A. Rietz, E. 8. Walter, F. Singler, J. Cassard, F. Lang, E. Pennington, F. Weisert, W. Rietz, J. Scanlan, P. Nelson, A. Bushey, J. Herriek, J. Larkin, H. Canoil, J. Schoby, J. Kelly, J. B. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, W. Cox, W. Stang, J. O’Donnell, M. T. Burns, K. Reynolds, A. J. Burger, Geo. Orr, C. Hagan, G. Donnelly, J. McNellis, F. Pleins, A. Heitkam, R. Keenan, 8. Perley, A. Keenan, J. Rabbitt, P. Vogel, F. Walter, J. Deehan, O. Hamilton, J. Rice, J. Rothert, E. Calkins, C. O’Brien, C. Mueller, J. Smith, B. Kratzer, P. Horne, G. Walters, J. Cooney, H. W. Ne-vans, A. Dorion, J. Garrett, FjWilliams, J. Fitzgerald, M. Regan, F. McMullen, P. Hagan, W. Arnold, W. Farrar, C. Clarke.

—The singing at the Mass for the pupils was accompanied on the organ this week by Miss Wilson—next will be Misses Spier and Riordan.
—On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday mornings at 5J£ the Community made the Rogation processions, singing the Litanies in alternate choirs to implore the blessing of God on the fruits of the earth.
—Rt Rev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit, accompanied by Rev. Father O’Brien, spent two days at St. Mary’s. In the evening of Thursday he gave an eloquent discourse, and stirred all hearts to a greater devotion to the Blessed Virgin by dwelling particularly on the obedience of Jesus to her.
—Sermons at the May devotions were delivered on Monday by Rev. Father Shortis, Chaplain of St- Mary’s; Tuesday, by Very Rev. Father Corby, President of Notre Dame College; Thursday, by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Detroit; and Saturday, in French, by Rev. Father Saulnier, Assistant Chaplain at St. Mary’s.
—At the Academical reunion on Sunday evening, “ Our Titles,” by Adelaide Procter, was read by Miss Elizabeth O’Neill; followed by “ Un Extract des Moines d’Occident,” par Montalembert, read by Miss Ellen Keenan; “ Mary Queen of Mercy,” by James C. Mangan, was given by Miss Mary Cooney; “Kaiser Rudolphis Kroeung,” by B. Frank, read by Miss Annie Reising; “The Picnic,” by Father Faber, read by Miss Anastasia Henneberry.
—Passing the work-room this morning our curiosity was excited to know what was being embroidered under a long frame very carefully covered. The Sister very kindly undid the wrappings, and exposed to our delighted gaze a chasuble of thick white moire antique embroidered in fine gold work. Another is also in the frame with a Lamb at at the top, and the pattern is exquisite. We were shown also some of the lace squares which are to form an elegant bedcover.
—In honor of the Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess an impromptu musical entertainment was gotten up on Friday in the vocal room. It consisted of a vocal duett, sang by Misses Elizabeth and Adelaide Kirchner; “ Belisario—Fantasia— (Goria), Miss Adella Geiser; “Adieu, my Native Land”—
L’Africaine—(Meyerbeer), Miss Cavenor; Fackletanz—No. 4—duett—(Meyerbeer), Misses Pleins and Wilson; “ The Nightingale”—sung by Miss Foote and accompanied by Miss Silverthorn in her own tasteful manner; Rhapsodie Hongroise—No. 6—(Liszt), Miss Wilson. The Bishop expressed his gratification that the music had so far surpassed the expectation raised by the standard required a few years since. The judgment and approval of Bishop Borgess has long been valued at St. Mary’s.
—Visitors to the Academy last week were: Rt. Rev Bishop Borgess of Detroit, Mich.; Rt. Rev. Bishop Sweeney, St. John, New Brunswick; Rev. Father O’Brien, Detroit; Mr. Morgan, Centralia, Ill.; Judge and Mrs. Miller, South Bend; Dr. and Mrs. Voorhees, South Bend; Mrs. C. E. Edgecomb, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr. Hoover, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. Tepurint, South Bend; Mr. Barnes, Ypsilanti, Mich.;- Miss McDermott, New Haven, Conn.; Misses Letitia and Josephine Walsh, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and -Miss Bunbury, Kalamazoo; Miss Sophia Harris, Niles, Mich.; Mr. Barrett, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Nelson, Chicago; Miss L. King, Indianapolis; Sir. John Kirkham; Mr. R. J. Dukes, Niles, Mich.; Hon. Gibbons, lady and family, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Nellie Coughlin, Keokuk, Iowa; Miss Falvey, Winamac, Ind.; Mrs. B. Orr, Mrs. J E. Evrhart, Mrs. E. C. Johnson, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. Day; Airs. Garard, South Bend.
—On Friday, the Festival of Our Lady Help of Christians, the Chapel of Loreto was reopened. The Holy Sacrifice was again offered, and heard by grateful and loving hearts, who have been without this blessing since the Feast of the Translation of the Holy House—last December. We do not give a description of the renovations made; when completed we intend to do so in full for the gratification of all those who have so generously assisted in this expression of devotion. At 5.30 o’clock, Mass was said by Rev. Father Saulnier and heard by the professed members of the Order at the Mother House, Rev. Father Shortis saying at the same hour the Community Mass in the large chapel. At 6, Alass was also said in Loreto by Rev. Father O’Brien, of Detroit, for the Novices; and at the Children of Mary and of the Holy Angels attended the one said by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Detroit. During this Mass a beautiful incident was remarked by many present—the rays of the sun entering through the amber-hued glass of the skylight immediately over the altar-steps appeared to envelop the statue of the Blessed Virgin over the altar in a cloud of golden hue, and striking particularly on her crown caused it to shine with a dazzling brightness.
—Saturday morning the pupils, to show their grateful appreciation of the very fine recreation day given by Bishop Borgess, decorated the study-hall with vines, flowers, and banners hung between the pictures on the wall. Smiling faces and respectful courtesies greeted the Bishop, and when all were seated, Miss Wilson came forward and read in the name of the school their thanks. After a few words of response, the Bishop kindly yielded to the request of Alother Superior and gave a short account of his visit (when in .Europe last year) to Bois d’Haine, and to Louise Lateau, the Stigmata, who for years has been visited by the most enlightened philosophers and the pious from every part of the world; and in whose presence science and unbelief are equally baffled. We have not space to recount the most interesting narrative; sufficient to say his lordship confirmed all we had read and heard before. His testimony has the greater weight as we were aware that previous to this visit he was rather incredulous, and therefore went determined to ascertain by every means in his power the truth of one of the miracles of the 19th century. ’ He explained the tests he used, and concluded by expressing his conviction that in the case of Louise Lateau he had witnessed the power of God manifested to this generation.
—[On account of St. Alary’s report coming in after time it was impossible for us to print the class honors, etc. —Editor Notre Dame Scholastic.]
—The rainbow is beautiful, but without a storm, a passing cloud, without descending raindrops, it does not appear. It comes after darkness and gloom, and the contrast makes its light the more charming and attractive.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
637
—In India, lepers are occasionally buried alive. When
a leper is past all hope of living more than a few days or character is the best test of a noble manhood. Not elo-weeks, his nearest relatives arrange, with his approval, quence, nor learning, nor genius, nor even devout aspira-for his immediate interment. Self-destruction by burial is tions, but character is the asbestos that will go through the called samaaK, and is regarded as so highly meritorious ; very judgment fires and come out whole, the quartz which that the disease is sure to die out in the family of the j no convulsions can tear apart, the substance that can revictim. So lately as 1875 a leper named Oomah, living * sist the sharp teeth of slanders like a well-tempered file, and lingering at Serohi, entreated his wife to put an end to his misery. A bunuia, or tradesman, was accordingly engaged to make the necessary arrangements, which simply consisted in hiring a couple of laborers to dig a hole, into which they thrust Oomah, he consenting to his own death. The Durbar, coerced by the British Government, at last
took cognizance of this incident, and fined the widow one hundred rupees. The bunnia was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment, and the grave-diggers each to two years, but it is very unlikely that they will undergo half that punishment.
—One day the cook in a monastery, when he laid the dinner, found one Brother’s portion of meat missing. He supposed that he had miscalculated, made good the deficiency, and thought no more of it till the next day, when he had again too little at dinner-time by one monk’s commons. He suspected knavery, and resolve to watch for the thief. On the third day he was quite sure that he had his meat cut into the right number of portions, and was about to dish up, when he was called off by a ring at the outer gate. When he came back there was again a monk’s allowance gone. Next day he again paid special heed to his calculations; and when he was on the point of dishing up, again there was a ring at the gate to draw him from the kitchen. He went no further than the outside of the kitchen door, when he saw that the cat jumped into the window, and was out again in an instant with a piece of meat. Another day’s watching showed that it was the cat also who, by leaping up at it, set the bell ringing with her paws; and thus having, as she supposed, pulled the cook out of the kitchen, made the coast clear for her own piratical proceedings.
—The London JVews says: “ The female anaconda in the Zoological Gardens was torn from her home in South America some time in 1876. She was carried across the ocean in a narrow box, which caused her great discomfort, and may possibly have impaired her digestion. In February, 1877, the anaconda was consigned to her English abode, but she refused to be comforted, or to take anything to eat. The dainties which have the greatest charm for her, live birds and other animated trifles, were, happily for them, exhibited in vain. She persevered in starving herself resolutely, not to say sullenly, and we do not learn that food was thrust upon her perforce. A few days ago she recovered the taste for living, and gratified her friends by slaying and swallowing an unfortunate duck. She may now do very well, for appetite comes as we eat, but her prolonged fast of at least a year might prove trying to most serpentine constitutions. It would be interesting to know whether the anaconda’s weight has varied at all during her unexampled performance.”
—There is a mollusk—the pinna of the Mediterranean— which has the curious power of spinning a viscid silk which is made in Sicily into a textile fabric. The operation of the mollusk is rather like the work of a wire-draw, the substance being first cast in a mold formed by a sort of slit in the tongue, and then drawn out as may be required. The mechanism is exceedingly curious. A considerable number of the bivalves possess what is called a byssus— that is, a bundle of more or less delicate filaments, issuing from the base of the foot, and by means of which the animal fixes itself to foreign bodies. It employs the foot to guide the filaments to the proper place and to glue them there, and it can reproduce them when cut away. The extremity of the thread is attached by means of its adhesive qualities to some stone, and this done, the pinna, receding, draws out the thread through the perforation of the extensile member. The material, when gathered, is washed in soap and water, dried, straightened, and carded—one pound of coarse filament yielding about three ounces of fine thread, which, when made into a web, is of burnished gold brown color. A large manufactory for this material exists in Palermo.
—We are learning the truth too slowly, but surely, that
—Every one may see what is the nature and quality of his life if he will but search out the nature and quality of the end which he regards in preference to all the rest, and in respect to which the rest are as nothing. If he regard self first he may know that his life is an infernal one; but if he regards as ends the good of his neighbor, the general good, the Lord’s kihgdom, and especially the Lord Himself, he may now that his life is aheavenly one.
HO, YE WHO ( OME
To the Commencement!
AT THE STUDENTS’ OFFICE, No. 54, Washington St., South Bend.
can be found the best stock of Cigars, Tobaccos, Snuffs, Pipes, etc., to be found in Northern Indiana. Remember the place, Blum’s Old Stand. •
E. & E. T. Ivins,
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A- CATHOLIC uOUKHAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published, Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER PIUS K, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO UH, And Encouraged by Many Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere, Grace Ramsay,	,
Henbi Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., eta, eta
TEBMS :
One Year...............................t 3 50
Five Years.................;....................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each).20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
KEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MABIA
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company
39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
638
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER & MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Pulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
KAJfNrNG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of "741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN F- McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBEREAIN (of ’61),
Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
"68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WT.T.T AM J. CTj A TtTCK (of ’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, ej 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov- 11. ISTT.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00-a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson....	3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	fi 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 45 “
Niles and Sontlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 •*	6 38 Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	455 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR .T- STACK [of ’64], County Surveyor for Xa_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
Tele c atholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
TALK AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’741 $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
mHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESOX HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, RI. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EUNVART) J?. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
QJT CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
’	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The • Scholastic ZiO Almanac for 1878. Address	-
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame,'Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy was struck off. Borneans of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Hluetrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	$1	$1 50	$ 1	$ 2	$ 8
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6	5	10	25
Amateur’s size,2U in. xW....				10	25	50
High School or Acad. size,2Ux3U in. shelf specimens				25	50	1 OO
College size, 3%x6 in., shelf specimens					500	100	3 00
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sci- ' ences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Gtntral Park, New York,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	639
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE	.
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Tionte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m Peru accommodation ............. 5 00 p.m. 9 45 a.m
Night Express...................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A M. SMITH,	A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,... Rnn.hARt.Ar.			11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m.	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “
Alliance,			3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			4.45 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
				7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,.....	. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	 TnrRRt		... Leave	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “		
Lima,					10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Kt Wayne,			1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmrnith. 			3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,......		7.00 "	6.00 “	7.58 “	
					
GOING EAST.					
		bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	 Plvmnnth 			9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m.	8.00 A Ji. 11.25 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “		 >
Ft Wayne	-			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,					8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
TTnrARt. 	 			10.10	5.20 “	2.48 “	
....... Crestline,		..Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
					
Crestline		...Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m.
Mansfield,					12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester				6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,....		7.30 "	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and. 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.					
THIS	IS THE		ONLY LINE		
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New _Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.				 _ . _ . F. R/HYEBS, G, P. & I. A.					
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 36, 1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis		4.35 P. M	12.25 P. M.	7.25 A. M.
“ Kokomo		7.10 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Peru		8.10 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. M. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. M. 1.14 P. M. 2.45 “ 3.30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W., Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis....	5.30 P. M.	4.10 A. M.	9.10 A. M.
“ Kokomo		2.55 “	1.50 “	5.33	“
Ar. Peru		1.50 “	12.38 “	5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. M. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. M.	12.33 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m„ Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
13 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540pm, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo! am.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am: Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50and 4 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
3 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago
8 20 a m.	-
4 50 n m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’c West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and. Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and. faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C-, Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
640	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lessons in Music.
PROF. EMIL ZOTT, having now taken up his residence in South Bend, is prepared to receive pupils or give private lessons in Music, Vocal or Instrumental, at moderate charges, in South Bend, Niles, Mishawaka and the ser-rounding neighborhood. Persons wishing to engage his services may apply at his residence or address him through P. 0. Box 1027, South Bend.
To those who desire the services of a competent Music Teacher the following testimonial from Rev. M. Oakley, S. J., Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, will be a sufficient guarantee:
Church of the Sacred Heart, Chicago, Feb. 20,1878.
It gives me pleasure to state that Prof. Emil Zott, bearer of present, gave perfect satisfaction as an organist and as a gentleman to his employers, and to me in particular, during the five or six years that he was Organist at the Holy Family Church in this city.
From my own experience and that of others, 1 know him to be very competent to teach the Piano, and especially Vocal Music. He is an excellent director of music and trainer of a choir.	•
Ever since he ceased his connection with the Holy Family choir he has always enjoyed the reputation of a good moral man and a perfect gentleman.
M. Oakley, S. J.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo\ West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.	.
-	Arrive.. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..........................  .7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J.C.McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All * Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, HXTDIANA.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., OBDOsite Sieimaii House,
.	Chicago, Illinois.
St. Mary’s Academy,
• NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.	•
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Name P. 0., Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY'
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is’ the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells- and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOGRAFHEB, Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BEND, UTZDIAUSTA.