Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce qiiasl semper victurus; vive qiiasl eras moritTirns.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 17, 1880.
Number 19.
1
The Lesson of a Season.
FROM “PRELUDES,” BY MAURICE F. EGAN.
What comfort now, when summer days have fled, Have you, 0 heart, that in the sunshine basked !
Have ye, 0 hands, that held all that was asked T
For all your fruits and flowers lie frosted, dead.
You did not dream amid the roses red,
Gold-hearted, scented, which your green bowers masked, That cold would come, and with it wild winds tasked
To tear away the garlands from your head.
O lover of red roses and red wine,
0 scorner of Christ’s Blood, to whom a prayer
Brought thoughts of dying, shudders, and vague fear, Will dreams of pleasure and past joys of thine
Make dreary winter hours more bright and fair Amid your dust and ashes ? Death is here.
A Trip to Jerusalem.
Leaves from an Unpublished Journal.
(continued.^
Having spent several days at Nazareth and in viewing the surrounding country, the delay prevented the ship’s party from proceeding further, and they decided to return to their vessel, which they accordingly did. I, however, concluded to continue the journey to Jerusalem, taking Abdullah for my guide. He and I were old acquaintances, he having served me in the capacity of guide through the Dead Sea region on a former occasion. He was then a member of that strange sect the Druses, but has become a convert to^the Catholic faith. He was a fine, sturdy, manly young fellow, and an excellent and conscientious guide—and also a veiy intelligent and capable one; for besides a thorough acquaintance with the country, the manners and customs of the people, etc., he also spoke several languages with fluency, among them Arabic of course, and English, French and Italian. He is now married, and resides in Beyrout. If any of my friends wish to visit Palestine they can have no better guide than Abdullah. I would like to have questioned him concerning the peculiartenets of those descendants of the Old Man of the Mountain and his followers, the Druses, as well as the circumstances bringing about his conversion, but a feeling of delicacy restrained me, although he became much attached to me, and we were excellent friends. I understand they are bound by a kind of freemasonry to secrecy regarding their religion and customs.
While travelling in Egypt, I once received a lesson in penalty for my curiosity in religious matters, which I will
never forget, for it nearly cost me my life. I had met a party—a wedding party, I believe—headed by dancing dervishes, and on their entering an enclosure I was anxious to see further of their .manoeuvres. The dervishes danced and shook themselves lustily, and I was much taken with the novel pageant. Curiosity was strong within me, so I ventured to ascend a stairway leading to a kind of porch, some fifteen feet from the ground, where I could have a good view of all that was going on. I was seen, however, and a stout young fellow was sent to speak to me, to request or compel my withdrawal, I presume, for he came up to where I was standing, but after giving me a scrutinizing glance, he evidently thought discretion the better part of valor, and went back to his party. Before long, however, I found myself suddenly pushed from the balcony, amid the circle of dervishes, and on picking myself up I found that it was an irate Mohammedan woman who had thus chastised the Christian “kelb” (dog) for his impertinent curiosity. Needless to say I'waited to make no further ado, and was only too glad to get off with whole bones and an unbroken neck.
So far as I could learn from other sources, the peculiar doctrines of the Druses are a profound secret to all but themselves. They are not Mohammedans, nor are they Jews, nor yet Christians,—but, seemingly, a mixture of all three. Their married women have for head-gear a trumpet-shaped affair, about a foot and a half long, standing perpendicularly on the head, the broad end resting on the hair, the narrow end supporting the veil. This trumpet-shaped instrument is presented to the young lady by the young man who desires her company, with matrimonial intentions; if accepted, he is a fortunate suitor; if rejected, she wishes neither his company nor his hand.
We are ready to depart from Nazareth, but must await a caravan. Unless we travel with a strong party we would soon be fleeced by the Bedouins. Announcements of these parties or caravans are made some time previously, after the fashion of our steamship lines at home, and the travellers on business or pleasure collect from various parts for the day appointed.
On leaving Nazareth we enter a beautiful valley, well watered and rich in vegetation. About half a mile from Nazareth we come to the fine well called Bir-el-Emir, near the ancient village of lafa, formerly a fortified place which was attacked and taken by Titus during the reign of his father, all the men in it being put to the sword. At Bir-el-Emir I found much food for reflection in the fact of seeing an ancient sarcophagus, once the burial-place of some great magnate, used as a watering trough. These sarcophagi may be seen used for the same base purpose in various parts of Syria. Some of them are magnificently
288
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
carved. Corpses were never placed in the ground, as with us, but deposited in vaults excavated in the solid rock at great labor and expense. These vaults are met with everywhere in Syria, and Mount Carmel is honeycombed with them, hence the saying in Scripture that “ even if you hide on the summit of Mount Carmel I will find you.” The entrance to the vault is about three feet high. Sometimes the sarcophagi are cut in a ledge of the rock left standing for the purpose, but oftener are hollowed in a separate stone. These, according to the wealth or dignity of the owners, were handsomely carved or embellished, and the walls and ceilings of the vault decorated with handsome sculptures in stucco, which were cemented to the native rock.’ In after ages, the sarcophagi were taken out and carried to the wells, where to this day they serve as watering troughs for horses, and flocks of cattle and sheep. What a lesson on the vanity of the world I How little did those who had these elaborate carvings made for the resting place of their kinsfolk dream of the purposes they would afterwards subserve!
Sometimes two or more flocks would meet at one of these watering places and get intermixed, to the chagrin of the herds, who would thereupon fall to upbraiding each other, for, of course, each would have himself innocent, and his neighbor the careless or guilty party. As the flocks were often very numerous, it would be next to impossible to separate them. I do not know how they finally arranged matters, as we would push on and leave them in altercation, separating their flocks as best they could. This gives us an illustration of the trouble between Abraham and Lot, on account of their herds, and their consequent separation, mentioned in Scripture.
In about an hour we reached the level of the Plain of JezraSl, or Esdraelon (called by the Arabs Merdj-ebni-Aamer), which from here spreads west and north, edging the hills around Nazareth and then sweeping out along the River Kishon to the Mediterranean. This plain is about thirty-six miles long. Passing by El-Fouleh, (the Castrum Fabae of the Crusaders) where the battle of Mount Tabor, between the French and Mussulmans, began, we reached Soulem, the Shunem of the tribe of Issachar, and the residence of the Shunamite woman. Abishag, the wife of David, was a Shunamite, and the woman who hospitably entertained the prophet Elisha, and whose son he restored to life (2d Book of Kings, iv, 8-37), was a Shunamite. De Saulcy informs us that, with the Arabs, Shunem and Soulem are precisely the same. Eusebius and St. Jerome write it Soulem; in the Book of Joshua (xix, 18), it is written Shunem.
At a very short distance from Shunem we come to JezraSl or JezreBl (called by the Arabs Zeraijn) a name that is often - met with in Scripture (Joshua xix, 18; 1 Samuel xxv, 43;
xxix, 2; 1 Kings, xviii, 45; xxi, 1,xxi, 19 xxi, 23; xxi,29; 3 Kings, viii, 29; ix, 10, and elsewhere probably). This was the place of residence of Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Zidoniaus, and of Naboth the vintner. Zerayn (or JezraBl, as it is now written on our maps,) is on the spur of a hill, above the plain to which, with Megeddo on the Carmel range, it sometimes gives its name.
A four hours’ ride brings us from JezraBl to the village of Djenin, located amid such beautiful surroundings that one might expect at least a respectable khan or inn in which to put up for the night. But no. The khan here is no better than a large empty bam. One end or section, on the ground level, is for the accommodation of the beasts
of burden; the other, with no wall or even partition between, but simply raised a little higher, is for—ourselves, and others like us, who can do no better and must make the best of it. Inside, around the walls of the building, is a sort of raised platform, but no bed, and on this we fix ourselves for the night as best we can. No matter how tired the traveller may be, there is but little, if any, sleep to had at Djenin, and he is glad when morning comes; for, during the night, the braying of donkeys, the jingle of mule-bells, the vermin, etc., (and vermin is almost everywhere met with in Syria) make sleep all but impossible. So it was with a feeling of satisfaction we saw the day break, regretting the sleep we needed but did not get, and glad only that such a night had come to an end. Before leaving Djenin, an Arab buffoon paid the place a visit, and rather amused us with his tricks and contortions, although to the devout Mohammedan they must have appeared blasphemous in the extreme, the fellow being nothing less or better than a Mohammedan infidel. It may be some consolation to orthodox Christians at home to learn that they are not the only ones annoyed by unbelievers. Infidels are to be found everywhere, and not least among Mohammedans. This is not surprising; for there are oddly disposed persons in every part of the world, and they will be odd at any or every hazard; they cannot on any condition act or believe as others, even the majority, do; and no matter what is the shade of the prevailing belief—or, singularly enough, of unbelief,—these odd fellows will have their dissent from it. Well, this fellow was a Mohammedan infidel, and seemed to take much delight in taking off the dancing dervishes after a very comical fashion. These dervishes dance and grunt in a strange way, moving their heads from shoulder to shoulder as if they were on hinges, and shoving a sort of skewer through both cheeks at the same time, a hole being made in the hollow or fleshy part of the cheek to allow it to pass. The buffoon took them off with a great many clownish feats of his own superadded, such as sometimes sticking his head between his legs and looking out behind with a comic leer while he gave the grunt, etc. It was, altogether, a droll affair, but for my part I never relish seeing religion of any kind, no matter how false it may be in itself, caricatured after this fashion. One instinctively feels that it springs from a bad principle.
(to bb continued.)

Thomas Aquinas.
The life of the school-men of the middle ages at first sight presents little that would seem to be of interest to the student of biography, or that would have any influence on succeeding ages. But a more careful examination will disclose to us numerous striking incidents. It is like the drop of water which, if viewed with the naked eye, presents nothing to attract our attention, but which, if examined under a microscope, discloses to us a museum of curiosities and wonders. It is true we do not find them experiencing the vicissitudes of fortune, and taking active part in the political actions of the times; there is ,on the contrary, a sameness which characterizes all the distinguished names of the men of the schools. But the tenor of a man’s life is not to be found only in the variety of incidents, there is a more secret quality of the mind, its development, which gives to us a more perfect insight into the philosophy of man. For this reason, therefore, does
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	289
the biography of the school-men require an examination which at first it would seem unable to sustain. As a fit * subject I have undertaken to consider the life of the most renowned, the angel of the schools. If depth of thought, subtlety of reasoning, and the intrinsic powers of the mind, ’	exclusive of the results obtained, can be called the char-
1	acteristic marks of the philosopher, then does the name
of Thomas Aquinas claim a place in that category.
St. Thomas was born of a noble family in the year 1224, in the town of Aquino. His mother was Theodora, daughter of the Count of Theate, and his father Lodolph was Count 1	of Aquino, whence St. Thomas is called Aquinas. His pa-
rents had destined him for a military life, which his other ” brothers had embraced, but Providence had predestined him for another and higher sphere. When he had attained the age of five years, he was placed under the care of the monks of Monte Cassino. At this early age he be, gan to show signs of his comprehensiveness of mind. He spent four or five years with these monks, when the abbot advised his parents to send him to the School of Philoa-k ophy lately established at Naples under the patronage of Fredrick II. At Naples he astonished all by the clearnesa and acuteness of his intellect. It often happens that these qualities of mind accompany a retiring disposition, and such was the case with the subject of this sketch. At the age of seventeen he bade adieu to the world, and became a member of the order of St. Dominic, contrary to the > wishes and entreaties of his parents and friends.
In the age in which St. Thomas was born, military prefer-•	ments were the object and ambition of all classes. The Cru-
sades were still in their height, and military exploits in the Holy Land were objects of ambition. But Thomas was inclined in the opposite way. Solitude was his solace, and *■ study his only desire. He had been for a long time listening to a preacher, John of St. Julian, who was lecturing on monastic life. Thomas obtained an interview with John, which fixed his purpose to embrace a monastic life. When ' his parents and friends were apprised of the step their son had taken, they were enraged, and did not, as some writers would have us believe, thank God for the bless-< ings which He bestowed on their son. His mother, Theodora, endeavored by every possible scheme to shake her son’s resolution, but in vain; he had made a choice, and could not be induced to disclaim it. Every means were k tried to rescue him from his monastery at Naples, and for better security he was sent to Rome, but he was followed by his mother and brothers. Thence it was decided to remove him to Paris. His brothers watched every passage leading from Rome, and one day they captured him on a by-road. They carried him by force to his parents home, and there all were rejoiced at his return. But it is said, you may force the horse to the water, but you can
' not make him drink, and such was the case with Thomas. They might tear the Dominican habit from him, and restrain him from returning to his cloister, but it is not the " cowl which makes the monk. All manner of persuasion was used to fill his mind with a desire for worldly things, but no, he was invincible. As a last resort, the devil devised a plan by which he thought to conquer him. One day a young lady was introduced to him, who, it was believed, might gain his affections. But God frustrated the dark designs of the devil, for Thomas in a moment of ex-< citement drew the burning rod from the fire, to destroy the tempter who fled, and by the random of his rod he made two scratches on the wall in the form of the cross, before
which he prostrated himself, and while he slept from fatigue he saw two angels descend from heaven, and bind him with the cord of chastity, composed of fifteen knots, known as the cord of St. Thomas.
During Thomas’s captivity in the home of his parents he occupied himself in the study of the old and new testament, studied with intense zeal the sentences of the Parisian Theologian, Peter Lombard, and made annotations of the Fallacies of Aristotle. It was during these long hours that he perfected the art of disputation which he so advantageously used in after life. After about two years his mother began to despair of frustrating his designs, so she then believed it better to release him and let him return to Naples. The monks were accustomed during all this time to give him the habit of his order throngh a window in his apartment, and by the same way he made his fellow monks aware of his intention of making his escape. One night, a few gathered below his window, and he lowered himself by means of a rope, and made good his escape to Naples. From Naples he was again sent to Rome, and was put by the superior there under the directorship of Albert of Cologne, the most practical philosopher of his age, for it was he who first systematized scholastic philosophy. He was to scholasticism what Plato was to philosophy at Athens. Plato collected together the principles of all the ancient philosophers and schools, and from these he formed a homogeneous mass, and breathed into it the spirit of a living philosophy. It is from this source that we may derive the subtlety of the logic of Aristotle and the masculine dignity of stoical ethics. Albert of Cologne holding the same position to scholasticism as Plato to the ancient philosophy may justly claim the name of great which was conferred on him. I do not intend to say that Albert was by any means the first of the scholastics, but he was the first who taught the philosophy of the schools in a systematic manner. Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury, and Abelard had discussed the principles of scholastic philosophy, but only in the manner of the ancient philosophers before Plato.
We see that Aristotle assumed the principles of Plato and formed them into a more perfect science and thus, aa it were, the pupil surpassed the teacher. We may truly say the same of Thomas Aquinas. In the school of Albert he held a position over the other students; he noted down outlines of the subjects considered in class. “ Frater Thomas magistri lecturam studiose collegit, et redegit in scriptis opus, stylo disertum, subtilitate profundum sicut a fonte tanti doctoris haurire potuit qui in scientia omnem hominem temporis atate pracessit.” Indeed we may say that Thomas the pupil superceded Albert the teacher. Albert was not only versed in metaphysical, but also in the physical sciences. But such was not the case with Thomas. His only sphere was in the fields of logic, metaphysics and theology. The embodiment of all these is contained in his great work known as the Summa Theologia.
It is a remarkable fact that, with all his keenness of thought and his vast erudition, he was as diffident as a school-boy. From this feature in his character, which appeared whenever he had to speak, he was named the “ mute ox ” by his comrades. It happened one day that one of his classmates took upon himself the task of expounding to him some obstruse passage which occurred in the lecture of that day, but the instructor found that Thomas understood more fully the passage than his benevolent class
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTICS
mate. This came to the ears of Albert; so next day Thomas was called on to explain some of the lecture of the day. He came forward reluctantly, but-his reasoning was so profound and so clear, that he elicited the praise of his master before all the students. Albert said, “you may call him the “ mute ox,” but one day the “ mute ox ” will astonish the world with his roaring.”
Thomas was the pupil of Albert, and whenever the master travelled from school to school lecturing, Thomas accompanied him. His mind was never at rest; he lived in the world of contemplation. An anecdote is related of him which verifies this assertion. One day he was a guest at the royal palace of the king of France, and during the moments of silence, he struck the table, and said in a loud voice, “ the argument is now conclusive against the Manichseans.” He lived only in the spiritual world, and it is said sometimes he was so fully transported from matter that his body was actually raised in the air.
St. Thomas was also a bold defender of monasticism. The monks were accused of leading an inactive and useless life. A certain writer wrote a treatise accusing the monasteries as being the abode of idle and listless men, but Thomas, at the request of the Pope, wrote an answer to this work, in which he triumphantly vindicated monastic life.
St Thomas returned to Cologne in 1248 and resided there till 1253. In that year he went to Paris and there began to lecture. His first series of lectures was on the sentences. At this time he had only the degree of Bachelor, but the erudition which he displayed in this first series, so excited the admiration of all, that the degree of Master of Sacred Theology was conferred on him, a title which, however, he cared but little to accept. In 1260 he returned to his native country, and filled the chair of Theology and Philosophy, and in 1272 he finally returned to Naples.
The monasteries were the silent retreats where minds desirous of repose and study sequestered themselves, and from whence came those productions of genius which are destined to remain the admiration of ages. Monasteries were a necessity of the times.- Here the son of the king and the son of the pauper were brothers. Monastic life was that in which Aquinas breathed most freely. Many high dignities were proffered to him, but nothing could entice him from his secluded cell. He was offered the archbishopric of Naples, but he declined the honor. The position of Abbot of Monte Cassino was then proposed for his acceptance, a station which we think he would be inclined to accept, but no, he spurned all worldly honor. He made a visit to Paris, and when some of the students remarked that the kingdom of the Gauls was what they wished to give him, he remarked: “ I would rather possess the Commentaries of St. Chrysostom on Matthew.”
It is wonderful to consider how voluminous his works are. He lived only about fifty years, and the latter half of his life was entirely spent in intellectual labors. His powers of mind were so exhaustless that it is said he constantly kept four amanuenses busily employed, and sometimes they could not record all his ideas from the rapidity with which he gave them forth. It is related that sometimes while dictating he would sleep from exhaustion, but that the train of ideas would continue uninteruptedly; but this, I think, can hardly be credited.
He was requested by Gregory X to be present at the second Council of Lyons, in the year 1274. But’his constitu
tion was rapidly becoming impaired from mental labor and he fell sick on the way, and was conveyed to a cloister of Cistercian monks, where, after a few days, he received the Holy Viaticum and the rites of Extreme Unction, and calmly expired. Thus departed the greatest philosopher and theologian of the schools. He was the favorite of all classes of his times. He was the friend of Popes, Kings and Princes. He was a very corpulent man, but well built and of an erect stature. He had a large round head, but ’ his forehead was not so high as would be expected to cover such a massive brain. His most beloved friend during his whole life was his instructor Albert. It is said that when Thomas expired Albert felt a secret convulsion, and with tears in his eyes arose from the table and said to his friends, Aquinas is dead. Great as his reputation was during life, it increased after his death. There was during his time a -sort of rivalry existing between the Dominicans and the Franciscans as to superiority in intellectual merits. The Franciscans held forth as a competitor John Duns Scotug.
Thomas was solemnly canonized by John XXII in the the year 1323, and was assigned the place as fifth Doctor of the Church. St. Thomas is known as the angelic, as St. Bonaventure among the Franciscans, the seraphic Doctor, St. Thomas’s doctrines, especially on the subjects of grace and predestination, being more in harmony with the teachings of the Latin Fathers, have superceded those of Scotus. Many Popes have proclaimed that his writings contain nothing contrary to the Catholic doctrine, and our Holy Father Pope Leo XIII is exerting all his influence at the present day to make St. Thomas the standard author in all seminaries. We may, therefore, see that the prophecy of Albert has come true, that the “mute ox” would awaken ages to come with his roaring.
L. J. E.

Art, Music and Literature.
—M. Dominique Alexandre Denuelle, a distinguished French decorative painter, died recently in Paris, at the age of 61.
—Of the discoverers and conquerors of the New World, Columbus died broken-hearted, Boldin and Bobadilla were drowned, Balboa was beheaded, Cortez was dishonored, Pizarro was murdered.
—Cardinal 'Nina, the Papal Secretary, is causing catalogues to be compiled and printed of all the artistic collections in the Vatican and Lateran palaces. They will be offered to the general public.
—“ Psychological Aspects of Education ” is the title of a paper recently published by E. Steiger, New York, which had been read by its author, Brother Azarias, before the University Convocation of the State of New York, at Albany, July 11,1877.
—Leo XIII has had executed for presentation to King Alfonso and his bride two very beautiful pictures in the finest mosaic, one representing the square of St. Peter’s at Rome, the other an elegant vase of flowers. Both pictures were made in the celebrated studio of mosaics at the Vatican.
—Instruction in music is beginning to receive the attention it deserves as part of a liberal education. Even little Lafayette (the place where you have to know the whole of the Greek Testament by heart before entering), even little Lafayette has formed a class in vocal music— The University Magazine.
—The first installment of Eugene Schuyler’s work on Peter the Great will appear in Scribner for February. A portrait of Peter will be given as the frontispiece of the number, while other illustrations will go with the reading matter. This work promises to be a leading feature of Scribner for many months to come.
J
1
T;BE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.®?
291
t.	—A new book by Mr. D. C. Boulger, entitled “Central
Asian Portraits: or, Biographical Sketches of Some of the ( Celebrities of the Khanates and the Adjoining Countries,” will shortly be published. Among the portraits will be that of the Turcoman chief to whose skill the recent defeat r ’ of the Russian expedition was mainly due.
—We learn from The Ace Maria that a college has recently been established at Cairo, Egypt, by members of the Society of Jesus. The President, Very Rjv. Alexis de * Villeneuve, has been a professor in the Oriental college of the order tor a long time, and is thoroughly acquainted t with the language, customs, etc., of the various people, dwelling in Syria, Egypt, etc.
1	>	—The city of Chicago seems to be in the midst of a
most brilliant season ot music. It has just finished a week of entertainments given by its favored vocalist Miss Thursby and her companions, and will be favored during the next two weeks by her Majesty’s Opera Company.
* The repertory of the season contains a list of the most ' > splendid and popular operas with names of those who are well able to render it a perfect success.
—A report has been going around the college press that Columbia has an endowment of §10,000,000. This is an i error. Columbia’s endowment is not §10,000,000, or I §8,000,000, or even §7,000,000. It is only the beggarly sum I ot §5,000,000, not a cent more. If the college were rich, and really had ten or fifteen millions, perhaps it could afford a foot-ball ground, but for the present we must scrape along as economically as possible, you know;—Acta Columbiana.
—Gustave Dore is at present engaged in illustrating * Shakspeare. He is so completely absorbed in the study of the great poet that he can think and talk of nothing else but Shakspeare, and is putting forth his whole artistic power in the endeavor to interpret him in a worthy manner. He has already made a number of drawings both large and small of various scenes, and in particular has utilized some of the sketches he made last year during his tour in Scot-r land for his illustrations to “Macbeth.” It is believed that this work will be one of the greatest achievements of his life.—American Art Journal.
—Early in the present year G. P. Putman’s Sons will v begin the publication of an entirely new edition of the works of Washington Irving. It will be known as the “ Geoffrey Crayon Edition,” and is to be published in monthly volumes by subscription at the price of §2.50 per volume. The first volume will be “Knickerbocker’s History of New York.” Mr. Charles Dudley Warner has written an introduction to the whole work an essay on ' Irving, which will go with the “Knickerbocker,” and be also published as a small volume by itself for the conk venience of persons who possess other editions and desire . to have the essay. New electrotype plates will be made for the edition, and new wood-cut illustrations designed by F. S. Church, besides several steel plates, will embellish it.
T	--------------------
Scientific Notes.
—The oyster has a complicated nervous system, and the brownish-black spot in it is its liver.
—A project is reported of a railway to be carried across Paris, partly underground, and partly on the elevated principle, connecting all the railway termini. The plans have been laid before M. Grevy, who expresses great interest in the scheme.
—The shrinking of the water in Tulare Lake, Cal., has uncovered a prehistoric settlement, stone buildings, traces of canals, once bordered with planted trees, and other evidences of occupation by an unknown race, being clearly defined as the water besides.
—A simple and unique method is used in Germany to prevent the slipping and falling of horses. When finishing the shoe, the smith punches a hole in both ends, and after the shoe has cooled he taps in a screw thread; when on the horse’s foot, a sharp-pointed stud an inch in length is screwed in. With shoes thus fitted, a horse can travel over the worst possible road. When the horse reaches the
stable, the pointed stud is unscrewed and a button screwed in, thus preventing damage to the horse and the filling of the screw holes.
—Photographers would find it interesting, if not directly profitable to them, were they to acquaint themselves with the uses of the spectroscope. Much of the advance in the art of photography has been made by physicists who, know ing the chemical stabilities of many compounds and their varying susceptibility to different rays of light, predict results the practical photographer gladly finds correct and uses. Spectroscopy shows why a picture requires half an hour’s time for a sitting in Mexico, which in Chicago takes one,minute only. The Northern sun is richer in chemical rays.
—Six car loads of silkworm eggs lately came across the continent, having been shipped this way from Japan to Italy. They are in charge of five Italians, who make a profitable business of buying them of the Japanese raisers and selling them to farmers in Italy. One of these gentlemen said to a San Francisco Chronicle reporter: “We make the journey every year, leaving Italy in May or the early part of June, and. arrive back about the first of the year. We usually ship by the Suez Canal, but this year the weather was cool in Yokohama, and, as it is desirable to preserve an equable temperature for the eggs, we shipped this way.”
—Ants are more domestic animals than man. These wonderfully-intelligent six-footed communists make forays in flank marches by columns or by solid phalanx. They believe fully in the “ survival of the fittest,” for they exterminate the lazy by biting them in two. Communications are conveyed to one another by their antenna, and their chief sense is that of smell, They raid the haunts of other species, carry away the pupa, and keep the captured product in a life of slavery. Beetles are there hens, and lay eggs for them. A black ant furnishes a secretion answering to the dominant race for milk, and this milk they actually squeeze from their cows.
—There has recently been added to the museum of the Royal Dublin Society, a very perfect keg of “ bog butter.” It was turned up out of the last spot of cut-away bog at Kin-aneny, Foxford, in County Mayo, and has been presented to the society by Dr. Dermott. The keg or tub is a little over a foot long, and appears to have been cut out of a block of wood. It has a handle at base like that of a jug. It is quite full of butter, which rises up in a mass at the top, wnich is covered with the leaves ot some plants. The keg and its contents are now in a dried condition. The outer portion of its material has undergone considerable change, but the inner retains many of the characteristics of original butter.
—In the light of authentic reports from Menlo Park, New Jersey, the home of Edison, those who were skeptical about his producing an electric light which can be utilized for illuminating purposes in household or elsewhere, must become believers. The trial on last Saturday night was thorough. Forty lamps in all were burning from six o’clock until ten, and all who saw it were convinced that Mr. Edison has at last hit upon a plan for producing the electric light for household illumination. Mr. Edison’s most important discovery was the substitution for the expensive platinum, of a better and much cheaper article. This is merely ordinary bristol board—thick and fine paper. After being properly charred in a very hot oven, there remains of this an incombustible skeleton of fibrous framework. It is made in the shape of a horseshoe loop, and through this the electric current passes with so much resistance that the desirable luminosity is obtained. In the office attached to Mr Edison’s laboratory were three lights which had been kept constantly burning day and night just one week. The carbon-paper slips did not show the least deterioration, and to appearances were good for an almost indefinite length of time. One of the peculiarities of the new light is that it does not give out much heat. In fact, at a distance of two or three inches the warmth is scarcely perceptible to the hand. It does away with all danger from fire, because the moment the globe which encircles the light breaks, the admission of air to the light extinguishes it at once. Any number of electric burners can be used in a small room without vitiating the atmosphere, thus obviating the inconvenience
292
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.
experienced where many gas burners are used. Their cheapness is another merit. Mr. Edison can manufacture these lamps at a first cost not to exceed thirty-five cents, and the cost of running will not exceed half a cent an hour for each lamp, which he claims is not one tenth the expense of the number of gas jets required to make a light equal to one of the lamps. Further practical tests will be made with the light in a few days.—South Bend Tribune
can be said for it. The young writers for The mountain Echo are no “slouches” at writing, whatever their work at the Art Preservative may lack in elegance, and we wish them success. We hope ere long to see their paper look as handsome as The University magazine, The Chronicle, or the many other handsome college papers which are published. We shall be most glad to see old Mt. St. Mary’s students creditably represented in the field of college literature.
Exchanges.
—The second number of The University, the news paper at the University of Michigan, is on our table. It displays considerable vigor in its editing and management, and, discretion at the helm, promises to become a powerful factor in college journalism.
—The Oberlin Review for January is an unusually good number. The poetry, “ Remenyi,” and “ Her Ship,’’ is very good. “The Unrest of Thought,” an essay, is well written and apposite; the exchange department better than common ; the other matter well written and well selected.
—The K. M. I. News always reminds us of a bright boy who possesses in abundance all the qualities necessary to push his way through the world when the time comes. We always like to pat a boy of this kind on the head, and we hope the little N. M. I. won’t consider us too patronizing if we pat it again metaphorically on the head, and wish it every encouragement to keep on.
—The January number of the Pennsylvania University Hagazine is fully up to the high standard of excellence which the previous numbers led us to expect. Its ten columns of well-written contributions, its short, readable editorials on subjects of interest to the students of the university, its lively locals, and spicy exchange notes and college gossip make it one of the best and most welcome of our exchanges.
•—The second number of that really excellent children’s ueeldy, The Chimes, published at 53 Lexington street, Baltimore—T. J. Wentworth, manager—is on our table. The illustrations are good; the matter ditto, and instructive as well as entertaining. We hope the success of this weekly will induce the publishers of our other excellent children’s papers, The Guardian Angel, of Philadelphia, and The Young Catholic, of New York, to come out oftener than once a month. By doing so they will in a greater measure counteract the influence of the deleterious trash that is now scattered broadcast every week. We are glad, for this reason, to see that the publishers of the The Ave maria gne, special attention to the Youth’s Department of that excellent weekly.
—The mountain Echo is the title of a four-page quarto paper published fortnightly at Inglewood, near Mt. St. Mary’s College, Emmitsburg, Md., by the Legarde brothers, evidently students of the college, and with the double object, as they state, of promoting their own literary improvement and of giving items of interest concerning the college and its students, past and present. The present number of The Echo is the seventeenth issued, so we presume its publishers have met with sufficient encouragement to justify a hope of its continuance. The type-setting and press work, as well as the make-up of the paper, is evidently the work of amateurs, and however much it may reflect credit on the publishers as amateurs, the appearance of the printed sheet is anything but prepossessing, and detracts from the interest of the paper. One feels disposed, at first sight, to throw the paper aside, but on glancing over the articles we change our mind, for we find that in a suitable dress they would not do discredit to the best of our college papers. The leading poem of the number, “The Widow’s Mite,” is no namby-pamby affair, but an excellent production; “ The Bandit of the Apennines,” an original story, is very good for a college paper; and “ Christmas,” which should have come under the editorial heading, is a well-written Christmas editorial. “Homeward Bound” and “Something about Walking” are also well-written and sprightly articles. “A Picture,” a poem translated from the German, may deserve some credit as a student’s translation, but that is the most that
New Publications.
—Through the kindness of Prof. Edwards we have been | shown the first number of the Illustrated American Catho- | lie. The articles are well written, the illustrations are good, but Mr. Hickey promises better. The press-work * | is excellent. The subscription is only three dollars a « year. We hope that the Catholic public will give this first- | class paper the generous support it so richly deserves. ( “It will, according to the support which it receives, spare no expense in securing writers, artists and poets. The j sternest and keenest critics of its work, will be in its own office, and the only justification they will recognize for second rate work will be—want of public support. Now if the Catholic public wish to have a first-class illustrated • paper, they can have it by giving this paper a generous support.” Address P. V. Hickey, 11 Barclay street, New York, N. Y.
—We have already noticed in the Scholastic Maurice k F. Egan’s collection of beautiful poems, “ Preludes,” which, although the work of that young gentleman’s lifetime, has with singular generosity been copyrighted by him in the name of the University of Notre Dame, and the proceeds devoted to the rebuilding of the institution, recently destroyed by fire. This act of the rising young poet is indeed a most magnanimous one, and besides the gratitude v of the struggling President and Faculty of the University, it must command for the poet the admiration and esteem of all friends of education, and those of Notre Dame in particular. A friend in need is a friend indeed, and the institution just risen from its ruins and burdened with a ‘ heavy debt has, we believe, no warmer or truer friend than Maurice F. Egan. With St. Peter of old, he might have said, “ Silver and gold I have not, but what I have I give to thee,” and with a modesty equal to his generosity he a has presented his gift. May Providence bless his efforts and reward him a hundredfold. We find the following tribute paid Mr. Egan’s poems in that treasury of beautiful things, The Ave Maeta ; it is evidently such a tribute as only a poetic genius could pay to kindred genius, and we make no apology for reproducing it; our readers will find in it beautiful thoughts beautifully expressed by one of Notre Dame’s grateful graduates.
Preludes. By Maurice F. Egan. Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame. Philadelphia: Peter F. Cunningham & Son, 817 Arch street. 1880. Price. $1 (post free).
Poetry! aye, the pure gold of true poesy! It is a long time since we have enjoyed reading verse like this. Not that it is all equal, but there are poems here bathed through and through with the limpid light of Keats,—that sweet intellectual Greek light which shone only upon Keats and perhaps Mrs. Browning, of English poets, and upon no M American poet before Mr. Egan. If we substitute Grecian for pagan in his poem on Maurice de Gudrin we shall, with a change or two more, well describe our poet himself, for
A Grecian heart, a Christian soul has he;
He follows Christ, yet beauteous nature loves, Till earth and heaven meet within his breast.
It is easy to discover the authors in whom he delights,— Keats, Shakspeare, Chaucer, the De Guerins, Dante, and the Grecian poets. What an exalted company! and yet our author is worthy of that companionship. Were we asked to point out the poems that justify this criticism, we should name the poems already referred to, “Theocritus,” “November,” “Of Flowers,” and others. Of a higher rank are “Fra Angelico,” “ Raphael,” “Frederic Ozanam,” “Arr^re Pensee”“APierced Heart,” “Troubled Souls,” “The Lesson of a Season,” “Consolation,” “After Lent,” and the “Workers.” Whoever is capable of appreciating
>
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.]
293
r these noble verses will surely have a more exalted sense of life and duty after reading them. The Sonnets in memory of O’Connell are fine pieces, especially the first and the third. There is a bitter strength in the third which comes c' from the heart—alas, it is the truth but too well uttered. Some'of the lighter pieces are very pretty, though a vein , of sadness runs through them all—all true poetry, ’tis said, is written in tears. “Apple Blossoms,” “A Rhapsody,” ,	“ Drifting,” are excellent in this way. Well, have we no
* fault to find with this youthful genius? None with the poems we have mentioned and others, and very little with ' any. Occasionally a little over labor, occasionally a little incompleteness, at times a little that may seem common-fc, place. That is what we think, even if we mistake. For ' instance, how poor is “Cervantes” compared to the superb pieces that precede and follow it? Is not “Marguerite ” too near what Goethe wrote himself? At least two poems, so it seems to us, are spoiled by the “ morals ” * tacked to them, “ Illusion ” and “ Hylas,”—there is nothing more unpoetical than explaining poetry. That should be left to poor critics, like ourselves. The poet should not unlock his own doors: kindred spirits can pass into his most guarded temple, even to the veiled shrine, and none else should be admitted.
But we might write of this little book for hours. It stands the true test of good composition—it is suggestive. Every poem fills one brim full of thought. We lay it * down delighted, flattering ourselves that we have poetical thoughts, when in truth it is the genius of the poet that has inspired us. Our readers will find many a beautiful poem which we have not mentioned. We trust all fair ladies will read the story of Dona Inez, who “ was a lady,” and profit thereby. Mr. Egan has done a pleasant thing for his readers in reserving one of his finest poems for the last. Too often the last pages of a book are used merely as “ a stow-away ” for useless lumber; but one of the finest and most characteristic poems of this volume is the concluding one.
r	In conclusion, we know not how to express our appre-
ciation of the honor and service the poet has done Notre Dame in the manner in which his volume has been given to the public. “Published to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame,” and dedicated to the Rev. Editor of The “Aw Maria.” We hope that every one who loves Notre Dame and our Lady’s Journal will buy, read.and love these poems as we do.
The book is elegantly gotten up, and reflects credit on , the publishers.	T. E. H.
College Gossip.
—Rutgers has established a three-years’ course in Agriculture.—Brunonian.
—The loss occasioned by the recent fire at Harvard is estimated at from §2,000 to 2,500.
—The Glee Club of the University of Pennsylvania have decided on a concert for the regatta fund.
—Cornell has been selling Bayard Taylor’s library at auction. Small prices were obtained.—Brunonian.
—The sum of §200,000 has been pledged for the purpose of founding a university for “gentlemen of color."—Maryland Collegian.
—A number of Jesuit Fathers who were expelled from Germany by Bismarck have established a flourishing college in Buffalo, N. Y.
—The College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., has a larger attendance of students than it has had for several years past.
—As the Seton Hall students have lately formed an Alumni Association, may we not soon hope to see that excellent institution represented in the field of college news-paperdom ?
—“ From the abstract to the concrete,” said the Senior, who was paying more attention to the human intellect than to his steps, when he slipped and fell on the tar pavement.—Courant.
—A college student, in rendering to his father an account ofhis.term expenses, inserted: “To charity, thirty dollars." his father wrote back: “I fear charity covers a multitude of sins.”—Ex.
—The University of Missouri is said to have 220 students in the Latin department. We wonder how many of these understand their mother tongue,—or, at least, can speak tolerably good English?
—The item as to the closing of William &Mary College, on account of pecuniary embarrassment, is still going the round of some of the college papers. Others say the college has been closed for some time. Which is right ?
—St. Mary’s College, Galveston, Texas, has been reopened by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dufal, D. D., C. S. C., assisted by two priests and six lay professors. Number of pupils in attendance, one hundred and twenty day scholars and forty boarders.
—The University of Notre Dame has never received a single endowment, we believe, either State or individual, and yet we venture to say there is not a private educational institution in the country where impecunious talent has for the last thirty-seven years received greater encouragement.
—The Dartmouth is opposed to coeducation. All deepthinking, far-seeing people are. Among other things, the Dartmouth, as quoted by The Uniwrsity Magazine, says: “We never knew a young lady who wished to go to Yale, or Amherst, or Dartmouth, nor of a young man who cared to amuse himself with washing dishes at Wellesley or Vassar.”
—Prof, in social science recitation: “Mr.--------, what is money?” Mr. ----------------------------------, feeling he must say something:
“ Money is—ah—the—ah—root of all evil.—The Unieernty Magazine. We hope those of our suscribers whose subscriptions are due will send us some of this root We can promise to neutralize any evil effects that might arise from it.
—The history of St Peter’s Roman Catholic Church, in Barclay street, is one of exceeding interest. It is the oldest Catholic church in this city, and was the first Catholic church built in America after the establishment of the Independence of the United States, on Nov. 23,1783. In 1800 St. Peter’s free school was founded. It is the oldest free school in the city, and antedates by many years the schools established by the city and State—New York Star.
—A writer in the Pennsylvania University Magazine says, among other things: “The end of all education is that highest of all possible ends, the discipline of man for the battle of life,—discipline in body, in intellect, in the moral nature. Great powers of body or of intellect, divorced from integrity of the moral nature, only make the greater villains. . . . Education, I repeat, if divorced from a healthy moral sentiment, is rather a curse than a blessing.” As true as the Gospel.
Society Notes.
—The regular meeting of the Holy Guardian Angels was held Sunday evening, Jan. 11th. The servers for next Sunday were appointed.
—The 14th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Saturday evening, Jan. 10th. Declamations were delivered by Masters Woodson, Mattes, Jas. Courtney, J. Garrity, Coolbaugh, Dwenger, T. Van Mourick and L. Young. Masters F. Farrelly and A. Schmuckle sang comic songs.
—The 11th regular meeting of the Philodemic Association was held on Tuesday evening, J an. 13th. A criticism of the exercises of the previous meeting was read by Mr. J. B. McGrath. Questions were answered in a very satisfactory manner by Messrs. A. J. Burger and J. B. Bertel-ing. An extemporaneous debate on the third term question then took place, in which all the members of the Society participated.
294
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 17, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and later ary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the university of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Lid.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81;5O Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Coming Examination.
Before the arrival of that great and important college exercise, the semi-annual examination, we shall have but one more chance to speak to our friends upon this subject, and that will be so close to the day of its opening, that we fear our words would be too late to have much effect upon those who are to figure the most prominently in the exercises. Our remarks, then, far from any intention to fire up the minds of the students with the exciting warning of its terrible nature, and instill into them that childish and nonsensical fear which might disable them from answering the simplest question of some study in which they are perhaps the most efficient, they have but little to say concerning the examination itself. It is about the same thing as a daily recitation, with, the exception only that the questions are somewhat more general, and the professor has a few invited visitors to listen to the answers. A numberless amount of examinations have already taken place, with a greater number of students to pass through them, and we really have never heard of any serious results that have been occasioned by them. All that the student upon examination has to do, is to give his answers to the questions frankly, and in the best manner he can, and he has completed his part—the reports at the end will be published so that he may know how well he has done.
The main part of our remarks upon the examination has been only intended to show how directly it is connected with their present labors, and how greatly its success depends upon the assiduous attention given to their studies now.
The month of January is one, as is well known, devoted
to the general review of the matter passed over during the preceding part of the year. This, of course, is of great benefit to the students, and each one should stop and realize the great favor that is thus bestowed upon him, and then seize, with a determination to make good use of it, this glorious opportunity to fit himself for examination. To those even who have been during the session particularly diligent, and have studied the entire subject of their class well, it will prove profitable, since there may have been some few points that they have unavoidably missed seeing, or perhaps not thoroughly understood, and which they can now examine into thoroughly, and thus perfect themselves in the class. But ah 1 to those who have had a tendency during the entire session to the general negligence of their studies—what a chance is theirs 1 certainly one that can be called a God-send,—a chance at least to make up for a considerable portion of time lost—they can now by the strictest attention to their studies, become versed as to the general points which they have missed by their negligence, and prepare themselves for an examination which will not prove to them an entire disgrace. These, especially, should look upon every moment spent in the study-hall and class-room as precious gifts, and employ them as such to repair the past.
We hope, then, to see all of our students consider the great value of their time during this month, and its great importancein connection with their examination and their success next session. Especially should those who, having returned from their holiday visit, incline somewhat to give way to melancholy, take especial means to rouse themselves up out of these feelings, and take hold of their studies with greater energy and perseverance. Thus prepared they need feel no worry at all, much less fright; all you can do is, as we have said, to do your best. The reports will be faithfully taken down, and the general averages published in the Scholastic so that all may know their standing. Those who shall have gained a standing particularly excellent should, with a truly grateful heart, return thanks to God that He has blessed their efforts, ask His protection in the future, and be firm in their intention to progress further in their course of success. To those who shall not have obtained as favorable a report, far from being a discour-, agement, it should rouse their ambition and energy to show a marked improvement during the next session. They should render this failure useful to themselves in so much as it will mark out to them the principal causes of it, the different points in the road where they have been led off, and then, with the .spirit of desire to do better, they can start out, forming and executing firm resolutions, not forgetting meanwhile to have recourse to God for His assistance in all their trials, and they may hope for a bright future, and prove themselves yet as among the best.
Something in Regard to Music.
It has been found necessary from time to time to say a few words in these columns about that most pleasing of the arts—music. This art has been more or less cultivated by every nation and people, at all times, and in all places, and its cultivation is of so much importance now, that no person’s education is considered as being complete without at least some knowledge of it.
In our day there can be no excuse for those who do not understand it, for we live in a time when, and a country in which musical instruments are both plentiful and cheap,
THE”NOTRE DAME/SCHOLASTIC
and the services of competent instructors procurable at com-' paratively trifling expense. How often do we hear young men. say that they have no taste for music, and allege it as a reason why they do not wish to learn or make themselves proficient in some particular branch of it. Now this is a mistaken idea, for we must surely have a taste for that which we can appreciate. And who is there that cannot appreciate music ? We are certain that this art is universally appreciated. Were proof of this assertion demanded, it would only be necessary to mention facts known to all students of history.
The infant loves it, little “ rattle-box,” the boy his pennywhistle, the rude and uncultivated savage his tom-tom, and so on, until we reach the accomplished musician who executes the most difficult pieces with ease and grace, sending a thrill of delight through his audience, which prompts, aye, forces them to give the encore.
If we examine the reason why the child oi the savage is so much attached to the rattle-box, whistle or tom-tom, it will be found to be precisely the same reason why the perfect musician is attached to his instrument, viz., on account of the love of a pleasing sound—the love of music, for music is nothing more than the succession of sounds pleasing to the ear. The universality of musical appreciation being established, the excuse of “not having a taste for it” falls to the ground.
Some again say that it is too difficult to learn. We grant that there are certainly many difficulties to be met with, great patience to be exercised, and much attention to be given; but then can you mention one study, in mastering which, you have not these same difficulties or some more difficult to encounter ?
We shall not speak here of the different kinds of music, nor of the different kinds of instruments and their respective merits. This is beyond our scope, as our object is to endeavor to make our students take more interest in this branch of an education. Although Notre Dame has always taken a great interest in promoting the cultivation of this branch by forming societies, and employing the best musical talent for the purpose, yet since ths fire, there has certainly been a very perceptible diminution of interest in this respect. Thus far this is excusable, owing to the pressure of work, and the requirement of both time and attention to more important local affairs. But now, that everything is once more in running order, we hope to see that same attention which was given to both vocal and instrumental culture before the fire, and for which Notre Dame won no unenviable reputation, again brought into requisition. We hope to see the University Band immediately brought down to a systematic course of practice and training, and furnished with instruments not worn out completely that will enable it to give forth the same beautiful strains with which we used to be favored under the leadership of its late lamented director. The orchestra, too—that has always held such a prominent place in the programmes of our public entertainments, and has given so many delightful ones by itself and its different members—let us see this reorganized at once. Of course it has been impossible up to this, owing to the different inconveniences caused by the fire, but now these can be overcome. The material is here —all there is to be done is to use it, in fact we could ourselves point out the very players that are able—and, we think, willing—to join. Start the work at once, and let us have the pleasure as in former years, of frequently complimenting and encouraging your noble efforts.
Bailroads and Colleges.	\
Students attending Notre Dame University to-day, even those from a distance, who can now come hundreds of miles with less trouble and in less time than one could formerly, who lived only forty or fifty miles away, can have little idea of the great advantage of railroads as accessories to an educational institution. We would, likely, never have thought much of it, but that a conversation with an old student some time ago impressed the matter on our mind. He told us that when he first came here there were no railroads in the neighborhood, and students had to travel by the old-fashioned, lumbering stage—taking ten days on a journey that can now be made in one.
In those days he told us of—when the college was heated by stoves, and tallow candles with their dim light did duty instead of gas, things were far different from what they are now, but our informant said that a happier or better contented lot of students it would be difficult to find nowadays. This looks like a disparaging comparison to the students of to-day, but we felt there might be more than a little truth in it, and were therefore not disposed to dispute the point with him. We have much to be grateful for, on account of railroads and modern improvements generally, and if we are not happier than our predecessors the fault must be our own.
Besides the accommodation in travel, we have been told by President Corby and Prof. Lyons that Notre Dame is indebted to the railway companies for special and important favors after the late disastrous fire which totally consumed the University buildings. The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Company, the Chicago & NorthWestern, the Michigan Central, and other companies, having roads in the neighborhood of the College, having with praiseworthy generosity, they say, allowed all materials for the new buildings to be carried over their roads at half the usual rates—a favor for which Notre Dame and every friend of the institution cannot but feel grateful.
As far as we can learn, the intercourse of Notre Dame and her students with the railroad companies has for years been mutually agreeable, and the polite and gentlemanly conduct of the officers of the roads on the one hand, and the students on the other, has often been spoken of. As far as we have heard during the few years of our sojourn at the college, the students have behaved as gentlemen while travelling, so much so as to attract notice, the conduct of large bodies of young men going to or leaving Notre Dame being very different to that of students going to or from other colleges. We do not say this from ourselves: we are only echoing the remarks of others, but we take no little pride in it, and without wishing to disparage others we are justified in feeling proud on hearing the good conduct of our boys spoken of by strangers. We hope it will always be so.	»
On the other hand, the railway companies have shown praiseworthy courtesy and generosity to Notre Dame and her students; and whenever the latter have occasion to travel, many companies grant the favor of a half fare. Among the companies whom our railroad editor admits to our advertising columns, we understand that all, without exception, grant the favor of a half fare, and we hope the readers of the Scholastic will always patronize them when they can, and give them preference. Among these are the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern; the Chicago & Alton; the Chicago & North-Western; the Michi
296
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gan Central; the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne & Chicago; the Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago; the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific, and the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy railroads. So that no matter from what quarter a student hails, he is almost sure to be accommodated. Frank Parmelee’s Omnibus Line & Baggage Express, 156 Dearborn St., Chicago, and Davis’s Omnibus Line in Milwaukee, also deserve praise for their kind and accommodating spirit to students and professors.
Personal.
—Walter K. Williams, ’78, is in the machinery business at St. Paul, Minn.
—Dr. James J. Creswell, ’56, is in the practice of dentistry at Galena, Ill.
—Lee Sanders (Commercial), ’74, is doing a good business at Battle Creek, Mich.
—We are told that W. C. Stillwagen, ’71, is engaged in the profession of the law at Pittsburg.
—Business of importance compels S. T. Spalding to remain at his home in Lebanon, Ky., until next month.
—Thos. H. Moore (Commercial), ’63, of Nashville, Tenn., is clerking at James’s Mammoth store, Lead City, D. P.
—M. E. Cross (Commercial), ’76, is engaged in the grocery business with D. H. Moon, ’67, at Rochester Minn.
—J. E. McBride, ’68, we understand, is practicing law successfully, and is an honor tc his profession and his Alma Haier.
—Master Moses Foote, Prep. ’79, is pursuing his studies at Burlington, Iowa. He says he is bound to come back next year.
—Charlie Campau (Commercial), 73, has returned to his home at South Bend, after a visit of some months in Detroit, Mich.
—We have been informed that a neat monument has been placed over the grave of the late Gen. W. F. Lynch, ’60, at Elgin, Ill.
—0. J. Tong has decided not to return to Fordham, where he has been lor the past year and a half. He speaks in the highest terms of the gentlemen who conduct that institution.
—Willard D. Smith, ’76, who has been in the employ of theL. S. & M. S. Railroad Company in Chicago fort he past two or three years, has lately been promoted to a position of trust on account of faithful services he has rendered the Company.
—Mr. Charles T. Murray, formerly editor of the South Bend Herald, who is so well Known and favorably remem-beie-a at Noire Dame, now connected wim Wm.Hox ues, ot ’69, in the management of the La Crosse Democrat. A brilliant writer as well as a genial and whole-souled man. Mr. Murray is as successful in his profession of journalism as he is popular in social circles.
—Our friend Christian Burger, of ’74, passing through South Bend the other day, in the work of his profession, took sme to rush out and take a glimpse at the grand structure which has superseded the old burnt-out, but none the less endeared building in which he spent his happiest days, and also to have just one good hand-shake with his many old friends. Come again soon, Chris., and next time stay fonger.
—We have received with great pleasure a letter from our dear old friend Father O’Rourke, nojv of Middletown, Ohio. We have learned from other sources that he is in one of the finest parishes of that diocese, containing a splendid school and one of the prettiest churches in the Stale,—and for the parish we can say it has one of the best pastors. Father O’Rourke desires to be remembered to all, and will make us a visit as soon as his duties will permit, which we hope will be soon.
Iiocal Items.
—The Orchestra, it is rumored, will soon be reorganized.
—Our friend John says he has “ lost his ear for music.”
—The class of calisthenics is well patronized by the Freshmen.
. —Cigarettes are the most injurious articles a young man can smoke.
—Competitions will be held next week in the Commercial Course.
—Everything is quiet on the Potomac, consequently very little local news.
—It looks as though skating is a thing of the past, and we are sorry for it.
—Several hundred feet of hose have been received this week by the fire department.
—He thought he would not get his “ Irish up,” but he did. If you don’t believe it, ask Boose.
—B. L. says that the reports of Prince Bismark’s health are weekly. He explains that this is a joke.
—E. Orrick came out first in the third competition for the gold medal in the Class of Christian Doctrine.
—Payro is the best kicker in the Junior department. So thought a certain Senior during the game of football on Wednesday afternoon. -
—Lost—a prayer-book of Latin and German text, entitled “ Ojjicium Ecdesiasticumy The finder will please return it to the Scholastic office. '
—We understand that our young friends, the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, are to give us an entertainment soon.
—Master A. Mergentheim has the thanks of the Lemon-1 nier Library for a valuable donation of scientific and juvenile works, in all six volumes.
—The celebration of Washington’s Birthday is the next question to be settled. The Thespians, as a matter of course, will furnish the programme.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to some kind friends lately travelling’in Wyoning, Utah, Colorado, etc., for a fine and interesting collection of minerals.
—“ Papa, do you know that sister Fanny has got a new beau?” Classical parent.—“Indeed, my dear! The best new beau she can get is nubo, nubere, nupsi, nuptum.”
—Our friend John don’t agree with the man who says “ Chew Charm of the West and be happy.” John chewed “ Charm of the West,” and is now in detention, and far from being happy.
—Examination, will begin on Tuesday, Jan. 27th. The Examining Committees will be published in next week’s Scholastic. The work of the second session will begin in dead earnest on Monday, Feb. 2d.
—The County Surveyor reports that vegetation has commenced in the thick woods to an alarming extent. The leaves of Thalidrum Anemonoides are aS fully developed as we usually find them in March or April.
—His Honor Mayor Tong will hold a public meeting in South Bend to-night for the relief of suffering Ireland. President Corby, Mayor Tong, Rev. Stover, Judge Turner, Col. Copeland and others will address the meeting.
—Bro. Charles is pushing the work forward in the front projection, and it will probably be ready to be occupied in a few weeks. The Minims will then be practically “ masters of all they survey ” in their building.
—The Juniors and Seniors played a game of lootball last Wednesday for a four-dollar ball. The Juniors, although far outnumbering the Seniors, met with a signal defeat, which will no doubt teach them to be more cautious about challenging their stalwart neihgbors, ■
—Bro. Bernard desires us to announce that there has been in his possession for about ten days a trunk to which no one claims an ownership, and for which an owner cannot be discovered. The owner should make himself known pretty soon, or more forcible means may have to be resorted to, to find him out.
—Prof. Ackerman has nearly finished the frescoing of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
297
T
St. Cecilia’s Hall, and Prof. Lyons has ordered from the Noble Manufacturing Company, of Goshen, Ind., several desks and a lot of office chairs for the same apartment. When the hall is finished it will be the most commodious society room on the premises.
—The beautiful watch which Bro. Lawrence has generously donated to aid in the construction of the new Exhibition Hall may be seen at the office. It is a solid gold-cased, Elgin movement, and warranted by Mr. Buysse of South Bend as a time-piece. Regarded as a work of utility or of ornament it is alike admirable.
—Prof. Lyons does not think that advertisements should be taken out in trade. It’s not quite so bad when you get copies of Worcester’s Dictionary, or cases of printer’s ink, but what puzzles him not a little is, to find out what use he can make of the articles which the different undertakers who advertise in the Annual are likely to offer him.
—The prayer of St. Thomas of Aquin, to which Pope Leo has attached valuable Indulgences, to be gained by the faithful who will recite it with a contrite heart before undertaking any work or study, has been printed on slips by the University press and distributed to the students. Those who desire duplicate copies can procure them at the Scholastic office.
—The Scholastic Annual.—The Scholastic Annual for 1880, has been issued from the University of Notre Dame. The Annual is as bright and sparkling as ever, and in its fifth year, its genial editor, Prof. Lyons, seems to have outdone all his previous efforts. As an almanac and a compendium of useful and interesting information, the Scholastic Annual is unequalled, and we wish it the large recognition which its merits demand for it.—Boston Pilot.
—The Scholastic Annual, published at the University of Notre Dame, is a decided improvement upon the old Almanac. To the usual calendar table and chronicles, which are most complete, the compiler adds some choice morsels of interesting literary and scientific matter. The whole is presented in a neat and attractive garb that does credit to the typographical staff of Notre Dame; considering its many merits and cheapness, we predict for the Annual the quick and large sales it deserves.—Niagara Index.
—This year’s Scholastic Annual is its fifth. Its compiler, as usual, is Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University. Besides serving the purposes of an almanac, it contains astrological perdictions, astronomical calculations, chronological information, the days of obligation, fast days, at> stinence days, facts respecting postage, and thirty or forty pages of carefully selected articles from the pages of the Scholastic of the preceding year. It makes, as will be seen, a valuable little volume to have round. The price is 25 cents.—South-Bend Weekly Begister.
—Prof. Duer, of South Bend, lectured for the Euglossians on Saturday evening, Jan. 10th. He spoke on the subjects of voice-culture, pronunciation, emphasis, tones, etc., illustrating all the principles he laid down in a masterly manner. At the close of the lecture, several selections—humorous, sentimental and pathetic, were delivered, which elicited from the delighted elocutionists a storm of well-merited applause. We have heard the wish expressed by many who listened to Prof. Duer on Saturday last that he could be induced to lecture in Phelan Hall to a larger audience.
/ —Miss Abby Maria Hemenway, of Burlington, Vt., has presented to Very Rev. Father Granger for the College Library a copy of her valuable works, The Vermont Gazetteer, in three volumes, royal octavo. This magazine is a very valuable addition to our library, replacing, as it does, the copy destroyed by the late fire. It contains the history, civil, ecclesiastical, biographical and military of each town in that State, and is a work which should not be missing in any public library. The author and generous donor has the warmest thanks of Father Granger and the library authorities.
/ —Bro. Philip, one of the early pioneers of education at VNotre Dame, has in his possession a curious looking snuffbox, which atone time belonged to the famous John Knox, founder of the Presbyterian Church. Brother Philip is one of the last lineal descendants of the so-called reformer, and the box has been handed down in his family as an heirloom
from generation to generation. It is^made of black horn, with silver mountings, and bears a plate inscribed with the initials of its first owner. Bro. Philip is a convert, and he has taught with marked success at Notre Dame and other institutions of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the United States and Canada.
—Mr. McCann, the efficient and gentlemanly superintendent of the steam-heating apparatus in the new College, has just completed his work, and, as far as we are able to judge, in the most satisfactory manner. During his stay here he attracted the attention of eveiy one by his quiet, unassuming disposition, and the ability which he ever displayed in the work on which he was engaged, while his readiness to adapt himself to circumstances, and his willingness to do a favor whenever it lay in his power, won for him many friends. Messrs. Davis & Co. have not a truer or more consciencious man in their employ than Mr. McCann. We recommend him as an intelligent and reliable mechanic, and trust that he will always meet with the success and appreciation his fidelity and merit deserve.
—Preludes. By Maurice F. Egan.—We have received the above entitled little volume of poems, which Mr. Egan dedicates to the Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. S. C., of the University of Notre Dome, “ with the esteem and admiration of the author”—sentiments which we share in common with our friend, Mr. Egan, for the amiable and cultivated editor of The Ave Maria. Mr. Egan’s sonnets are public favorites. Most of them have already appeared in Scribner's, Lippincott’s and other magazines and publications. His style is even and correct; his versification remarkably smooth. By and by he may show more irregularities— and tempt loftier flights, for which we believe him to have the capacity. Above all, Maurice F. Egan is thoroughly Catholic; and in the poetry of his faith yet will find his highest light and inspiration. “Preludes” is generously published “ to aid in the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame.” We know of no more appropriate gift than this, from the young poet to the Western nursery of learning. It should in itself insure “ Preludes ” a place in every Catholic library, which it can amply claim, however, upon intrinsic merits.—Catholic Universe.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
senior department.
R M. Anderson, W. H. Arnold, R. C. Adams, H. J. Ashe, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, J. P. Brice, F. M. Bell, F. Brennon, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R. 8. Campbell, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, H. B. Dulaney, H. L. Duginger, G. Donnelly, D. Danahey, M. English, A Fogerty, E. Gooley, I. J. Gittings, J. Halloran, A. Hayden, G. Harris, T. Hinderlang, D. Harnngton, J. Hartman, J. Jordan, C. L. Johnson, J. R. Kelly, J. Keena, J. Kurz, F. Kinsella, P. B, Larkin, A. Lent, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, J. O. McEniry, E. Murphy, J. J. McErlain, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, L. Mathers, J. F. Mug, J. Norfleet, J. Noonan, J. Osher, R. O’Brien, J. F. O’Connell, G. Pike, J. Rogers, W. Ryan, F. Reeve, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, P. Shea, G. Sugg, J. Solan, L. Stitiel, J. 8. Smith, L. Smith, 3. Smith, P. Terry, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, H. Wathan, W. Wilson, T. Zien.
junior department. .
A J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, A A Burmeister, T. B. Byrne, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, A. M. Coghlin, J. D. Coleman, H. P. Dunn, J. E. Davis, H. F. Devitt, E. C. Esmer, R. E. Fleming, H. G. Foote, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, A J. Hintze, W. Hassett, J. A Hermann, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, L. S. Keen, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. A Larkin, 8. Livingston, A B. Mergentheim, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, P. P. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, E. A Otis, G. A Orr, F. B. Phillips, R. M. Parrott, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Kose, A 8. Rock, R. C. Simms, J. K. Schobey, E. G. Sugg, J. A Seeger, F. C. Scheid, C. Schneider, C. H. Thiele, M. A Vedder, J. B. Wilder, W. T. Weney, J. W. Devitt.	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, G. Woodson, G. B. Van Mourick, J. W. Ban
298’^'	STHE NOTRE£DAME SCnOIAl STIC'.
ister, J. H. Henry, J. Smith, G. C. Knight, E. A Howard, W. H. Hanavin, H. C. Snee, F. Mattes, H. A Kitz, J. M. Courtney, C. E. Droste, J. A Kelly, J. S. Chaves, L. J. Young, E. N. O’Donnell, A A Molander, W. V. O’Malley, F. I. Garrity, J. E. Johnson, J. R. Bender, A F. Schmuckle, F. B. Farrelly, W. Wright, H. Ackerman.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director op Studies. ]
^preparatory course.
J. R. Marlett, J. Delaney, _J. Keena, W. Scholfield, H. B. Dulaney, H. Deehan, L. Smith, W. McAtee J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, M. Maloney, F. Clarke, T. D. Summers, J. S. Smith, T. Hinderlang, J. F. Mug, J. McNamara, J. Malone, E. Gooley, R. Adams, L. Mathers, C. W. McDermott, R. E. Semmes, A. Hierb, G. Castanedo, J. F. Browne, R. Le Bourgeois, C. Perry, J. Hermann, J. Guthrie, M. Herrick, E. Croarkin, C. Rietz, J. Morgan, J. V. Gabel, E. Sugg, J. Gibbons, C. Thiele, F. Glade, J. Weitzel, A. J. Hellebusch, F. Kleine, J. Larkin, E. Otis, G. Rhodius, P. Rasche, A M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, J. Devitt, G. Foster, S. T. Dering, C. Rose, A Manning, J. B. Wilder, N. Weney, P. Perley, J. Gittings, J. McIntyre, T. Kavanagh, P. Joyce, J. McEniry, G. Palmer, R. Johnson, C. Johnson, W. Ryan, J. Coleman, W. Thompson.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY course.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
Reading and Orthography—P. Shea, J. Carrer, J. B. Wilder, J. Devitt, T. Devitt, H. Devitt, E. Gaines, N. Weney, A Hierb, R. Pomy, M. Vedder; Grammar—J. B. Wilder, W. Coghlin, P. Rasche, E. Croarkin, J. Devitt, J. Seeger, E. Cleary, N. Nelson, J. Larkin, N. Weney, R. E. Fleming, F. Kleine, A Hellebusch, C. B. Van Duesen, T. Kavanagh, T. Hinderlaug; Arithmetic—H. Dunn, A Burmeister, H. Guynn, A Hierb, J. Gordon, A Rheinboldt, B. Zekind, E. Esmer, H. Foote, H. Bachman, E. Croarkin, R. Le Bourgeois, F. McPhilips, E. A Conyne, P. Rasche, W. Cleary, L. W. Coghlin, P. Perley, T. Kavanagh, J. R. Marlett; Geography and History—H. Bachman, T. Byrne, A. Burmeister, B. Zekind, R. Pomy, W. Cleary, E. Croarkin, A Hellebusch, O. Farrelly, C. Tinley, J. Malone, W. McAtee, T. Hinderlang; Penmanship-------; Algebra—J. Norfleet, A Zahm, M. McEniry, P. B. Larkin, T. Conlan, N. Weney, L. Dugmger; Latin—W. Connolly, R. Campbell, T. Campbell, N. Weney, J. Jordan, J. McEniry, R. Anderson, P. Larkin, G. Gibbons, R. Semmes, A. Caren ; Greek—R. O’Brien, A Zahm, C. Hagan, J. Kurz, F. Quinn; Christian Doctrine—G. Rhodius, J. Gordon, C. Rose, N. Nelson.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular meetinglof St. Ague’s Literary Society, the reading was “ Hellen’s Temptation,” “ The Christmas Angel,” from a book entitled “ Angel’s Visits.”
—At the regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society the reading was the continuation of “ A Lecture on Science and Religion,” Cardinal Wiseman; and “Dante,” from the Prose writings of Henry W. Longfellow. Readers: Misses Ewing, and Killelea.
—At the regular meeting of St. Catherine’s Literary Society, the reading was “ Sketches of Biography,” “ St. Clotilde of France,” “Blanche of Castile,” “Margaret, Queen of Louis IX, of France.” Miscellaneous reading: “ Christmas Eve,” “ Midnight Mass,” “ Christmas Morning,” “New Years”; reader Miss Dallas. An account of the reading was given was given by the Misses Callinan, and Roys.
—Visitors: Judge E. P. Hammond, Renssalaer, Ind.
Mrs. Fuller, Marysville, Cal.; Mrs. Wisthemin, Frankfort; Mich.; Mr. Crummey, Summit, Wis.; Mrs. Miesh, Rochester, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Driscoll, Miss Ledorer, Coruna, Mich.; Mrs. Haymond, Warsaw, Ind.; Mr. J. Meister, Logan, Ills.; Mr. J. H. Meister, Mt. Puluski, Ills.; Mr. Jaegar, Mr. Moxon, Mr. Garrity, Chicago; Miss Hoger, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mrs. Burns, Mrs. Omdeskiem, Elkhart, Ind., Mr. Reyer, Mr. Ginz, Indianapolis, Ind.
—A the regular meeting of St. Angela’s Literary Society the reading was “Life and Society under Eighteen Presidents. The reading embraced a letter dated “ Washington, Nov., 1800,” written by Mrs. John Adams, the wife of the President. The seat of Government had just been transferred from Philadelphia. To show the contrast, an account of “ Washington as it was in 1843, under John Tyles’s Administration," was read; also "■Inez, de Castro,” Mrs. Hernans, “Legend of St Casilda,” Ozanam; readers ; Misses Wall and Reinhard. A verbal history of Bernadette Soubirous was given, which was listened to with deep interest.
—On the Epiphany, which is very appropriately called the Gentile’s New Year’s Day, Rev. Father L’Etourneau made a remarkable gift to the Children of Mary, namely, that of some “ blessed bread.” In the evening the Society were assembled in the Confraternity-room and the blessed bread was distributed. The significance of the usage which gave rise to the kind attention of Rev. Father L’Etourneau, is as follows: dread is the symbol of union. In Catholic neighborhoods, on Ephiphany, the custom of blessing bread, in which a ring is often deposited, is to commemorate the circle of Divine charity made complete on that day by the vocation of the Gentiles. In the adoration of the three kings, and in the acceptance of their gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, by the Divine Babe of Bethlehem, the Gentile race were united with the people of God. The prayer used in the blessing of the bread is “ O Lord, vouchsafe to bless this bread, and grant that all who partake of it may enjoy health of body and mind. Amen.”
,	Roll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Killelea, Silverthorne, McGrath, Woodin, Ewing, Neteler. 1st Seniob Class—Misses Ryan, Hackett, Kirchner, Semmes, Galen, Gordon, Quinn, Sullivan, Danaher, Ward. 2d Sb. Class—Misses Dillon, Smith, Otto, O’Neill. 3d Sb. Class—Misses Wells, McMahon, Dallas, Fitzgerald, Roys, S. Wathan, A. Dillon. 1st Pbepabatoby Class —Misses Zahm, Dessaint, Lancaster, Simms, Piersol, Murphy, Giilon, Hackley, Baroux, Price, Wall, C. Campbell, Orr, French. 2d Pbep. Class—Misses 8. Semmes, Papin. 3d Pbep. Class— Misses Moxon, J. Wells, Joseph, Moll. Jb. Pbep. Class— Misses C. Lancaster, Gibbons, Ginz, Duncan, G. Taylor, Legnard, Paquette, C. Kyan. 1st Jb. Class—Misses Clarke, Harrison, Hutchison, Considine, E. Papin, Hale. 2d Jb. Class—Miss M. Fitzgerald.
FBENCH.
' 1st Class—Misses Silverthorne, Rosing, Lemontey. 2d Div. —Misses Dallas, O’Neill, L Semmes, Neu, A. Ewing, Cortright. 2d Class—Misses Campbell, S. Wathen, C. Wathen, Cox
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Reinhardt, Julius. 2d Class—Misses C. Hackett, Smith, McMahon, Loeber. 3d Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Ward, Joyce. 4th Class—Misses Quinn, A Dillon, Reutlinger, Ginz, Bruser, Gibbons, Piersol, Casey, Moll, S. Semmes, Harrison, Carter, Hutchison, Considine.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, OBDEB, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOB DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, Ewing, Keenan, Neteler, Ward, A. Ryan, Buck, Quinn, Galen, Danaher, L Semmes, Dillon, Joyce, Mitchell, O’Neill, Mattingly, Fitzgerald, Dallas, Bischoff, C. Wathen, 8. Wathen, Palmer, Zahm, O’Connor, Keys, Murphy, Lancaster, Simms, Taylor, Gillen, Gavan, Baroux, Price, Thompson, Rasche, Halloran, Reinhard, Cleghorn, Moxon, Edelen, par excellence. Misses McGrath, Woodin, Maloney, Hambleton, Cortright, Rosing, Sullivan, Hackett, A Ewing, Farrell, Kirchner, Gordon, Lloyd, Neu, Herrick, Usselman, Otto, Smith, Winston, Loeber, Bannister, De Lapp, Wall, Gall,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	299
Julius, Roys, Wells, Bruser, McMahon. Piersol, Campbell, Hackley, Keena, Dessaint, McFadden, Cox, Reynolds.
JUNIOB DEPABTMBNT.
Misses Feehan, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, French, 8. Semmes, Leydon, McN. Garrity, C. Lancaster, Ginz, Paquette, Hale, Hutcheson, Harrison, Jaeger, B. Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, Robinson, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Lemontey, Casey, 8. Papin, J. Wells, E. Dallas, Watson, E. Lloyd, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, Carter, Gibbons, Fleming, Reutllnger, Barlow, Legnard, Clarke, Zimmerman, Considine.
Weeklv Newspapers.
rpEtE CATHOLIC UNIVERSE, an excelL lent Catholic and family newspaper, published every Thursday.
Terms, $2.50 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager and Editor, 117 Erie Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
THE CATHOLIC COlJTTMBIAJr, published weekly a* Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, or 70.
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Ulile Wesi of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect JUNE 8, 1879.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going	South.
		Arrive	Leave		
1.40 a.m.	3.20 p.m.	- - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m.	8.05 p.m
12.55 “	2 30 “	- - - - La Porte, - - -	10.25 “	8.55 “
12.28 “	2.08 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 “
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “
11.27 p.m.	1.07 “	- - - Plymouth, - - -	11.47 “	10.33 “
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.40 p.m.	11.32 “
9.55 “	11.26 a.m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	12.12 a.m
9.25 “	10.47 *•	- - -	- Peru, - - - -	2 00 “	12.40 “
9.03 “	10.26 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.22 “	1.01 “
8.33 “	9.56 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3.00 “	1.35 “
7.52 “	9.13 “	- - - - Tipton, - - -	3.38 “	2.16 “
7.10 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3.02 “
6.10 “	7.25 “	- - Indianapolis, - - -	5.25 “	4.00 “
		- - - Cincinnati, - - - -	10.00 “	8.15 “
		- - Louisville, - - -	10.45 “	8.20 “
		- - - Saint Louis, - - •	7.30 a.m.	5.00 p.m
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Pern 7.45 a.m. - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 11.00 a. m.
“	“ 6.40 p.m. - -	“	“	9.50 p.m.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	11.10 “	- - -	“	“ 2.55 a. m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis 1
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
®^"Births $1.25- Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
V. T. Mallott,	Chas. H. Rockwell,
Gen'l Manger,'Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agent.
r । HAlil A. V UI MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the JL Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
Civil Engineers & Survevors.
CAT. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civ*l ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for Ja. St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
THE SUN FOR 1880.
The Sun will deal with the events of the year 1880 in its own fashion, now pretty well understood by everybody. From January t until December 31 it will be conducted as a newspaper, written in the English language, and printed for the people.
As a newspaper. The Sun believes in getting all the news of the wor d promptly, and presenting it in the most intelligible shape—the shape that will enable its readers to keep well abreast of the age with the least unproductive expenditure of time. The greatest in terest to the greatest number—that is, the law controlling its dailn make-up. Itnowhasa circulation very much larger th an thatof any other American newspaper, and enjoys an income which it is at all times prepared to spend liberally for the benefi of its readers People of all conditions of life and of all ways of thinking buy and read The Sun; and they all derive satisfaction of some sort from its columns, for they keep on buying and reading it.
In its comments on men and affairs, The Sun believes thattheonly guide of policy should be common sense, inspired by genuine American principles and backed by honesty of purpose. For this reason it is. and will continue to be, absolutely independent of party, class, clique, organiz ition or interest. It is for all, but of none It will continue to praise what is good and reprobate what is evil, taking care that its language is to the point and plain, beyond the possibility of being misunderstood. It is influenced by motives that do not appear on the surface; it has no opinions to sell, save those which may be had by any purchaser with two cents. It hates injustice and rascality even more than it hates unnecessary words. It abhors frauds, pities foois, and deplores nincompoops of everv species. It will continue throughout the year 1830 to chastise the first class, instruct the second, and discountenance the third. All honest men, with honest convictions, whether sound or mistaken, are its friends. And The Sun makes no bones of telling the truth to its friends and abont its friends whenever occasion arises for plain speaking
These are the principles upon which The Sun will be conducted during the year to come.
The year 1880 will be one in which no patriotic American can afford to close his eyes to public affairs. It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of the political events which it has in store, or the necessity of resolute vigilance on the part of every citizen who desires to preserve the Government that the founders gave us. The debates and acts of Congress, the utterances of the press, the exciting contests of the Republican and Democratic parties, now nearly equal in strength throughout the country, the varying drift of public sentiment, will all bear directly and effectively upon ihe twenty-fourth Presidential election, to be held in November. Four years ago next November the will of the nation, as expressed at the polls, was thwarted by an abominable conspiracy, the promoters and beneficiaries of which still hold the offices they stole. Will the crime of 18'6 be repeated in 1830? The past decade of years opened with a corrupt, extravagant, and insolent Administration intrenched at Washington. The Sun did something toward dislodging the gang and breaking its power. The same men are now intriguing to restore their leader and themselves to places from which they were driven by the indignation of the people. Will they succeed? The coming year will bring the answers to these momentous questions. Trot Sun will be on hand to chronicle the facts as they are developed, and to exhibit them clearly and fearlessly in their relations to expediency and right.
Thus, with a habit of philosophical good humor in looking at the minor affairs of life, and in great things a steadfast purpose to maintain the rights of the people and the principles of the Constitution against all aggressors, The Sun is prepared to write a truthful, instructive, and at the same time entertaining history of 1880.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of tweny-eight columns, the price by mail, post-paid, is 55 cents a month or $6.50 a year; or including the Sunday paper, an ei^ht-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price Is 65 cents a month $7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at $1.30a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, ia $1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $1O we win tend an extra copy free.
Address	L W. ENGLAND,
nlMt	Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
300
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Tai>le-Nov. 1«, 1879.
	♦Man	♦Day Express.		•Kal. Accom.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Nil^s	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 18 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 335 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.		•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	950 p m. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 8 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Wiles and So nt 11 Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “			Ly. Ar.	•GOING SOUTH. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. N. Dame—7 40 “ 448 “ So. Bend—745 “ 4 55 “		
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. Hbnby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Bailawy, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest ‘ and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LIN is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northe Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run ou all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Tidket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
L S. & M. S. Railway
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING BAST.
2 25 a.m., Chicago and St. Louie Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland S80 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
19 16 p. m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arlves at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 pan.
4L 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.	'
GOING WEST.
3 4=3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte335 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snpt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayue & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table,'Nov. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 A.M. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 « 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	L50 P.M. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 Pji. 8.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 P.M. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 « 2.46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55p.m. 11.25 12.25 A Jf. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 «	• •••• • •••
Ft. Wayne,		 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive						
GOING EAST,
*		No. 4. Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex	No. 6, AtlanEx	No. 8 Mail.
Chicago....		9.10 P.M.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,..		2.46 A.M.	11.48 “	8.55	
Ft. Wayne,		655 “	9 9.5 p M	11.30 “	
Lima.			8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A M	
Forest					10.10 “	5.27 “	2 33 “	
Crestline,..	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	105 “	• •••••••••
Crestline....	....Leave	1205 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6 95 a.m
Mansfield,					12.35 “	745 “	455 “	655 “
Orrville,..'			2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	915 “
Alliance,			400 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester.				6.22 “	1.20 A.M	1106 “	200 pm
Pittsburgh,.	...Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line thaf runs the celebrated Pullmak Pat.awf. Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for- sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates. *
F.&OTSRS. G.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	301
The Lemonnier Library,
EstdNished at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWARDS,
Notbe Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALEB IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Pone.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO iS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I

Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa. La Salle. Geneseo, Moline. Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine. Washington, Fairfield, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or yon can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
A. At Leavenworth, with K. p. and K. Cen.
R. Rds.
PALACE CABS are run through to PEORIA,DES MOINES, COUNCIL. BLUFFS, .ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the "Great Rock Island Route,’’ are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your borne ticket office, address, KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
'	Getfl Superintendent.	UenHTkLanaFMrtrAgL,
•	.	Cdcago.IB.
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana ” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this 1 line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs. Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne St Chicago R.Rds.
■ At Washington Heights,-with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.	_
At La Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P„ P. & J.: P..L.&D.; I. B. & W.; Ill. Midland;and T.. P. * W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Bock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA. with B. * Mo. R. K. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C.. B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk St N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka St Santa Fe; Atchison St Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1843, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was chartered by the Legislature of the'State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from' the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first twojpassing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Chris tian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their'minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious'instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The" intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers, and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are’spared to secure the objects waich the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their termjbeginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Bev. W. COBBY, C. S. C, Notre Dame P. 0n Indiana.