Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 3, 1877.
Number 26.
[For the Noire Dame Scholastic.]
St. Bernard to Our Lord.
i.
They pierced Thy side that we might have a door, An open door, to enter into Thee :
They made a wound, and in Thy Heart a cleft, That we, therein, might safely sheltered be From all the cares and all the woes that wait Upon the changes of oar sad estate.
ii.
Oh! let us then approach that holy Heart, And enter in with tears and loving sighs ;
For there we taste a marvellous delight, And there enjoy an earthly paradise.
How good it is, how sweet, how comforting, To dwell within Thy Sacred Heart, my King !
Eleanor 0. Donnelly.
The Age of the World.
We hardly need any proofs to convince us that we cannot know the age of the world except by positive revelation. Such knowledge cannot be obtained by the common historical way, “for who helped the Spirit of the Lord, and who was His counsellor and admonished Him ? ” Neither can a definite answer be gi«6n as to the age of the world from the direct observation/ made in geology; for geologists, although they can giv\an approximate idea of the age of the earth, cannot reasonably affirm that their conclusions are positively accurate or beyond a doubt. Geology can determine with some precision the relative age of the different strata, but to know how long a time each stratum took for its formation and how long the earth existed before these stratifications commenced is impossible for geology to affirm. Hence arises, then, the question: Did God give us any indication as to the age of the world ? The answer is simply an absolute No. Holy Scripture only says: “In the beginning God created heaven and earth." And this cannot be taken as a determination of the age of the world. Neither can the six days of creation assist us in determining its age; for these do not express any time at all, but merely signify six tasks or acts. But another question is, whether the Bible does not tell us anything of theatre of mankind? To this question we must give a similar answer: No; although at first sight we might expect an answer in the affirmative.
Holy Scripture contains chronological data enough up to the death of Solomon to make out an approximately sure calculation of time. There will be a little difficulty in computing the different numbers'and bringing them together, but after all there will be only a difference of a few teens in the computations of different persons. The common as
sumption places the death of Solomon in the year 975 before Christ. But after this we find as a general rule only round numbers, so that it is impossible to give an accurate calculation. Ordinarily we h'ave to count by the different generations, and the average time of one generation is about 40 years.*
Of Solomon it is said: “And the days that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel, were forty years.” f And the same of David: “And the days that David reigned in Israel, were forty years.” $ St. Paul says that Saul reigned forty years. § Of Samuel it is also said that the time after he became judge, until his death, was forty years. J And of Heli it is said that “ he j udged Israel forty years.” Tf “Now the time from Solomon to the exodus frcm Egypt is twelve generations, i. e., 12x40, equal to 480 years.”** It had been already revealed to Abraham that the sojourn of the Israelites in Egypt would last ten generations, i. e., 10x40=400 years, ff but, further on, Holy Scripture says that they lived in Egypt ten generations and 30 years (430 years). JI Here there are added thirty years, probably the thirty years of the age of Joseph, when he became governor of Egypt. §§ Everyone can see from this that Holy Scripture will not give us an accurate answer in regard to the age of the world.
Such is also the case with regard to the time between Abraham and Noe. From Noe to Abraham there are ten generations, according to the Vulgate and the Hebrew text. (Sem, Arphaxad, Sale, Heber, Phaleg, Beu, S irug, Nachor, Thare, Abraham.) y But St. Luke counts eleven in placing between Arphaxad and Sale, Karinan, and in this he agrees with the Septuagiut version of the Bible. From this we see that the number of the ten Patriarchs is only a round number. How many generations there were left out by Holy Scripture we do not know; but we may safely say that there were some left out. When we see that in the more recent genealogy of Christ five numbers were left out by St. Matthew, *** we may rest assured that Moses also must have left out some. Iff
There remains still the time from Noe back to Adam. Here we find apparently a line of numbers accurately stating the duration of that period, but still from the indi-
* Psalm xc’iVt 10. Numbers, xiv. 33,34; xxxiii, 38.
+ III Kings, xi, 42. f Ibid., ii, 11.	§ Acts, xiii, 21.
| Allioli, remarks before the I Book of Kings, iv, 1, and xxv, 1.
If I Kings, iv, 18. ** III Kings, vi, 1. tf Gen., xv, 13.
# Exod., xii, 40.	§§ Genes., xli, 46.	|| Gen., xi, 10-26.
Luke, iii, 36.
*** Between Joram and Ozias there are left out Ochozias, Joas, and Amasias; between Josias and Jeebonias, Joakim, and between Salatbiel and Zorobabel remains Phadaia,not named.
fft Rbckerath, Biblical Chronology, page 45 and foil.
402
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cations of Holy Scripture we can see that we have to treat the different ages as round numbers. For example, of Noe it is said: “ And Noe, when he was five hundred years old, begot Sem, Cham and Japheth,” * and further f it is said: “And Noe awaking from the wine, when he had learned what his younger son had done to him.......... And Noe lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. And all his days were in the whole nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.”j: From this we can clearly see that the numbers in the foregoing quotations are merely round figures. According to the Septuagint version Methusalem would have lived beyond the flood for many years, which is surely contrary to the clear letter of Holy Scripture. We must then here also accept the number of the ten Patriarchs (Adam, Seth, Enos, Kainan, Malaleel, Jared, Henoch, Methusalem, Lamech and Noe) not as complete but as the round number. From all this it follows that Holy Scripture did notintend to give us a continuous chronology of the history of man, and that it is impossible to form one from the different numbers it contains. § For this reason also we cannot accurately determine the age of the world from Holy Scripture.
Only one thing appears to follow from the above stated considerations, and that is that we have to place the origin of man further back than is commonly accepted; but how much, no one can determine. This question has been discussed recently, by geologists especially, and some of them have calculated a duration for mankind of a fabulous number of milleniums. Others, like Morlot and Boucher de Perthes, do not go so far, but calculate the age of mankind to be about twice as great as is generally accepted. But how groundless their calculations are has been clearly shown by Andrews, our own countryman.
In the determination of the age of prehistoric remains of man, the investigations in the valley of La Somme, near Abbeville, France, and in the Delta de la TiniSre, near the Lake of Geneva, Switzerland, are of great importance, as being points of comparison. In the first locality Boucher de Perthes found in the gravel formation in the old bed of the river, which is covered by a peat-formation twenty-four feet thick, bones of elephants and implements which were used to strike light, and he has determined with great care as well the age of the peat formation as that of the gravel below. The Delta of the river Tini&re was cut through by a railroad, and from the insection Morlot judges the age of the delta formation from the depth in which Homan relics are found. These two determinations appear to be very exact, and are used now as points of comparison. Bouche de Perthes assumes that the average increase in a century of the peat near Abbeville cannot be more than one and a half inch to two inches. Now since the thickness of the peat is twenty-six feet, it follows that it must have taken 15,000 to 20,000 thousand years to arrive at its present thickness. Andrews disproves this view, and shows from the facts given by Boucher de Perthes that there is no question here of the peat in a meadow, but of the peat of a forest, which increased in the first centuries over three feet.
* Gen., v 3L	f Gen., ix, 24.
J Rockerath, as above, page 41.
§ P. Bellynk, S. J., says in his Oompte rendu du rapport delf.de Quairefages sur les progrds de V Anthropologic, Paris, 1868: Il n’ex-iste pas de chronologic dans la Bible. Les genealogies de nos livres saints, dont on a deduit des series de dates, presentent parfois des lacunes. Combien manque-t-il d’anneaux a cette chaine interrompue ? On ne saurait le dire.
Later this increase was a little slower. Andrews, however, shows that from the time of the Romans to the sixth or seventh century the increase was still six inches in a cen' tury. But in the last six or seven centuries there was j hardly any increase. Now not to take as too high the av-' erage increase, he fixed the average for every century at six inches, which brings him to the conclusion that the whole peat formation took 5,800 years for its formation.
But still more striking are the proofs of Andrews in stating that the calculations of the age of the Tr enter e-Delta of Morlot are too high.
In the river-island of the Trentere we find, about 4 feet under the surface, a strata of black earth which contains Roman relics. At a depth of 10 feet, implements of bronze were found; and still deeper, about 19 feet, implements were found which evidently belong to the stone-age.
Morlot took this as a good indication for calculating the age of the whole island, and from this the age of mankind. During the last 300 years the island has not increased any more, because since that time the river has been dammed and all the rubbish is carried down into the sea. The 4 feet up to the time of the Romans was then deposited In from 1300 to 1500 years, and thus there was on an average about 3 to 4 inches in a century.
If we accept this as of value in making the calculation, we have for the formation of the entire island, which measures 32 feet and 2 inches in depth, the age of 7,400 to 11,000 years.
Andrews has shown that the height of the rubbish formation in the river Trenidre since the time of the Romans should not be taken into consideration, but rather its volume. Accurate measurement has shown that the volume is about 5,283,205 cubic feet, which have been deposited in 1300 to 1500 years. The whole island has a volume of -16,116,408 cubic feet. The duration of its formation is calculated then to be 3965 to 4576 years. Now if we add the 200 years since the damming of the river we will have the age of the island, from 4,265 to 4,876, a time which, according to the general acceptance, would reach back to the period of the flood. See “Der Natuiforsher” 1868, No. 39.
Ingenious Uses and Misuses of Language.
The English language, perhaps more than any other, is capable of queer and ingenious uses, misuses, transformations, and combinations. The student of the curiosities of literature is astonished at its wonderful susceptibility to odd pranks in the way of orthography, syntax, prosody, pronunciation, rhyme, and translation. Some curious effects are sometimes produced by an ingenious arrangement of pronunciation. A device has often been used in political and other partisan songs called “ echo verses,” in which the sounds of the last words of a line are repeated after the manner of an echo, the whole being so contrived as to express some significant meaning. This, though a short specimen, is a good illustration:
“ What are they who pay three guineas
To hear a tune of Paganini’s?
{Echo)	Pack o’ninnies I”
The following echo verses allude to the Roundheads in the reign of Charles the First:	•
Now, Echo, on what’s religion grounded ?
Boundhead.
Who’s its professor most considerable ?
Saddle.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
How do these prove themselves to be the godly ?
Oddly.
But they in life are known to be the holy.
Olie!
Do they not learning from their doctrine sever?
Ever!	j
Yet they pretend that they do edify;
Ofie!
What church have they, and what pulpits ? .
Pitts. .
Are crosses, images, and ornaments their scandal ?
All! -
How do they stand affected to the government civil ?
Evil.
The following specimen of echo poetry, which possesses merit as a literary composition, we give on account of the spirit of piety which breathes through it:
“ If any be distressed, and fain would gather
Some comfort, let him haste unto
Our Father.
For we of hope and help are quite bereaven
Except Thou succor us
Who art in heaven.
Thou showest mercy, therefore for the same
We praise Thee, singing.
Hallowed be Thy Name.
Of all our miseries cast up the sum ;
Show us Thy joys, and let
Thy kingdom come.
We mortal are, and alter from our birth;
Thou constant art,
Thy will be done on earth.
Thou mad’st the earth as well as planets seven, Thy Name be blessdd here
As ’tis in heaven.
Nothing we have to use our debts to pay,
Except Thou give it us,
’	Give us this day
Wherewith to clothe us, wherewith to be fed, For without Thee we want
'	Our daily bread.
We want, but we want no faults, for no day passes
But we do sin—
Forgive us our trespasses.
No man from sinning ever free did live;
Forgive us, Lord, our sins
As we forgive.
If we repent our faults, Thou ne’er disdainest us;
We pardon them
That trespass against us.
Forgive us that is past, a new path tread us ;
Direct us always in Thy faith,
And lead us—
Us, Thine own people and Thy chosen nation,
Into all truth, but
Not into temptation.
Thou that of all good graces art the giver,
Suffer us not to wander, • ‘
But deliver
Us from the fierce assaults of the world and devil
■ And flesh, so shalt Thou free us
From all evil.
To these petitions let both Church and laymen, With one consent of heart and voice, say
Amen.”
Of course the whole innumerable host of puns, bad and good, which are floating about in books and newspapers, as well as in social circles, are all predicated upon similarities of pronunciation. A pun that has in it a sharp and witty
meaning is a good thing; but the immense deal of trash and of far-fetched constructions that are put in circulation by laborers after the fun. which is worth nothing if it is not spontaneous, has given this kind of literature a bad reputation, so that few good authors will use it.
An instance isgiven of answering two questions at a time:
“ Here, Biddy my darling, what’s the time o’night, and where’s the pertaty pudding?”
“It’s eight, sir.”
Poets have been often greatly puzzled to find rhymes for particular words. It is said that there is no word in the English language which fairly rhymes with “step” or “ month.” Byron says that it is impossible to find a rhyme for the word “ silver.” Every little while some inquisitive genius proclaims that a particular word is without a rhyme, and challenges the world to disprove his assertion. Forthwith many people cudgel their brains, and sometimes do produce the desired word. Some years ago the Knickerbocker offered a brass quarter dollar to the person who could find a rhyme to the word “ window.” The prize was earned by the following effort, which furnishes the rhyme and has some fun in it as well:
“A cruel man a beetle caught, And to the wall him pinned oh! Then said the beetle to the crowd, ’Though I’m stuck up I am not proud, And his soul went out at the window.”
Somebody challenged a rhyme for “ carpet,” and the following was the best production elicited, called “ Lines to a Pretty Barmaid ”:
“ Sweet maid of the inn, ’Tis surely no sin To toast such a beautiful bar pet, Believe me, my dear, Your feet would appear
At home on a nobleman’s carpet.” .
A line ending with “ harp it ” also came near to the mark.
A rhyme was found for Timbuctoo, as follows:
“I went a hunting on the plains, The plains of Timbuctoo ;	'
I shot one buck for all my pains, And he was a slim buck too.”
Alliteration is the repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other or at short intervals. The following is one of the most curious specimens of alliteration extant. It was written at the time of the Bunker Hill Monument celebration:
Americans arrayed and armed attend;
Beside battalions bold, bright beauties blend.
Chiefs, clergy, citizens conglomerate,— Detesting despots,—daring deeds debate. Each eye emblazoned ensigns entertain,—
• Flourishing from afar,—fan freedom’s flame.
Guards greeting guards grown grey,—guest greeting guest High-minded heroes, hither, homeward, haste;
Ingenious juniors join in jubilee, Kith kenning kin,—kind knowing kindred key. Lo. lengthened lines lend Liberty liege love, Mixed masses marshalled, JJPonumentward move. Note noble navies near;—no novel notion;
Oft, our oppressors overawed old Ocean;
Presumptuous princes, pristine patriots, paled, ' Queen’s quarrel questing quotas, quondam, quailed Rebellion roused, revolting ramparts rose,
Stout spirits, smiting servile soldiers, strove.
These thrilling themes, to thousands truly told, Usurpers’ unjust usages unfold.
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Victorious vassals, vauntings vainly veiled.
Where, whilsince, Webster, warlike Warren wailed.
The Twenty-Second.
’Scuse ’xpletives ’xtraqueer ’xpressed, Yielding Yankee yeoman zest.
The following extract we found going the rounds of the press: “ The English language must appear fearfully and wonderfully made to a foreigner. One of them, looking at a picture of a number of vessels, said, ‘ See what a flock of ships.’ He was told that a flock of ships was called a fleet, but that a fleet of sheep was called a flock. And it was added, for his guidance in mastering the intricacies of our language, that a ‘ flock of girls is called a bevy, that a bevy of wolves is called a pack, and a pack of thieves is called a gang, and a gang of angels is called a host, and a host of porpoises is called a shoal, and a shoal of buffaloes is called a herd, and a herd of children is called a troop, and a troop of partridges is called a covey, and a covey of beauties is called a galaxy, and a galaxy of ruffians is called a horde, and a horde of rubbish is called a heap, and a heap of oxen is called a drove, and a drove of blackguards is called a mob, and a mob of whales is called a school, and a school of worshippers is called a congregation, and a congregation of engineers is called a corps, and a corps of robbers is called a band, and band of locusts is called a swarm, and a swarm of people is called a crowd, and a crowd of gentlefolk is called the elite, and the elite of the city’s thieves and rascals are called the roughs, and the miscellaneous crowd of city folk is called the community, or the public, according as they are spoken of by the religious community or secular public.’ ”
Here is a poem on “Night,” which is a curiosity in rhyme:
Light Fades, Night Shades Appalling Are falling
From The hill Come So still The moon and stars And night unbars.
Sleep’s Cover
Creeps Over Loved nature’s Calm features.
Hood, in his humorous poems, adopted the idea originated by Canning of dividing words at the end of a line for the sake of rhyme. The following, which is floating about, is a specimen of that kind of composition:
“ A year old to-day is little Molly— Romping, noisy, fat, and jolly ; Too young to walk, and like a polly-wog excited she goes frolicking about the floor, and golly !
What a laugh ! ”
—There must be a screw loose somewhere in our complicated educational machinery, or else there is a striking inability on the part of the pupils of our public schools to acquire a thorough knowledge of the ordinary branches of study. Apparently it is easier to learn to write Greek and Latin correctly than to express oneself properly in English —if we may judge from the percentage of failures made in those branches in the examination for admission to Harvard College. While only 16 per cent, of the applicants failed in Greek composition, and 25 per cent, in Cicero and Virgil, 52 per cent, failed in English composition, and 40 per cent, in algebra and geometry. The “ cramming ” of applicants for Harvard is usually confined to the classics, and English neglected, with the above results.—Boston Pilot.
The Entertainment given by the Thespians on the evening of the 22d was appreciated by all who attended it ard was worthy of all the high praise bestowed upon it in the last number of the Scholastic. But that our readers may not imagine that we were influenced by local pride when distributing our praise we reprint, head-lines and all, the account furnished to the Chicago Times by a special reporter, sent to Notre Dame by Mr. Storey to report the affair for that paper.
GREAT CAESAR!
How the Students at Notre Dame Did Act on Wed- nesday Night.
But It Was on the Mimic Stage, and in Celebration of George’s Birthday.
On Which Occasion the Boys Displayed a Good Deal of Histrionic Talent.
Who Were There, and How the Play Passed off—-General Observations.
[Special Correspondence.']
South Bend, Ind., Feb. 22.—George Washington isn’t a saint in the Catholic calendar, but the leading Catholic schools of the country pay far greater tribute to his memory at every recurring anniversary of his birthday than do many distinctively Yankeeish institutions. Particularly is this the case at Notre Dame University, whose three hundred students are taught to regard the birthday of Pater Patrice as one of the festival days in their school year. It is there a day when scholastic pursuits are given a breathing spell, that Young America may have time to ponder the virtues and revere the memory of the immortal George; at least that is the theory of Washington’s Birthday at Notre Dame; if her fledglings prefer to profane the sacred anniversary by devoting it to other and frivolous uses, it isn’t the fault of her respected faculty of instruction.
THE CELEBBATION ALWAYS BEGINS
at Notre Dame the night before the anniversary. This is always a gala time at the College, for it brings with it much gathering thitherward of people from all parts, and much preliminary hurrying to and fro, as indicating that the time is big with events, and last, but not least, much feasting of the soul and tickling of the senses, for the benefit of the boys. It is the occasion of the year’s most carefully-prepared Exhibition of the Thespian Association, a society of embryotic Rosciuses, culled from the Classical Department of the University.
These Exhibitions are given iu Washington Hall, a large edifice near the main building, fitted up theatre-like, and possessing every needed histrionic appliance save private boxes and a peanut gallery. The large auditorium was crowded last evening with one of the finest audiences that ever assembled at Notre Dame. Many prominent men among the clergy, many leading citizens of South Bend, besides numerous relatives of the students, were among the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
405
audience. Most prominent among the thousand people who were crowded into the hall were the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General and founder of Notre Dame; the Very Rev. A. Granger; Rev. J. Frere; Rev. R. Shortis, Chaplain of St. Mary’s; Rev. P. J. Golovin, President of Notre Dame; Rev. A. Oechtering, of Mishawaka; Rev. J. Oechtering, of Laporte; Father Letourneau; Dr. Murray, of Louisville, Ky.; Dr. Ham; Dr. Barbour; Mr. Abbot, superintendent of the South Bend water-works; Prof. Gregori, the Italian artist; Judge Hagerty and lady; C. Studebaker; Messrs. C. Murray and T. A. Dailey, of The Herald, of South Bend; Mrs. Carqueville and four sons, of Chicago; Mr. A. M. Schmidt, Chicago; Mr. Seivers, Chicago; P. O’Brien and lady, W. R. McCraken, Mrs. and Miss Sheriand, Mr. and Mrs. Wills, John N. Lederer, Miss Barthe, Miss Talley, Mrs. Piquette, Mrs. Redmond, Miss Perley and others.
The Entertainment commenced at 7 o’clock and continued nearly four hours. Its wearying length was amply atoned for by
THE BRIGHTNESS AND RAPID MOVEMENT
of the performance, which, although severely taxing both the physical and mental powers of the participants, had been so thoroughly rehearsed that it went off with asmooth-ness and rapidity which left no room for tedium. Undoubtedly the youthful Thespia’ns were a trifle audacious in selecting for presentation a piece so full of dramatic diffi--cultiesas the tragedy of “Julius Casar.” But with the unlimited license of amateurs, the boys recited every line of the entire five acts, playing at what is of course beyond the power of any amateurs to correctly impersonate, but achieving, after all, quite a remarkable success, considering the mountainous difficulties that are always in the way of young actors who essay Shakespearian roles. With what scenic facilities were accessible, the piece was well and correctly mounted, and the costumes were both elegant and correct, as indeed they should be, having been procured from the wardrobe of McVicker’s theatre.
It isn’t a word of fulsome or undeserved praise to say that the impersonations of the young gentlemen who assumed the leading roles in this drama were, for amateurs, unusually excellent. Mr. Thomas C. Logan, in some passages, very finely identified himself with the character of Cassius, and easily bore off the dramatic honors of the evening. Julius Caesar and Brutus, by Eugene F. Arnold and William T. Ball, respectively, were so well enacted that the young men neither in propria personae nor in the parts they assumed appeared ridiculous, which is saying a good deal, Mr. Carl Otto was unfortunately troubled with influenza, and so Marc Antony delivered his celebrated oration in somewhat snuffling tones, which to a degree marred its eloquence.
AMONG THE OTHER EXERCISES
was an oration by Mr. William,T. Ball, which was a carefully-written comparison'between our form of government and that of the “ effete ” monarchies of the old world. The contrast was somewhat to the disadvantage of the latter. Mr. Logan, leaving Cassius’ toga in the dressing-room, appeared again in a well-delivered recitation. Between the acts of the play and the other exercises there was music by the Notre Dame orchestra and brass band. It was fairly good, and was rendered very entertaining from the fact that it was contributed entirely by “home” talent, which was of vastly more interest to anxious parents and to the friends of the institution than anything imported could have been.
After the tragedy the young men took the single step from the sublime to the ridiculous by doffing their helmets and sandals and putting on theatrical harness of a more modern date, in which they presented a rattling farce.
The evening was concluded with a few pleasant remarks by the Rev. P. J. Golovin, the esteemed President of the University.
The young men who participated in the Entertainment are all members of the classical study hall and of the graduating class. Their names and residences are as follows: W. T. Ball, Chicago; John G. Ewing, Lancaster; E. F. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; Carl Otto, Illinois; A. K. Schmidt, Chicago; T. C. Logan, Leavenworth, Kansas; A J. Hertzog, Louisiana; F. S. Hastings, Kansas City; L. D. Murphy, Cairo, Ill.; W. P. Breen, Fort Wayne; G. J. Gross, Philadelphia; N. J. Mooney, Ohio; J. J. Quinn, Towanda; L. Evers, New York; J. P. McHugh, Lafayette; H. C. Cassidy, Youngstown, O-; F. Maas, Michigan; P. J. Cooney, Cleveland; H. McGuire, New York; J. D. McIntyre, Grand Rapids.
The Entertainment was given under the direction and m magement of Prof. J. A Lyons, to whose hard, earnest work and great ability to infuse his own enthusiasm into the hearts of his students a very large part of the success of the evening is due.’’
Scientific Notes.
—Prof. Bellynk, the eminent Belgian botanist, died last December at Namur.
—There is an Egyptian mummy over 2,000 years old in the Museum at Central Park, New York.
—The eminent physicist, Prof. J: C. Poggendorff, for many years professor in the Berlin University, and editor of Poggendorff's Annalen, recently died in Berlin, in his 81st year.
—The Notre Dame Museum possesses the largest collec-tion of shells of any museum in the West. Most of the shells of the American coasts are represented, as also those of the Mediterranean, Indian Ocean, etc.
—Sleepless nights may be avoided by turning the head of the bed towards the north or northeast, because the current of electricity passing constantly around the earth comes from that direction; this position may also obviate feelings of unrest caused by the diurnal motion of the earth.
—We would call the attention of naturalists to a little ■ volume printed by the Salem press for the Naturalists’ Agency, entitled “The Naturalists’ Directory.” It is a catologue of names of most of the American naturalists, with their address and lists of Exchanges. Every naturalist should possess a copy, as it will make it easy for him to obtain information from fellow-professors in the same branch.
—It is probably not generally known that in Texas and Oregon there grows a plant called by botanists Silphium lociniatum, which is a living compass, its leaves being always turned towards the north. On this account it serves the purpose of a compass very well for travellers who have lost their way in the great prairies of those States.
—Prof. Smyth, Her Majesty’s Astronomer for Scotland, in bis very interesting work, “Teneriffe,” gives us some important date regarding atmospheric currents. He shows: 1. The extreme dryness of the northeast wind. 2. Its very moderate electricity. 3. The greater saturation of the southwest wind. 4. The descent of the southwestern upper current. 5. The chemical difference between the two currents. Moreover he says: “If we must live in a wind, by all means let it be the southwest, and not the northeast, that effete unwholesome and used-up polar stream. As to the chemical and sanitary qualities of the two winds, there could be no comparison between them.”
406	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music and Literature.
—In the competition for a statue of Josiah Quincy the award has been made to the sculptor Ball.
—Bret Harte’s “Thankful Blo«som” has been published in Stuttgart in an authorized German translation.
—Mr. H. J. Byron’s new burlesque at the Opera Com-ique, in London, has for subject and title “The Bohemian Girl.”
—M. Offenbach’s new opera-bouffe called “Doctor Ox” has been successfully produced at the Varieties theatre, in Paris.
—Bjornstjerne Bjornson has lately finished and proposes soon to publish a new novel named “Magnhild,” after the heroine.
—Boston art circles were excited by the recent, exhibition of the bold landscapes and desirable portraits of William M. Hunt.
—Prof, von Gebhardt has treated with new power the subject of the disciples at Emmaus, and his painting is the novelty of Dusseldorf.
—Cardinal Manning will contribute to The Nineteenth Century a series of papers from original sources to be called “The True Story of the Vatican Council.”
—Sarah Bernhardt has been asked by the cure of her parish in Paris to carve for the church a statue of its patron, St. Francis de Sales, and has consented to do so.
—There is some talk of a four act unpublished opera, with a libretto founded on the history of Wallenstein, being produced this season at the Theatre ltalien, Paris.
—The second volume of Reodaiiones Gertrudiana ac Mechtildianee, edited by the Benedictines of Solesmes, is announced. This work is quite an edition de luxe, printed in elzevir type on the best paper.
—The sculptor, W. W. Story, has left his old quarters and established himself in one of the spacious new villas in the modern quarter of Rome, with the ground floor devoted to his studies, while the upper stories form his residence.
—Prof. Ruskin is in Venice selecting and securing casts from the most beautiful types of sculpture to be found there, for a museum he is establishing at Walkley, a suburb of Sheffield, England, for the benefit of workingmen students.
—A concise practical work on the rapid increase and multiplication of stock—amply illustrated—price preoaid, by mail, 50 cents, is published by Jenkins’ Grape and Seedling Nurseries, Winona, Columbiana Co., Ohio. Send for it, and for free catalogue.
—Tbe author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” London, 1867, a work which excited considerable interest at the time, and is still read eagerly by those who can get a chance at it, is said to be Mother Raphael Draine, Prioress of the convent at Stone, Staffordshire, England.
—Two interesting additions have been lately made to the art treasures- in the Vatican—a Munllo brought in October from Spain as an offering to the Pope, and the painting of the loggia above the loggia of Raphael, which has hitherto remained simply whitewashed.
—Herr Johann Strauss’ comic opera, Die Fledermaus, recently produced at the Alhambra Theatre, London, has met with much success. Some of ihe music is very “ catching,” as might have been expected from the composer of so many charming things. Several songs are likely to become popular.
—A Russian antiquary, M. V. Liubimtsef, has recently found in one of the bookstalls of the Apraxin Dvor, at St. Petersburg, a number of very interesting old manuscripts, which he proposes to publish before long. They are supposed to be written by some monk of the Solovetsk Monastery, near Archangel, and they are said to throw new light upon the history of the religious sects of Russia.
—M. Audlauer, formerly organist at Fontenay-le-Vicomte and Honfleur and pupil of M. Lemmens, was elected, on the 10 inst. organist of the Church of Notre-Dame-des-Champs, Paris. Fourteen candidates entered their names, but only nine took part in the competition before the Jury appointed to decide, which included the leading organists
and ecclesiastical chapel-masters of the French capital, under the presidency of M. Gounod.—American Art Journal.
—Gustave Dore has been visiting Switzerland and has brought'back to Paris several important studies he made among the mountains, almost in the cloud regions. He was accompanied by a number of hardy mountaineers, who carried for him all the paraphernalia needed for painting pictures. Dore will only exhibit small works at the next -Salon, as he intends keeping his first very large canvas for show in London, where he is always sure of an enthusiastic reception.
—In London the semi-annual exhibitions are open of the Society of Painters in Water-Co.lors, and of the rival body, the Institute of Painters in Water Colors. The ladies appear at the Society exhibition to advantage, and Mrs. Allingham’s figure-pieces will long be remembered. Alma-Tadema has two closely-finished studies of aucie it Roman life. The English water colorists are drawing, with much sentiment, the figures of beautiful and graceful maidens.—Amer-can Art Journal.
—It is but six months since the first edition of John O’Kane Murray’s “Popular History of the Catholic Church in the United States” was issued, and we learn that the fourth edition is now out. This is perhaps the most remarkable success ever attained by an American Catholic book. Mr. Murray is quite a young man, which makes his success the more noteworthy. We offer him our felicitations, and trust that many other valuable works are yet to come from his facile pen.
—Mr. John Habberton’s literary fecundity has attracted so much attention that every new success of Mr. Anonymous is attributed to him. Of course much of his work was ready for the market which the popularity of “ Helen’s B abies” opened to him, but his second success, “The Barton Experiment,” of which 25,000 copies have already been sold, was written in three weeks. He is now finishing “ The Scripture Club of Valley Rest,” begun and announced a year or more ago. The early part of the MS. is said to have “more in it” than either of the published books.
—Some rare miniatures and autographs were sold at Hotel Drovot, in Paris, the other day, the elite of the old aristocracy and the members of the Orleans family being present. Nine miniatures fetched 11,200 francs, among them a portrait of Marie Antoinette, and another of Madam Elizabeth, the sister of Louis XVI. Four lines, scrawled by the latter on the day after the capture of th- Bastile; fetched 205 francs; an autograph letter from Marie Antoinette to the Duchess of Polignac, 640 francs. Autographs, however, of Frederick the Great and of the Emperor Paul I, of Russia, went for ridiculously' small sums.
—On the 26th of January, the Holy Father sat for his portrait to Mr. Eastham, of England, and Mr. Geo. Cooper, of Hull, the photographer to the Prince of Wales. The negatives were taken in the Pope’s private library, in the presence of Cardinal Monaco La Valletta, Monsignor Ricci, and other members of the Court. Usually great difficulty is experienced by photographers when taking the portraits of gentlemen aged over seventy. The Pope, however, although aged eighty-five years, remained perfectly steady for more than sixty seconds in the positions assigned him by the photographers. He showed not the slightest weakness of nerve or unsteadiness of muscle during the sitting.
—One of the novelties of the Paris Exposition of 1878 which is most likely to attract the keen interest of the public, will be the exhibition of historical portraits executed by French artists from the fifteenth century to 1830. This project has been approved bv the Minister of Public Instruction, and has been submitted to a sub-commission to consider the best means of carrying the scheme into effect and to ascertain the views on the subject of the possessors of historical paintings. The commission has already put itself in communication with the museums of the provinces and private owners of collections, who, it is said, have responded to the appeal with a liberality which promises a rich harvest of historical and artistic discoveries.
—The San Francisco Art Association maintains a very large art school under the directorship of Virgil Williams. As this is the only art school on the Pacific coast, it has
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i	pupils from Mexico, north as far as Oregon, and east to the
i	Rocky Mountains. It furnishes art teachers as well as ar-
tists for all that portion of the country. If a continuous art exhibition could be made to pay anywhere, it would seem that it ought to be there. And yet they have but two exhibitions a year. Their main school-room is an immense affair, where the hundreds of pupils can all be assembled. There are two terms of four months each, and two vacations of two months each. One-half of each vacation is devoted to exhibitions of the finest paintings on the Pacific coast. The great school-room is cleared for this purpose, h and the result is that the Association realizes handsomely T	on the enterprise. So successful has it been thus far that
the French ministry, through the consul, have donated to it a very valuable set of casts of the best sculpture in the Louvre, about one hundred pieces.
Books and Periodicals.
The Office of Holy Week According to the Roman Missal and Breviary, in Latin and English. New York: The Catholic Publication Society. 1876. Small type edition, 30 cts., large type edition, 50 ets.
Two editions of this excellent manual for Holy Week are issued by the Catholic Publication Society, either of ?	which we can heartily recommend to our readers. In or-
der that the faithful may fully appreciate the beauty of the solemnities of Holy Week it is necessary that they understand not only the mystical meaning of the ceremonies but that they may comprehend the meaning of the words. Both the literal meaning of the words and the mystical ;	sense of the ceremonies are fully given in these editions of
1	the Office of Holy Week, and we earnestly advise our read-
,	ers to provide themselves with copies of the work. The
I	larger edition is a new one, and has been enlarged and care
fully revised. Although a book of more than 550 pages, in J	bold, clear type, it is not a bulky volume, being printed on
'	fine, thin paper and sj’stematically arranged. The smaller
P/1	edition is much inferior as regards print and completeness,
1	and we would recommend all to purchase the large edition
which costs the small sum of 50 cts.
I	—The “ Young Folks' Book of American Explorers ” is
as distinctly a “ new departure ” in our historical literature as was its predecessor, the “ Young Folks’ History of the United Stales.” The “ Book of American Explorers ” is a series of narratives of discovery and adventure, told in the precise words of the discoverers themselves. It is a series of racy and interesting extracts from original narratives, or early translations of such narratives. These selections are made with care, so as to give a glimpse at the various nationalities engaged,—Norse, Spanish, French, Dutch, English, etc.,—and are put together in order of time, with the needful notes and explanations. The ground covered may be seen by the following list of subjects treated in successive chapters:—The Traditions of the Norsemen; Columbus and his Companions; Cabot and Verrazzano; The Strange Voyage of Cabeza de Vaca; The French in Canada ; Hernando de Soto; The French in Florida; Sir Humphrey Gilbert; The Lost Colonies of Virginia ; Unsuccessful New England Settlements; Captain John Smith in Virginia; Champlain on the War Path ; Henry Hudson and the New Netherlands; the Pilgrims at Plymouth; The Massachusetts Bay Colony. Besides the legends of the Norse men, the book makes an almost continuous tale of adventure from 1492 to 1630, all told in the words of the explorers themselves. This is, it is believed, a far more attractive way of telling than to rewrite them in the words of another; and it is hoped that it may induce young people io explore for themselves the rich mine of historical adventure thus laid open. It is published by Lee and Shepherd, Boston, Mass.
—A few years ago a school-book agent visited a flourishing school in central New York, and learned in conversation that the principal had been teaching chemistry on a
I	plan of his own from his manuscript. Hoping to repay
the favors he had received, he offered to look into the plan, and show the manuscript to his employers, with a recom-
mendation to publish it for the use of other schools. He sent the manuscript to New York, and went his way. The publishers discussed the matter, were much interested in the plan of the work, and as it was brief and elementary, they concluded to bring it out as a venture. They called it, “Fourteen Weeks in Chemistry,” as it could be easily learned by pupils in school during the ordinary application of a single term. There had been some inquiry for textbooks that should cover less ground than was common, that would interest and inspire pupils to a love of the subject, and that could be mastered quickly. The haste that marks everything in American life was becoming necessary in study, and the short road to learning was beginning to be asked for. A scientific book had hitherto been especially dry and cumbersome. The work on chemistry now contemplated was bubbling over with interest. The experiments were such as made plain every dry fact, and their selection was judicious in that facts not important in daily and practical life were rigidly excluded, and the child was not called upon to learn them. The style of the writer was not crude and homespun, but bright and sparkling, with a tendency to carry the interest of the reader along despite his repugnance to scientific matters. Thus the writer hoped to induce many of his pupils to love the science he taught them, and to follow it further after he was through with them. All this impressed the publishers, as before said, and they invited the author to prepare it carefully for the press, and when ready, gave the little book to the public. The reception it met was most flattering. Letters of congratul ition poured in from fellowteachers, and all acknowledged the growing need of texts on such a plan. The success was so complete that all the costs of bringing out the work were paid back within a few weeks, and the publishers invi ed the successful writer to prepare a “Fourteen Weeks in Natural Philosophy,” the material of which was already in his possession. The book came out, and immediately carried the schools by storm, and outsold the Chemistry two to one per annum. Next followed an Astronomy, then Geology, then Physiology. The books found open arms awaiting them, and seemed to pour from the press, edition after edition, to gratify a clamoring demand. Children who never had cared before to know about things in science, saw these books in the hands of mates, and bought and read for themselves, and whole communities were found suddenly awakened to a love for a study that possessed no attraction in the days of childhood. The books were sufficiently and judiciously illustrated; they were provided with valuable notes and references, review questions, directions for practical experiments, interesting scientific anecdotes applicable to the text, and full indices. They were accurate, because of the incessant watchfulness of the author, who gradually relinquished the details of his school to an assistant, and finally, after a year or two in Europe, the whole school, and devoted himself to his rapidly growing and prosperous books. He visited Europe several times, aud remained for study and research; attended the lectures of eminent scientists, and learned from their lips the wonderful things his books make common. The present year is not too short to have seen already the appearance of a new text from this facile pen. It is “ Fourteen Weeks in Zoology" this time, and the critics are even now sharpening their pens for the dissection. It is pronounced by those who have already seen it altogether equal to the emergency, and the publishers hereby invite all readers to revive their knowledge of elementary and popular science by procuring a set of “Steele’s Fourteen Weeks’ Course in all the Sciences,” by Prof J. Dorman Steele, F. R. S., Ph. D.
—The idler is not reckoned among the human race, where he is useless.—Mgr. Peschoud.
—A gentleman is a rarer thing than some of us think for. Which of us can point out many in his circle—men whose aims are generous; whose truth is constant and elevated; who can look the world honestly in the face with equal manly sympathy for the great and small ? We all know a hundred whose coats are well made, and a score who have excellent manners; but a gentleman, how many? Let us take a little scrap of paper and each make his list.— Thackeray.

tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
J
408
Notre Dame, Marell 3, 1877.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should taae it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
Modesty.
Modesty does not consist, as many may suppose, in the entire ignorance of our own merits or too great a distrust in them, but in a fair and moderate estimate of our character, qualifications and merits. Every age, every sex and every condition of life has its peculiar virtues, but modesty is a virtue that is not restricted to anyone; it maybe said to be necessary to all. A person possessing this virtue is the owner of a treasure that is esteemed by all, and a modest estimate of one’s acquirements will conduce materially to success in life. It shields the possessor from many of the mortifications and disappointments which on every side assail the self-conceited man, for it will cause him to consider beforehand, and be careful about, many things which he that thinks himself infallible readily takes hold of only to meet with discomfiture.
Modesty is thus a safeguard in our actions, to our property, and to ourselves. It obtains for its possessor the good will and esteem of everyone, even of an enemy or a rival. It makes all pleased with him, and makes them at ease with him and themselves.
We all know the advantages of having every one our friend, and being at enmity with no one. Besides giving us many advantages for the acquirement of honorable station or lucrative employment, it brings us the happiness and pleasure of true friendship, and the satisfaction of knowing that our friends act thus towards us not on account of the expectation of gain or out of hypocrisy, but through love for us and our peculiar traits of character.
There is a great difference between modesty and humility. An humble man is always filled with a sense of his own unworthiness, and places every one above himself from a sense of their superior merits. He sees only the good traits of others, and his own demerits. The humble man freely allows all advantages to others, while the modest man claims nothing for himself Modesty would be par
ticularly desirable in young persons, since it is peculiarly characteristic of virtuous youth. It endears youth to every one. It begets no jealousy, for it seeks no distinctive preferments, and when these are accorded, it indulges in no vain or pompous show. Modesty opens the avenues of the human heart, and renders both mind and heart susceptible to the instructions and good counsels of those who are older and more experienced, thus enabling its possessor to guide himself safely through life’s vicissitudes. This amiable virtue should therefore be cultivated, and considered one of the most precious adornments of youth. The example of great and good men should be an inducement for us to follow in their footsteps. We should also bear in mind that its opposite is never justifiable, and one of the poets says that “ Want of modesty is want of sense.”
Our Love for the Facetious.
In common with the lower animals, among the first marks of healthful growth in man we find the disposition to play, to sport, and to exercise the muscles of the body and the inferior powers of the mind, out of mere love active—from the simple exuberance of animal spirits. The kitten, the lamb, the colt, and the child, equally exhibit the propensity to play; but to the monkey and the buffoon is reserved the questionable distinction of making antics the end and aim of their strongest exertions, the chief business of life.
A keen appreciation of the ridiculous seems frequently to belong to minds of a high order, but it is in nowise an evidence of superior intellect, since we often observe that those completely devoid of mental capacity in any other direction are the most perfect wags.
Playfulness, like our appetite for food and drink, our love to accumulate property, our desire to please, or any other of our animal inclinations, is liable to prove excessive, and the inveterate joker commands no more respect than does the gourmand, the tippler, the miser or the coxcomb. This we know by experience, and observation of society. The merry-andrew is welcome to most circles, not because he is esteemed, but because he furnishes pastime; and of those who applaud and laugh at his comic attitudes and expressions, few would desire to exchange places with him; for to be known as a clown is not an enviable reputation, since levity carries with it its own condemnation; and many a poor mirth-maker has been known to respond to the declaration of Dr. Valentine, the distinguished comedian, who acknowledged to his physician that he had “never experienced five minutes of happiness in his life.”
We would not be understood to undervalue the office of wit and humor, for they are by no means insignificant; yet, like fire-arms, they are dangerous in the hands of the ignorant, the indiscreet, or the unprincipled. To barb the shafts of merited rebuke, or to furnish innocent pastime in the hours devoted to mental relaxation, are objects of no small importance; and they furnish the legitimate opportunities for the use of wit in its broad sense; and ridicule is indeed the most potent of all weapons against any abuse, since there is nothing all men more fear to invite, and nothing which appeals more directly to the common mind. Reason is reserved for the thoughtful few.
Fortunate would it be for the human race could “ the laugh ” be turned against none but the undeserving and vicious; but this is not the case, for we know full well that ridicule is no less potent when enlisted against truth
'	if
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	469
and virtue than when armed iu their favor and defense; therefore, we should not take it for granted that because an author is facetious, or because a companion is witty, that they are consequently innocent and harmless.
This is a grand mistake on the part of many very good people. “A jolly fellow” is always voted as “good-hearted,” and the writer who will excite the risibility is pronounced as “not so bad after all.” It is the facetious vein in immoral writers which constitutes their most dangerous charm, because it leads superficial minds to excuse that which they would otherwise condemn.
No one can deny the dissipating effect of an inordinate love for joking, and the habits of idleness it is almost sure to induce. Many causes also conspire to render the present age, and our own country particularly, subject to the noxious influence in question. We are a great nation, it is true, but crude and unformed. Like an overgrown child, we are not at all what is expected of us, when we are judged of from our size. We are unsettled and characterless, so to speak; the facilities for travelling; the rapid modes of communication; fortunes suddenly lost, placing the refined and cultivated at the foot of the social scale; fortunes suddenly acquired, elevating the vulgar and unlettered into the rank of respectability; these causes, united with cheap, trifling literature, produced by unprincipled authors, and devoted to no higher aim than to pass time away, conspire to render the laughter-loving propensity of youth loo frequently the insidious thief of time, and alas, not seldom, the grand destroyer of virtue!
Would to heaven that mirth was always harmless! would that the angel of light—the spirit of joy—were not so easily and so artfully counterfeited! But there is good reason to believe that much of the looseness belonging to modern American morals can be traced to the reaction of society, to its revolt against the spirit of Puritanism, the hypocritical affectation of good, the unnatural restraints upon cheerfulness, which marked the early history of New England, and which was communicated to the other States to a greater or less extent.
It is true that moroseness is a more dangerous vice than levity as it concerns the individual, but not so as it relates to society, since cold austerity is so completely unattractive, whilst a sportive disposition is so alluring and seductive in its very nature.
Who that has learned the lessons of the world cannot recall occasions when the modest blush of innocence was made the signal for ridicule, and when the unfortunate object has yielded the integrity of his heart from fear of being laughed at? Too readily did he learn to face boldly the most obscene allusions, while the crimson token of a pure soul was transmuted into a sign of shame that he had not sooner become an adept in the dark speech of the vile.
Spurious and hackneyed wit is the most common source of entertainment. Subtract malicious and trifling gossip— (topics plentifully supplied by the wretched newspaper reports, which gleam in fearful profusion, like demoniac leers, from the surface of every daily sheet,) subtract these, and in most of our modern circles what have we left ? Whole dialogues carried on in cant phrases. Colloquies composed of stale and impertinent jokes: the most irreverent transposition of the Holy Scriptures, for the purpose of “ making fun ”; and, perhaps, to break the monotony, some “ elegant and refined ” young lady-judging from her dress and manner—will seat herself at the “Steinway Grand,” and entertain you by singing in her clearest and most emphatic style,
“ Captain Jenks of the Horse Marines,” or something else equally indicative of an intellectual taste. No wonder that “love of society” is but another name for “levity,” when to propose a topic above “ the last breach-of-promise case” will resolve the gay circle into a “Quaker meeting,” all tongues becoming suddenly paralyzed. Frequently it is that the most voluble becomes nonplused when drawn outside of the orbit of mimicry, sarcasm and indelicate jesting. Have we not, for this result, in a great measure to thank the popularity of publications like the Comic Almanac, Brother Jonathan, and Sam Slick, of old; and of their late successors Nick-Nax, Budget of Fun, Josh Billings, and the like ? The quaintness mingled with the evil principles of authors like Thomas Carlyle; the mingling of the grotesque and pathetic in Hood, Thackeray, and Dickens, successfully copied by their numerous imitators, have contributed largely to destroy the noble earnestness of spirit imparted by Christianity; have made death, heaven, and hell, legitimate subjects of jest and trifling discourse, since the truths of revelation are ignored by those would be astute writers. Next to the vulgarity, or rather the impurity of so-called wit, in the above clause, we have indicated the greatest danger under consideration, and the chief abuse of our love for the facetious. We firmly believe it to be worthy of the most grave reflection, since this abuse is a viper which, if cherished, will do incalculable mischief in the future, as it has done already in the past.
True and refined wit is indeed a most noble source of pleasure; for we are so constituted that to keep the intellect from stagnation, consequent moroseness or fatigue, new and striking thoughts must be frequently presented, and the active play of the mental pourers is absolutely necessary to maintain their healthful condition. Perhaps of our witty American writers, O. W. Holmes, J. G. Saxe, and George D. Prentice may be’ mentioned as among the best.
True wit can be safely employed in treating grave and momentous subjects, but the vocabulary expressive of the facetious preponderates on the side of vulgarity and falsehood. Fun, sport, is but “ vulgar merriment.” A joke is most frequently the most complete misrepresentation, taken by certain parties as in earnest; and we find the inuendo, or blind insinuation or hint at something not fully explained, is a method of exciting laughter, which, though frequently tolerated in upstart circles, will brand any individual with the merited stigma of “ ill-bred.” '
The same may be said of practical jokes, which are.frequently cruel, and they are totally unknown within the precincts of real refinement. Our American youth are none too respectful, and there is little or no fear of their being too much restrained by salutary suggestions in another direction.
In the above-mentioned methods of expressing wit there is the absence of that “chastity of charity” so beautifully recommended by the glorious Bishop of Geneva, and which will never inflict the slightest wound upon another, even under the specions pretext of enlivening the flagging spirits of our friends.
—Richter very truly says: “ Begin the education of the heart, not with the cultivation of noble propensities, but with the cutting away of those that are evil. When once the noxious herbs are withered and rooted out, then the more noble plants, strong in themselves, will shoot upwards. The virtues, like the body, become strong and healthy more by labor than nourishment.”
410	ME NOME DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—Edgar Watts, of ’71, lives at Canyon City, Oregon.
—Ambrose Reid, of ’73, is practicing law at Erie, Pa.
—William D. Bunbury, of ’63, resides at Berrien Springs, Mich.
—John Heine, of ’71, is clerk of the City Council, Reading, Pa.
—Rev. Thomas Carroll, of ’57, is stationed at Oil City, Penn.
—William Gross (Commercial), of’74, lives at Jerseyville, Illinois.
—Thomas Brady, of ’57, is practicing law at Hudson, Michigan.
—	Thomas C. Lawlor, of ’65, is living at Prairie du Chien. Wisconsin.
—	T. F. Heery (Commercial), of ’69, is living at Clarksville, Iowa.
—	Bro. Raymond returned to Notre Dame from Lafayette last Tuesday.
—	W. McFarland (Commercial), of ’65, is in the dry-goods business at Tiffin, Ohio.
—	Eben J. Hutchings (Commercial), of ’68, is in business at Williamsburgh, N. Y.
—W. J. Graham (Commercial), of ’67, is in the publishing business at Ottowa, Ill.	.
—John H. Keenan (Commercial), of ’71, passed through Notre Dame on Monday last.
—Douglas Cook (Commercial), of ’61,-is in St. Louis, Mo. His address is the Southern Hotel.
—P. H. Davis (Commercial), of ’70, is superintendent of the Omnibus Line,-Milwaukee, Wis.
'—Rev. Father O’Sullivan, of Laporte, spent the afternoon at Notre Dame on Tuesday last.
1 —D. Hynds (Commercial), of ’74, is now foreman of a large clothing house in Morris, Illinois.
—Fred Williams (Commercial), of ’62, is the junior member of the firm of Williams & Son, Lafayette, Ind.
—Horatio J. Colvin, of ’61, is a partner in the firm of John Alden & Co., 179 and 181 Randolph St., Chicago, Ill.
—John Moffitt, of ’60, is practicing law at No. 514 Pine street, St. Louis, Mo. He has, we are informed, a large practice.	'
. —Col. Smith, of ’52, has lately returned Ld South Bend after an absence of many years in California and the Pacific Slope.
—Albert West (Commercial), of 74, is connected with the National Life Insurance Company, No. 157 La Salle St., Chicago, Ill.	‘
—John McAllister, M. D., of ’73, is practicing medicine at Nashville. He is also connected with the Medical College in that city.	.
—Ex-Mayor Hoyne and Mr. Torrence, Superintendent of the Brown Iron and Steel Works, Chicago, were at the College on the 28th.
—H. J. Gillen (Commercial), of '65, is proprietor not only of a large establishment at Ottawa, Ill., but also owns a store at Marseilles. The first named town is where he resides.
—Messrs. John H. Keenan, of Detroit, Judson Applegate, of Delphi, Ind., L. E. McReynolds, of the same place, and John Hanson, of Chicago, were among our visitors on last Monday.	’
—Among the visitors here lately were Mrs. and Miss Walsh, Mrs. Quigg and Miss Swans, of Chicago; Mr. J. H. Taylor, of Burlington, Iowa, and Messrs. M. B. and W- D. Greene, of San Antonio, Texas.
—The “ Art Gossip ” of the Chicago Journal says: “ Professor Luigi Gregori, the Italian artist who is frescoing the church of Notre Dame near South Bend, will probably open a studio in this city. Such an accession to our artistic element could not but prove highly welcome. Though he Signor unfortunately labors under the disadvantage of
not speaking English, his talents no less than his modesty, courtesy, and generosity have won him here hosts of friends-He seems really to take delight in conferring favors and in giving. The Academy of Design is indebted to him for a complete set of anatomical drawings, the Washingtonian Home for the splendid fresco of Moses striking water from the rock, which adorns the walls of its chapel, and the drawing-rooms of many of his acquaintances are lighted up y presents iu the shape of sunny pictures.”
'	Local Items.	*
—The boys enjoyed an extra rec. on Monday last.
—The dry grass on the Campus was burned on last Tuesday.
—The baseball season has now begun at Notre Dame in real earnest.
—We have yet to meet anyone not pleased with the Thespian Entertainment.	•
—Bulletins were made out on the 28th of last month. They have all been sent off.	'
—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library has purchased another lot of books.	.
—A picked nine of Juniors defeated the Quicksteps at baseball on the 28th by a score of 26 to 16.
—The regular monthly Conference was held on Wednesday of this past week, at which the usual number of papers were read.
—The ice on the lakes is gradually going away and-we hope to be able to chronicle in a week or so that navigation has opened.
—We hear that there will be a musical soiree next Thursday evening in Phelan Hall. However, we have not heard it officially.
—Twelve volumes of the “Congressional Record,” containing the speeches of 1875, were lately received by.the College Librarian.
—The class of Geology is determined to do some fieldwork when the fine weather sets in permanently. So also does the class of Botany.
—The Tiiespians tender their thanks to the Editor of this paper, Br. Simon, and Profs. Howard and Edwards, for favors shown them on the 22d.	.
—The catechetical instructions, given by Rev. Fathers Colovin and Walsh, are very entertaining and instructive, and are listened to with great attention.
—A game of baseball was played on Feb. 26th between the Juanita and Commercial baseball clubs, resulting in a score of 11 to 17 in favor of the former.
—Heeb’s side won the apples at foot-ball, winning three successive games. Hagerty’s side did not win a single game. Another series of games will be played to-morrow.
—Classes began again immedi itelyafter the22d as though there had been no extra rec. on that day ushered in by a grand Entertainment. Very little time was lost by any who took part in the Exhibition.
—Practice in singing is of the greatest benefit to the voice. It strengthens the lungs and develops all the organs. Henceall who aspire to be good elocmio-iists should practice singing whenever the opportunity is given. •
—The Juniors were out drilling last Wednesday. The boys pick up the exercises with the guns very quickly, and their manoeuvring is highly creditable. The officers of the company will be elected, we are told, in the course of a few weeks.
—The 22d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Feb. 24th. Declamations were delivered by P. Hagan, M. Regan, W. Arnold, W. McGor-risk and A. J. Baca. Mr. E. C. Davenport was elected a member.	.
—The following gentlemen have been elected associate members of the Thespian Society, viz.: Messrs. J. Montgomery, P. Tarnble, J. Larkin, J. McEniry, W. Dechant, J. O’Rourke, E. White, W. Chapoton, J. Perea, H. McGuire, V. McKinnon, J. Quinn, and J. Coleman.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
411
—Arrangements have been made by the Philodemics for their literary entertainment. There are to be orations and essays, interspersed with vocal and instrumental music. We have not been informed of the day, or rather night, selected by them on which they will appear.
—We call attention to the notice under the head of “ Books and Periodicals ” of the “ Office of Holy Week,” published by the Catholic Publication Society. In a short while Holy Week will be here, and those who provide themselve^with copies of this work will be able to follow the ceremonies with greater pleasure.
—The Scholastic is a neat little paper published at the University of Notre Dame, Ind., one of the noblest institutions in the United States. Its principal object is to keep parents and guardians informed of the health and progress of their children and wards. Long life and prosperity we .wish it.—Jackson {Miss.) Times.
—The 23d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the 24th of February. The semiannual report of the Treasurer was read and adopted. The following members gave declamations: F. Cavanaugh, A. Widdicombe, A. Burger, M. Kauffman, J. Healey, C. Clarke, 0. Lindberg, J. Phelan, G. Cassidy, G. Sampson, and F. Fischel.
—In another column we reprint the report of the Thespian Entertainment written for the Chicago Times. We do this in order that our readers may see that the praise given in last week’s Scholastic was not undeserved, but that others shared in the high estimation we placed in the abil-. ities of the young gentlemen who took part in the Enter-. tainment.
—The Scientific Association is now in 'fine working order. They will hold a meeting this evening, at which Mr. Kirsch will lecture on “Biology.” Lectures will be given hereafter every week. The members will appear in Phelan Hall sometime this next spring, when we expect they will give us a good programme, and illustrate their essays with proper experiments.
—Col. Wade, the post-master of South Bend, was accidentally drowned on the 28th, while engaged in fishing on the Kaukaka Lake, a few miles from that city. The Colonel was an efficient and obliging officer, and during his term of office won hosts of friends, not in South Bend alone, but at the College, and his death is sincerely regretted by his large circle of acquaintances.
—We learn that one of our literary-inclined young men is engaged in writing a novel after the Beadle and Munroe style. It is filled with many heart-rending and blood-curdling scenes and situations, which will render it a great favorite with the younger portion of the reading public. The title of the story is “ The Hermit of the Rocky Mountains; or Bull-dog Mike.” Not wishing to have the story too sensational, he confines himself to only one murder in each chapter.
—St. Joseph’s Catholic Benevolent Society is making preparations to have a “ grand time ” on the evening of St. Patrick’s Day. The programme calls for a sociable, oyster supper, and everything in the festival line, besides choice music, songs, speeches and a good time generally. The sociable will be held in the basement of St. Joseph’s Church, in the 4th ward. Those who remember the pleasant time there last summer need not be told that a good time is coming. The room will be enlarged and pleasantly fitted up for the occasion. Due notice of particulars will be given in time.—South Bend, Herald,.
—The Columbians intend giving us “Robert Emmett” on St. Patrick’s Day. The young gentlemen in this Association do not pretend to rival their elder brothers, the ' Thespians; indeed it would be folly in them to attempt such a thing, since, with one exception, none of them have ever taken part in any Entertainment. Nevertheless, we expect that they will give us a good Exhibition, for the one rehearsal witnessed by us was sufficient to show that there is considerable talent in the society and that all that is wanting is a little practice to develop it. We feel confident in predicting that the Columbians will give us a very good Entertainment on the eve of St. Patrick’s Day. We wish them every success.
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-
trian Association was held on the 23rd of February, when the following officers wereelected for this session: Director, Rev. P. J. Golovin; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Promoters, Prof. J. F. Edwards and Br. Leander; Vice-President, A. B. Congar; Chronicler, W.Nicholas;Treasurer, J.English; Librarian, J. Anderson; Sergeant-at-arms, R. Keenan; Censors, W. Taulby, J. Reynolds and C. Peltier; Costumers, W. Jones and J. Duffield; Recording Secretary, J.Inguerson; Corresponding Secretary, G. Donnelly; Marshal, J. Nelson; Prompter, F. Pleins; Assistant Librarian, F. Phelan. The 23rd regular meeting was held on the 26th. Declamations were given by Masters A. B. Congar, J. Inguerson, W-Nicholas, K. Scanlon, F.Lautz, W. Jones and G. Donnelly.
—The Daily Register, of South Bend, says in a long notice of the Entertainment given on Washington’s Birthday: “The programme opened with vocal and instrumental music, the oration by William T. Ball, and the prologue by J. G. Ewing. Mr. Ball’s oration was a beautiful tribute to the virtues of Washington and the glory of our country, and was quite well delivered. The tragedy of “Julius Caesar” is one of Shakespeare’s most admirable productions, one in which the best actors only can appear acceptably in character, where the emotions have the widest range and where the finest conception is demanded. Yet we can conscientiously say that the Thespians put the play on creditably. The piece was well mounted, and the characters cast with excellent judgment. The specially good were Eugene F. Arnold’s Caesar, Carl Otto’s Marc Antony, W. T. Ball’s Brutus, Logan D. Murphy’s Gasca and Thomas C. Logan’s Cassius. This last was by far the finest personation. There is a good deal of the actor about Logan. At the close of the play he gave an excellent personation of Benedict Arnold. The Entertainment closed with a pleasing comedy, entitled the “ End of the Tether.” The acts of the plays were interspersed with music from the Band and Orchestra. Father Golovin closed the evening with a few .very appropriate remarks.”	.
—Mr. A. M. Kirsch, G. S. C., delivered a lecture on “Nature” in Phelan Hall, on the evening of the 21st. After a little consideration concerning what Nature is, the lecturer argued that because man naturally craves for knowledge he engages in everything for the sake of knowledge, but that men should not neglect in studying Nature Nature’s God. The lecturer went on to show how necessary it is for us to learn the first rudiments of Biology in order to be able to’ study nature with advantage. Next he treated in a somewhat poetic style of some of the beauties of nature; from the song of the nightingale we were transported with the poet to the far Mont-Blanc, where w.e listened to his well-known poem on the Glaciers. From the sublime, the lecturer passed to the more ordinary, showing God’s wisdom and goodness in Nature, even in the least objects. He touched also on Botany, beautified by floral charms, and then brought in the main part pi his discourse, i. e., The study of objects in Anatomy and Physiology, stating at the same time that these two sciences present to our mind most significantly some of the grandest beauties of Nature and the greatest works of the Creator. As a proof of this he spoke of the heart, as a Naturalist Only cm speak. His calculations with aegard to the force of the heart somewhat surprised us, but when he gave us a report of the dissection of a whale we became incredulous. It was hard for us to believe that the heart exercises daily a force of 636,320 pounds, or the same as lifting 124 tons one foot; but when he asserts that the aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than- the main pipe of the water-works at L >ndon-Bridge, and that the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the heart of a whale, it is required to have some knowledge of Physiology to believe it. The lecturer dwelt a while on the prehensive organs of different animals, and also on the eyes, and concluded his lecture with Cicero’s description of the human senses and Galen’s celebrated remark in the middle of a dissection of the human body.
—If you can give, give; if you cannot give, be kind, for God accepts the good-will when He sees that you can give nothing.—St. Augustine.
412	THE NotfRE DA&E SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who durins the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman. E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garso, P. Hagan, J. Johnson, J. Kinney. J. Kuebel, F. Keller, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, John Murphy, T. McGrath, J. MeEniry, J. O’Rourke, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, P. Skahill, G. Saylor, T. Summers, F. Schlink, J. Silver-thorn, G. Saxinger, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhoof.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A Bergck, 4. J. Burger, J. Boehm, F. Carroll, A. Congar, G. Donnelley, F. Ewing, J. English, P. Frane, C. Faxon, L. Garceau, B. Heeb, J. Healy, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, M. Kauffman, G. Kelley, Fred. W. Lang, J. Lumley, E. Moran, R. Mayer, C. McKinnon, Jos. McTague,* W. Nicholas T. Nelson, W. H. Ohlman, Chas. Orsinger, F. Pleins, E. Poor, R. Price, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, W. J. Ryan, I. Rose, K. Scanlan, G. Sampson, G. Sugg, A Sievers, J. Stuart, J. Sill, C. Taylor, N. Vannamee, W. Vander Heyden, Chas. F. Walsh, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, E. Zeigler.
* Joseph McTague was omitted last week through mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey, J. Scanlan, E. Carqueville, W. McDevitt, W. Cool-baugh, G. Hadden, E. Coughlin, P. Heron, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman, John Inderrieden, C. Long, A Sehnert, W. Coughlin, W. Carqueville, A. Rheinboldt, Joe. Inderrieden, P. Nelson.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past]
FOR TEE MONTH ENDING THURSDAY, MARCH 1.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—A. Abrahams, C. Orsinger, B. Heeb, R. Mayer, J. Hagerty, P. Schnurrer, M. Kauffman, J. O’Rourke, J. Krost, R. Golsen, J. Boehm, J. Ingwerson, A. Burger, F. Vandervannet, F. Lang, J. Mosal, L. Frazee, F. Cavanaugh, J. English, J. Fitzgerald, W. Dodge, W. Widdicombe, C. Faxon, 0. Lindberg, G. Ittenbach, F. Pleins, C. Clarke, A. Bergck, C. Kauffman, E. Carqueville. G. Rhodius, G. Lowrey, J. Seeger, A. Sehnert, F. Carqueville, A. Rheinboldt, C Reif, R. Pleins.
French—A. Hertzog, K. Scanlan, G. Saxinger.
Piano.—T. Quinn, J. D. Montgomery, E. Sugg, F. E. Carroll, C. Orsinger, C. Clarke, T. Fischel, L. Sievers.
Violin.—A Baca, A. K. Schmidt, W. Vander Haeyden, J. McHugh, W. Taulby, E. Moran, J. Rothert, M. Kauffmann, C. Caldwell, G. McGorrisk, F. Rheinboldt, A. Sievers, C. Walsh, P. Skahill, T. McGrath, W. Hake, B. Heeb, P- Schnurrer.
Flute.—W. Chapoton, J. English, T. Wagner, G. Laurans.
Drawing—A Schmidt, J. Mosal, C. Clarke, 0. Lindberg, R. Golsen, P. H. Skahill, G. Ittenbach.
Painting—A. K. Schmidt.
Telegraphy.—J. Proudhomme, M. R. Smith, T. Quinn, A. Bergck, F. Ewing, T. Fischel, E. Pefferman, J. Fitzgerald, J. Burke.

—On the first Wednesday in every month a musical soiree takes the place of the social parlor reunions.
—The series of lectures on “Art and Artists” given every Monday by Miss E. A. Starr, are very interesting and instructive.
—Spring has been anticipating her own season and stealing a march on February. Hope February will not go back on spring—we should say “ retrograde ”—please excuse the “ go back on."
—On the 18th inst., the Juniors were granted a long ride. The very pleasant day, the joyous disposition of the privileged ones, and the palatable lunch which had been prepared previously, contributed to make the treat a most enjoyable one.
—The members of St. Eusebia’s Literary Society are now engaged in tracing the “Sovereigns of England.” On Wednesday, the 21st inst., a synopsis of the “Lives of Edward III and his Three Successors” was given. The Misses M. Ewing, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, A. Cavenor, E. Lange and 0. Morgan distinguished themselves among the others for their intelligent accounts. The able description of the battles of Sluys, Crecy, Calais, Poitiers and Agincourt must be especially remarked.
—The celebration of “ Washington’s Birthday ” was carried on with great animation. The Eastern question was discussed, and ended in a.great onslaught on turkey. In the evening a patriotic entertainment took place in the recreation hall—Graduates, Seniors, Juniors and Minims each contributed to the affair. The orchestral overture was so artistically grand as to be only one step removed from the sublime. Nothing could excel the exquisite grace and poetry of motion displayed in rendering that “ Bird Song,” unless it was the beautiful bird itself who was so coax-ingly addressed by the young vocalist. It required two orators to do justice to the “American Flag.” The oratorical gesticulations were replete with irrepressible patriotism. The “ Star-Spangled Banner ’’ was sung in full chorus and gracefully waved by an enthusiastic young American. The German essay on “Political and Domestic Economy ” would have been highly instructive even to Mr. and Mrs. Bismark. The pathetic recitations introduced were very necessary to give some respite to the risible muscles. The affair closed with “Three Cheers for the Red, White and Blue,” not in the ordinary way of cheering, but in a sort of patent style known only to the patentees. The audience was so immense that no chairs were left in the Rosary Circle nor any of the summer-houses—just imagine!
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, L. Beall, J. Nunning, M. Walsh, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, A. Reising, H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, H. Dryfoos, E. and M. Thompson, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, B. Siler, M. Dunn, L. Tighe, L. Schwass, A. Koch, M. Pomeroy, J. Bergert, G. Conklin, L. Davenport, M. Smalley, M. Coughlin, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Gibbons, K. Martin, M. Usselman, M. Hungerford, I. Cooke, N. Johnson, E. Black, S. Rheinboldt, L. Weier, E. Wright, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Byrne, H. Julius, A. Harris, E. O’Neill, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, M. Spier. J. Cronin, A Cullen, E. Forrey, A. Cavenor, K. Burgie, H. O'Meara, J. Burgie, L. Brownbridge, C. Thaler.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Beall, L. Johnson, J. Bennett.
1st Sr. Class.—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neill, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A. Reising.
2nd Sr. Class —Misses H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, A. Cullen, E. Lange, H. Dryfoos, E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson.
3d Sr. Class.—Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorn, E. Forrey, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, A Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, B. Siler, E. McGrath, M. Dunn.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses L. Tighe, L. Schwass, A. Koch, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, E. Davenport, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, N. O’Meara, K. Martin.
2nd Prep. Class.—Misses M. Usselman, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie, L. Brownbridge.
3d. Prep. Class.—E. Weier, C. Thaler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Kirchner, A. McGrath, C. Correll, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Morgan, M. Ewing, L. Walsh, D. Gordon, L. Chilton, M. Mulligan, M. McFadden, A Ewing, L. Forrey, A. Peak, J. Kingsbury, M. Davis and M. Robertson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Mulligan, M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz, L. Ellis, M. Cox, M. Hackett, L. Vannamee, A. Williams, J. Butts, A Getty and E. Wootten, 100 par excellence.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.
2d Sr. Class.—Miss M. Ewing.
413
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. •	-	•	•	-	t
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Ewing, A. Kirchner, A. Morgan, D. Gordon and M. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class.—A. McGrath, C. Correll, L. Chilton, I. Mann.
1st Jr. Class.—L. Ellis, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
UTHDIA-ITA..
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Indiana in the interests of the Irish race, will be furnished at
One Tear -	-	-	- $1 50
Six Months -	_	_	_	90
Three Months	-	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
Address,	*
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, HD.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOG-RAFHER Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH BSTTD, IJSTZDI A.ZEST-A—
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near ’he Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together wi’h a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee.................................... $5	00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150	00
Instrumental Music................................... 12	50
Use of Piano......................................... 10	00
Use of Violin......................................... 2	50
Telegraphy........................................   10	00
Vocal T essons	4 General Class Principles........... 10	00
vocal Lessons,	j Vocal Culture...................... 15	qq
Elocution—Special Course............................. 5	00
Use of Library (per session).......................... 100
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic...................... 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus....... 5 00
( Classical Course.................. 10	00
Graduation Fee, 4 Scientific Course................. 10	00
( Commercial Course.................. 5	00
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra............................. 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges. •
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.	.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St Matins whmtj.
.(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BT THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All ihe branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to th« educational requirem- nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beau'ifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind. '
McDonald,
THE PHOTOG-BAPHEB,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOTLRN-AL
Aonoropiu
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLDJESS PIUS K„ AM MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorset,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
One Year..........................................$ 2 50
Five Years.........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten. (and over, at the rate of $2 each)...20	00
A specimen copy sent, free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
414
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER & MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G- TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
mHOMAS B. CEIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJN'NTN'G & TIOGlAJf [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN” F- McTIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a1 Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE & MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLTA M J. CL A B,KB (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JANIES A_. O’REILLY—of ’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN O. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attomey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given toMydraulic Engineering.
ART11U B. J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
THE C ATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clabkb, of ’70.
THE AYE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, pub’ished every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edifed by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price. §2.5".
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiuc, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
r I 1JElE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop.,Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
IF. 2VEZEYLZEZEL, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s30-ly
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 25 cts., postpaid.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
1007 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55 p m; Cleveland 9 45.
11 5t) am, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10 p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am: Cleveland, 7 C5a m; Buffalo, 1 10p m.
A 40 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 4,5 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m, Chicago 6 30 a m.
5 38 am. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20 p m.
8 OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE.[Gen’l Supt.
Thomas M. McSheehy’s
“Little Shamrock,”
FOB ST. PATRICE’S DAY.
Owing to the success attending the first issue of the Little Shamrock, I have determined to issue on St. Patrick's Day, 1877, a second number. It will be a large six-column quarto paper (the size of the Chicago Times). The issue will be 25,000, and will be printed in green, the national color of Ireland.
It will be edited and its columns controlled by one of America’s most brilliant female journalists (a lady resident of Chicago, but whose name I reserve) and will contain contributions from the best journalistic talent of the country and the most distinguished Irish patriots, and will be Illustrated with
ENGRAVINGS
made especially for it.	\
It will contain such articles as will call to the memory of Erin’s exiled children their dear Emerald Isle, and cause them ( to love the country of their adoption with a deeper and more i abiding love.	,
It will be sold in all the large cities of the United States, and on all trains leaving Chicago, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and St. Douis on the morning of St. Patrick’s Day.	;
As an advertising medium it will furnish unexampled facilities.
It is not a money-making scheme, and the price of advertising has been put at the lowest figures simply to cover the actual ' cost.
This is the only enterprise of the kind, ever undertaken in this	;
country, and will be of peculiar interest to thousands of its	j
citizens.
Arrangements will be made by which a sufficient number of these papers will be at the College and Academy on St. Patrick’s Day, affording students an opportunity to procure copies of this novel paper for themselves and friends.
THOMAS M. McSHEEHY,
P. O. Box 4=86, - - Logansport, Indiana. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
415
OUR COUNTRY I
What Will Become of It ?
Is a question now agitating the public mind.
The grave issues before Congress; the final settlement of the late Presidential election; the incoming Congress; the new President; the Policy of the next Administration; and future •welfare of the country and people, are matteis of great interest to each and every individual. Such a crisis has not been presented since the Declaration of Independence.
A Truthful History of events, and doings of Congress, will be given with impartiality and fairness in the
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER,
a public-spirited paper echoing the wishes of the people, advocating submission to the Laws, good Government, and the Rights of the People to be heard upon all matters that pertain to the country’s welfare.
The Tricky Politicians, always ready to organize trouble, but who never participate in danger, will be shown up in their true characters. By subscribing for the Enquirer, you will get a faithful record of events as they transpire, without Party Coloring and unbiased by Party feelings, as the true merit in a newspaper is its ability and willingness to give the
NEWS AS IT COMES
and not as it is prepared by party demagogues to mislead the people. Specimen copies free.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
FOR WEEKLY.
Single Copy, one year...........................$2	00
Five Copies	“	 SI	75	each........... 8	75
Ten “	“	 1	60	“	 16	00
Twenty “	“	  1	50	“	 30	00
FOR DAILY.
Without Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year...§12 00
Six Months............... 6	00
Three Months............. 3	25
One Month.................1	25
With Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....§14 00
Six Months........... 7 00
Three Months....... 3 50
One Month........... 1	50
Most liberal terms to club agents. Send for specimen copies and agents’ outfit.
Agents wanted at every post-office.
Address all letters to
FAEAN & McLEAN, Publishers,
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
dec 23-1 Ot	•
Michigan Central Railway
Time Talkie—November 21, 187S.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	r Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. “ Jackson. . Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ ti 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 •’ 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson.... “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 0 40 “ • 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30 •*	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.u. 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 »
Niles and Soutli Bend Division. GOING NORTH. Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9 06	a.m.	§7 00	p.m “ Notre Dame-8 22 “	7	23	“	9 07	“	7 07	“ Ar. Niles—	9	00	u	8	tlO	“	9 40	“	7 40	“ GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4	20	p.m.	§8 00	a.m.	§5 00	p.m “ Notre Dame—7 07	“	4	56	“	8	32	“	5 32 Ar. South Bend—7 15	“	5	05	“	8	40	•*	5 40	“ ♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday	and Sunday excepted gSunnay only. G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong, Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago. B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.					
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STSEET, OHIIOJLG-O, ILLINOIS.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
t*. S HICKEY.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has bien established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.	'
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for •’ Collections of Minerals.” ■
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on rccei, t of lo cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The specks number indicates the place of any mineral in the tab’e of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization. -
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it en’irely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1 500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate .all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the prir.cipal Ores and every known Element. The collections at e labelled with a printed label that can . only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number op Specimens
25	50	100
in box inbox in box
100 200
300
Crystals and fragments....	§ 50 §1	§1 50 I § T
Students’ size, larger....	1 50	3	6 I 5
Amateur’s size, 2% in. xl%.................. I	10
High School or Acad, size,2^x3^ in shelf specimens | 25
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens . ..| 500 |
§ 2
10
25
50
100
§ 3
25
50
100
300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D„
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, Hew York.
416
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. C. & N.-.W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Ts the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
jLA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park; Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, e> c., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All aKinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TA.B1LZE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT,
are run on all through trains of this road.	Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (WestSide). This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago	.	'7 '’	.	. „	: and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago	Dn arrival of trains from North and Southwest. and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.		■ ■ - -	 Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore	GOTDTGr WJhlST.				
<S5 Miehiuan auuLtieru, wueuiuaii veunui, uaiumuie <56 vuiu, Pittsburgh, FL Wayne <fc Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Hnpdlp. Fnntefi for all points FAST and SOUTH-FAST, and ‘	No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5,	I Mail.	|
with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points Pittsburgh,	Leave SOUTH.	Rochester,	 Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. Alliance,	 at Omaha for all far West points.	Orrville,	 Close connections made at junction points with trains of ad cross Mansfield,	 points.	Crestline,	Arrive Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents	11.30 p.m. 12.40 a.m. 3 05 “ 447 “ 6.50 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 1250 p.m. 2.32 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	2.00 P.M. 3.14 “ 555 “ 742 “ 9.55 “ 1030 “	6 00 A.M.	'll -7.45	“	S 11.00	“	fl 12.55 p.m.	fl 311	“	V 3.50	“	K
in the United States and Canadas. “	“	Crestline,	Leave Bemember. you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & North- Forest,	 Western Railway, and take none other.	. Lima,	 New York Office,-No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No.5 Ft.Wayne*	 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran- Plymouth,	 cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 10.45 “ 1.20 p.m. 345 “ 7.20 “	5 40 p.m. 7.40 “ 9.35 “ 12.10 A.M. 3 20 “ 7.20 “	10.35 p.m. 11.53 “ 1.05 A.M. 3.25 “ 5.49 “ 9.20 “			2
Ol&rk	UliilCi duel luau LLOUSC , to Oaliai, COi licl ALaiH*	Z’YTATZ1-' * -n a	_ i, son Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal	GOING- EABT.	fl;				
Streets; wells street Depot, corner wens and Kinzie streets. For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket	So. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	- No 8,	K. 'Mail.	flj
agents, apply to	.	... W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,	Chicago,.	Leave Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.	Gen. Manager, Chicago. ft Wayne	 Lima,	 Forest,	 Crestline,	Arrive	10.40 p.m. 2.40 A.M. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 1010 “ 11.45 “	8.20 A.M. 11.25 “ 210 p.m. 405 “ 520 “ 6.55 “	5.35 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.45 " 1.39 A.M. 250 “ 4.20 “	
CHlCAC	ALT ON AND ST» LOUIS AND CHIvAGO r ’	Crestline,	Leave KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.	Mansfield,	 Orrville Union Depir, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices . at depot and 122 Randolph street.	Alliance, . .	T	Rochester,	 _	, _	„	. T . Arrive. Leave. pittsburgh)	Arriw	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.32 “ 4.10 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ ' 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 6.58 “ 8.55 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 A.M.	W	। 6 50 “	wy 9.15 “	M 11.20 “	■ fly 2.00 p.m.	-i	Kt- 3.30 “	|	fl-'.
sonville.n .and Louisiana, Mo...........4 00 pm 1230pm Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh 1 .K Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 Oo pm 9 30 am daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except	| ft Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via	Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.	J 1' SlKKStaMi.i.	ISE IKE this is the only line It Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express	8 05 pm 9 30 am	wlshttn^	K Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at ' fir Johet Accommodation...	9	20 am 4 30 pm the lowest current rates.	* Vw J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt. •	F. B. MTEBS, G- P, & T. A,				