lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper viot virus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 30, 1877.
Number 43.
The Annual Commencement at Notre Dame.
Monday’s entertainment.
Instead of having the representatives of the various Societies make their appearance on Saturday this year, the exercises took place on Monday morning in Washington Hall, when they were listened to by the students and a fair number of visitors.
The inusicon the occasion was given by.the Band and Orchestra, both of which plaved some of their sprightiiest and most pleasing arias. Now that the year is past and gone, it is but right that we should give these two musical organizations that meed of praise which is so justly due. The excellence of their music is such as to call forth encomiums from everybody, and we may say. without fear of contradiction, that they are an honor to the house. May they ever be as prosperous as during the year past in furnishing music at the Entertainments given from time to time through the year! The piano and violin playing of Messrs. Otto, Breen, and Kauffman, was much enjoyed.
After music by the Orchestra. Sir. P. J. Cooney, on behalf of the Archconfraternity, addressed the audience. After a few appropriate preparatory remarks relative to the Society and its members, he began his speech, the subject of which was “Religion in Education,” bv saying that everyone is acquainted with the intrinsic and paramount, importance of this question, and the immediate influence which it exercises on society. In fact, he said, this question has been deemed to be one of such importance’as to be termed the problem of the age. After speaking at some length, he proved the utter absurdity of supposing that intellectual culture unaided by religion is capable of producing great and good results. Greece and Rome, said he, although they had attained the highest degree of intellectual culture and development, and despite the transcendent genius, the noblest appeals, and the most spirit-stirring phillippics of her orators, tottered down the steps of degradation into the deepest slough of debasement; and to-day but a few mouldering columns remain to mark the spot where once stood the most polished critics of the world. It would be impossible, for want of space, to give a detailed account of all Mr. Cooney said,—suffice it to say that he adduced many able arguments against our present irreligious system. Would we, he said, in conclusion, outlive the short-lived nations of antiquity—would we perpetuate to the end of time our glorious Republic, and have her rule sovereign in the ascendant, then we must profit by the untimely end of those proud and potent nations which have preceded us. We must recollect that it was owing to their disregard for religion, and the consequent corruption and immorality of her citizens, that they owe their downfall. By so doing we will avert the impending evils which are now menacing our country, and prepare her for a glorious future. Mr. Cooney’s oration was elegantly written and gracefully delivered. He was followed by the representative of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, Mr. J. P. McHugh, who opened with a few remarks on the many benefits to be derived from literary societies, and then passed to the consideration of the subject of his oration, the “ Cultivation of Oratory.” He enumerated the many things requisite for eloquence, such as intellectual strength, corporal strength, language, courage and firmness, and the means by which these may be cultivated. Afterwards he spoke of the cul-
tivation of the feelings of the heart, and finished by expressing the gratitude of the Philodemics towards their directors, and by wishing success to those about to leave College forever, and as glorious a future to the Society as her past has been. Mr. McHugh’s effort was highly creditable to him, and was received with great applause.
Mr. Widdicombe appeared next as the spokesman of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, and delivered an address af once forcible and elesant. He was succeeded on the the stage bv Master H.Riopelle, the representative of Sodal-lity of the Holy Angels, whose address was short and sweet.
Mr. W. Ohlman was the spokesman of the Junior Archconfraternity, and represented it in a highly meritorious manner. He was followed by Mr. A. Herzog, who appeared on behalf of the Thespians. His address was well and carefully written, and was delivered gracefully and fluently. Mr. Herzog finishing. Mr. Otto, of the Scientific Association, arose and addressed the audience. He first told us what inducements are given in this country for learning, everything being open to the rich, nothing excluded to the poor. From the Presidential office to the quiet monastic, everything is inviting. He dwelt .on each science in particular. Botany met with a description showing how necessary this science is to an education to-day. He brought in the old quotation that flowers were the best things God ever made and forgoLto put a soul into. Mineralogy, the lowest of the sciences, was eulogized. Zoology, with the divisions Vertebrates and Invertebrate, met with a five-minute sketch. He described them with considerable accuracy, and then turned his attention to Geology, the most comprehensive of the sciences. He described how interesting the conversation of a scientist was; he told us of the beautiful scenery which we might hear described from his lips. He spoke of the imperishable glory which science carries with it. and finally closed his essav by returning sincere thanks to Father Colovin, the Director of the Scientific Department. Mr. Otto’s delivery has been highly praised, and was worthy of all that could be said of it.
The St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was represented to advantage bv'Mr. A. Keenan in an excellent speech. He was followed by Mr. P. Hagan, of the Columbians. Mr. Hagan’s speech was written with care, and spoken with great ease and grace. Altogether the Societies were represented much better this year than in former ones. Everyone seemed pleased with the speeches, and many highly complimentary remarks have been made concerning them. We hope that in succeeding years the exercises of the Society-representatives may be as excellent as they were this year.
The closing remarks were made by Rev. Father Zahm, in which he congratulated the young gentlemen on the success their efforts had achieved and the Societies in possessing members capable of doing so much.
MONDAY EVENING, 4 O’CLOCK.
The members of the Graduating Class gave an excellent Entertainment on the Evening of the 2oth, at four o’clock. The music principally was by the Orchestra and Band. Messrs. Otto, Breen and Buerger treated the assembled multitude to some beautiful selections from the operas. The Commercial address was read by Mr. J. B. Patterson, of Alton, Minn., and it was an excellent one. Mr. J. D-Coleman, of the County Waterford, Ireland, treated the audience to a Latin oration which was ’listened to with great attention.
674
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mr. John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, delivered an oration on the “Infinite in Nature.” He said that “The view of Nature always presented to us the infinitude and magnitude and vastness in Astronomy. He alluded to the infinitude of chemistry and physics, in number, beauty and perfection; to the infinitude of Mineralosy; to the infinitude of variety in Animated Nature, which is but matter acted on by force. Geology teaches as to the cause of this infinitude of beauty, wisdom, usefulness, love—that Man is the cause and end. Ending the proof that this Infinite does exist, “ it may be slight, but it points the same way, it shows the same road and end, and it proclaims the same God, as the Book of the Way, the Truth, and the Life, points out, shows, and proclaims.” The oration was well composed and given with much effect.
Mr. Carl Otto’s oration was on “Astronomy,” and was well received. He gave a short description of the many subjects this science deals with. First he spoke of the sun, then in regular succession mentioned the planets, me-teros, fixed stars, etc. Having completed his description he read the history of this great science. He told us how on the fertile plains of Asia this great Astronomy first took its rise. He described the moral of astronomy, showed what a lesson the tiny star was to the atheist. He then completed by a peroration in which the stars appeared as being formed for the throne of God.
Mr. N- J. Mooney, of Amboy, Bl., spoke of “ Animated Nature.” He told of the beauties of Nature and how Nature is always copied. How necessary it is to be thoroughly acquainted with the sciences, treating of the living Kingdoms of Nature, so that in our descriptions, if we are poets or scientists, etc., we may always be in harmony with nature. He then spoke of the many different phenomena of the living kingdoms of nature and showed the connection between the Animal and Vegetable kingdoms.
The Greek oration of Mr. Joseph P. McHugh, of Lafayette, Ind., was given with much spirit and was enjoyed by those acquainted with the language of Socrates and Zeno-phon.
Mr. George J. Gross, of Reading, Pa„ spoke of “Equity.” He considered briefly its rise and progress, its jurisdiction, and the difference existing between it and law.
Mr. William T. Ball, of Chicago, in speaking of “ Poetry and Flowers” displayed much of that poetic thought which those acquainted with him know him possessed of, and which they expect to hear of in after years. .
Rev. President Golovin closed the Entertainment with appropriate remarks.
MONDAY EVENING, 8 O’CLOCK.
At 8 o’clock Monday evening quite a large assembly gathered in the spacious parlor of the College to attend the examination in the Class of Elocution. Declamations were given by Messrs. Frank McGrath, Kickham Scanlan, George Crawford, Charles Hagan, William Jones, Frank Carroll, A. Widdicombe, A. J. Buerger, Patrick Hagan, Eugene Arnold, William T. Ball, Thomas C. Logan, and E. 0. Larkin, all of which were rapturously applauded.
TUESDAY.
In the morning Pontifical Mass was celebrated by Right Rev. Dr. Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, assisted by Rev. Fathers Golovin, Zahm, Letourneau, Kelly and Walsh, after which the Sacrament of Confirmation was given to quite a number of young gentlemen. The Right Rev. Bishop delivered a most admirable sermon.
At 10 o’clock the meeting of the Associated Alumni was held, and the officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows: President, T. E. Howard, ’62; First Vice-President, T. A. Dailey, ’74; Second Vice-President, T. F. O’Mahoney, ’72: Secretary, Rev, J. A. Zahm ’71; Treasurer, J. A. Lyons, ’62; Historian, W. J. Ivers, ’66; Orator, C. J. Dodge, ’74; Alternate, A. W. Arrington, ’70; Poet, H. V. Hayes, ’74; Alternate, T. F. Gallagher, 76.
After the business meeting was over the members of the Alumni adjourned at one o’clock to partake of the banquet prepared for them. Letters of apology from many members unable to attend were read by A. J. Stace, of ’64, as follows: From Rev. Messrs. Wm. Corby, E. B. Kilroy, M. B. Brown and M. Conway, and Messrs. T. F. O’Mahony, M. A. Baasen, J. D. McCormick, T. J. McLaughlin, M. T. Corby. C. J. Lundy, T. F. Gallagher, A. W. Arrington, D.
A and W. J. Clarke, M. H. Keeley, and J. A. O’Reilley. W. J. Ivers, of ’66, officiated as toast-master.
The first toast proposed was to Pope Pius IX, which was eloquently responded to by the Right Rev. Bishop ’ Dwenger, who dwelt upon the courage and consistency . displayed by the Pontiff during his long reign and his ! many tribulations. It was seldom that so much goodness, so much charity was united with such courage and firmness.
The Hon. D. J. Wile, of La Porte, responded to the President of the United States.
“ Our Alma Mater” was spoken to in a pleasant strain by the Hon. O. T. Chamberlain, of Elkhart.
The toast of “ Our Deceased Members ” was drunk in solemn silence and standing. Mr. N. V. Brower of The South Bend Register, responded very happily to “The Press.”
The following resolutions were adopted:
Whereas, it has seemed good to Divine Providence during the course of the scholastic year now completed, to remove from among us to a better land our late lamented associates and fellow-members, Gen. W. F. Lynch, of Elgin, Illinois, and Hon. Peter M. Dechant, of Franklin, Ohio : be it
Resolved : That we, the Associated Alumni of theUniversity of Notre Dame, while humbly bowing to the above-mentioned decree of Divine Providence, and while profoundly sensible that our loss is a gain to the deceased themselves, do nevertheless sincerely mourn the calamity which has deprived us of our honorable associates, true friends and faithful fellow-members.
Resolved : That we, so long as we are permitted to survive them, shall ever hold their virtues and noble qualities in affectionate remembrance, and make them the models which we shall humbly endeavor, though at a distance, to imitate.
Resolved : That copies of the foregoing resolutions be transmitted for publication to the Notre Dame Scholastic, Chicago Tribune, 'Chicago Times, Catholic Columbian, Boston Pilot, and South Bend Herald, Register and Tribune.
T. E. Walsh, 0. S. C., 1
A J. Stage,	>• Committee.
T. A Dailey,	)
At 3 o’clock the annual boat-race took place, and as the weather was delightful a large concourse of people lined the banks to witness it. Two boats competed for the prize, which consisted of a handsome gold anchor to be given to each one of the victorious crew. The names of the rival boats were the Minnehaha and the Hiawatha. The crew of the former was composed as follows: H. 0. Cassidy, stroke; W. T. Ball, second; N. J. Mooney, third; T. C. Logan, fourth ; W. P. Breen, fifth; G. J. Gross, bow; J. P. McHugh, coxswain; colors, blue shirts, black pantaloons, and red caps. The Hiawatha’s crew were: J. C- Coleman, stroke; J. Hynds, second; P. J. Mattimore, third; E. White, fourth; P. McEnery, fifth; J. Perea, bow; J. G. Ewing, coxswain; colors, white and blue shirts. The distance was one mile, which made three circuits of the lake. The judges were the Hon. Mr. Logan, of Chili; Hon. P. B. Ewing, and Rev. A. Granger. The boats started well together, but gradually the Minnehaha gained on her competitor, although the crew of the Hiawatha struggled manfully and did some fine rowing, but at the close the Hiawatha darted ahead, and finally beat her rival by about one boat’s length. It was a well contested race; the time was 5.25. The anchors were presented by Misses Logan, of Leavenworth and Ball of Lafayette.
TUESDAY EVENING.
After the boat race the large number of visitors enjoyed themselves in various ways until half past seven, when the Evening Entertainment took place. We can safely say that never at an evening exhibition was Washington Hall so densely packed and the audience was of high culture and refinement. The number of ladies attending was very great, and the gentlemen, as a rule, were forced to stand.
The Band struck the Grand Entrance March, after which the Poem of the Alumni was read. The poet was Mi;. Thomas A. Dailey, of ’74, who engaged Mr. T. C. Logan to read it for him. It was as follows:
O friends I who in the brick-piled cities dwell!
And ye who roam where sunburnt prairies swell!
And ye who watch the steamers proudly ride !
Down by old Ocean’s ever bounding tide, I greet you! you have gladly come to-day A debt of love and gratitude to pay.
Old Alma Hater with her sun-kissed walls, Has decked with welcome her memorial halls
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
To greet you. Glance around to-night, Where myriad lamps pour down their mellowed light, And gaze upon the sea of upturned faces— Link thought to thought till memory fondly traces The once familiar lineaments of him
Whose fond'remembrance never can grow dim. '
Old Father Time has swept our ranks,—a year Of Fortune’s smile and frown—of hope and fear, Has gone, and we behold the vacant places, And look in vain for well remembered faces. You’re not all here—proud Death, with Argus eyes, Hath sought the shrine wherein the treasure lies Of bounding life, and left the stricken flowers Lifeless and cold in their deserted bowers.
White tombs upon the hillside mark the place Where rest the matchless symmetry and grace Of heroes bold, on battlefields of Truth Who exchanged life for that perennial youth Where Faith is not belief, where they can know The Infinite, beyond the blight of woe. Oh, not forgotten are our noble dead 1 While o’er their tombs a farewell tear we shed— A rosebud sundered from the parent vine, • With wreaths for other happy days we twine, And come again when later years have sped To lay our offering on their lowly bed ;— Then turn to brighter scenes with pitying thought, That wisdom at such fearful price is bought.
These are our guests to-night. At our desire, We cast new fuel on the Promethean fire, And warm our hearts anew within its blaze— Lighted for aye, in the dear College days, When first we learned to delve in Grecian roots And soar aloft in airy parachutes To Castles pendent in the misty skies, Whose gaseous contents prompted them to rise, Like the lost Merope to wander on Where Chaos reigned ere worlds were yet begun. Our minds were molten prototypes, wherein The latent Dynamis evolved the strength within.
How grand our youth I How fruitfully it teems With gorgeous visions and ideal dreams ! How firm its friendships, trusting its demands! Years fail to wither, e’en the shifting sands Of time obliterate no well loved nook Where once we mused and dreamed with pipe and book.
Come stroll with me across the grassy glade And mark the changes time and man have made. Here we read Horace; there fierce Juvenal Declaimed a satire on the siren’s thrall. • There in a corner ’neath the giant trees We conned the pages of Simonides;
Here Plutarch told in language terse and bold, Of victories won by valiant men of old ;
Blind CEdipus of Thebes—Niobe, And Ovid weeping by the Euxine sea ; Antigone the fair; and she who gave A thread to guide Theseus from the cave, In fabled Crete ; Clotho who held the wheel And with her sisters guided human weal, Were all our friends : Pygmalion’s golden store, Pandora’s gift of hope—no idle lore.
How well remembered is the study hall— The Prefect’s throne raised high against the wall; Where he, grim monarch of a motley crew, Marked down Detentions for the wayward few, Who never thought he labored for their good, But gave him all the trouble that they could. There are the very desks where many a time We smuggled novels with the ominous “Dime” Upon their lids, and Latin “ponies” too, Securely hid from the kind Prefect’s view.
Virgil was easy—Plautus ne’er oppressed The lad with handy pocket in his vest To hold the “ pony” that contained his brains And which he rode with loosely gathered reins— The Pegasus of rnin, not the force Which carries students'through a college course. Burke, Goldsmith, Addison and Thackeray Oft kept us company on a rainy day When we discussed the logic of the schools And vowed Scholastics were a race of fools.
Here we condemned, with loftiest turn of thought, ‘ The dramas our dramatic tutor brought Hebdomadally from the distant fane, Whither he went to see his Betsy Jane,— As we averred; we beg his pardon now— We meant no harm, he cannot but allow.
The busy world has swept us further on And all are gone—O friends! forever gone I We are but children groping on the shore Of Truth’s great ocean, deafened by its roar; Who pick up pebbles on the sloping beach And miss the pearls that lie within our reach. We seek for knowledge without plan or guide And travel leagues while it is at our side.
While up the hill with weary steps we climb,	-
New music greets us, and new feet keep time To life’s deep monotone. The little band Of youths, who left the sylvan promised land Of cloistered College walks, have parted wide— Wide as the oceans which the land divide. Their voices reach us from Australian wilds, Or send us tokens from JEolian isles, Where purple mists hang on the mountain’s brow Or lance like lightings stab the darkness through; From the Empyrean heights where dwells Hera; Where rolls the iceberg in the solemn sea.
From the halls of Science, where the fruitful mind Unfolds the scroll of learning to mankind, They wave to us a mute, imploring hand, But speak a language we can understand.
Who bath not felt, at times, when burdens roll, In penance from his over-laden soul, A keen quick glance at every form and plan Within the grand Philosophy of Man, And known that he is something greater far Than toy of circumstance which binds his car Of Progress to the senseless, vulgar clod O’er which his feet in proud derision trod ? A deep bewilderment, a nameless sense Of restless chafing at the dark suspense In which his life is hid ?—A grand desire To burst his bonds, and like the eagle, higher Than the celestial stars to mount and cilmb The minarets and pinnacles of Time: To leap strong, armed within the central ring And there proclaim himself a god, a king Of gods, within that central zone To rule in Aiden and to rule alone I There in the presence of the Jove of old To carve his name in characters of gold Upon the jewel-decked Olympian throne, With sword King Arthur would not blush to own ! There face to face with men the world called wise, Within the jasper walls of Paradise, Of mysteries vast to learn the primal cause, • Submission’s secret to those Medean laws !
This is Ambition. He would buy this sphere Where countless millions dwell from year to year,— Buy cheap this world from shore to restless shore, From pole to pole, with his incarnate store Of vanity, then fling it far away, As fretful children do their toys in play.
Once, years ago, upon a mountain height I stood and watched the gray’ Hephsestian light Break wan and cold on the horizon’s rim.
I saw the Orient stars grow pale and dim And disappear behind the veil of day, Like beacon lights beyond the ocean’s spray. Far, far below the rugged mountains’ brow For many a league, by craggy cliff and bough Of Northern cedar, lay the peaceful Earth, Grand as when Nature’s God first gave it birth. Here was a moment’s resting place; afar Blazed the soft splendor of the morning star— Lucifer, and not inaptly named, the king— The brightest jewel in Ambition’s ring— Forever lodestone to the giant will, Cast out from heaven, but a ruler still In earth and hell, forever doomed to be The Nemesis of dual Destiny.
This is our resting place. Dear Notre Dame Our mountain is;—Its ever hallowed calm -The Oasis where we its children rest Our burdens on a mother’s faithful breast. The path of life is strewn with many ills, Dark ways, deep valleys and uncertain hills ; Steep mountains reared upon the shores of Time, That God’s Omniscience made for us to climb.
Thus, Brothers, runs the pathway of our life, Not altogether dark or filled with strife. While friends with loving counsel meet us here, To grasp our hands with heartfelt words of cheer, But we are doomed to patiently translate Our record in the ponderous book of Fate. No eye of mortal ever may behold The hand Prescient which our names enrolled,
676
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But it is done. The hook is sealed with seven Golden seals in the archives of Heaven.
The edict has gone forth that all must die, And swift the beauteous years are hurrying by That bear us onward to our common doom— The dark recesses of the mouldering tomb.
The proud, rebellious heart of youth leaps up To smite the slave who bore the poisoned cup To grand old Socrates: it could but see In death a dark and fatal destiny.
“ Give me another year in which to win Something to satisfy this thirst within,” Has ever been Ambition’s cry. The grief, The passion, care and pain without relief That torture restless life cannot dispel The rainbow hues of Hope, whose glory fell In radiant beauty on his earlier years, God-given and pure as penitential tears.
But it is meet that at the solemn tomb, Where hearts are crushed by panoplies of gloom, We leave the past and with new courage turn To where the camp fires of the future burn ;
The waiting portals of a busy mart
Where each is called upon to act his part.
Within our souls there dwells an oracle
That tells us Fortune but awaits our will, Fair pages Heaven’s own hand has written o’er With promises of what she has in store.
The world is rocking ’neath our restless feet, We grasp our banner, while our pulses beat In quickened numbers. Who can claim the prize That hath not toiled and offered sacrifice ?
The world is not ungrateful,—it will pay
For what it gets—no more—no less—and they,
Who burst the bonds of mediocrity, Venture alone upon an untried sea.
’Tis Compensation’s law that they who seek Capricious Fortune—climb the highest peak, Surpassing others on the slippery stair, Writhing in the attenuated air, Starving their souls, insensible to ill— To find the gilded summit bleak and chill; Their life a wreck, while bitter curses flow From these whom disappointment left below. The lichen thrives upon the iceberg’s crest; Small birds are happy in a little nest;
The frail canoe defies the torrent’s roar, While giant vessels founder near the shore ; The fabled tortoise beat the cunning fox;
The toad aspired to match the giant ox;
Then who dare murmur that the world is small
While hope is left aud there is room for all!
We cannot sketch the Future’s glowing page, Or break the secrets of the coming age.
We long for light with not a little dread And watch the shadows lifting just ahead. O murmur not that little light is given !
When there’s enough to show the path to Heaven.
Brothers, farewell I To these fond scenes farewell!
No more for us the early College bell
Will ring for study. Paths of duty spread Before our feet. Time’s all resistless tread Is bearing us away. A few brief hours (Like morning dew on the awakened flowers) Of friendly intercourse and we depart	'
Again upon our several ways. The heart
Must guard its treasures ; let us guard them well, Until we meet where there is no farewell.
After the poem Messrs. Henry and Conn, of Elkhart, Ind., gave several excellent cornet duets and solos. The playing of Mr. Henry was really grand, and we believe that the day is not far distant when he will be the peer of.Levy and Arbunkle.
The Prologue to Julius Cossar written, for the occasion, was admirably read by Mr. W. T. Ball.
Of the play of the evening we have nothing but words of praise. When we remember the high compliments passed by the Chicos') Times on the Thespians’ representation of Julius Cossar last February and know that the same play was given by the same young men, with few excep-thons, we have said all that is necessary. The characters were taken as follows: Julius Caesar, Eugene Arnold; Marc Antony, Carl Otto; Brutus, William T. Ball; Cassius, Thomas C. Logan; Decius, Augustus Schmidt; Soothsayer, Ambrose J. Hertzog; Octavius Caesar, Frank S. Hastings; Casca, William P. Breen; Metellus, Patrick J. Cooney ;
Pompilius Lenas, George J. Gross; Cicero and Titinius, John G. Ewing; Trebonius, Nathan J. Mooney; Cinna, P. Tamble ; Lucius, Joseph P. McHugh; Pindarus, Henry C. Cassidy; Servius, Luke Evers; Clitus, James J. Quinn; Flavius, Frank Maas; Artemidorus, Henry McGuire; Dar-danius, J. D. McIntyre.
The acting of Messrs. Logan, Ball. Otto, Breen, Arnold, Schmidt, Hastings, Mooney, and McHugh was particularly fine, and among amateurs we doubt whether any other body of young men could equal their representations. High compliments were especially passed on Messrs. Logan, Ball and Otto.
Right Rev. Dr. D wenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, closed the evening Entertainment with a few exceedingly happy remarks.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
On Wednesday morning, June 27tb, the Entertainment began at 8 o’clock. After excellent selections by the Band and Orchestra, the Valedictory by Mr. William P. Breen was given. It was most touching and eloquent, and was frequently applauded by the students. We regret that Mr. Breen did not leave us his manuscript for publication, for it was worthy of space in our columns. Its chaste, scholarly diction would commend itself to all our readers.
After further music from the Orchestra, and some excellent cornet solos by Mr. H. Henry, of Elkhart, Ind., of whose playing we have not words adequate to express our praise, Hon. Frank H. Hurd, ex-member of Congress from the Toledo district in Ohio, delivered the Oration of the day. The oration was warmly applauded, and the applause was well deserved. The production was scholarly and elegant, the delivery eloquent in no ordinary degree. He said:
Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen:—Of all pursuits few are so fruitful in interest and information as the study of the law. In its uses it is not confined to the mere professional man, nor to him alone who is engaged in the administration of justice, but it extends to all who are actively occupied in the ordinary vocations of life. Its importance results, largely, from the variety of subjects it touches. The law reaches every relation of life. It defines every civil right, and the methods of its enjoyment. It affords protection to every legitimate enterprise. It guarantees security to all honest efforts in business. It regulates the relations of men to each other, whether they grow out of their combination in society, their associations in the domestic circle, or their connections for the accumulation of wealth. It defends the weak against the strong and grasping. It protects the innocent against the touch of the polluted. It punishes the offenders against good morals, and affords all the encouragement within the competency of wise legislation to the honest and the truthful.
The law, too, deals largely with the duties of men in the natural order. It determines by appropriate legislation what those duties are, fixes the rules by which their performance is to be governed, and imposes penalties for their violation.
From these considerations it will appear that some knowledge of the law is requisite to every man who expects to be interested in the active life of the community or State in which he resides. Such knowledge will alone inform him of his rights and the lawful means of protecting them, his duties and the proper manner of discharging them, and of bis powersand the just methods of exercising them.
While in all governments it is important that the citizen should obtain such information of the law as I have indicated, to acquire it would seem to be especially the duty of a citizen of a republic like this. Here the people are the sources of all power. The governments are created solely for their benefit. The officers chosen are merely their servants. The laws are simply the expression of their will. That knowledge which might be regarded as merely ornamental in a monarchy, becomes a necessity in a republic. How without it can the citizen wisely discharge the duties which the republic devolves upon him? How otherwise can he take part in the work of legislation or intelligently decide as to legislative policies? Without such knowledge in the people what hope can there be of free institutions? Men must know their rights or they will be powerless to defend them. They must understand
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
677
their institutions or they will be indifferent as to their preservation. They must appreciate their liberties and the laws enacted to protect them, or else in some unguarded hour they will lose them. My friends, a republic rests upon the devotion of its citizens to the principles of free government, a devotion which can only exist where the nature of such government, with the laws necessary for its administration, is understood by the people. In a knowledge, therefore, widely diffused of the system of American jurisprudence will be found the best guaranty for the perpetuity of American institutions.
To understand that system it is necessary that we should know the sources from which it is drawn. No one can take a philosophical view of the present state of our law unless he knows its history, can trace back to their origin the great principles underlying it, and see the connection between the policies of to-day and the measures it may be of a thousand years ago from which those policies have been derived. To review that history in some of its phases, to point out the sources of some of the principal jurisdictions of our law and the origin of its chief liberties is my present purpose. To that eud I have chosen as the subject of my remarks “ The Relation of the Catholic Church to American Jurisprudence.”
When I use the phrase American jurisprudence I do not mean our system of constitutional laws, either federal or State, a system which provides the limitation of all governmental power and defines the nature and boundaries of the several branches ot government; nor yet do I mean the statutory enactments of the Congress of the United Slates or of the several States. These carry out the powers delegated to the legislative authority, or relate to the local and temporary necessities affected by these enactments; but I refer to that system of jurisprudence which underlies all our constitutions and laws, which is the foundation of our whole American scheme ot government, which while not interfering with nor disturbing positive enactments is at once the origin and supplement of them all. I mean the American common law, which is the result of the habits and customs of our people for generations, which has sprung from our ancestors who colonized America and secured its independence, and which is largely the outgrowth of the English common law which those ancestors claimed as their heritage when they migrated from English soil and separated from the English crown.
• The Congress of 1774 unanimously resolved “That the respective Colonies are entitled to the common law of England, and more especially to the great and inestimable privilege of being tried by their peers of the vicinage according to the course of that law.’’ They further resolved that “ they were entitled to the benefit of such of the English statutes as existed at the time of their colonization, and which they have by experience respectively found to be applicable to their several and local conditions.” They also resolved that “ their ancestors at the time of their emigration were entitled to all the rights, liberties and immunities of free and natural-born subjects of the realm of England.”
Mr. J ustice Story, in his Commentary on the Constitution, says: “The universal principle (and the practice has conformed to it) has been that the common law is our birthright and inheritance, and that our ancestors brought hither with them upon their emigration all of it which was applicable to their situation. The whole structure of our present jurisprudence stands upon the original foundation of the common law.”
In this way did the system of the English common law become the source and foundation of our law. The inhabitants of the original thirteen Colonies brought it with them as their birthright, and made it part of the government which they adopted for themselves on the inhospitable shores which they had chosen for their homes. It was this that kept alive in their bosoms the spirit of independ ence. It watched over the first indications of resistance to British aggression. It nurtured the resolution of freemen. It inspired the immortal words of the Declaration of Independence. It nerved the arms of the weak and despised colonists to engage in the War of the Revolution, and in the hours of despair it breathed encouragement and hope until they saw the establishment of the greatest Republic of the ages. It dictated largely the provisions of the Constitution. It suggested the plan for the division of powers
and the restraints to be imposed upon them. It has since afforded the rules for the construction of that instrument, and established regulations for the administration of justice under it. In the years which have followed the formation of the Union, it has ever contributed to the jurisprudence by which that Union has been preserved; and much of the prosperity which has attended it, and of the glory it has achieved, is attributable to the English common law.
I do not use the term common law in the technical sense in which it is generally employed by the legal profession. I use it to signify the whole body of the law which has been adopted from England into our system, including that which belongs to chancery and admiralty jurisdiction, as well as that which relates to what are termed more restrictedly “ the laws of England.”
What have been the contributions of the Catholic Church to this system of law, and what have been the relations of the oue to the other, are the questions I desire to consider.
In this discussion I shall not refer in detail to the distinguished names of clergymen who during the years preceding the reign of Heury the Eighth explained and commented upon the English law. Indeed there were few commentators but them. They found it without form, and systematized it. They gathered together the scattered cases, and derived from them the rules and principles which are necessary to an orderly system of jurisprudence. It is sufficient for me to mention Bracton, Dean of Barnstable, and Britton, Bishop of Hereford, who have been termed by one of the greatest of lawyers as the fathers of English law. The work of Bracton, De Legibus Anglia, was the first scientific commentary of the English law, and it has ever been regarded, as remarked by a distinguished German, “ as the best and truest authority of the common law.” In the early days of English history, not only were the clergy the chief commentators of the common law, but they were as well the judges who administered it and the lawyers wuo engaged in its practice. Before the conquest by the Normans, and long afterwards, few were learned in the law except the clergy. In the time of Rufus the monks of Abiugdon were so celebrated for their knowledge of the law that they were universally consulted. So generally were the clergy engaged in the practice of the legal profession that an early writer remarked: NuUus dericus nisi causidicus.
The effects upon the commou law of the judges and practitioners being clergymen were most marked. They were most apparent in those branches with which the clergy were most connected. I ask your attention to the influence of the Church, first in securing English liberties, secondly in developing the system of equity jurisprudence, and thirdly in establishing international law. These are the most important features of our jurisprudence. What of more value than our liberties, our right to an equitable administration of justice, and our relations with our fellowbeings of other nationalities?
And, first, what was the influence of the Church and the clergy in the establishment of English liberties? Those liberties were first clearly expressed and defined in Magna Charta, as it is known in English history. That instrument was approved by King John, June 5th, 1215. A review of the circumstances by which that approval was maintained will show the part taken by the English clergy in that important transaction.
Alter the conquest of England by William of Normandy, the conquered Saxons were treated with the greatest severity. Their property was confiscated, and divided among the favorites of the conqueror. The most galling restrictions were imposed upon them. Evidences of their humiliation were continually kept before them. Their liber- ' ties were entirely taken trom them. Incessant efforts were made by the people for a restoration of the old statutes by which their titles had been protected and their liberties secured. William the First, William Rufus, Henry the First, and Stephen, were all earnestly entreated to grant their renewal. At last, about the year 1100, a charter for their liberties was issued by Henry the Second, wherein among other things it was declared that “evil customs should be abolished,” and that “the Church should be free.”
When John ascended the throne he promised a restoration of the liberties and a renewal of the charter of Henry the First. Some discussion having arisen as to its true

678
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
meaning, the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishops gave an interpretation to it in a protest. Teat protest commences: “Toall tne taittilul in (Jurist to whom Lhe present letters shall come: Stepuen, by the grace of God, Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of all England, and Cardinal of the Holy Roman Cuurch, and Henry, Archbishop of Dublin, William of Leeds, Peter of Winduam, Jocelyn of Batu and Glastonbury, Hugh of Lincoln, Walter of Worcester, and William of Coventry, Bishops, Greeting in the Lord!” Then follows the statement of the true construction to be given a provision in the charter, which was accepted without dispute by both king and subjects. Tne particular demands made by the barons, clergy and people of the King were for freedom of the Church and liberties of the people in relation to titles to property, rights of forest, and trials in courts. King John, although repeatedly promising to grant these liberties, never kept his word. At last, alter his kingdom had been placed under an interdict by Pope Innocent the Third, when he found that nis barons would not go to battle with him because he had been excommunicated, King John took the following oath, which was administered to him by the Archbishop ot Canterbury: “ 1 will diligently defend the ordinances of Holy Church, and my hand shall be against all her enemies; I will recall the good laws of my ancestors, and especially those of King Edward the Confessor, and destroy me evil ones, and 1 shall see that my subjects shall receive justice according to the rightful degrees of my courts.”
After the interdict had been removed and John had accomplished his purposes, he forgot his promise and his oath and refused to yield the liberties he had sworn to grant. A meeting ot the clergy was called, to assemble at tit. Paul's, to which the barons were invited. The central figure was Cardinal Langton, Archbishop of Canterbury. He addressed them in tne most fervid language. He said: “Ye nave heard, when at Winchester, before the king was absolved, 1 compelled him to swear that the existing evil statutes should be destroyed, and that more salutary laws, namely those of King Edward the Confessor, should be observed by the whole kingdom. In support of these things are ye now convened, and 1 here disclose to you a newly discovered charier of King Henry the First ot England, the which it ye are willing io support, your long lost liberties may be restored in ail their original purity of character." The Cardinal then read the charter in a loud voice and appealed to them in the most impassioned eloquence to insist upon their liberties, assuring them ot his own most faithful assistance and that ot all tne clergy. With the greatest enthusiasm, the barons swore in the Cardinal’s presence that they would demand their liberties of the king, and would defend them even to death itself. The Cardinal then assured them that if they would stand by the covenant then made they would reflect honor on their names through successive generations.
When tne demand was made of the king, in pursuance of the covenant, he hesitated, and equivocated as usual At length a year having elapsed, with nothing accomplished, the barons determined to compel the grant from the king.
An army was formed, which was called “ the army of God and Holy Church,” to command which Robert Enz-Walter was chosen. It was organized with the approval and blessings of the clergy. In every way possible the clergy aided it in its formation and progress. By rapid marches it proceeded to London. The Archbishop ot Canterbury surrendered to it the fortress of Rochester, one of the strongest fortifications of the realm, it entered London May 26th. The king secured himself in the Tower at first, determined to resist the barons to the uttermost. But at last, abandoned by all, King John sent the Earl ot PembroKe to the army, to deciare his readiness to accede io their demands. An early day was fixed upon lor tne conclusion and ratification ot the Great Charter.
On a large meadow between Staine and Windsor the meeting was to occur between the king and the army of his people. On the 5ih of June, the interview was held, at Runnymede. On the one side was the army ot “ Holy Church” with its leaders, and Cardinal Langton and tne clergy. On the other side was the king, with a few of his nobles and some of the Bishops as his spiritual advisers. Few scenes more attractive have ever been witnessed in English history. A king was brought face to lace with his
subjects; the people, clergy and barons were there to demand in person tne liberties wnicn had so long been denied them. Tne barons were there in martial array, with their armor glistening in the summer sun and their gorgeous banners breathing with the summer air. The clergy were there, attired in the garbs of their sacred offices. The king sat upon his throne of state, clad in robes of royalty. The demand was formally made for the liberties, in the name of God and the Holy Cuurch, not with obsequiousness, but boldly, as became freemen, fhe demand was at once acceded to. The Great Charter was then presented to the king, the great seal of England was affixed to it, and the king swore a solemn oath to support it. Before the setting of that day’s sun English liberties were incorporated into an instrument wliicu has become immortal, and which from that day to this has been the guarantee of the rights of Englishmen and their descendants the world over. The first sentence of that instrument declares that it was granted by the king “ in the presence ot God, for the salvation of his own soul and that of his ancestors and of his heirs, to the honor of God and the exaltation of the Holy Church and tne amendment of his kingdom, and with tne approval of Master Pandulph, our Lord the Pope’s subdeacon and familiar.” The first grant is “ that the English Church shall be free, and shall have her whole rights and liberties inviolable; and we will this to be observed in such a manner that it may appear from thence, that the freedom of elections which was reported most requisite to the English Church, winch was granted and by our charter confirmed, and obtained the confirmation ot the same from our Lord Pope innocent the Third, before the rupture between us and our barons, was of our own tree will, which charter we shall observe, and we will it to be observed with good faith by our heirs forever. The principal section relating to the liberties of the people was: “No freeman snail be seized or imprisoned or dispossessed or outlawed or in any way destroyed; nor will we condemn mm, nor will we commit him to prison excepting by the legal judgment of his peers or by the laws of the laud.”
Thus by this great instrument were the liberties of the Church and the people at the same time guaranteed and established. A King determined upon tyranny and the exercise of arbitrary power was compelled by an army organized under me authority of the Holy Church, the chief adviser and supporter of which was a Cardinal of that Church, to grant freedom and security to both priests and people.
The importance of that instrument in the history of England cannot be exaggerated. So dear was it to the people that it was afterwards coufirmed by Kings and parliaments no less than thirty-two times. Tne elder Pitt said that the language of Magna Gliarta relating to the rights of freemen was worth all me classics. It formulated lor the first time in simple language tne rights and powers of the people and ot royal prerogative. It interposed an insurmountable barrier to arbitrary power. It declared the supremacy of the law. It closed all prison doors except to those who were convicted under the laws of the laud. It exhibited and encouraged a spirit ot sturdy independence wuich has always been one of the peculiar features of the English character. More than ail else it has been the source of Eug-lish power. It has made that little stormy island me seat of an empire which has extended its arms unto the remotest ends of the earth and brought into its coffers resources from every clime. To the influence of the Church is England, and are we, chiefly indebted for Magna Charta.
“ JSo freeman shall be seized, or imprisoned, or dispossessed, or enslaved, or in any way destroyed, nor will we condemn him, nor will we commit him to prison except by the legal judgment of his peers or by tne laws of tne land.” Immortal words! the very soul of free institutes! the vital principle of this Republic! the bulwark of our liberty, the power and glory ot our freedom! And when these words are remembered, and the incalculable importance they have held in English history, I would have it understood that they were extorted from an unwilling kiug by an “army ot Holy Chuch ”; that they are tne words of Stephen Langton, Archbishop ot Canterbury, Primate of all England, and Cardinal of the Holy Roman Church.
In the next place, I ask your attention to the influence
I J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	679
of the Church in the developme.il of equity jurisdiction. At a very early day in English history it was discovered that there were many detects i i the laws of the realm as administered in the regular courts. Their decisions were in many instances narrow and unjust. In their application of the law to cases not specially provided for, great hardships were occasioned. Their rigors admitted of no abatement. Their processes were powerless to afford relief in many cases where relief was needed.
Whatever the ciuses of these deficiencies in the laws of the realm, it was conceded on all sides that they existed. Another tribunal, therefore, was required in which these defects could be cured and the justice which had been denied in the regular courts might be obtained. Another tribunal was established, where jurisdiction was to provide “ for the correction of that wherein the law by reason of its universality was deficient.” As said by Mr. Justice Blackstone, that court was established “ to detect latent frauds and concealments which tue process of courts of law is not adapted to reach; to enforce the execution of such matters of trust and confidence as are binding in conscience though not cognizable at common law, to deliver from such dangers as are owing to misfortune or oversight, and to give a more specific relief and more ad apted to the circumstances of the case, than can always be obtained by the rules of the common or positive law.”
That tribunal was the Court of Chancery. From the time of the first Christian king its chief officer was the Lord Chancellor, who always enjoyed the title of “Keeper of the King’s Conscience.” It was to him that application was made for the abatement of the rigors of the common law. It was from him that process issued to grant relief where before it had been refused. It was his judgment which corrected or restrained the unjust judgments of the regular courts. It was through his decrees that fraud and errors were punished and reformed.
An inquiry into the character and position of the Lord Chancellors and the methods by which they administered their office will easily exhibit the influence of the Church in the development of this branch of our jurisprudence. Who then were the Lord Chancellors of England? The Chancellor of the first Christian king was Augmendus, one of the ecclesiastics who accompanied St. Augustine to England on his holy mission. It is said that he drew up a code of laws then published which materially softened many of the customs which 'had prevailed while the Scandinavian deities were still worshipped in England. The personal vocation of the Chancellor is manifest from the title to which I have already referred, “Keeper of the King’s Conscience.” He must have been of the clergy, and confessor to the king. Lord Campbell, in his Lives of the Lord Chancellors, says: “From the conversion of the Anglo-Saxons to Christianity by Sr. Augustine, the king always had near his person a priest to whom was entrusted the care of his chapel and who was his confessor. This person, selected from the most learned and able of his order, and greatly superior in accomplishments to the unlettered laymen attending the court, soon acted as private secretary to the king, and gained his confidence in affairs of state. Soon to this person was assigned the business of superin tending writs and grants, with the custody of the great seal.”
In this manner it happened that the Lord Chancellor was a clergyman; and from the days of Augmendus, in the year 605, to 1532, with a few unimportant exceptions, every Lord Chancellor was an ecclesiastic. For nearly a thousand years was the system of equity jurisprudence administered by priests and dignitaries of the Church. Of these many of the most distinguished filled the office of Chancellor. I need mention but few names.
St. Swithin, Lord Chancellor under King Egbert and his successors, was one of the most distinguished among the early holders of that office. In the administration of the chancellorship he commanded the respect and confidence both of king and people. His life was one of extraordinary devotion to his country and his Church. His death was universally deplored; and within a century afterwards he was canonized at Rome. So great honor has always been paid him in England that even ever since the time of Henry the Eighth, July 15th is preserved in the English Calendar as a saint’s day, dedicated to Lord Chancellor Swithin.
Need I mention Thomas a Becket, known throughout the whole Christian world as St. Thomas of Canterbury? He filled the office of Chancellor with distinction for more than eight years. His commanding presence, his extraordinary genius, his spotless sanctity, his heroic martyrdom, point him out as tee greatest Englishman of his time. His thorough devotion to the Church leaves no doubt as to character of his administration of the office. Even the most unfriendly of uis critics concede the purity of his character as Chancellor, and praise him for his impartiality in the office.
Shall I name Cardinal Wolsey, one of the most distinguished characters in English history? As Chancellor, more than any of his predecessors he asserted the powers of his court. He declared it to be his duty always to execute judgment with clemency where conscience was opposed to the rigor of the law. Whatever the differences of opinion of his biographers as to other matters, they all agree that he made a bold, honest, fearless and able Chancellor.
Who more distinguished in that office than Sir Thomas More, who though a layman could not have been excelled by any clergyman in his devotion to the Church? He was the first scholar of his age. He was the purest judge of his time. He has been called by the most brilliant writer of this generation the greatest of all Englishmen. When his whole character is considered, we are at a loss to know which most to admire, the simplicity and purity of his nature, the extent of his intellectual acquirements, the brilliancy of his statesmanship, the impartiality of his administration of public office, or the heroic constancy with which he suffered death rather than abandon his conviction. One thing is certain, no name in English history is -more universally admired than that of Sir Thomas More.
Thus for a period of a thousand years was the office of Chancellor administered by Sc. Swithin, St. Thomas of Canterbury, Cardinal Wolsey, and Sir Thomas More, and men like them in religious profession and life.
Who can doubt the rules and methods by which they were governed and the sources from which these were drawn? Consider first that they could not have been drawn from the common law, for it was to mitigate its rigors that the Court of Cnancery was established. They must have been derived from those systems with which Che Chancellors were familiar. What those systems were, their course of education clearly indicates. Placed in seminaries in England, Ireland and the Continent, they were instructed both in the canon and civil law. With the details of the canon law they must have been especially familiar. It was a necessary part of their education for holy orders. They were taught with thoroughness what was requisite for the purification and the enlightenment of the conscience. They possessed a knowledge of the rules for a wise administration of the Sacrament of Penance. And as the Chancellor in his capacity of Keeper of the King’s Conscience was his confessor, it must have been that he who held the office was among the best instructed of his order. In this administration of the office of Chancellor it was generally said that relief was granted according to conscience. It was termed a court of conscience. It was by appealing to the conscience of the Chancellor that suitors found relief. Was this power exercised, as some have maintained, arbitrarily and according to the whim of each Chancellor? To so maintain would be to make a.mockery of justice and to susbstitute for equity the varying caprices of an individual. No, my friends, the powers were exercised regularly, methodically, by the application of the rules of the canon law. Appeals to conscience were settled as that system prescribed; the Lord Chancellor only sat to administer the canon law, and the civil law so far as it was applicable to cases of conscience, to cure the defects of the common law.
The system of equity jurisprudence was not perfected in a short time. Each year new cases would arise in which new decisions would be made. As the years advanced it grew into form until it reached the perfection it possessed when our ancestors brought it with them to the Colonies. The system has received many improvements since the days of Sir Thomas More, but the great principles on which the jurisdiction has been administered were settled during the thousand years before by the disciples of the canon law who held the 0 hancellor’s office. How beautifully the two systems of law have blended together 1 The law of
680
tTHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the realm administered in one court, as the ancient customs of the people prescribed, to be abated in its rigor in the chancery court of conscience enlightened by the canon law. Tiie asperities of the one modified by the tenderness of the other, the injustice of the one restrained by the charity of the other; these together constituting a body of the law, which for protection to liberty, restraint of injustice, enforcement of obligation and security to property has never been equalled in the history of the world.
To illustrate the obligations under which we are to the court of conscience, consider the powers it exercises and the subject matters of which it treats.
Lord Coke has said that three things are to be judged in a court of chancery, fraud, mistake, and breach of confidence. There is no hiding-place for fraud wnich equity will not reveal. There are no fortifications behind which it may entrench itself which equity will not break dowu. It will expose every fraudulent transaction, however it may surround itself by forms of law, and whatever the position of the men who may be engaged in it. Chancery corrects the errors and mistakes men make in their dealings with each other. It allows no man to take advantage of another. It takes from him who has ill-gotten gains whatever he has unlawfully obtained. It compels the unwilling man who has made a contract to keep it. It administers trusts for the benefit of those interested in them. The poor, the weak, the helpless, the confiding are its wards whose interests are ever watched alter and whose claims for relief are never denied. Its doors are always open tor suitors, and its ears are never closed to the complaints of the deceived and innocent.
In remedies it uses processes which furnish instantaneous relief. Injunctions are issued solely by its authority. It can restrain the corrupt and designing at any step in their criminal progress, and preserve threatened rights from the dangers which may impend. One of its chief glories is that it modified the harsh rules of the common law as to married women. Most of the rights which by our later statutes have been conferred upon married women have been given them in courts of equity for more than twelve hundred years under the liberalizing influences of the canon law. In short, equity exposes fraud, and compels the giving up of its fruits, protects the defenceless, guards the infant, defends the widow and orphan, and relieves from too severe restraint the married woman. In all its administration it is governed by conscience, enlightened by that charity which is the chief jewel of the Christian religion.
Allow me to call your attention for a few moments to the influence of the Church in the establishment of international law. So far as it may be called a system, its rules and principles are the same as those which have prevailed throughout Christendom. That the Church was largely instrumental in adopting them everyone familiar with history must a'dmit. Prior to the establishment of Christianity in Europe the Continent was overrun by the Northern barbarians. Whatever had been gained in bringing nations together under the Roman laws was overturned. Society relapsed into barbarism. The only arbitrator was the sword, as force was the only law. Men lived in constant distrust and hostility. The barbarians divided into clans and went whithersoever their inclination directed, ravaging the territory and enslaving the people. Rights of person aud property did not receive the slightest consideration. Prisoners were treated with the greatest barbarity. Strangers were regarded as enemies. Boundaries between different provinces or settlements were not fixed, or if fixed were not respected. Turbulence and violence ruled the nations, in which men were treated as brutes, and all laws human and (divine were disregarded. “Instances were frequent oi the violation of embassies, of the murder of hostages, the imprisonment of guests, and the killing of heralds.”
When Christianity was introduced a change was quickly effected. The savage nature of the barbarians was suodued. Private rights began to be respected. The law was able to assert its authority. The boundaries between nations were clearly established. .The rights of citizenship soon received a clear definition, and governments learned the duty of protection to those who were subject to its laws. Christianity taught the great duty of chanty, which implied hospitality to the stranger, forgiveness of injury, and protection to the helpless. It impressed upon its believers the doctrine that ail men were brethren, and that, though
of different nationalities and races, they were all included	'
in the same divine plan of salvation. The Churqh by the administration of the Sacraments was continually restraining the passions of the people and directing their feet in the paths of peace. Where before there had^been bloodshed and rapine aud violence, now there were peace and respect for property, and obedience to law. The marauder was changed into a good citizen. The savage was transformed
into a Christian.	:
As soon as the nations were converted, their common
faith brought them closely together. The rights of one	F
citizen in the country of another became the subjects of	i
discussion. The duties of conquerors to their prisoners	r
and the obligation of belligerents began to be considered	I
by the priests. Disputes often arose between nations, which
were referred to councils of the Church for decision, and	1
ultimately to the Pope as the head of the Church. The instances are numerous where the authority of the Church
was exercised in restraining the turbulent princes when	;
determined to engage in war. It is said by a distinguished	i!
Protestant writer: “ The Church had its councils or convo-	f1
cation of the clergy which formed the nations into a con-	5
nection resembling a federal alliance, and these councils	|
sometimes settled the titles aud claims of princes aud regulated the temporal affairs of the Christian power.” This alliance was termed Christendom, and for centuries the Pope of Rome was its undisputed Head. The judgment of these councils, the decrees of the Holy Earners, the treaties made between the Christian nations, form the chief source from which are drawn the principles of international law. It is not my present purpose to consider what these principles are. It is sufficient to say that they relate to the rights of States as parts of Christendom, to methods of peaceably settling disputes between nations, the rights and dunes ol belligerents and neutrals in time of war, and to the methods of commercial intercommunication in times ot peace.’ What beneficent changes did the Church thus introduce into the relations of Christian nations? How were softened the bloody codes of warfare? How were stayed the stained bauds of contest ? With what gentleness were the wounded then cared for on battle-fields ? With
what humanity, before unknown, were prisoners treated?	1
How were heard, even in the din of contending hosts, the	I
sweet whisperings of Christian charily? As when in the	j
desert the serpent was lifted up to heal those who might	।
look upon it, so was the Cross of Christianity raised to	||
hush the note of conflict, to bring peace to warring nations, and contentment to homes disturbed. Oh that the nations would return to the peaceful ways of the ages of faith!
Oh that tue hand of strife might be mailed to be lifted, as then, only in benediction 1
The reflections I have submitted to your consideration to-day should lead to an exalted opinion of our American jurisprudence. It has consulted all authorities. It is derived from all enlightened systems of law. From the English law it takes a sturdy love of liberty, the bold processes by which it is protected, aud the great writs of right, by which, when outraged, it may be vindicated. From the civil law it draws accuracy in the statement of private right, certitude m Lhe ooligations of personal contracts, and completeness in the definition of the duties which flow from them. From the canon law it takes the watchfulness with which the rights of the helpless are guarded, the vigilance with wbicn fraud is pursued and punished, and	‘
the exactness with which trusts are required to be administered. From England comes liberty, from the Rome	,U
of the Emperors comes culture, from the Rome of the
Popes comes charity. From America—America with her	!
free mountains, aud rivers, andjprairies, and forests—comes	.
the living, breathing soul of freedom, which vivifies and	1
energizes all the rest, aud makes the whole the very perfection of juridical science.	,
After a chorus from the Choral Union the conferring of
degrees, etc., took place. They were as follows:
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Hon. . Frank H. Hurd, of Toledo, Ohio; Hon. Bernard B. Dailey, of Delphi, Indiana, and on Prof. Joseph A. Lyons of Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Michael H. Keeley, of Faribault, Minnesota; William Hoynes, of Lacrosse, Wisconsin; and Hon. John Gibbons, of Keokuk, Iowa.
>
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
681
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred David J. Wile, of Laporte, Indiana.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Hon. John Glavtn, of New Buffalo, Michigan.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on John D. Coleman, of Waterford, Ireland; and on William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on John G. Ewing, of Lancaster, Onio; Nathan J. Mooney, of Amboy, Ill.; Carl Otto, of Havana, Ill.; William T. Ball, of Chicago, Illinois; Henry 0. Cassidy, of Youngstown, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Geo. J. Gross, of Reading, Pennsylvania; and on Thomas 0. Logan, of Leavenworth, Kansas.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to John Fitzgerald, Illinois; James B. Patterson, Minnesota; Thos. H.Quinn,Pennsylvania; George B. Saylor, Ohio; Thos. A. Garrity, Illinois; Frank H. Vander Vannet, Indiana; Francis H.Schlink, Indiana; Max Caldwell, Indiana; John M. Lambin, Illinois; John P. Kinney, Ohio; Frank 0.Rettig, Indiana; Charles Orsinger, Illinois; Michael B. Kauffman, Ohio; George F. Sugg, Illinois; James E. Hagerty, Missouri; William H. Ohlmaw, Illinois; William C. Byrne, Missouri; George W. Fishburne, Illinois.
Medical Certificates were awarded to William Oha-poton, of" Detroit, Michigan; Edward S. White, of Louisville, Kentucky.
Certificates in Telegraphy were awarded to John B. Proudhomme, of Natchitoches, Louisiana; Theodore Fischel, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; MartinB. Smyth, of Cairo, Illinois; Frank 0. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; John Hermann, of Des Moines, Iowa.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.
Classical Course.
Senior Class—The Quan Gold Medal was awarded to William P. Breen, Fort Wayne, Indiana, (closely contested by John D. Coleman.)
Junior Class.—Medal awarded to Joseph P. McHugh, of Lafayette, Indiana.
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded to Ambrose Hert-zog, Nachitoches, Louisiana.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to Luke Evers, Sing Sing, New York, (closely contested by Paul Schnuerer.)
Scientific Course.
Sophomore Class—Medal awarded to William Dechant, Franklin, Ohio.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to John F. Larkin, Loogootee, Indiana.
Commercial Course.
Medal awarded to J. Fitzgerald, Dillon P. 0., Illinois, (closely contested by Jas. B. Patterson.)
Gold Medal for Elocution in Senior Department, (the Gift of Mrs. M. M. Phelan, Lancaster, O.) awarded to Thomas C. Logan, Leavenworth, Kansas.
Gold Medal for Elocution in Junior Department, (thegift of Rev. T. O’Sullivan, Laporte, Indiana,) awarded to A. J. Buerger, Reading, Pennsylvania.
Gold Medal for Drawing, (tne gift of J. T. Shea, Toronto, Canada,) awarded to A. K. Schmidt, Chicago, Illinois.
A Silver-plated Sounder for Telegraphy, awarded to J. B. Proudhomme, Nachitoches, Louisiana.
AWARDING OF HONORS.
Senior Department.
First Honors were awarded to T. H. Quinn, J. McEniry, P. Tatnble, R. Calkins, J. Kinney, J. LarKin,F. Schlink, F. VanderVannet, L. Evers, H. Maguire, P. Cooney, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore.
Second Honors were awarded to J. Fitzgerald, J. F. Krost, J. C. O’Rourke, L. W. Proudhomme, J. B. Proudhomme, Jas. Patterson, G. Saylor, M. Regan, F. Keller, E. Riopelle.
Junior Department.
First Honors were awarded to A. Bergck, J. English, W. Hake, T. Nelson, C. Orsinger, F. T. Pleins, G. F. Sugg, C. Faxon.
Second Honors were awarded to W. Brady, A. J. Buerger, R. P. Mayer, J. Bell, E. Anderson, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cas-
on । sidy, F. Cavanaugh, R. French, J. Ingwerson, R. Keenan, 0. W. Lindberg, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, E. Moran, W. H. Ohlman, E. Pennington, I. Rose, W. J. Ryan, F. Rhein-boldt, J. H Rothert, P. Schnurrer, K. L. Scanlan, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, J. Mosal, J. P. Reynolds, W. Taulby.
Minim Department.
First Honors were awarded to P. Nelson, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, R. Pleins, W. Coolbaugh, G. Lowrey.
Second Honors were awarded to W. A. McDevitt, H. A. Riopelle, G. H. Hadden, C. G. Reif, J. M. Scanlan, Harry C. Kitz, C. J. Kauffman, A. Rheinboldt, John Inderrieden Jos. Inderrieden, Charles Long, A. J. Sehnert, F. O. Carque-ville, A. M. Coghlin, W. L. Coghlin, P. M. Heron, E. H. Carqueville, W. M.' Carqueville, Wm. J. Cash.
The Orchestra again favored the audience with some excellent selections from the operas, and then the Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, bade the boys farewell. He spoke of the happy days spent at the College, and congratulated the graduates on going into the world fortified with knowledge tad the blessings of their preceptors, and then reminded them of the duty they owed to their God, their country, and themselves.
The Band played “ Home, Sweet Home,” and, with cheer upon cheer, the boys left the hall, for the Commencement was now over.
I nine
Notre Dame, June 30, 1877.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
Good bye.
Well, the eventful day has come and gone. The Commencement of 1866-7 is now a part of the history of Notre Dame. It was a superb Commencement, perhaps the most scholarly we have ever known. And the weather, which has so often been unkind, was on this occasion most beautiful, for the rain which on former Commencements too often came in the day, drenching our guests and all the holiday company, parents and students, now came pouring down in the stilly night, and lol when morning came all the world was glistening in the sun, while the air was cool and the walks and drives free from dust and firm to the foot and to the carriage.
Where now are all the eager youths that thronged those walks, and .filled the halls with their gladsome presence, the bright intellects that we have watched expanding day by day tor the past year 1 As a mother that watches her children grow in strength and beauty and intelligence, until the time of manhood and womanhood comes on and they pass from her roof lorever, so has Notre Dame watched the growth of them that have how passed from her portals. She has exulted in their triumph, and she grows sad that she shall see so many of them no more, except as rare visitors. But the student who has dwelt within the precincts of Notre Dame is not forgotten, and years after he is gone the story of his success, or perhaps of his failure, is here told to sympathizing listeners. The students of the past year may we think look over the time since last September with almost unmixed pleasure. It was a year of serious, ardent and eminently successful study, and as the result the University sends forth young men from the various departments and courses of study worthy to take their place as equals if not as superiors with any they may find engaged in the various pursuits of life. Many, however, of the bright boys who left us we look forward to greet again in September. May their Summer be a most pleasant one, the mind recreated and the body reinvigorated for the earnest study which is to mark the coming year. Be good boys, have a good time, and. return pure in heart as when
5
682
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
you left, and with freshened spirit as you move on to the goal of manhood that is now so near you. To you we say, not Hail and Farewell, as we must to those who will return no more, but rather, Good-bye until we meet again.
Personal.
—The following dispatch was received from D. A. and W-Clarke, of Columbus, just as the banquet took place: “Absent but not unmindful. We send greetings to our brother Alumni.”
—Rt. Rev. Alonsiguore Seton, of South Amboy, N. J., writes his regrets at not being able to attend the Commencement Exercises and promises to visit Notre Dame this fall, when we will give him every welcome.
—We were pleased to see Fathers Vagnier, Franciscus Shea, Carroll, Alariue and Cooney; and Bros. Marcellinus, Gregory, Theogene, Urban, Bruno, Norbert, and Aloysius home from the missions during the Commencement Week.
—AI. H. Keely, of ’72, took a prominent part in the proceedings of the 6th Annual Convention of the Minnesota Catholic Total Abstinence Union, held at Rochester, Minn. The Record and Union, published in that city, characterizes a speech of Mr. Keeley’s as “ the most eloquent of the evening.”	'
—We are pleased to chronicle the marriage of James B. Crummey, ’75, to Miss Julia Riopelle, a former pupil of St. Mary’s Academy. Miss Riopelle has secured a good husband, a very good one, and Air. Crummey a most excellent wife. May their voyage of life be pleasant is the wish of many friends.
—Among the newspaper men at Notre Dame during Commencement Week were Wilbur F. Story, Chicago Times; C. F. Alurray, South, Bend Herald; N. V. Brower, South Bend Register; C. N. Fassett, South Bend Tribune; J. J. Finerty, Chicago Tunes; J. raomson, Chicago Times; Osman, Detroit News; and J. A. Depray, Washington (D. C.) Star.
—Among the many visitors at Notre Dame during Commencement Week were: Rt. Rev. Dr. Dweuger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind.; Hon. Frank H. Hurd, Toledo, Ohio; Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Onio; Hon. 0. A. Logan, U. S. Minister to Chili, wife and daughter; Wilbur F. Story, of the Chicago Times; Rev. Fathers O’Reilly, Valparaiso, Ind.; Sidley, Sandusky, 0.; Smith, Sandusky, 0.; Hannon, Toledo, O.; Quinlan, Union City, Ind.; Sullivan, Laporte, Ind.; Oechtering, Laporte, Ind.; Oechtering, Alisha-waka, Ind., Horgan, Chicago; Alaguire, Chicago; Noll,Elkhart, Ind.; Duhmig, Avilla, Ind.; VanLauwe,Port Huron, Mich.; Louis Sievers, Chicago; Commissioner Bradley, Chicago; Commissioner Schmidt, wife and daughter, Chicago; Wm. Hake and family, Grand Rapids, Alich.; Charles Walsh and family, Chicago; Col. Torrence, Chicago; Lt. Col. Quirck, Chicago; Hon. A. Anderson, South Bend; F. McCabe, Chicago; J. A.Stewart, Indianapolis; MissH. L. Buck, Chicago; Airs. J. AI. Snee, Chicago; A. J. Thaylor, Chicago; J. Teahon, Chicago; C. C. Connolly, Chicago; Miss Alary Dolmer, Aladison, Wis.; Hon. James Forrester, Laporte, Ind.; D. Kelly, New York city; D. J. Wile, of ’73, Laporte, Ind.; Dr. and Airs. Cunningham, Chicago; P. J. O’Connell, of’73, Chicago; J. AI. Brockway, Chicago; W. B. Rexford, Chicago; T. AlcCabe, Chicago; S.A. Ellis, Chicago; W. H. Ellis, Chicago; Geo. Sugg, Chicago; AI. R. Keegan, Chicago; C. R. O’Connor, Chicago; Hon. J. J. Carney, Chicago; W. T. Ball, Chicago; John C. Walsh and family, Columbus, 0.; Hon. Thcs. Hoyne, Chicago; Wm. Hoynes, Lacrosse, Wis.; J. P. Broderick and wife, Cairo, Ill.; L-Donnelly, Chicago; Airs. AI. J. Pennington, New Orleans; L. J. Ryan, Dubuque, Iowa; W. A. Schultheis, Detroit, Alich; Carl Ortmayer, of’71, Chicago; C. M. Proctor, of ’75, Elkhart, Ind.; AI. Blackburn, of ’76, Lincoln, Ill.; Col. Dunbar, wife and daughter, Waukesha, Wis.; Mrs. AI. F. Hall, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Miss Shea, Toronto, Ont.; Airs. John Clarke, Chicago; AI. Ohlman, St. Louis; B. Alattimore, Toledo, 0.; J. Poor, Lamanauk, 111.; C. J. O’Connor, of’74, St. Paul, Alinn.; Mr. and Airs. Coghlin, Toledo; Mrs. D. Hatt, Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. L. H. Emmons, Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. F. W. Lang; J. F. Johnson, Detroit, Mich.; Jas. McNamara, Dexter, Mich.; Thos.
Nelson, Chicago; Mrs. iW. H. Jones,'Columbus, Ohio; Jas. Breen and wife, Fort Wavne, Ind.; N. Faxon and wife, Chicago; H. andjMiss Abrahams, Chicago; C. W. Robertson, of ’75, Sandusky; R. H. McGrath, of ’76, Lafayette, Ind.; F. O. Rettig, of ’76, Peru, Ind.; F. A. Kissell, Peru, Ind.; E. A McAIahon, of’72, Chicago; H.D. Faxon, of ’76, Chicago; J. J.- Mcgrath, Chicago; Henry Quan, of’75, Chicago; Miss Sehnert, Chicago; J. F. Bridgett, Washington,!). C.; O. Ludwig, of’76, Chicago; Hon. O. T. Chamberlain, of ’62, Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. G. Rhodius, Indianapolis; Airs. Leipsiger, Indianapolis; J. O’Meara, Cincinnati; E. J. Larkin, Wheeling, W. Va.; J. B. Crummey, of’75, and wife, Denver City, Col.; Julius Golsen, of ’75, Chicago; F. P. Brady, of ’76, Versailles, Ill.; Airs. Geo. Orsinger and daughter, LaSalle, Ill.; J. J. Gibbons, Philadelphia, Pa.; William Hoynes, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mrs. C. Coffey, Detroit, Alich.; Mrs. H. A. Smith, Greenville, Alich.; Mrs. J. H. Colwell, Greenville, Mich.; Airs. W. Vander Hayden, Iona, Mich.; A. C. Greenbaum, Fort Wayne, Ind.; M. Wolf, Fort Wayne, Ind.; H. N. Saylor and wife, Antwerp, O.; F. L. Saylor, Antwerp, 0.; Mrs. Gaffney; Rev. Thos. C. O’Hara, Savannah; E. O’Connell, Jefferson, I1L; A. U. Irvin, Germantown; H. Schriver, Wheeling, W. Va.; R. H. Haggerty, AI. D., Elkhart, Ind.; John McMichael, Mishawaka, Ind.; Hugo M. Hugg, Indianapolis, Ind.; H. J. Lenzen, Chicago, Ill.; Charles H. Haines, St. Charles, Ill; James Bradley, Chicago; John Comisky, Chicago; Charles Hull, Detroit; Miss Nellie Talley, South Bend.; Geo. Ruger, Lafayette; L. F. Wilson, of ’73, Trenton, N. J.; J. A. Depray, of the Washington D. C., Star; Mrs. E. Dunne, Toronto, Canada; Joseph Warren and wife, Detroit, Mich.; Profs. Tong and wife, Howard and wife, Ivers and wife, Schnurrer and wife; Mr. L. Ivers and Rev. F. E. Boyle, Washington, D. C., Air. Duffield, Chicago; Mrs. Dr. Barrett, Boston, Alass.; Hon. JudgeStanfieldand wife, South Bend; Miss Hooper, South Bend; Aliss E. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; Aliss Ball, Lafayette, Ind.; Airs. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Air. and Airs. English and daughter, Columbus, Ohio; Airs. C. Hug, Indianapolis, Ind.; Airs. Bergert, Toledo, O.; Air. Rogers, Mt. Vernon, O.; Mrs. Pfeifer, Adrian, Mich.; Aliss Maguire, Sing Sing, N. Y.; Misses Alary and Theresa Cooke, Laporte; Mr. and Airs. Pleins, Dubuque, Iowa; Mrs. Col. Kinzie, Chicago, Ill.; H. Henry and C. G. Conn, Elkhart, Ind.; Geo. Ross, of ’59, and family, Buchanan, Mich.; Mrs. Butts, South Bend; Air. and Airs. Lowrey, Peoria, Ill.; Henry Beckman, of ’72, Cleveland, Ohio; Mrs. W. L. Bancroft, Airs. A. L. Spencer, Miss Kate Spencer, Airs. John Aliller and daughter, Airs. E. B. Taylor, Aliss Laura Bancroft, Aliss Susie O’Neil, Miss Clara O’Neil, Aliss Corrigan, Air. Clint Congar, Air. Arthur Spencer, Air. E. H. Bancroft, Air. R. B. Bancroft, Air. C. D. Bancroft, Rev. Father Van Lauwe, Rev. Henry Ban well and two daughters, all of Port Huron; Mr. Gill R. Osmun, Editor of the Detroit News; Airs. W. R. Bowes, Miss Minnie Bowes, Miss Katie Bowes, all of Michigan City; Airs. S. B. Congar, Miss Kittie Con gar, Aliss Josie Aluzzy, Air. C. Congar, all of Romeo Mich.; Aliss AI. Palmer, Madison, Wis.; Mr.Inderrieden, Chicago; besides a great many people who did not register their names or give them to our reporters. We had requested all students to give us the names of friends, but inthe rush and hurry of the week it seem they forgot all about it.
.Local Items.
—Good-bye!
—We have been forced to let our book-notices lie over until August.	.
—Our next issue will be on the 18th of August. Until then farewell.	’
—The members of the Boat Club enjoyed a fine picnic in Johnson’s Woods on the 20th.
—The members of the Academia had a most enjoyable picnic on the 21st on the banks of the St. Joe.
—Let all those who do not purpose returning in September renew their subscriptions to the Scholastic.
—The Catalogues will be ready in a week. Any one desiring copies may procure them of Rev. P. J. Colovin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
683
—It has been remarked that never was there a more satisfactory and successful Commencement than that of this year.
— Pae difference between Fitzgerald and Patterson for the medal in cue Commercial Course was only one-eleventh per cent.
—Parties desiring Catalogues of the University of Notre Dame can procure them by addressing Rev. P. J. Golovin Notre Dame, Ind.
—The cornet playing of Messrs. Henry and Conn at the Commencement was really superb, and was worthy the applause which greeted it.
—Mrs. Pennington of New Orleans has presented the Lemonnier Circulating Library with a beautiful picture, for which the officers return many thanks.
—Tne Exercises of Commencement-week were admirably conducted. We believe that every bne is well satisfied with tne manner in which everything was done.
—It is worthy of remark that the graduates of this year were without exception members of tne Lemonnier Circulating Library Association. Every good student should be.
—The St. Cecuians now possess a very fine parlor organ, and we feel confident that the exercises of the Association will, the coming year, be finer and more interesting than ever.
—The play of Julius Ccesar was played on Tuesday evening doubly as well as in February. We do not believe that another crowd of amateurs could do as well as the Tnespiaus did. All honor to them.
—The beautiful parlor organ on exhibition in the College parlor during the past week was purchased by Rev. Father Letourneau for the Chapel of the Portiuncula. It is from the manufactory of Clough & Warren, Detroit, Mich.
—Rev. Father Hallinan, D. D., of Lafayette, Ind., has kindly presented to the Museum at Notre Dame an old musket which figured in tne John Brown Revolution at Harper’s Ferry. It was made at Harper’s Ferry in 1821.
—By some mistake the Second Honors were not read on last Wednesday morning. It is to be regretted, but as the Scholastic makes up the deficiencies in all departments, tne Students may read the recipients of the honors in our pages.
—We return our thanks to the President of St. Ignatius’ College, Chicago, for his invitation to attend the Commencement exercises of the College. Our engagements here prevented our attending. We are rejoiced to hear that everything went off successfully.	-
—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Circulating Library will be tnanklul for all donations of books, etc., given him for his Library. This collection of books does not belong to the College out is kept here tor the use of the students; hence all should take a lively interest in it.
—We publish a table of contents for this volume of the Scholastic which the many people who keep the paper for binding will, no doubt, be glad to receive. Each year hereafter we will do the same. This table of contents will be sent out with the next number of the Scholastic.
—At the last meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society gold medals of tne Society were presented to Rev. P. J. Colovin, B. Leander and B. Paul. A vote ot thanks to B. Laurence, B. Leander, B. Paul, Prof. Edwards, B. Alexander and Kev. Fathers Colovin and Zahm was unanimously carried.
—The audience on Tuesday evening was simply immense. Tne number of ladies attending was exceedingly large, and fully three or four hundred gentlemen were forced to stand during the whole evening’s Entertainment. It has been estimated that there were fully three thousand people here on that evening.
—We intend printing in pamphlet form the eloquent and scholarly oration of Hon. Franii H. Hurd, Ex-M. C. of the Toledo district. We will send copies of it to all whose names are on our galleys. Students who procured tneir Scholastics from the office will be forwarded copies free on application. Any one desiring more than one copy should send postage.
__We offer our sincere thanks to the Notre Dame
Scholastic and St. Louis Daily Times for the flattering notices they have recently given us. We have already Called the attention of our readers to the Scholastic, and have now only to repeat wbat was said on a former occasion. We purpose soon offering to our readers translations of a few remarkable articles which have lately appeared in that excellent journal—L’Echo des Deux-JIondes.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic is a sprightly and able hebdomadal puolisued in tne interest of the University. The chief editor is the Rev. Francis C. Bigelow, and during the past year he has been-faitnfully aud cleverly sustained by contributions from the pens of Messrs. W. T. Ball, N. J. Mooney, P. J. Cooney, W. P. Breen, Carl Otto, Geo J. Gross, J. G. E wing, T. C. Logan, and J. P. McHugh. The Scholastic is an excellent school of journalism.—The Chicago Times.
—Very few honorary degrees are given at Notre Dame, which fact speaks well tor the place. Mr. Storey, of the Chicago Times, editorially says: ” Among the catalogue of persons upon whom divers institutions of learning nave conferred various degrees during tne past week, the name of ex-Congressman Frank Huru is discovered. The University of Notre Dame made Mr. Hurd an LL. D., and the distinction is, for once, wortuily won, although bestowed under the pretense of * honorary,’ which has been so shamefully degraded by American colleges.”
—During Commencement-week the students kept Mr. Bonney busy, taking photographs both of societies and individuals. As it is a custom with young men after leaving college to exchange photos with their friends, we presume most of these were taken for that purpose. During a visit to the gallery last week we were glad to see that Mr. Bonney had kept many duplicates of tne societies in reserve. There were some specially fine ones of the St. Cecila Philomathean Association, 8 by 12 and cabinet size. There will no doubt be many calls for them next session, or perhaps during vacation. 1’ne St. Ceciliaus nave good reason to feel elated at their connection with such a society. If any desire copies they wm no doubt be supplied by. addressing Mr. Bouney at his place of business in South Bead, cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.
—Custom has made it necessary to inaugurate a new organ with an organ concert. The excellent cabinet organ lately purchase^ from the firm of Clough & Warren, Detroit, so much admired by all visitors during Commence-meut-weeK, comd not be deprived of tms nonor, aud accordingly on Sunday evening Father Letourneau invited those wno had lately returned from the missions, and a number of others, to the Chapel of me Portiuncula, where our two organists entertained them for nearly an hour with delightful music. The superior qualities of the instrument were fully brought out, snowing not only power and brilliancy but also a sweetness aud smoothness of tone which all present acknowledged to be superior to anytnmg they had before heard from a reed organ. The audience expressed themselves much pleased with tne treat afforded them, and congratulated the Kev. Father on mis valuable acquisition to ms beautiful chapel.
HoH of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during tne past week nave by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
senior department.
W. Arnold, W. P. Breen, J. Burke, J. Brice, M. Caldwell, H. Cassidy, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, W. Bodge, W. Becuant, J. Ewing L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, J. Gray, A. Hertzog, J. Hamilton, P. Hagan, J. Krost, J. F. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, I'. Logan, F. Keller, J. Lambin, J. Larkin, G. Laurans, N. Mooney, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Matnmore, P. VV. Mattimore, J. Murphy, V. McKinnon, J. McHugh, J. MeEuiry, W. McGorrisk, u. Otto, J. O’Kourke, L. Proudaomme, J. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, 1'. Quinn, E. Kio-pelle, 0. Kettig, M. Began, A. Bcnmidt, G. Baylor, F. Bethink, M. smith, J. Bugg, G. Baxinger, £. Bmith, P. l'amble, W. Turnbull, F. Vander Vannet.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A Abrahams, E. Anderson, A Bergck, T. Barry, W. Brady, A. J. Burger, J. Bell, J. Boehm, G. Crawford, F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, E. Cavanaugh, H. Canoil, J. Carrer, M. Condon, G.
684
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Donnelly, F. C. Ewing, P. Frain, T. Fischael,jR. Golsen, J. P. Gibbons, B. Heeb, J. Hagerty, K. French, J. Healy, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G. J. Ittenbacb, R. Keenan, J. Kelly, O. W. Lindberg, F. Lang, J. Lumiey, F. T. McGrath, J. Mosal, J. Mungoven, E. Moran, R. P. Mayer, A. Miller, W. J. Nicholas, T. Nelson, W. Ohlman, C. T. Orsinger, J. O’Meara, E. Pennington, F. T. Pleins, E. F. Poor, F. Phelan, C. Peltier, W. J. Rogers, H. W. Rogers, L Rose, S. D. Ryan, F. Rheinboldt, J. Kothert, J. P. Reynolds, P. Schnurrer, G. Sampson, K. L. Scanlan, L. Sievers, A. Sievers, J. W. bill, W. Taulby, 0. Van Mourick. N. H Vannamee, W. Vander Heyden, C. Walsh, 1'. Wagner, L. Wolf	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Coolbaugh, W. A. McDevitt, P. P. Nelson, G. P. Lowrey, P. Heron, E. J. Carqueville, A. Coghlin, C. Reif, G. Hadden, H. Riopelle, J. A. Seeger, R. J. Pleins, W. Cash, G. M. Lambin, G. J. Khodius, M. Herrick, U. Herzog, E. Herzog, F. Carqueville, W. Carqueville, John J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, A. Rheinboldt,. F. J. Scanlan, H. Snee, W. A. Coghlin, F. Gaffney, C. Kauffman, H. Kitz.
General Averages.
[In the following list are not mentioned the names of those who were sick, those who did not pass an examination, or whose average was too low to deserve mention.—Director of Studies.]
seniors.
E. Arnold, 90; W. Arnold^ 82; J. Burke, 81; W. T. Ball, 98; W. Breen, 96; J. Brice, 61; J. Coleman, 98; P. Cooney, 93; R. Calkins, 59; H. Cassidy, 89; W. Chapolou, 50; M. Caldwell, 89; \V. Dodge, 68; VV. Dechant, 92; L. Evers, 95; J. Ewing, 95; J. Fitzgerald, 92; J. B.Gray, 82; T. Garrity, 81; G. Gross, 93; 0. Hamilton, 80; P. Hagan, 76; A. Hertzog, 88; F. Hastings, 90; C. Hynds, 66; J. F. Krost, 66; J. Krost, 76; J. Kinney, 89; J. Kuebel, 76; F. Keller, 78; G. Laurans, 67; J. Larkin, 100; T. Logan, 93; J. Lambin, 80; H. Maguire, 98; P. J. Mattimore, 86; P. W. Mattimore, 80; J. Montgomery, 95; F. Maas, 85; N. J. Mooney, 97; J. McHugh, 90; J. McEniry, 99; VV. Mc-Gorrisk, 78; V. McKinnon, 45; J. Murphy, 75; J. O’Rourke, 85; C. Otto, 99; J. Proudhomme, 78; L. Proud-homine, 72; E. Pefierman, 82; J. Patterson, 92%; J. Perea, 62; J. P. Quinn, 97%; T. H. Quiun, 81; O. Rettig, 82; E. Riopelle, 70; M. Reagan, 84; E. Sugg, 79; A. Schmidt, 82; M. Smith, 65; F. Schliuk, 83; G. Saylor, 83; G. Saxinger, 88; E. Smith, 85; VV. Turn bull, 61; P. Tamble, 71; M. Williams, 68; E. White, 83; C. Whittenberger, 70; H. Whitmer, 74; F. Vander Vannet, 94.
JUNIORS.
A Abrahams, 78; E. Auderson, 76; A Bergck, 79; W. Brady, 75; A. Burger (Jr.), 89; A. Burger (Sr.), 96; J. Bell, 81; J. Boehm, 76; T. Barry, 84; F. Carroll, 90; G. Crawford, 77; C. Clarke, 82; G. Cassidy, 85; F. Cavanaugh, 87; H. Canoil, 74; J. Carrer, 66; C. Colwell, 69; M. Condon, 85; Champlin,78; J. Duffield, 70; G. Donnelly, 69; F. Ewing, 81; J. English, 79; R. French, 85; P. Frane, 76; C. Faxon, 80; T. Fischael, 66; L. Frazee, 81; R. Golsen, 81; L. Garso, 87; P. Gibbons, 78; B. Heeb, 75; J. Hagerty, 89; C. Hagan, 65; W. Hake, 82; J. Healy, 87; H. Hatt, 84; V. Hansen, 79; J. Ingwerson, 80; G. Ittenbacb, 71; C. Johnson, 94; R. Jonnson, 85; W. Jones, 78; A. Keenan, 81; R. Keenan, 79; M. Kauffman, 98; J. Kelly, 70; O. Lindberg, 81; F. Lang, 75; C. Larkin, 80; J. Larkin, 85; J. Lomax, 71; J. Lumley, 80; T. McGrath, 82; J. Mosal, 70; R. Mayer, 71; E. Moran, 79; J. Muogoven, 69; J. McTague,76; C. McKinnon, 72; A Millet, 64; W. Nicholas, 58; T. Nelson, 81; J.Nelson, 81; W. Ohlman, 88; C. Orsinger, 85; J. O’Meara, 79; E. Pennington, 80; F. Pleins, 74; E. Poor, 83; J. Phelan, 75; F. Phelan, 76; R. Price, 82; C. Peltier, 86; J. Perea, 66; J. Reynolds, 69; J. Rothert, 71; D. Ryan, 77; W. Ryan, 82; F. Rheinboldt, 82; L Rose, 88; H. Rogers, 69; J. Rogers, 81; K. Scanlan, 93; P. Schnurrer, 87; G. Sugg, 80; G. Sampson, 77; A. Sievers, 87; L. Sievers, 80; J. Sill, 78; J. Stewart, 85; J. Schoby, 80; W. Taulby, 80; C. Taylor, 73; A Widdicombe, 96; C. Walsh, 69; T. Wagner, 78; L. Woll, 78; N. Vannamee, 80; C. Van Mourick, 85; W. Vander Haden, 83.
MINIMS	'
W. Coolbaugh, 100; W. Cash, 90; E. Carqueville, 100; W. Carqueville, 97; F. Carqueville, 99; A. Coghlin, 100; W. Coghlin, 98; F. Gatiney, 82; P. Heron, 100; G. Hadden, 79; M. Herrick, 70; E. Herzog, 65; C. Herzog, 76;
Joseph Inderrieden, 100; John Inderrieden; 98; C. Kauffman, 100; H. Kitz, 90; G. Lambin, 99; G. Lowrey, 100; C. Loug, 72; W. McDevitt, 94; P. P. Nelson, 99; R. Pleins, 96; C. Reif, 94; H. Riopelle, 95; A Rheinboldt, 86; G. Rhodius, 98; J. Scanlan, 95; J. Seeger, 94; H. Snee, 75; A. Sehnert, 90.
—The following is the list of students receiving premiums at the Annual Commencement:
PREMIUMS.
Senior Department.
Arnold, E.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Arnold, W.—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Elocution.
Burke, J. W.—2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Ball, W. T.—1st Accessit in Piano; 1st Prem., ex aequo, in Elocution.
Breen, W. P.—Premium for Proficiency in Piano; 2nd Premium in Evidences of Christianity; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Brice, J.—4th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography and History.
Cooney, P. J.—4th Accessit in Evidences of Christianity ; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Caldwell, M.—1st Premium in 2d Division 7th Latin; 1st Premium in 4lh Algebra; 4th Accessit in 3d Geometry.
Dodge, W.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Dechant, W. L.—1st Premium in 5th Latin.
Evers, L.—1st Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Ewing, J. G.—3d Accessit in Evidences of Christianity.
Fitzgerald, J.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Accessit in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in 4th German; 2d Accessit in 2d Telegraphy; 3d Accessit in Public Reading.
Gray, J. B.—3dAccessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Garrity, T.—4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Gross, G. J.—1st Accessit in 6th Laiin.
Hamilton, J. O.—3d Accessit in IstReading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography. '
Hagan, P.—2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Hertzog, A.—1st Accessit in 1st French.
Hastings, F.—1st Accessit in 2d Division 7th Latin.
Hynds, C.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Laurans, G.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Larkin, J.—1st Premium in 3d Algebra; IstPremium, ex aequo, in Ancient History.
Lambin, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.	‘
Krost, J. F.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography.
Kenney, J. P.—1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 6th Greek; 1st Accessit in Evidences of Christianity ; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Kueble, J.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Geography and History.
Keller, F.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Mattimore, P. J.—3d Accessit in 7th Latin; 1st 'Accessit in Elocution.
Mattimore, P. W.—1st Accessit in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in 3d Geometry; 6th Accessit in Evidences of Christianity.
Montgomery, J. D.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium for progress in Piano.
Maas, F.—1st Premium in 3d Geometry; 1st Accessit in Ancient History.	.
Mooney, N. J.—2d Accessit in Evidences of Christianity.
McHugh, J.—Premium for proficiency in Violin; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
McEnery, J.—1st Premium in 7th Latin.
McGorrisk, W.—3d Accessit in 3d Geometry; 2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in Violin; 2d Premium, ex
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
685
sequo, in Public Reading; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
McIntyre, J.—1st Accessit in Elocution.
O’Rourke, J. C.—3d Accessit in 3d Algebra.
Otto, C.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Proudhomme. J. B.—2d Accessit in 2d French.
Pefferman, E. C.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Telegraphy.
Patterson, James B.—1st Prem, in 1st Class of United States History; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Book-Keeping ,• 2d Premium in Penmanship; IstAccessit in Public Reading.
Perea, J.—3d Accessit in Ancient History.
Quinn, J. P.—1st Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Ancient History.
Quinn. T. H.—2d Accessit in 3d Geometry: 1st Accessit in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Telegraphy; 2d Accessit in Piano; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Public Reading.
Rettig, O.—1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Smyth, M.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Schmidt, A. K.—Premium for progress in Violin; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Water-Color Painting; 2d Premium in Figure Drawing; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Junior Department.
Abrahams, A.—1st Premium, ex aequo, 4th Grammar; 1st Premium in 31 Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Geography.
Bergck, A.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Catechism.
Brady, W. J.—3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping.
Buerger, A.—3d Accessit in 6th Latin; Premium for Clarionet; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Buerger, A. J.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d German; 1st Premium in 3d Catechism.
Bell, J. W.—4th Accessit in 2d Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Catechism.
Boehm, J.—5th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Barry, T.—4th Acc. in 1st Reading and Orthography; 5th Acc. in Violin.
Carroll, F. E.—1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Geography and History; Premium for proficiency in Piano; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Crawford, G. H.—4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Public Reading.
Clarke, C.—1st Accessit in Figure Drawing; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Cassidy, G. P.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Geography and History; 4th Accessit in Evidences of Christianity; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Cavanaugh, F.—5th Accessit in Evidences of Christianity; 1st Premium in 2d Catechism; 2d Accessit in Ancient History; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Canoll, H.—3d Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography ; 1st Accessit in 2d Division 4th Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Carrer, J.—2d Accessit in Figure Drawing; 1st Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in 1st Division 4th Arithmetic.
Colwell, Charles H.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Champlin, W.—2d Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography.
Duffield, J.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Donnelly, G. H.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Ewing F.—4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 5th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st Catechism.
English, J. R.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in Flute; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Catechism.
French, R.—2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Faxon, C.—3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; Premium for Progress in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Fischel, T.—1st Accessit in Piano; 1st Accessit in Public Reading; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Frazee, L.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Golsen, R.—1st Premium in Solid Object and Landscape Drawing; 1st Premium in 2d German; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Evidences of Christianity; 1st Accessit in Public Reading.
Garceau, L.—1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st Division 4th Arithmetic.
Heeb, B. D.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Hagerty, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 3d Accessit in 1st. Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Evi. dences of Christianity; 2d Premium in 1st Catechism; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Hagan, C.—1st Accessit in Public Reading; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Hake, N.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premuim, ex aequo, in 1st. Catechism; 1st Accessit in Ancient History.
Healy. J.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin: 1st Accessit in 6th Greek; 1st Accessit in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in evidences of Christianity; 1st Accessit in Public Reading.
Hatt, A.—1st Premium in Figure Drawing: 2d Premium in Water-color Painting and Principles of Coloring; 3d Premium in Evidences of Christianity.
Ingwerson, J.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Ac- -cessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography.
Ittenbach, G.—2d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in Landscape Drawing.
Johnson, C.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar, ex aequo; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Johnson. R.—IstAccessit in 3d Grammar;2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Keenan, A.—5th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 5th Latin; 1st Accessit in 1st Catechism.
Kauffman, M.—1st Premium in 1st German; Premium for Proficiency in Violin; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Catechism; 1st Accessit in Public Reading; 1st Premium in 3d French.
Lindberg, 0.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium for Proficiency in Vocal Music; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Lang, F. W.—3d Accessit in 1st Division 4th Arithmetic.
Larkin, C. V.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 6th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 2d Accessit in 2d Division 7th Latin; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Larkin, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Division 4th Arithmetic; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Geography.
McGrath. T. F.—5th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading; 1st Premium ex aequo in Elocution.
Mosal, J.—1st Accessit in Water Color Painting and Landscape Drawing.
Mayer. R. P.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st German; 1st Accessit in Public Reading.
Mungovan, J.—1st. Premium ex aequo in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Reading; 1st Accessit in 1st Division 4th Arithmetic.
McKinnon, C-—2d Accessit in 1st Division 4th Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Catechism.
Nelson, T.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium for marked improvement in Figure and Landscape Drawing; 8th Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Ohlman, W. H.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmrtic; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Geography and History; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in Evidences of Christianity; 2d Premium ex aequo in 2d Catechism; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Orsinger, C.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st German; Premium for Progress in Piano; 3d Accessit in 1st Catechism.	\
Pennington, E.—1st Premium in 2d French.
Pfittfr, C.—2d Accessit in Violin; IstAccessit in Vocal music.
Poor. E.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Reading.
686
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mar: 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 1st German.
Carqueville, F.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 3d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d German; 2d Accessit in 3d Drawing.
Carqueville, W.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Accessit in 3d Reading; 4th Accessit in 2d German.
Coghlin. W.—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 1st Accessit'in 3d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Reading.
Coghlin, A.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Accessit in U. S. History.
Gaffney, F —1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Ortog-raphy; 5th Accessit in 3d Reading; 4th Accessit in 3d German.
Herzog. C.—3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 3d Geography; 2d Accessit in 3d German.
Herzog, E.—3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Accessit in 3d Reading; 5th Accessit in 3d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d German.
Heron, P.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in U. S. History; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4thPremium in 1st Orthography; 2d .Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Hadden, G.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Reading; 4th Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Herrick, M.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading; 1st Accessit in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Tnderrieden, John.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography ; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Accessit in 3d German.
Tnderrieden, Joseph.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium 4th Reading; 6th Accessit in 3d Orthography; 5th Accessit in 3d German.
Kauffmann, C.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st German.
Kitz. H.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading: 6th Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 3d German.
Lambin. Geo.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in U. 8. History; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Lowrey. Geo.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium 1st Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 2d German.
Long, C—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 7th Accessit in 3d Orthography.
McDevitt, N.—1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 6th Accessit in U. S. History; 1st Accessit in 1st Orthography.
Nelson, P. P.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar: 6th Premium in 1st Orthography: 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in U. S. History; 1st Premium in 3d Drawing.
Pleins, R.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 5th Premium in U. 3. History; 3d Accessit in 1st German.
Reif, C.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th‘ Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Ac
Phelan. F.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Catechism.
Price, R.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 1st, Premium in 2d Geography.
Rose, I.—3d Accesssit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Reynolds. J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 1st Catechism.
Ryan. D.—2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Rheinboldt, F.—2d Accessit in 2d Geography; 4th Accessit in Violin.
Rogers. J.—2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Rothert, J.—1st Accessit in 2d Class of Telegraphy; 1st Accessit in Violin.
Scanlan, K.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Geography and Historv: 1st Accessit in 3d Catechism; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution; 1st Accessit in 2d French.
Schnurrer. P.—1st Accessit in 1st German.
Sugg. G.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; Premium in Flute; 4th Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading.
Schoby, J.—1st Premium in 2d Division 4th Arithmetic.
Sievers. A.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar: 1st Accessit in 2d Reading; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 2d Geography; Premium for Progress in Violin; Premium in Cornet. _
Sievers. L.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar: 1st Premium, ex aequo, 2d Orthography; 1st. Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in Piano.
Stewart, .T. W.—3d Accessit in 2d Division 7th Latin.
Schlink, F.—2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Saylor, G. B.—1st Accessit in Penmanship.
Saxtnger, G.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 1st Reading and Orthography: 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Ac-cessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st French.
Smith, E.—1st Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthog-ranhv; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Taulby, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in Violin; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Catechism; 1st Accessit in 3d French.
Tamble, P.—l=t Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Vander Vannet, F.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in History (U. S.); 4th Accessit in 1st BookKeeping; 5th Accessit, in Evidences of Christianity; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Van Mourtck. C.—3d Accessit in 2d Division 4th Arithmetic: 1st Accessit in 3d Geography.
Vander Hayden. W.—4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Williams. W —3d Accessit in 1st Grammar:
Whittenberger. C.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Acces sit in 2d Grammar.
Whitmer. H.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthog. raphv; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in Violin.
Widdicombe. W. A.—1st Premium in 6th Latin: 1st Premium in 4th German; 6th Accessit in Evidences of Christianity; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Public Reading; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Elocution.
Walsh, C.—7th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in the Evidences of Christianity.
Wagner, T.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in Flute; 2d Accessit in 2d Catechism.
Wolee. L.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Minim Department.
Coolbaugh, W.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic: 2d Premium in 2d Orthography: 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in U. S. History; 1st Accessit in 3d Drawing.
Cash, W.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Carqueville, E.—1st Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Gram-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	687
cessit in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in U. S. History; 2d Accessit in 1st German.
Riopelle, H.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Rheinboldt, A—3d Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in Reading; 4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 2d German.
Rhodius, G.—1st Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in U. S. History; 4th Accessit in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 1st German.
Scanlan, J.—1st Premium in V. S. History; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Seeger, J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic: 1st Accessit in 2d Reading: 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 1st German.
Snee, H.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Accessit in 3d Orthography.
Sehnert, A.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d German.
1	4^
On Tuesday afternoon St. Cecilia’s Hall was filled with a large audence consisting of the relatives and friends of the pupils. The Right Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C., with many of the Reverend Clergy, honored the occasion by their presence. The pro gramme consisted of the reading of their Essays by the young ladies of the Graduating Class and a choice selection of vocal and instrumental music. We leave the description of the musical programme to a more competent pen, and pass to the essays. “Grandeur of Obedienee,” by Miss M. Brady, was an excellent composition, showing much thought and a well-disciplined mind. Her illustrations of the subject were well chosen. In the Essay of Miss ,T. Bennett on “ True and False Heroism ” were many fine sen timents well expressed; it-was replete with appropriate allusions to historical personages. “Modesty, Woman’s First Diadem,” by Miss L. Johnson, was a charming com position, read with much grace. Miss Annie O’Connor’s subject, “Anniversaries,” an historical essay, was well written; Miss L. Beall’s subject, “Pebbles from the Ocean of Truth,” was treated in a scientific and philosophical manner, showing that the young lady’s mind is rich in ideas; she paid in her essay, a very graceful tribute to the elevating principles inculcated at St Mary’s. Miss A. Walsh chose for her theme “Immortalized Rivers.” The subject was expansive, and rendered highly interesting by the succinct account given of the grand historical events which had rendered famous the names of many rivers—commencing with the Euphrates and ending with the beautiful St. Joseph River. Her allusions to each historic event were happy and appropriate. Miss M. Julius roved through the “ Fertile Fields of Science,” and, like Miss Beall, proved that the scientific studies of the Academic Course has enriched her mind with treasures of knowledge of which she made good use in her admirable composition. A very unique and pretty poem was “Memory’s Art Gallery,” by Misss L. Ritchie. This young lady is quite a skilful artist, and her poem was filled with appropriate figures drawn from her favorite study. Miss M. Craven’s Essay, “Westward the Star of Empire takes its Way,” gave proof that the young lady had studied the philosophy of history and is able not only to draw right conclusions but also to express her •thoughts clearly and gracefully. All of these young essayists should feel highly encouraged, as their productions were listened to with much pleasure: for they were read with clearness and modest grace, and gave a high opinion
of the intellectual status of the whole class. We must not forget to mention that the covers of the Essays were elegantly formed and painted to illustrate the theme treated within. The penmanship, too, was very fine.
MUSICAL EXERCISES, TUESDAY, JUNE 26TH.
As the literary exercises have been described, we propose to speak now of the music. The opening piece was a subdued vocal prayer, forming an appropriate offering to the august Patroness of the Academy. Falkenstein’s “ Ave Maria,” given forth in mezzo voce tones by Misses H. Foote. E. Kirchner and E. O’Connor, was chaste and simple, falling sometimes to a whispering breath of sound, then swelling gently, but never beyond the tranquillity of manner demanded bv the theme, proving it. takes well-cultivated voices to excel in apparently simple strains. Miss Nunning then seated herself at the piano and plaved one of the “Fackletanzes,” by Meyerbeer—a piece difficult for the wrist and finger motion, because it was not originally written for this instrument. It begins with a flourishing blast of “trumpets” imitated by a clear ringing enunciation of the keys, introducing a sweet melodv nnon which the restless bass is ever trespassing until it finally drowns the air under its massive power to give way in turn to another theme of exceeding beautv in a different key, which enhances much the color of tone. A grand bass solo then breaks forth, in majestic bearing, and is rejoined bv the flourishing brasses, which brings the close. Great, credit, is due to the young lady, whose modest demeanor charmed as much as her satisfactory rendition. Miss Cavenor sang Mozart’s“Ecco il punto”—adifficult. sorg and recitative,— trying, on account of the sudden skips from high to low; the beautv of the transit was in passing to rhe points without portamento; the whole piece being within the full compass of her rich voice added much to the clear perfection of her technical culture. The next number, charmingly plaved by Miss Huldah Julius—“Mendelssohn’s Capric-cio”—Opus 33, No. 3.—was in striking contrast to the stirring strains of Meyerbeer’s martial “ Fackletanz0,” beginning by an adagio, so like to Beethoven, containing germ suggestions enough for ten works. The “ presto,” a light staccato of the softest shade, glistened through a gentle, plaintive melody—both increasing in intensity until the melodv succumbs to the madlv rattling staccato now sparkling like diamonds—stopped so suddenly—the listener starts as from a dream “standing on the edge of a precipice”—and awakes to find it a fancy—a caprice. Miss Julius executed this piece and the accompaniment of the choruses with skill, and the many beautiful floral offerings bore testimony to the pleasure given to the audience. Misses Spencer and Cavenor then joined their voices in one of Donizetti’s bright, duetts. As we shall have occasion to speak of these young ladies again, we pass on by saying their duett gave assurance of their part on the programme being in accordance with this delightful specimen.
Miss Spencer then took her place at. the piano, and gave Chopin’s Polonaise in A flat. Opus 53, with all the brilliancy, and effective phrasing, demanded by the broad style, and, as Liszt savs, “the rattling of the swords drawn from their scabbards.” A few long sustained harmonies, and the left hand in rotary motion of octaves bore the theme along on the rolling waves, gathering increasing power to the point of climax—then a lull,—broken, irregular accents grasping at a floating sunbeam of a melody which seems to yield, then eludes the grasp and darts away, leaving a faint minor light in the air. The first brilliant movement returns with redoubled strength and hastening tread to the regular polonaise form of close. The discriminating audience applauded, and we may say there were many among them whose artistic knowledge of music rendered their approval of consequence to the young lady, who also showed another phase of her musical training, “accompaniment;” this alone often speaks, or rather shows the appreciation of a player, and when Miss Foote, the vocal graduate of last year, came forward to sing, we knew her voice would be well sustained. We heard this lady sing last June, and were pleased to find those flute-like tones as fresh and ef fective as ever.
Miss E. O’Connor took all by surprise in her protrayal of Liszt’s transcription of “Faust,” the main theme being the “ Valse a deux temps.” She possesses energy and [facile
ii )■
fl
1,
1
1
688
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
execution. The duet between “ Faust ” and “ Marguerite ” was much admired, so beautifully did she bring out the singing quality of tone which fairly spoke the words. The light trilling accompaniment in the upper part cast a transparent veil over the sweet notes, until they emerged, ending in a brilliant cadenza. The difficult “ Allegro vivace ” which followed was beautified by contrast, and dashed forward with increased power and greater difficulties, closing by full harmonies with both hands in contrary motion, and prestissimo movement. The four young ladies who plaved to-day well deserve the graduating medals which they shall receive to-morrow as a public testimonial to their arduous course of study and consequent triumph. The Entertainment closed with Mendelssohn’s “Lauda Sion”—first a solo by Miss O’Connor, whose clear voice gave the subject—	.
“Sing of judgment, sing of mercies, Bless the Lord in sacred verses, Praise His Name in holy mirth,”— the quartette joining (Misses Spencer, Cavenor and Byrne) the chorus alternating in measured accents according to the words.. Misses Spencer and O’Connor joined in the sweet plaintive strain of the andanfe, followed bv the quartette in a lovely movement; the chorus then took up the theme through the parts in imitation, bursting at the end in full harmony. This song of gratitude to God gave an earnest of the exercises to-morrow, which we now felt assured would be a success.	r
The four graduates in instrumental music—Miss E. O’Connor, Chicago. Ill.; Miss B. Spencer, Port Huron. Mich.; Miss H. Julius, Niles, Mich.; and Miss J. Nunning, of St. Joseph, Missouri—took their places at two pianos, and Liszt’s “ Rhapsodie Hongroises,” No. 2 (now made so famous in this country by Thomas’s celebrated Orchestra) was played with all the caprice and wild fancies inherent to Hungarian melodies; now plaintive and sad, then rushing—threatening to sween awav all musical form—but like a beautiful arab steed at full gallon, ever ready to vield its mad career at the. slighest touch of the master. Liszt delights in such chaotic masses of sound, but never loses the subject. Most of his wondrous rhapsodies are sketches of Magvar life, or the wild stories chaunted by the fire of the gipsy camp. The rendition was masterly; every sound taken by the four formed but one. even the rapid cadenzas rushed through the hands without breaking, each in turn seizing the arpeggiate chords; the trills were the same, and the most practical ear could not. detect one alternation different to the other. The exciting pages towards the end worked the audience to ihe highest pitch of enthusiasm, but the programme would not admit of an encore. When each young ladv received, a few minutes after, the gold medal, they went hack to their places doubly decorated with the golden opinion also of the artists, and other appreciative amateurs.
Mendelssohn’s grand chorus, “Hear my Prayer,” poured forth with grandeur, verve and sonorous volume of tone, and fully realized our foregone conclusion of its success after hearing the “ Lauda Sion ” yesterday. Miss H. Foote took the first solo, and made all feel the holiness of the art of singing; the pathetic words flowed from her lips:
“ Hear my prayer, 0 God, incline Thine ear;
Thyself from my petition do not hide.”
As she finished, the chorus swelled forth the reiterated demand ; then, in quickened accents, she sang a strain indicative of a soul fleeing from temptation, followed closely by the chorus in all the splendor of full crescendos, brought down to the most attenuated diminuendos. A panting recitative closed this part. Miss Spencer then began the second subject: “ 0! for the Wings, for the Wings of a Dove.” This movement was indiseribably beautiful—so longing and tender—sungwith a pathos heightened by the complicated chorus which fell in one part after another, repeating the same words—flying, mounting higher and higher, then sinking to rest in chords of richest beauty but simple harmonies, plainly showing the “ haven ” attained.
The Coronation Chorus, sung by all who were the happy recipients of the crowns and honors, was up to the vocal numbers, and accompanied by Miss Nunning and Miss Hawkins on two pianos.
For retiring, Von Weber’s Overture to “Euryanthe” was played, while the pupils left in the same order as they
entered. Most of the large audience remained after,' and as many as could, clustered nearer to the instrument to see how the brilliant piece was executed and to watch the fingers at the harps. Misses Cavenor and Wilson drew forth a bewitching accompaniment (arranged especially for them) to those who rendered so effectually such strains of beauty, jov and jubilation so peculiar to the great Weber; but in our satisfaction we must not forget the names of the young performers. Misses A. Harris, A. Koch, A. Byrne, E. O’Neil, E. Kirchner. M. Spier, C. Morgan and E. Pleins. These showed that hereafter St. Mary’s will have graduates brought up to her standard of excellence; we tender them our sincere congratulations. After the medals and premiums were distributed, Very Rev. Father General added handsome premiums for superior excellence over and above those already received in the Art Department, French, German and Latin, etc., and the applause was at its height when Miss Ellen O’Connor, of Chicago, Ill., received this testimonial of approval for instrumental and vocal music from the hand which so often had been raised to bless the efforts of these.dear pupils of St. Mary’s Academy and Conservatory of Music.
Wednesday, the 27th, was the grand day The number of visitors present was so great that St. Cecilia’s Hall was densely crowded, and many had to be contented to form an outside audience. Fortunately the weather was delightful, and the occasion such a happy one that every one enjoyed the scene. At the appointed signal the first notes of Wagner’s grand Kaiser March, performed on two harps and four pianos, announced the entrance of the Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, and the Very Rev. Father Superior General, with Rev. Father Boyle, the orator of the day, and a number of the Rev. clergy from the dioceses of Fort Wayne .Chicago, Cleveland and Detroit. Then the pupils entered from the opposite doors of a richly carpeted elevated stage, and as each one—Minim, Junior, Senior, and finally the Graduates—gracefully saluted the audience and retired to her place on the seats arranged in tiers back of the stage, it seemed as if a summer snow-storm had fallen upon a bed of roses; and all the while the master mind was sending forth his.themes and harmonies through the one hundred fingers touching^ delicately thekeys of the p'anos or strings of the harps, making one of those combinations for the eye and ear in which the great modern composers most delight, thereby gaining the accessories which nature gives to the wondrous power of sound. Misses E. O’Connor and D. Cavenor were’ the harpists; Misses B. Spencer, H. Hawkins, H. and M. Julius, J. Nunning, M. Cravens, B. Wilson and C. Silverthorne, the pianists. The Entrance March being ended, the Vocal Class came forward and formed a semicircle, the two soloists, Misses H. Foote and E. O’Connor, in the centre; Miss Clara Silverthorne commenced the prelude to Rossini’s “Stabat Mater,” the No. 8 “Inflammatus’’ being the one selected from his beautiful work. After a few bars she took the pusle-beating accompaniment, in full chords, but so soft and mysterious, the soul at once recognized the “weeping Mother ” and holy women of Calvary. Miss Foote’s subdued but thrilling solo stole on the ear so tenderly that the audience held their very breath, so earnest and sympathetic had they become through the combined influence of voice and touch. The grand chorus then burst forth— the words and accompaniment expressive of the final judgment-day. Miss O’Connor’s solo soared above a vocal accompaniment in full voice, which died away and left her alone, with that heart-beating even more subdued than before in sound, but like a loud whisper, heard even outside. How simple and fervent the voice became, the expression so truthful and religious, still the perfection of the “canta-bile,” ornamented by chain trills and runs so light and graceful, but never encroaching on- the feeling of awe which the chorus in its sostenuto spread over all. We have not space to speak as we would wish of the many beautiful voices. Such chorus practice must produce happy results. Miss O’Connor then seated herself at the splendid Erard harp; she played Godefroid’s famous “Dansedes Sylphrs.” This piece contains most of the difficulties of harp-playing —“harmonies” single and in chorals, “enharmonic” scale passages in thirds, “ Etoufees," and what is' most grateful to the instrument, the long, sweeping “arpeggios” which cannot be rendered on any-other. No sound touches the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
689
heart equal to the melting rich tones of the harp. The vocal number, from “Moses in Egypt-,” was also by Rossini—a quintette composed <>f the very best cultured voices. We never heard “Celestial Love is breathing ” given with such sweet notes. .Miss Cavenor commenced, with her full mellow voice, in tones so soft, and low that one knew not if it were a human voice or the overtones of the piano; a slight swell, however. betrayed the vocalist. At this point Miss E. O’Connor joined her bird-like tones so sweet in quality one never dreamed how high they were; blending together for a few bars, Miss C. Morgan took up the melodious thread; in the same manner Miss Spencer added another of silvery shade, sparkling through those already woven into entrancing harmonies. Miss Byrne joined her deep notes to the heavenly sounds which for a single instant gushed in brightness to fade away like a beautiful dream.
The Vocal Graduates next appeared, each singing a solo. Miss Spencer is endowed with a fine voice and sings with intelligence and feeling. She has diligently brought out, by study, the qualities nature has imparted; she possesses the art of regulating her voice with firmness, and under-• stands the management of its powers; Accomplishments do not come by intuition, and can be only acquired by years of patient practice. She sang “Trois Variations” on a subject from “Crown Diamonds,” which displayed her skill in the execution of trills, groups, and all kind of “ fioritures,” with ease, rapidity and exquisite taste which enchanted the audience. Miss E. O’Connor, who had appeared in the previous choruses, next sang with charming skill and eclat the famous “Air and Variations ” by Proch, in which her brilliant execution was especially conspicuous. The chain trills, roulades and difficult passages were accomplished with perfect ease by this gifted young lady. These variations display fine voice-culture, seldom obtained by the young amateur. Both Misses Spencer and O’Connor fairly won the beautiful medals given in the Vocal Department, and the shower of flowers from loving friends and charmed listeners.
WEDNESDAY, THE 27TH.
The Musical exercises of Commencement-Day having been fully and connectedly described, we will now give an account of the highly interesting exercises with which the music was interspersed. First the distribution of premiums, commencing with the Primary Department. Premiums were awarded in spelling, reading, arithmetic, grammar, geography and penmanship. In the Preparatory Course, in the same studies (advanced course) United States History added. In the Academic Course, grammar, rhetoric, university arithmetic, algebra, natural philosophy, ancient history, chemistry, geometry, botany, logic, mental philosophy, criticism, English literature, with advanced course of Latin, French, and German. We noticed that through all th e classes premiums were awarded for excellence in book-keeping, penmanship, elocution, composition, plain sewing, fancy-work, and (in the highest classes) domestic economy. The French, Latin and German languages form a part of the Academic Course. Many pupils received high premiums for proficiency in these languages. The pupils in the Conservatory of Music and Art Department won splendid premiums. There were four graduates in music, viz.: Misses E. O’Connor, of Chicago, Ill.; B. Spencer, of Port Huron, Mich.; H. Julius, of Niles, Mich.; and J. Nunning, of St. Joseph, Mo. In the Conservatory and Art School the pupils are thoroughly and systematically drilled in the first principles of music and art, and then carried as far in the higher grades as their talents will permit. The number of talented pupils who meet at St. Mary’s excite a spirit of generous emulation, hence the eminent success in each department. Special prizes in form of elegantly bound books were given by Very Rev. Father General for superior excellence in music to Miss E. O’Connor; in painting to Miss E. Ritchie; in French to Misses E. and M. Thompson, and in German to Miss A. O’Connor.
The dignity of these exercises was most amusingly interrupted by a comic entertainment given by thirteen little Minim girls, who in a very original style personated the original thirteen States. If we may judge by the peals of laughter and sounds of applause elicited by these comic little girls we must say that their entertainment was a success. Each of the States did her part well, but the Old
Dominion State, personated by E. Mulligan, was particularly impressive. Miss M. Ewing, of the Junior Department, introduced the Minims in a very happy and humorous prologue. Lest, any one should imagine that these comic Minims are not good and studious, we will mention that these same Minims received 100 for lessons at examination and each of them a full crown at the destribution of honors. The cast of characters in “ The Original Thirteen ” was.- “ Virginia,” E. Mulligan; “ Maryland,” L. Cox ; “N. Carolina,” J. Butts; “S. Carolina,” A. Getty; “Georgia,” A. Williams; “Mrs. Boston Massachusetts,” N. Hackett; “New Jersey,” M. Robinson; “Rhode Island,” E. Wooten; “Delaware,” A. Cox; “Connecticut,” L.Van-Namee; “N. Hampshire,” F. Fitz; “New York,” M. Lambin ; “ Pennsylvania,” L. Ellis. This digression over, the order of the exercises was resumed, and graduating medals were conferred in the Academic Course on Misses M. Cravens of Cheyenne, Dakota; E. Ritchie, Pinckneyville, Ill.; M. Faxon, Chicago; A. O’Connor, Chicago, Hl.; L. Beal, Washington, D. C.; M. Julius, Niles, Mich.; M. J. Brady, Varsailles, Ill.; L. Johnson, Elkhart, Ind.; A. Walsh, Chicago, Ill.; J. Bennett, Paw Paw, Mich. In the Conservatory of Music, graduating medals were conferred on Misses Ella O’Connor, of Chicago; B. Spencer, of Port Huron, Mich.; H. Julius, of Niles, Mich., and J. Nunning, of St. Joseph, Mo. Then a number of the Senior young ladies received their rewards for superior excellence in politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment. The list of these will be found in the Annual Catalogue. Many Juniors and all the Minims were also crowned or decked with wreaths of flowers. The appearance of such a number of crowned heads was certainly charming, and as these happy maidens sang their coronation chorus one might easily imagine that the joy of that occasion was a sufficient reward for the self-restraint they had at times imposed upon themselves for the sake of giving joy to their dear parents who love them so well. Miss M. Faxon, of Chicago, now came forward to read the Valedictory. It was a beautiful poem, replete with elevated thoughts and grateful affection, and was read with great tenderness. The closing remarks of Rev. Father Boyle, of Washington, D. C., were most eloquent and impressive. Every one listened with delight to the lofty sentiments and grand principles set forth in his discourse, and if the pupils act up to the high standard he placed before them their lives will indeed be noble.	'
The exercises being now over, the pupils retired in the same graceful manner in which they had entered. The audience then adjourned to the dining-halls, and were there, hospitably entertained. The number of guests was about nine 'hundred. The programme of the day had been happily carried out, and now commenced the parting scenes, which, though often tearful, were full of the joyous anticipations of happy school-girls, and the satisfaction of delighted parents whose hearts had been made glad by the interesting events and beautiful scenes connected with a Commencement-Day at St. Mary’s.
ART DEPARTMENT.
Two, no, not quite two whole lines on the programme for Tuesday and Wednesday, so attracted the eye by the very minuteness of their type, that we found out that we could see an exhibition of drawings and paintings by going to St. Luke’s Studio! We wondered if the small type was intended to prepare us for the smallness of the Exhibition ; but when we came to the open door we found ourselves on the threshold of a large, airy hall, so adorned by its inmates and possessors that we began to realize what the “Decorative Art Societies” mean. A single glance showed us that decorative art had found a home at Saint Mary’s. On the centre of the opposite wall was a floral cross—we mean a representation of one, for many of the flowers looked as if they might be smelled or plucked,— and on the top of its richly decorated frame stood a small statue of the Blessed Virgin, with sprays of ferns and the hare-bell of St. Mary’s in vases beside it; still above this a picture of St. Luke, Evangelist, as patron of the department; the whole enclosed in an arch of passion vines in bloom, the symbolic flowers hanging in their perfection of Apostolic petals, Crown of Thorns, Pillar of Scourging, the Five Wounds and the Three Nails, from their stems. The whole was a device of decorative art which showed that
690
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the immediate instruction given to the pupil through pencil or brush was not the only artistic instruction received by the pupils at Saint Mary’s. From this charming centrepiece, we turned, by the advice of those in attendance, to the screen on the right hand, to see how the pupils had progressed during one short scholastic year, from the very first principles of the art to a more than creditable delineation of landscapes. The very youngest of the class, little Julia Butts, had even drawn bier branch, although she only began in February; while-Misses Alice Getty and Alice ■Williams, Miss Katie Gibbons and Miss M. Spier, had landscapes before leafage, and Miss Clara Silverthorne the same scene with its rustic letters as the others, with a landscape in the full foliage of June. We dwell upon these lanscapes and these rustic monograms as showing a carefulness of teaching truly admirable, while they also show the uncommon facilities enjoyed in landscape art at Saint Mary’s. Those who draw landscapes now, will soon paint these same lovely scenes in water colors; for, on the other side of the screen we find some names of great merit in the pencil department coming out in fair colors. Miss M. E. Smalley, who began the year as a beginner, has not only her cubes and ovals, her spring landscape and delicate studies of leaf and flower, but careful and even brilliant studies in water-colors. A catacomb lamp with its appropriate landscapes, an amaryllis in royal crimson and gold, showing an admirable method of coloring, and finally among others, a pinel in which wood adorned with pansies of the choicest tints and arranged so as to bring out the peculiarities of each, convinced us that her scholastic year had borne a rich harvest. Misses M. and E. Thompson had choice and varied studies, including drawings from casts, cubes, cylinders, ovals, in India-ink of marvellous transparency of tint, and shadow, and strength of relief; panels of wildflowers, azilias and the flowering quince; wild roses and harebells on white silk, fruit-pieces in colored crayons, and a black panel table-top giving the family coat of arms, in gold and silver leaf. They deserve great credit for their assiduity and taste. Miss Lizzie Kirchner, had also her studies in India-ink, a study of shells and autumn berries, a lovely spray of tea roses, a panel of blushing wild roses, and a monogram on white silk of real beauty. This young lady is on the way to uncommon merit. Miss Alice Cullen had a pretty bird’s nest in color, but the spring term had evidently been given to an elaborate floral cross, embracing many choice flowers and standing on a slab of African marble, with a golden atmosphere for a relief. There are so many artistic difficulties to be overcome in such a subject that she may well be congratulated on her success. Making the passion vine arch our link between the -water and oil-colors, we find Miss Pauline Gaynor the artist of the floral cross in oil, and Miss M. Schultheis of the shells on the white marble table-top below it. This young lady had also her bluejay panel, and fruit piece. Miss M. O’Connor’s group of early autumn apples, her panels of pansies and fuschias, her table top of apples, blossoms and a bird’s nest lead us to expect a good deal from hor next year. Miss A. Koch’s basket of California grapes, and pears, her panels of marcissus, lilies, tea roses and pansies; Miss Moran’s of tube-roses, geraniums, fuschias and pansies all showed exceeding delicacy of taste and skill. Miss D. Cavenor’s shells and fruits, companion pieces, an amaryllis of great brilliancy, and rustic cross of laurel overrun with a passion vine, and Miss C. Morgan’s elaborate fruit-piece, a stem of pink hyacinths, her table-top with its golden oreole lying dead beside its rifled nest, attracted admiring attention. Miss Emma Lange’s studies may be cited as remarkable for their simplicity of design and truly charming, although youthful, execution. Two panels of modest spring flowers, with a panel of autumn leaves and fems with its scroll of birch bark and its motto, “ As leaves we fade,” and a pearl-tinted shell with heliotrope and white azalia, give a promise of something more than mere amateur excellence. Miss Lizzie Ritchie not only decorated several small holly wood pieces and designs on white silk, but executed in oil a cross of Oriental granite from real specimens, with flowers of such perfection in drawing and coloring as to be a veritable work of art. The suggestive and delicate design on her graduating Essay was an original idea executed by her own hand.
Although the Fancy-work room is not supposed to be in
cluded in the Art Department, we found in the one at St. Mary’s evidences of the influence of the artistic education carried on there in such perfection. Besides the usual pieces in cross and embroidery stitch, from sofa cushions to rugas, there were be tutiful original designs worked on toilette cushions, handkerchief cases, watch cases, and in several instances groups of flowers, monograms and wreaths, painted with exceeding delicacy and taste. The glory of the room, however, was a set of Corpus Christi Vesper vestments, cope, veil, and burse; all of such richness and vigor of design and color as to deserve a detailed description, and refleetingsueh a credit upon the Art Department as nothing but a consecration to religious purposes can give. It is when our sacristy closets and our chapel walls are enriched that Art serves her grand purpose. And this leads us to mention, however brieflv, the painting of the Immaculate Conception hanging in one of the Academy parlors, executed the past year. It is a true chapel picture, and by its refined spirituallity would well grace St. Miry’s favorite shrine, her richly privileged Loreto.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO * NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trank Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest-and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Isjthe .'only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
.FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. atJOmaha for all far West points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & North-Western Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street,, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
691
Attorneys at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN de HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’66), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «& MITCHELL [N. 8. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
T UCIUS G. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor -LU at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No. 2 Arnold’s Block. South Bend, Ind.
rpHOMAS B, CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at JL Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
TUAJNINIING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], At-_L' torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago,' Ill.
JOHN F. MoHEGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE <fc MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WTjILIA M J. CTj A RKE (of ’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
Time Table-June 2A, 1877.
	•Mall.	•Day Express.		•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night. Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 9 23 “ 10 46 “ 12 25 p.m 3 35 “ 6 25 “	6 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 38 p.m 4 05 “ « 20 “		3 45 p.m 6 25 “ 8 20 “ 10 10 “ 5 20 a.m 8 40 “	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 pm 1115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 am
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 16 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		5 00 a.m 8 00. “ 5 CO a.m 7 00 “ 8 10 “ 10 30 “	6 05 p.m 9 30 “ 12 16 a.m 2 35 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	9 50 pan 12 45 a.m 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “
INlies and South Bend Division.						
•GOING NORTH. Lv.fSo. Bend—8 30 a.m. 630 p.m. “ N. Dame— 837“	635 “ Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “			•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— • 7 05 a.m. 415 pan “ N. Dame— 740 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “			
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Hbnby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Eluott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
TAMES A.. O’REUjTjY—of’®.—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75], Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for -Ci- St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian.published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clabke, op ’70.
THE A.VE M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.	.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all * customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books, Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
'COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. AH collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens
Hotels.
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox
$ 50	91	$1 50
1 50	3	6
100
200
300
CIRCLE HOUSE. On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger.... Amateur’s size, 2)4 in. x 1)4—___
High School or Acad. size,2)4x3)4 in.shelf specimens
College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens........
$ 1
5
10
25 500|
$ 2
10
25
50 100
$ 3
25
50 100. 300
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
mHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-
I jgan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
mHE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wa-.1 bash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
A, E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy, fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural 8a^ encts and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New fork.
692
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway
On and after Sunday May. 13,1877, trains trill leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m: Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
H 22 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50pm; Cleveland 10 30 pm; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 pm. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 1056 p m; Cleveland 1 44 am; Buffalo 6 52am.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am; Cleveland, 7 <5a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and A pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m,Chicago 6 am.
o 03 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago S 20 a m.
4 38 pm, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago. S p m.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West uiv , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TAaBXJE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,.. ’Rochester, ...	...Leave	11.45 P.m. 12.53 “	9 00 A.M. 10.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “	6.00 A.M 7.45 “
Alliance,	 Orrville 				3.10 A.M. 446 “	12.50 P.M. 2.30 “	5.35 “ 7.12 “	11.00 “ 12.55 p.m.
		7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,		. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,.... Fnrp^t . 		...Leave	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “	9.55 p.m. 11.15 “			 •
•- -	- — T.imfl .. *	.....		10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a.m.	
Ft Wavne.............		1.20 P.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Flvmnnt.h- . 	 -		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,			7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
					
GOING EAST.					
		Mo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago,	 Pkmnnth.		9.10 P.M.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
		2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft Wayne,. 	...		6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
JJrnn 			.....		8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
UnrAftt. 	 				10.10 “	5.20 “	2.48 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “		
Crestline,.... Mansfield	 -	... Leave	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “	1.40 A.M. 2 05 “	6 05 a.m 6.55 “
Orrville,...............		2.30 “	9.38 “	3.40 “	9.15 “
Alliance,..............		4.05 “	11.15 “	5.03 “	11.20 “
Fnohoster	.....		6.22 “	1.21 A.M.	6 9 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	70 P.M.	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. H MIEBS, G. P. & I. A.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE I
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
r. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con; stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Biported and Domestic CIGrAZRS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS B TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, •	•	• ILLINOIS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
■AASTZD
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
M. Livingston & Co.,
A-ZEdZE THE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Bend. 91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.