Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
w Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 22, 1879.	Number 25.
.	Rich. Words from Many Writers.
—But whether on the scaffaid high,
Or in the.battle van,
The fittest place where man can die
Is where he dies for man.—Jf. F. Barry.
.	—It is faith in something, and enthusiasm for something,
k	that makes a life worth looking at.—Holmes.
1	—The heights by great men reached and kept,
Were not attained by sudden flight ;
But they, while their companions slep*’.
Were toiling upwards in the light.—Longfellow.
—The thing most specious cannot stead the true:
Who would appear clean must be clean all through.—A. Gary.
—	Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them.—Holmes.	.
—	I look upon death to be as necessary to our constitution as sleep. We shall rise refreshed in the morning.— Franklin.	' - _
—	Civility costs nothing, and buys everything.—Mary W. Montague.
—Do you covet learning’s prize 1
Climb her heights and take it.
In ourselves our fortune lies ;
Life is what we make it.—**
—It is well to think well. It is divine to act well.— Horace Mann.
—One and God make a majority.—Frederick Douglass.
—One impulse from a vernal wood May teach you more of man, Of moral evils and of good. Than all the sages can.—Wordsworth.
—If Wisdom’s ways you’d wisely seek, Five things observe with care;
Of whom you speak, to whom you speak,
And how, and when and where.	-
—This is truth, the poet sings,
That a sorrow’s crown of sorrow is remembering happier
-a	' things.—Tennyson.	•
.	—There is no flock, however watched and tended,
But one dead lamb is there ;
There is no fireside, howsoe’er defended, But has one vacant chair.—Longfellow.
—Boston Pilot.
American Antiquities.
BY J. G. E.
It is a remarkable and yet well-established fact that no great discovery can be announced in any department without claimants springing up on all sides to assert, if not a prior right to, at least equal honor in, the achievement which has conferred glory or benefit on mankind. A well-known mine of “ forgotten worthies ” is furnished by the Chinese nation, whose last stated claim is the prior discov
ery and use of Edison’s telephone, known, as they claim, for ages in China as the “ far-sounding tube.” I have also heard some enthusiastic Germans claim the honor of this invention for their nation and people. The origin of this mania may be found in an excessive national pride and a vainglorious idea, that in “our race” is found the acme of human knowledge and virtue. The boast of the Chinese to be children of the sun, and the pride of the Greeks, who called all outside their race barbarians, are but this national vanity carried to its highest. All mankind seems to be divided by each people into “ our-nation ” and “notour-nation,” and to the former all credit must be given.
Solomon said of old, “There is nothing new under the sun,” and men can say to-day of but few great discoveries, if any, that we cannot find indications in many nations that they have at least been thought on and conceived. All races are of.one blood and endowment; and under similar circumstances the minds of men will run in the same channels. So, therefore, this perplexing question of “first discoveries” is easily solved, and does not require intercourse aud commerce of nations known to be widely separated. The discovery may be claimed by each without injustice to the prior right of others, for -to^U it may be, and without doubt is, original and new. But the honor of discovery can only be given to him who, having made it, instead of hiding his treasure or being forced to hide it by untoward events, gives the race the advantages and benefits accruing therefrom.
The foregoing thoughts forced themselves on my mind while reading the origin of our country, and noting the many claims to pre-Columbian discovery. This essay shall treat of those made as happening in modern eras, and shall bit little dwell on those that are ancient and more improbable. i
Christopher Columbus, an Italian of Genoa, on the 12th of October, 1492, first set foot on the soil of the New World. He died in ignorance of the great discovery he had made, but his adventurous voyage opened up this land to the nations of the Old World. Within the present centuries many pleas have been put forward of prior discovery and colonization, notably in favor of the Norse, the Welsh, and the Irish.
Of the three claimants, the Norse can show the strongest proofs. In their piratical rovings, they in 863, under the Dane Gardar, discovered Iceland and Greenland, settling the former in 875 under Ingolf, the latter in 985 under Eric the Red. These colonies have been maintained to the pres^ ent day, and are now acknowledged by all to have been founded as above stated. It is further added that'in 986, Biarne Herulfsen, sailing south from Greenland, discovered fertile lands, which were afterwards visited by Leif Ericsen, Thorwald Ericsen, and Thorferin, who called
390
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
them Vinland. Colonies were then established, but abandoned and deserted in the 13th century. The location of Vinland is unknown, having been given anywhere on the coast from Labrador to the of bays of Maryland.
The absolute and certain fact in the Norse claim is the discovery and colonization of Iceland and Greenland; and the probable and uncertain one is the discovery and settlement of the continent in a tract named Vinland, location unknown. Not the slightest trace of settlement can be found on the coast The so-called “ Runic Inscription ” on the Dighton Rocks is undoubtedly but the rude and illiterate picture-writing of some Indian tribe, and the “ Skeleton in Armor,” famed by Longfellow’s pen, turns out to be but a Naragansett Indian, rigged up for the occasion. The noted “Round Tower ” of Newport, celebrated as the castle of the warrior dead, is now found to be but a wind-mill of one of Rhode Island’s governors; and so the last trace and track of Norse colonization vanished into nothingness. Not a record is left, and the English refugees of 1620 were an unknown race to the natives. If the Norse did settle the American coast, they and their influence had become as naught, and exercised not the slightest influence for good and evil on mankind.
In 1170, A. D, a Welsh prince named Madoj, wearied by the civil strife of his land, sailed away westward, going south of Iceland, discovered strange countries, returned to his native home, secured company to fill ten ships, and, going into the far country, never returned. Strange to say> not one of his adventurous countrymen had the courage to tempt the wave, either through love of and anxiety for him> or through desire and wish for the fair lands of which he told. He slept unforgotten until, in 1660, A. D., Rev. Morgan Jones, a Welshman, stated that on his capture by the Tuscarora Indians he found certain of them speaking and conversing in the Welsh tongue. But all knowledge of Welsh manners, customs, and annals such as are peculiar to that race, were absolutely unknown among them, and therefore the testimony of Mr. Jones has been, to say the least, doubted by all reliable writers. J. W. Foster, in his “ Pre-Historic Races of the United States,” says: “The Rev. Morgan Jones may have been a very worthy man, but we are inclined to question the truthfulness of a statement at this day when the author deems it necessary to fortify it by a self-sought oath.” There is evidently a national pride involved in this story of Mr. Jones’s, and we can lay it down as now approved that the Welsh prince, if he ever landed on our soil, long since passed away, without a memorial left behind him.
The last modern claimant for prior discovery is the Irish. About 540, A. D., so runs the tale, St. Brendan of Clontarf having heard of a far land, sailed to the West, landed in a fair country, and proceeded inland fifteen days’ journey, to a great river flowing westward. Then wearied, he returned t o his own country. The sphericity of the earth, thus de monstrated, was held by many Irish, among them Virgilius of Salzburg. It is not positively claimed that the Irish settled in that far country, but many proofs are brought forward which assert it by implication. Two very enter, taining articles in Nos. 26 and 29 of last year’s Scholastic give all the proofs in favor of the theory of Irish discovery and colonization of America. On the authority of the Norse Sagas, it is affirmed “that in a region called Huitra-Maunaland (probably the Carolinas and Georgia) the Norse found a white people different from the Esquimaux of the ^orth. haying long robes or clpaks, and frequently hearing
crosses in a sort of religious processions, and their speech was the Irish or Celtic dialect.” It was said Suasa, an Icelandic woman, was buried on the way to or from this land, and her grave was found near the great falls of the Potomac, with the following Runic inscription above: “Here lies Syasy, the Fair-Haired, a person from the east of Iceland, the widow of Kjoedr, and sister of Thorgor, children of the same father, twenty-five years of age. May God make glad her soul.- 1051.” Near it they exhumed some human teeth and bones, three bronze trinkets, and some other relics.
Such is the story of St. Brendan and the Irish. As to the assertion of the voyage having been made by St. Brendan, it is fairly a matter of doubt. We have never yet seen the authorities even quoted for its proofs; and, on the contrary, we have been told that instead of the narration of the voyage, the annals only give the announcement or prophecy of the future discovery of far countries in the West. This is but one of many points in which an exami* . nation of the authorities would show the truth in plain terms. The idea of the antipodes is not new, nor is it true “ that an Irish monk, Virgilius, was the first to entertain a true notion of the existence of the antipodes, of the sphericity of the earth, and of the motion of the planets and the earth round the sun.” The last two ideas are the same as those taught by Pythagoras, and were upheld by the greater part of the Fathers, among them St. Basil, the two SS. Gregory, and St. Athanasius. The doctrine of antipodes, following naturally from the acceptance of the Pythagorean doctrine and the tales of Atlantis, was upheld by many Fathers, St. Hilary, Origen, St. Clement, and others. While the voyage of Brendan may he true, the attempting to prove its possibility by analogy with the sailing of the Phoenicians from Tyre and Sidon unto the British and Baltic Seas seems to be but foolish and weak.
The tale of “a white race, wearing long robes, and bear ing crosses,” points to many peoples; and it is also a well-known fact that the cross was at least an object of respect among the Mexicans and Peruvians. One is reminded by such proofs of the attempts to derive the ceremonial and orders of Buddhism from Christianity. The fact of this race speaking the Celtic dialect is somewhat like the story of Mr. Jones concerning the Welsh tribe. The credit of apt linguists has not yet been granted to either authority; and therefore we must take such assertions cum grano sails. But the grand climax is reached in the grave of Suasa with its Runic inscription. This is now known and recognized as a most laughable forgery perpetrated on the public and acknowledged by its author, who had set the literary world agog over his discovery and interpretation. It is one with the “Holy Stone of Newark” with its Hebrew characters, forged as a relic of the Mound Builders; the “ Grave Creek Stone,” of like import, only produced two years after, its discovery; and the “Cincinnati Tablet” with its Egyptian hieroglyphics yet fresh with the dust of the graver. Reading of such impositions, one can but smile at the simplicity of many so-called antiquarians. All testimony considered, the so-called voyage of St. Brendan appears to be but another outburst of pride and glory in the Irish people, and may be so treated and considered.
The claims of these nations that I have now reviewed leave but these two certain facts behind them: that the Norse settled Greenland and Iceland in the 9th century; and that these people, like all the nations of Europe, held-tQ the belief in other lands far beyond the Unknown Ocean.
i i
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	391
One might as well give to Plato and Pythagoras the credit of prior discovery, because the former held that beyond the Straits lay an island larger than Asia and Africa; and the latter taught the sphericity of the earth. Whether Columbus knew of the Norse and Irish belief is a matter of little moment, since he must have acquired the same ideas from the ancients, who were likely to be far better informed. The world in his day was stirred by the tales of adventurous mariners, and while the dangers of the Ocean were felt, and even exaggerated, the desire was great to pierce the darkness that hung over the far West. The honor and glory of the discovery of the far-off lands of Atlantis belong to that great mariner, who, trusting in God and braving all danger, opened up to the world of Europe the land of the West, and his discovery alone in modern times brought benefit and advantage to the race.
see that mountainous wave! how frightful it is! Do you see it at the dim glimmering of the lightning ? How fast it comes!... Ah, me! here it is!! O God! 0 Judge! ” ... So saying, she fainted away.
The trembling lips of Philodor can at first utter not a word; he no longer perceives the surrounding dismal scene of destruction; he only sees his own beloved sister motionless, speechless and senseless—quite on the point of expiring. At that sight he felt more acute pains than the very pangs of death. “Celinda, dear Celinda!” he piteously cries out, awake! Ah! yet once more let your sweet voice strike my ear! let your beautiful eyes yet once more open and turn to me I let your pure lips once more pronounce my name! Oh! yet once more do, ere we are swept away by the merciless waves! ” She comes to, as if awakening from a deep sleep. Then casting her languid eyes around her, she exclaims: “ 0 God! 0 Judge! there is then no more safety, no more mercy for us! Oh! brother, how the waters rise, and dash themselves against the rock! What horrors manifest the implacable vengeance of the Most High ! Our days, O you the dearest and best of brothers, were gliding away in sweet innocency and unalloyed joy; we must now die. Woe, ah! woe is me! They are no more, those good friends who loaded me with thousand favors and caresses. And you, beloved parents, you to whom after God I owe my existence—cruel destiny, you also snatched from my side and hurled into the abyss of the sea. Once you lifted your head and hands above the waters as if to bless me; but you.rapidly sank, never to rise again ! Alas, they have all perished! alas, there is no more safety for us,—no more mercy to expect ... but what says my poor distracted heart ? 0 God-Adonai! forgive! we die ... What is wretched man before Thee! ” Thus spake she.
Philodor still holds his dear sister in his trembling arm^ bravely but vainly withstanding the infuriated elements. He says to her: “ Yes, dearest Celinda, all living beings have been destroyed upon the earth; we no longer even hear the groans of the dying. The sea is their sepulchre; all is hushed save the heaving of the waves rising higher and still higher. Oh! Celinda, O my sister! yet one moment, and we shall be no more. Yes, all is destroyed: all our hopes have vanished away; we shall die, even naw, Grim Death stares at us; already she reaches her horrible arms towards our feet. But let us not, like the reprobate, await unconcerned the general fate, and die unrepenting of our sins. She shall die; and ... Ah! dearest sister, what is the longest and sweetest life if passed in the forgetfulness of our Creator? What is life itself? A drop of dew trembling on a leaf which the morning sun soon dissipates. Dear Celinda, raise thy heart on high; take courage : an eternity of bliss awaits our humble and repenting souls in the bosom of Him whom we have served, though, alas! not unfalteringly, during the days of our short life. Ah! happy we, if we had believed good Noah’s words! we would now be floating secure on the boundless ocean in his saving ark. But vain regrets. Let us religiously and prayerfully resign ourselves to our impending destiny. Let us aw.ait with calm resignation our sad and unavoidable fate. Soon, O Celinda! soon our souls shall wing their course above this scene of manifold horrors; full of an unspeakable sentiment of future felicity, our reunited spirits shall take their flight to heaven. O Thou, the great and merciful God, it is with such confidence that my soul trusts in Thee! Yes, beloved sister, let us raise our hands
A Scene of the Deluge.
AFTER GESSNER, BY J. C. C.
Already have the loftiest towers disappeared under the swelling waters; onward dark surges roll their enormous mass above the mountains’ top. Alone a cloud-capped rock stands above the liquid expanse. Horrible confusion reigns all around; the unfortunate mortals, who in their despair are seeking a place of safety on that lone rock, utter heart-rending cries; whilst Death, carried upon the waves sternly pursues her devoted victims. Yonder, a huge fragment of the rock, with its load of human beings, falls groaning in the wrathful flood. Here impetuous currents, formed by the ever-increasing storm, carries off the son who is seeking, but in vain, to save his terror-stricken aged father. There a devoted husband is dragging his agonizing wife, surrounded by her grown-up children, and holding in her convulsive arms her darling babe, higher and higher up, along the bleak sinuosities of the rock. Pull soon nothing remains unsubmerged save the very apex of the solitary rock.
There has Philodor, a noble and generous young man, carried his only and all but idolized sister, Celinda. There they stand alone, all alone; the raging elements have swallowed up all the rest of mankind, save the predestined family borne on high in the saving ark. They are alone in the dreadful storm, in the unrelenting hurricane: torrents of rain fall upon them; thunder rumbles above their heads; a billowing sea roars under their feet. A frightful night spreads terror around them: lurid sheets of lightning serve only to light up the horrors of that indescribably awful scene. Each cloud carries wrath in its gloomy mass; and each wave, loaded with corpses, heavily yet irresista-bly rolls before the dreadful tempest, remorselessly seeking new victims.
Tears, mingling with drops of rain, fall fast down the blanched cheeks of horrified Celinda. Said she, with sighs and sobs interrupting her words: “There is, 0 my dear Philodor, 0 my brother! there is no more . .. safety for us!... we are surrounded on every side by inexorable Death!... 0 destruction!.. . O desolation! Lo! nearer and nearer the waves approach us; higher and higher rises the swelling ocean!. .. Which of these foaming waves shall sweep us away ?... Hold me, ah! hold me, dearest Philodor, in your strong and brave arms! Soon, very soon, swallowed up in this universal destruction, you shall be no more!... I shall be no more!... Behold, 0 God!
392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in humble supplications to Jehovah. Is it to mortals to judge of His inscrutable ways? Does He not, whose breath breathed life in us, send death to the just as well as to the unjust? But there is a life beyond the tomb. Blessed is he who has walked in the path of virtue. Then, it is not for an extension of life on this earth that we now pray to Thee, 0 God, our God. Thou art eternally just. Take our life: it is Thine; and Thou art right in all Thy judgments. Bumble ye, thunders; rend open, ye abysses; fall upon us, ye surges of the sea. Praise be forever the just God! Let this cry, dear Celinda, be our last prayer.”
Philodor’s pious exhortation fills Celinda’s soul with sweet joy and strong courage; her whole countenance glows now with ecstatic delight and faith. Then raising her hands in the midst of the terrific storm, she breathed forth these sublime words: “Yes, dearest brother, I am now full of those great hopes. Then, praise the Lord, 0 my lips; pour tears of joy, O mine eyes, until death comes to close you forever. Now, I know that a serene heaven awaits us. You have preceded us thither, ye all who were dear to us; we now follow you; soon w.e shall see one another again. Thejust shall surround the throne of the Omnipotent God forevermore. Then roar ye, thunders; break open, ye abysses of the deep; all ye, powers and elements of the earth, sing the canticles of His justice and mercy. Swallow us, 0 waves! Behold! . . . here comes Death!! She comes riding on the overwhelming wave! ... Philo-dor! take hold of thine own sister! already the wave lifts me up!!! ”—“ Fare thee well, dear Celinda,” exclaimed the generous and pious youth. “ 0 Death, welcome! Behold us waiting for Thee”! “Praised be the Lord who is eternally just!” cry out together the brother and the sister. The prayer is yet quivering on their lips when the dark wave carries off the two remaining victims!
Egypt.
The Egyptians have undoubtedly more claim to antiquity than any other nation of which we have any record; but so lost in the oblivion of ages are their early annals as to leave no conjecture as to their first settlement, or how they rose so high in the rank of nations. Their antiquity was so great that it calls to one’s mind the words of our Lord : “ Before Abraham was, I am ”; for nations have come and gone, living in the brilliant light of their conquests, and, like a meteor, have left but a gleam of their glory behind.
Egypt, however, though conquered, and handed over from one stranger to the other, has yet, by a miracle as it were, always kept her individuality, even in her conquests, not mingling with those nations rendered tributary to her rule. Her extreme age has led to the modern notion of the nations of those days being created by God in a more advanced state of intelligence and knowledge than those which have followed, and which have not preserved the power of handing down to posterity those marvellous sciences and arts known to the Egyptians before the dawn of history.
Nations that have come into existence during or after the power of Egypt as a nation had declined, have passed, as it were, the ages of childhood and ignorance, emerging from that barbarous condition by slow degrees, gradually rising by conquest and individual genius to fame, and have duly ranked in history as nations to flourish and pass away. But Egypt first comes upon the stage, fully equipped in power, knowledge, and wealth, learned in the
sciences, and, above al], possessing a settled constitution, with its king, its nobility, and its various grades of society, and that is about 2500 B. C.
The fine arts, brought to such perfection in after ages by the Greeks and Romans, were doubtless cradled amidst those rough figures and hieroglyphics which have for ages stood unrivalled and bidden defiance to the ravages of time, hidden beneath the dry and arid soil of the desert. Ages have rolled on, sweeping along with them nation after nation, who have left but few remains beyond the gigantic remnants of palaces or edifices, built as mementoes of their power, as the magnificent triumphal arches of the Romans, so plentifully scattered over Italy, and still further back the tombs or tumuli of the ancient Grecian chiefs which still remain along the shores of the Hellespont, mournful heaps of earth, hiding from sight the dust of those whose very deeds have passed into oblivion. But the sculptures of Egypt, finely though stiffly wrought, have brought to light commodities considered of modern invention, and show how advanced they were in the comforts of life, as in a tablet representing the sacrifice, the priest has tied to his girdle a steel to sharpen the knife. Egypt has now once more a chance to raise herself in the scale of nations, and profit by the advantages offered her by the Suez Canal; and as she has passed the age of her second childhood, and time may develop those vast resources which civiliz ttion and modern facilities for trade may draw from her fertile soil.
The first record of Egypt as a nation dates from about 2500 B. C., or nearly four hundred years before the call of Abraham; and then it was a nation holding a prominent position, and furnished with the commodities of life; for they possessed the art of making linen, in which it would seem they had a large trade with other countries, especially with Rome and Greece, before and during the Persian rule, which lasted about three hundred years. The linen found on the mummies is of a coarse and firm texture, as they would naturally not choose a fine substance, considering it was to endure for three thousand years; after which time, according to the Egyptian- belief, the soul would return to the flesh, and merely suffer the inconvenience of finding it rather dryer, but still the same as when it was left.
According to Herodotus, the father of History, the empire was founded 11806 B. C., in which he is evidently mistaken, as Adam dates only 4004 B. C., according to the Bible, and it is improbable that Egypt was inhabited by the Grauts before the creation of man. It is certain that they did dwell upon the earth; for their existence is mentioned in the Book of Genesis as a contemporary of man in the first age. Paper also was one of the conveniences early known: a material has been found in ancient tombs, formed from the papyrus torn into shreds, laid crossways and firmly stuck together, making an even surface. We have borrowed the term paper, a corruption of papyrus in its Latinized form. The hieroglyphics were for centuries incomprehensible, being considered merely a style of ornament, or a capricious idea of the sculptors. Their meaning was completely lost, until about fifty years ago a tablet was found, bearing on one side a Grecian inscription, and on the other the hieroglyphics, which, after immense labor, were partly formed into an alphabet. The knowledge still is very limited, but has led to the discovery that the Egyptians were in the habit of using three different sorts of letters: one for state occasions, and the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
393
others for domestic use, or for judicial purposes; but what renders their perusal so difficult is the combination of all three in one inscription.
Cleopatra was the last of the native Egyptian sovereigns, and is perhaps one of the best known; for who is there that does not associate her with one of the greatest conquerors that the world has ever seen, and by her beauty proving herself more than a match for the hero of 500 battles? After Cleopatra, Egypt seems to have sunk into utter oblivion, as though that mightymtion had worn itself out through the course of ages, and gradually sunk, dwindling away into a people without even a home, pitching their tents upon the ruins of their ancient cities, once teeming with life and vigor. It would be difficult to name the possessors of Egypt since the times of the Romans. Mahomet, as we read, drove the Romans out after it had been in their possession 700 years; next, Saladin set up the power of the Mamelukes, who became so powerful that they extended their dominions over a part of Africa, Arabia and Syria; and then Selim, a Turkish emperor, established the rule of the present, and it continued tributary to Turkey until 1798, when it fell into the power of France, who held it only till 1801. The present population is about 3,000,000, yet in the time of the Romans it was more than double that. But when Egypt was in her glory, and her rule extended over Arabia, India, and Ethiopia, her population was as great as any of the chief powers of Europe of the present day, if not greater. J.
Questions in English. Literature.
[From Rosa Mystica, a manuscript paper published at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.]
If you found a lion’s den entirely free from moisture, what great poet would it represent? Why, Dryden.
What.great poet would have the power to give a final decision on a question of faith? Pope.
To what poet would you give your jewelry to repair? Goldsmith.
What poet would you call on to light the hanging lamps in the study-hall ? Longfellow.
The lowest in the scale of United States money and the highest in the scale of avoirdupois weight represent what poet? Milton.
What great writer should never appear at the table on Fridays ? Bacon.
If a gentleman dining at a hotel had not enough dessert put before him, for what great statesman and writer would he bid the waiter go ? For More. And if he delayed too long, what writer would said gentleman wish the waiter to be? Swift. If said gentleman filled his mouth with Cayenne pepper what three writers would he be apt to invoke ? Dickens—Howitt—Burns!
What novelist makes tubs and barrels ? Cooper.
Why should Mr. Thoms, Mr. Johus, Mr. Addis, Mr. Brons, and Mr. Richards each feel proud of his son ? Because their sons are eminent writers.
When an invalid gentleman entirely recovers his health what eminent divine and writer does he feel like ? A Newman.
And like what other eminent divine does he feel, when he has solved some very profound problems, like the above ? A Wiseman.	_ __________
, —Can printers be good men when they have always the “ devil ” about the place ?.	.
The Importance of Governing the Temper.
There is, perhaps, no source whence arise so many things that are detrimental to man’s natural happiness here below as that of bad temper; hence it becomes a matter of necessity to keep it in subjection and never let it get the mastery over us. The reason should, by all means, govern, so that we may never be drawn away and made to appear anything but what we should be, by any impulse of passion, by the governing power of a bad temper.
We sometimes, strange to say, hear persons declare that they have a very bad temper,—that it is easily aroused, and when aroused, there is nothing they are not liable to do. All this might be termed silliness, did we not know that those very same persons are the first to blame or censure such a defect in others; that were they to hear others talk in this way they would simply laugh at their folly, and tell them in plain terms that he who is not able to govern himself, but allows his passions to get the upper hand of him, cannot be considered to take any pains to eradicate his faults or defects. Hence this very well gees to show that were a person to judge himself as he is accustomed to judge others, there would not be half the dissensions or troubles that now exist between men. What one man blames in another, he excuses in himself; and so he considers unpardonable in another man what is simply the result of nature in himself. This surely cannot be good reasoning. If a man pardons a fault in himself, he must surely pardon that same thing in his neighbor: the nature is the same in both cases. Yet we must admit that a greater effort must be made by some than by others, in order to overcome their nature. Many, it is true, are born with a violent temper, becoming rather to the beast that roams the plains than man, and it must be admitted that it takes no little care, no little suppression on the part of the person that is affected in order to bring it under subjection, and not let it carry him wherever it may please. Still the thing is possible, and not only possible but quite easy if the right means be used.
We are told that the amiable St. Francis de Sales was one of those who in youth suffered much from the violence of temper; but we are told also that as soon as he was capable of detecting this defect he spared no pains for its eradication; hence his success was complete, for he not only overcame it in a pre-eminent degree, but was distinguished as a man of extraordinary meekness and amiability. And so it is that it becomes a shame to hear a man of good sense and reason excusing himself in a very peculiar kind • of way for bis liability to go off into sudden fits and bursts of anger, without any reason whatever perhaps, and all this, to be sure, because be is hot-tempered! Now it may be justly said that a bad temper is a sure sign of an uncultivated mind—a mind that was not bent or rectified when young; a mind, too, that was perhaps flattered by vanity and never kept in any way under control to its higher powers; the lower or the more animal powers . always keeping to themselves the control. And the results are those outbursts of passion that in no way honor the person subject to them. It may, however, be said that when one arrives at man’s estate—one who happens to be born with an uncommonly bad temper—it is very hard for him to cure himself of such a temper, if he has not constantly made efforts and, to a certain extent, subdued it in his early days. It is more easy to bend the twig than to bend the tree, and if the mind is not formed when young,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
it becomes a very hard and difficult task to form, it when old. The mind, then, in order to the subduing of the evil passions of our nature, must be cultivated, and this is in fact the only remedy to the promotion of peace, happiness and contentment,—as an uncultivated mind is something that cannot be very well analyzed—something stubborn, inflexible and, to say the least, anything but becoming in man; for, being destined to live in society, in the enjoyment of social life, it becomes by all means a necessity for him to form a part of that society, and this cannot be done if he is not what he ought to be—a social and a cultivated being.
It is indeed something remarkable that ill-temper, or rather ill-governed temper, runs in families, and its effects are found in them. The child inherits it from his parents: it has its evil effects upon him; the children of this child receive it also as their portion, and so on until the most sad results often follow—results which invariably brand the family for generations. Now the better to avoid such sad results, recourse should be had to the instilling of virtue in the mind of the young, as in this way that ill-governed temper which so often shows itself in men may be easily conquered, and in place of exhibiting to the world a mind tarnished by uncontrollable passions, they will on the contrary be models of meekness—a quality so much admired and respected in all.
It is also of importance to be able, sometimes at least, to distinguish by certain marks those of a well-regulated interior from those that are not. There are some who need but look at a man to know what he is; that distinguishing quality is immediately apparent to them. But this is not the case with all. A man who is humble is in perfect mastery over himself, and in order to find out this, various means may be employed. All know that it is very easy to wound pride, but a proud, man cannot be humble; therefore, where pride is found humility is not, and vice versa. The greatest accomplishment of man, then, is to be able to govern himself, and he who is deficient in this respect can never think that he can govern others, since he cannot govern himself.	C.
Scientific Notes.
—In the Chemiker ZeituAg it is stated that the annual production of potash in France is over 14,000 tons; of this, 10,000 tons are obtained from the ashes of beet-root, 1,000 tons from the suint (the natural grease) of wool, and • the remainder from mineral sources.
—Tae Freeman's Journal says that transfusion of milk into the blood of a patient dying from exhaustion was performed at the Provident Infirmary, Dublin, recently, by Drs. Meldon and McDonnell. Although apparently having only a few moments to live when the operation was undertaken, the patient has since recovered. About a pint of milk was taken from a cow, lent for the occasion by Mr. Moore, of South Anne street, and was directly injected into the vein.
' —Mr. Flammarion, the well-known popular writer upon astronomy and kindred subjects, is now obtaining funds for the purpose of organizing a free observatory on the plan of those existing in England. It is proposed to have the most powerful instrument which the funds contributed will furnish, and especially intended for the physical investigation of the planets, particularly the moon. Mr. Flammarion remarks that it is not proved that the moon is a dead planet, and that the progress of optics is now such as to justifiy a serious investigation for traces of life upon it, so as to settle what opinion should be held on the question of the habitability of the moon.
—The Edinburg Scotsman says that the principal point of public interest in connection with the will of the late Marquis of Tweeddale is the disposal of the remarkably fine collection of birds to which so much care and scientific attention was given by the deceased nobleman. Up till the Marquis’ death it was believed by many that the chances were that this collection would go to the museum of some public institution; but this course, it has been ascertained, is not the one which the Trustees are directed to follow. All the library of the zoological works and the entire ornithological collection are bequeathed to the nephew of the late Marquis, Mr. Robert Wardlaw Ramsay, Jr., of Whitehill, failing whom, to Maj. Goodwin Austen, of Shal-ford, near Guildford.
—A Queensland paper has published a letter, dated Port Moresby, Oct. 22, from a member of the party who are prospecting for gold on Goldie River, New Guinea. They have succeeded in taking their horses seventy miles from Port Moresby, and have been a few miles further themselves. They have not found anything “payable” yet, but have every confidence in the future, as the gold seen is not quite so fine, and the river is splitting into small branches; the ranges and gullies are all showing a little quartz. After recruiting at Port Moresby, the party propose to move their camp a few miles further up the river, and to explore the branches. The writer reports that the natives are friendly, and bring yams, bananas, and sugar-cane, which they exchange for beads or red cloth. He declares that the statements lately made by various persons against the country are unfounded, and he is hopeful that payable gold will be found at the end of the wet season.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Herr Fleichsig, who wrote the book of “ Paradies und die Peri” for R. Schumann, died recently at Zwickau.
—Carl Reinecke’s new choral work, “ Hakon Jari,” was much applauded at the last concert of the Vienna Manner-gesang Verein.
—The little town of Correggio has at last determined to do honor' to its distinguished painter, Antonio Illegri, by raising a monument to his memory.
—Littre has just published a translation into old French verse of Dante’s “Inferno,” his object being to recommend the study of the old idiom and vindicate its literary value.
—Senor Emilio Castelar has accepted the invitation of the Curators of the Taylor Institution to give a course of lectures on Spanish literature before the University of Oxford during the next summer term.
—Rhodes & McClure, Chicago, have in press “Edison and His Inventions,” handsomely illustrated, and giving the interesting points in the inventor’s life, with full explanation of his principal discoveries. J. B. McClure is the compiler.
—M. Gustave Dore has at length obtained official recognition in his own country. He appears in the Officid among the promotions in the Legion of Honor, recommended by the Ministry of Fine Arts. M. Dore has been raised to the rank of Officer in the Great National Order of Merit.	.
—Mr. Murray has made arrangements for a new life of Swift. By the death of Mr. Forster the work on Swift, which he had long projected, was arrested after the first installment only had been written. The many problems, therefore, that arise as to Swift’s character and his relations to his contemporaries, on which Mr. Forster has but slightly touched, still await a more careful and dispassionate treatment than they have found.—Athenaum.
—Literature has sustained a severe loss through the destruction by fire of the Free Reference and Lending Libraries at Birmingham, in England. The unique Shakespeare and Cervantes collections have almost wholly perished, as well as the Stanton Warwickshire collection of prints, drawings, and engravings illustrating mediaeval and other buildings. On the same day (Jan. 11) a fire occurred at Lord Feversham’s residence at Duncombe- Park; the library, a series of family portraits, historical pictures, antique statues, etc., were destroyed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	395
—At the last anniversary meeting of the German Chemi-■ cal Society it was reported that the Committee intrusted ] with the selection of a design for the Liebig monument have awarded the first prize to Prof. Wagmuller, of Munich, the second to Prof. Begas, of Berlin. The monument will therefore be execuied after the model of the first-named sculptor. It will be a sitting portrait statue of Liebig upon a pedestal, which will contain bas-reliefs representing scenes trom the working life of the great chemist; these latter have not yet been definitely fixed. The question as to the material to be used was very warmly discussed, the choice lying between marble—for which the artist himself pleaded hard—and bronze. At last the former was adopted for the statue which is to be erected in Munich; whilst Gliessen will have an exact copy in bronze. A peculiar marble from the Tyrol is proposed; it can be saturated with wax, and is then more resisting to atmospheric influences, as well as in a condition to be cleansed easily. The anticipated cost is a little above £5,000.— Athenaeum.
—German papers announce the discovery of a large portion of the missing works of Johann Sebastian Bach. The discovery was made by Herr Robert Franz. Convinced that the long-lost Passion music and Christmas oratorios might yet be brought to light, he commenced a systematic research in every place where the great master had been known to reside. After much fruitless labor he arrived at the seat of the Witzhun family, and passing one day down an alley in the garden, noticed that the young trees where they were tied to their supports were bound round with strips of paper to prevent the bark from being scored. A closer inspection showed that the paper bore the beautiful handwriting of Bach, and, turning to the gardener, Herr Franz besought him to say whence the precious MS. had come. The reply was to the effect that in the loft there had been several chests full of the paper, covered with old notes, and as it was of no use to any one he had made it serve instead of leather for binding up the saplings, adding that he had done so for some time and found the result highly satisfactory. Herr Franz hastened to the loft, when he was rewarded by finding a chest yet untouched, and filled to the brim with MSS. which on inspection proved to contain no fewer than 120 violin sonatas. His joy was dashed, however, by the certainty that the precious Passion music had long ago gone to bind up the trees, and had irrevocably perished through exposure.
—The rage for “ H. M. S. Pinafore ” is something unprecedented in our operatic annals. It broke out originally in Boston, where the operetta ran for several weeks at the Museum, and meanwhile the Martinez Troupe, originally organized for English opera, mustered on board and sailed off into Canada with it where a squall struck the craft and drove the “ ruler of the Queen’s Navee,” with all “ his sisters, his cousins, and his aunts,” into Chicago, where eventually it went to pieces. About the time the craze commenced in Boston a similar one began in San Francisco, where Mrs. Oates launched another “ Pinafore ” which this week sailed into Chicago. From Boston the rage spread to Baltimore. Simultaneously it broke out in Philadelphia and Washington, and then New York and Brooklyn caught it, and they have now got it very badly. In New York City it is now being played at the Standard Theatre, the Fifth Avenue Theatre, the Lyceum Theatre, Niblo’s Garden Theatre, and the San Francisco Minstrels have made a burlesque of it, called “ His Mud Scow Pinafore.” Besides these troupes, Tracy Titus and J. C. Fryer are also organizing troupes for its performance. In Brooklyn the “Pinafore” is sailing smoothly along at the Academy of Music and at the Novelty Theatre. In Philadelphia it has reached its fifty-fifth performance, at the present writing, at the Broad Street Theatre. It is also running at the North Broad Street Threatre, and the Carncross Minstrels have reached their fourth week with a burlesque, in which “ H. M. S. Pinafore ” appears as “ Henry Moses’ Shadboat.” Besides the professional performances of the pleasant little work, amateur troupes are doing it all over the country, and an organization of this kind is now under way in Chicago. It would seem from all this that the “ Pinafore ” business is overdone, but such is not the case, for every place is crowded where it is performed. What is the inference? Simply that an operetta
of the comic sort need not be nasty or vulgar to make a success. If we had more of the sort, opera bouffe would soon receive its death-blow.
Books and Periodicals.
—We acknowledge the recept of the “ Report of the Secretary of the Helena Board of Trade for 1878.” R. C. Walker, Secretary.
—We have received the Centennial Echo and New Era for February. It is an interesting monthly and is fully worth the subscription price of $1 a year. Address, Rev. M. McDonnell, Batavia, New York.
—We have received the “Tenth Annual Report of St. Mary’s Industrial School,” Carroll P. O., Maryland. This institution is one worthy the attention of all men who have any interest in our charitable houses.
—We do not know why, but the February number of Donahoe's magazine did not reach us. The March number comes to hand with a well selected collection of good reading matter, which gives us every reason to believe that the good opinion of the Magazine as expressed in our notice of the January number was quite correct. The following are the contents of the March number: I, Seventeenth of March; II, Temptations -that beset Girls,—Life of St Patrick; III, The Renowned Hugh O’Neil; IV, Irish Music and Musicians; V, Balance to Partners; VI, The Bar Life of O’Connell; VII, Murder will out: or, the Vengeance of God; VIII, Woman’s Influence; IX, I longed to be a Catholic; X, Julia Marron; XI, A Chapter in our Future History; XII, St. Patrick; XIII, Dean Stanley’s Impressions of America; XIV, Another Possible Difficulty for England; XV, The British Empire; XVI, What sort of a man shall I have? XVII, Coasting; XVIII, Criminal and Judicial Statistics of Ireland and England; XIX, An Outlook of the Church in the Republic and Elsewhere; XX, The first Sigeor of Magna Charta; XXI, The Humorist; XXII, Chat with Our Lady Readers; XXHI, Instructions for reading Irish; XXIV, Our Young Folks; XXV, Summary of Recent Events; XXVI, A Talk with Our Readers; XXVII, Obituary of Clergymen, Sisters, and Laymen; XXVIII, Events of the Month; XXIX, Notices of Recent Publications.	■
—“ Well,” said an impudent fellow to Talleyrand, as he came out of the council chamber one day, “ What has passed in council to-day?” “Four hours,” replied the Prince, gravely.
—“ Mamma says is it not polite to ask for cake,” said a little boy. “ No,” was the reply, “ it does not look well in little boys to do so.” “But,” said the urchin, “she didn’t say I must not eat a piece if you gave it to me.”
—Swell.—“ Well, yes, I was thinking of joining a volunteer corps myself, but it seems to me there is such a lot of fools among ’em.” Volunteer—" An’ you have no desire to increase the number. I shouldn’t be in your place.”—Judy.
—Charles Lavender.—“ Now, my dear Jane, how do you think these spectacles become me? They are my own invention.” Affectionate Wife.—“ Oh, any invention that hides so much of your face must be very becoming to you.”
—“I must get married,” said a bachelor to a married friend, “ for I never can find a button on a clean shirt.” “ Take care,” said the Benedict, with a sigh, “or you may chance upon a wife who will not find you a clean shirt to button.”
—Young lady (just commencing lessons in painting).— “ Look here, ’ma; see my painting. Can you tell what it is?” ’Ma (after looking at it some time).—“Well, it’s either a cow or a rosebud—I am sure I cannot tell exactly which of the two."
____A man who married a widow has invented a device to cure her of eternally praising her former husband. Whenever she begins to descant on his noble qualities this ingenious No. 2 merely says—“Poor dear man! How I wish he hadn’t died.” The lady immediately thinks of something else to talk about.
396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

A'otre Dame, rebruary 22, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct'
A weekly digest of tte news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 lE*er A. n nn in, Postpaid,.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
! The School Board.
The Bishop of Fort Wayne, Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger has lately issued a pastoral letter to the clergy and laity of his diocese in which he says:
“ In this infidel age nothing can be of greater importance than the proper education of children. Who has the training of children, to him belongs the future. We cannot send the children on the battle field of life unwarned, unarmed and undefended. With the very dawning of reason we must instruct them in their Holy Faith; we must warn them against sin before it takes deep root in their souls; we must arm and strengthen them with the means and aids of religion before they are vanquished and enslaved by the enemies of our salvation. In order to do this, we need good Catholic schools. Our public schools, although generally good in worldly branches, are devoid of religion, and only too often are their teachers, teaching, text-books and associations, highly inimical to the Catholic Church. They do not suffice for our Catholic children; with us, religious instruction is of paramount importance. We do not desire to interfere with non-Catholics—they may have their public schools; we only regret that they are so poor that they cannot support them without taxing the Catholics. We regret that so many Catholics do not take that interest in parochial schools which they should, and which the importance of religious education demands. The very persons •who claim that parochial schools are a useless burden, that they can instruct their children at home, and that it is sufficient to send them to Catechism on Sunday, generally neglect this religious instruction at home altogether, and frequently do not send their children to Catechism even on Sundays; and what can these poor children learn in the short space of time and the few Sundays they do attend ? How often, in the long interval between these Sundays, do these children forget what they heard last ? In this infidel but educated age, our children must know their religion better than in those Ages of Faith when so many attacks were not made upon religion.
“We are well aware that the support of good parochial schools is a great burden, but the faith of posterity depends upon them. We know many things are yet to be desired, but
when we see the great efforts that are made to raise the public schools to a standard of perfection, should we Catholics do less, or show less zeal for our schools? Decidedly no. In order to assist and encourage Catholic education in our diocese, we have come to the conclusion to establish a Diocesan School Board, whose function it will be: 1st. To collect reports and statistics from all parochial and select schools, and from academies that give tuition to day-scholars. These reports should be collected during the month of July. 2d. As soon after that as convenient, and no later than the first of September, the members of said board shall meet, discuss the reports, reduce them to a general report which they shall make to the Bishop, adding such suggestions as they may deem proper. They may meet more frequently during the year, as the president or a majority of the board may think advisable. As such committee we appoint Very Rev. J. Benoit, V. G., Revs. Corby, O’Reilly, Koenig, Rademacher, Meisner, and John Oechtering.”
The Diocesan School-Board established by the Rt. Rev. Bishop is that which during the past year we have advocated in the columns of the Scholastic, and it is a source of gratification to us to find that a trial will be made. The Rev. gentlemen appointed to begin the work are all men of sterling common sense, and we have every reason to feel that they will accomplish much good in the cause of education. As years pass by, more power, we understand, will be given the board, and the scope of their work will be enlarged. Every one having the cause of Catholic education at heart has reason to rejoice at this action of the Rt. Rev. Bishop.
^Army and Navy Chaplains.
Some time ago a few of our Catholic exchanges took up the question regarding the injustice done to the soldiers composing our Army and Navy in depriving them of the means of practicing their religion; but all of them, we believe, with one exception—the Richmond Catholic Visitor—had dropped it again, imagining, we suppose, that they had done their part in advocating through the columns of their papers this matter, which is so important to the great majority who go to make up our Army and Navy at the present day. We are glad, however, to see that one at least of them, the Richmond Visitor, kept up this question, so much so that the editors of the paper are using their utmost endeavors to have this condition of our soldiers at present ameliorated, by issuing blanks at their own expense for signatures to a petition and protest which it is their intention to lay before Congress this session. We were asked to sign this protest the other day, and we did so with pleasure, knowing that we were only doing a duty which was incumbent on us and upon every true thinking man—upon every lover of justice and constitutional right in the United States.
Our Army and Navy to-day are chiefly composed of Catholics, who, no doubt, are anxious to put into practice the maxims of their religion, but are denied opportunities of doing so, even when in reason and justice, and without any detriment to the service, they could be allowed. This is an injustice which every citizen should take to heart and try to repair.
Although the great majority of our Army is composed of Catholics, yet there is only one chaplain to attend to their spiritual wants, whilst on the other hand there are more than twenty Protestant chaplains for the minority. Now, we would ask, is there the least degree of justice done by the Government of the United States in thus depriving
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	397
the majority of all religious service, letting them live like heathens and die like dogs, without the consolations of their Church, which the Catholic values so much on his departure from this world ? If Protestant Chaplains are allowed in the Army and Navy for the minority, why not allow Catholic Chaplains, Catholics being in the majority ? Have not Catholic soldiers just as much right to have their spiritual wants attended to as those of other denominations ? Does the Government think that our Catholic soldiers would be anything the worse for having their ministers of the Gospel by them, or that they have not souls to save as well as their Protestant brethren ?
It is a fact known to all that the disorders and excesses found in the Army and Navy, as elsewhere, are attributable chiefly to a lack of sound moral teaching. If soldiers and seamen had the means of practicing their religion, we vouch that half the disorders which are now found among them would disappear. Give them ministers of their religion to attend to their spiritual wants, and to whom our poor soldiers and seamen can open their hearts and lay bare their souls, and it will be found that the moral standing of the men will be immensely improved. What wonder is it, if those poor men not having had, perhaps for years, a chance to practice their religious duties—having entirely forgotten, it may be, those principles of morality and equity which they learned in their younger days, and which it was always their delight to put into practice while they had an opportunity of doing so—what wonder is it, we say, if they become to a certain degree corrupt, and at times disorderly? Deprive civilians of the means of putting into practice the maxims of their religion, deprive them of the opportunity of hearing Mass and of frequenting those living fountains of grace, the Sacraments, and very soon it will seen what an alarming influence it will have over their moral standing as Christians, and their duty towards each other as men.	•
A still more inexcusable fact is, that Catholic seamen are prevented, when in port, on Sunday, from attending religious service. Having no work to do, many of them would undoubtedly be glad to be free to attend to their duties as Christians if opportunity were afforded them. But permission for this is refused, and they are forced to remain on board, without attending divine service, whilst their Protestant brethren are supplied with ministers of their own. It is downright tyranny, without warrant or excuse, thus to deprive those poor men of divine service—men who have served the Government faithfully for years, and who after six days of labor are not allowed to give one hour to the service of God on the seventh.
There can be nothing more consoling to the Catholic soldier than the fact that amidst the dangers, privations and hardships that surround him on the battlefield—where at any moment he may be struck down by shot or shell—than to see close by one who can minister consolation in that most critical moment at the thought of which the bravest tremble and on the issue of which depends an eternity of happiness or an eternity of misery. This is a privilege of which no man should be denied when it can be reasonably granted, and the soldier fighting for, or prepared to fight for his country certainly is as much entitled to it as anyone else.
This privilege, however, has hitherto been denied Catholics in our army and navy—why, we cannot exactly say, • but perhaps it is because those who have the management
of such things think that nothing of good can come from Nazareth. If Catholics were in a minority there would be a plausible reason for refusing them spiritual ministrations, but as they are confessedly the larger number there is no just reason why they should not at least have what has long been conceded to the minority.
_ Personal.
—Carl Otto, of '77, is reading law in St. Louis,-Mo.
—Alfred W. Arrington, of ’70, is in the law business at Meadeville, Colorado.
—Thomas F. O’Mahoney, of ’73, is in the mining business at Georgetown, Colorado.
—Very Rev. President Corby spent several days in Cincinnati, Ohio, this last week.
—Peter Mattimore (Commercial), of ’77, is clerking in the Union Depot, Toledo, Ohio. '
—Rev. J. Roche, of St. Vincent’s, near Fort Wayne, visited Notre Dame the past week.
—Charles Hutchings (Commercial), of ’72, is with J. B. Street & Co., 30 Park Row, New York city.
—We were pained to hear lately that James Dooley (Commercial), of ’70, lost his life by drowning last August.
—Presly M. Heron (Commercial), of ’77, is engaged in the main office of the Western Union Telegraph Co., Chicago.
—Rev. P. Franciscus will take take the place of Rev. A. Louage as Master of Novices during the latter’s journey to France.
—Dennis Hogan, of’73, spent Sunday, the 16-h.at Notre Dame. He was in the best of health, and met many of his old friends.
—Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, of ’74, assumes the rectorship of the Catholic church, Clinton, Iowa, left vacant by the death of his brother.
—Rev. A. Louage, Master of Novices at Notre Dame, left at the beginning of the week for France, where he will remain for a couple of months.
—Messrs. Armstrong, Van Fleet & Co., of Chicago, are building the Tampa and St. John’sRailroad, Florida. The Armstrong in the firm is John M. Armstrong (Commercial)
—Mrs. C. H. Rea, of Trenton, N. J., arrived at Notre Dame on the 15th inst. Mrs. Rea wTas accomoanied by her son who is to remain as a student in the Minim Department.
—Philip O’Mahony (Commercial), of ’74, received lately a severe cutting up in a crushing mill at Georgetown, Colorado. He is now at his home, Lake Forrest, Ill., where he is recovering.
—Nathaniel S. Mitchel, of ’72. spent several days at Notre Daiiie visiting old acquaintances, who were well pleased to see him. Mr. Mitchel is doing well in the law business at Davenport, Iowa. His card may be found in another column.
—From the announcements weekly appearing in the art notes of the Chicago papers it would appear that Prof. L. Gregori’s studio is well patronized. He has on the easel at present a large out-door group of two little daughters of Mr. G. S. Chapin.
—Among the visitors of the week past were Mr. J. E. Schoby, Kankakee, Ill.; Mr. T. L. Willson, Stillwell; Miss C. Mannsell, Chicago.; Miss J. M. Willson, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. Brian Mattimore, Toledo, Ohio; J. Dimick, Rock, Island, Ill.; and the Misses Walsh, Chicago.
—We would again call the attention of old students to this column. They should consider it a pleasure to furnish us with as many personals as possible. There are some who send us items, but there are others who seem to think that there is no use in sending them in. We cannot tell of the whereabouts of a student unless our friends inform us
—Dr. John Hogan, of ’72, spent several days at the be- . ginning of the week at Notre Dame. Dr. Hogan was on
398
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
his way to Paris, France, to make it his home. He has been visiting his friends throughout the West, and stopped here to say good-bye to old friends. The doctor has the best wishes of all. May he secure a large practice in the city he has determined to make his home.
—Kight Rev. Thomas Foley, Bishop of Chicago, died in that city last Wednesday, the 19th. The many students from Chicago attending class at Notre Dame, as well as his numerous friends here, have learned this news with deep sorrow. Bishop Foley was a man of great executive ability, and by his prudence and good management has left his diocese much more prosperous than when he took possession of it. B. 1. P.
.	Local Items.
iX—Both of the Junior dormitories have been repainted.
—A fall of snow prevented skating on last Wednesday. -
—The Minims have any number of games of hand-ball.
—A large audience greeted the Thespians last evening.
—The usual monthly Conference was held last Wednesday.
—Competitions next week will be in the Commercial Course.
—At the Mass next Wednesday, Hissa de Angelis will be sung.
—The monthly Bulletins will be made out next Wenes-day week.
—All the shops at the Manual Labor School are busy with work.
—The skating has been spoiled entirely by the snow and the rain.	•
’	—To-day is Washington’s Birthday. Of course all the
students rejoice.
—The Columbians will celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with an Entertainment.
s'—The swings in the Junior yard have been repaired and ^are now as good as ever.
—Some of the classes have had to be divided on account of the great numbers.
—The Columbian Club will begin their regular meetings again the coming week.
z~An entirely new version of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin” was 'xgiven by the Thespians last night.
—On stormy days like last Wednesday, most of the students spend their time in reading.
—The are quite a number of fine chess-players here.
■/Why not get up a chess tournament?
—A new ball-alley has been put up in the Junior play- , . hall. Racket and hand-ball are all the go.	’
—Why could there not be champion games of hand-ball played to-day in the various departments ?	"
• „ '—Every Wednesday and Friday, and the first and last “Saturdays of Lent, are days of abstinence.
—The officers of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association will be elected next Tuesday evening.
—The query is no longer who struck Billy Patterson, but who sent our friend John that valentine?
—We learn that the Philodemics will have a private celebration of the Moore Centennial in their rooms.
—The fasting table for the Catholic students twenty-one years old and over, will begin Wednesday morning. z
—Thanks to John M. Armstrong, of Chicago, for copies of the Florida and the Surdand Tribune, of Tampa, Fla.
—The snow-plow had to be brought out again last Thursday morning to make walks around the premises.
—Bro. Theodore, head Prefect in the Senior department, is again on duty, having recovered from his severe spell^z of sickness.
.—We do not know of any place where Washington’s Birthday is celebrated with the same enthusiasm as at Notre Dame.
—Notwithstanding the coldness and inclemency of the weather, quite a number of tramps are to be seen around . ^the premises every day.	'
—The Minims were visited in their classes at the beginning-of the week by the College authorities. Everything was found in good order.
—Quite a number of visitors favored us with their presence at the Thespian Entertainment last evening. We will give names next week.
—The Vespers to morrow are from the Common of Apostles, page 38 of the Vesperal. The Mass in the morning will be the Alissa Panulorum.
—The sleighs were out again the past week. The soil, however, was almost too soft to make good sleighing, all though there was plenty of snow.
/Mr. J. J. Shugrue delivered before the Modern History class last Tuesday a dissertation on the condition of /Europe during the eleventh century. •
—A large number of young men at the Novitiate received the soutane and the habit of the Congregation of the Holy Cross last Sunday, among others, M. J. Regan of ’78.
—The Librarian of the College Library acknowledges the receipt of the first five numbers of the 15th Vol. of the “Official Gazette of the United States Patent Office.”
—There have been so many heavy snow-storms this winter that they cease to furnish items. Our friend John says that he wishes fewer of them came on Wednesdays.
—Anyone wishing the Scholastic Almanacs for 1876-7-8 find 9 bound together, can procure them for the sum of $1.50. The four bound together make a handsome volume.
—“I never knew a fashionable who don’t think more of a fool than of an upright, sensible man,” says Talmage. Why do so many fashionable women frequent his church ?
—If anyone has Douagon’s large Greek Lexicon which does not belong to him, he would do a favor by returning it to the owner, whose name is written very legibly on the flyleaf.
—The 17th regular meeting of the Holy Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Monday evening, February 17th. An instruction on the Forty Hours’ Devotion was given.	.
—Rev. M. P. Fallize takes the place of Rev. P. Francis-cus at the Scholasticate during the absence of Rev. A. Louage, Rev. P. Franciscus relieving the latter at the Novitiate.
—We have received another translation of the inimitable Chansons Physiologiques of the Abbe Tirebouchon, which will appear in our next issue, to the delight, we are sure, of all our readers.
—Next Wednesday is Ash-Wednesday. High Mass and the distribution of ashes will begin at 8 o’clock. No ser-?mon will be preached, but a short explanation of the cere' monies will be given.
—Oh, how we wish on rough snowy days, like Wednesday last, that a half dozen, yea a dozen, students would be moved to take their pencils out and help us to fill up these local columns!	.
—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Stanis'aus Philo-patrian Society was held February 17th. A drill in elocution was given by the Director. The remainder of the meeting'was devoted to singing.
—How, about the association that was to be formed among^fhe graduates of the Commercial department? It is^time something was done. What graduates will begin ^ifie matter with a call for the first meeting ?
—It is now well understood that the 22d of February and Commencement Day belong to the Thespians, the St. Ce-cilians have the 13th of October, the Columbians the 17th of March, and the Philopatrians a day in April.
,—There have already coine in many orders for badges /or St. Patrick’s Day. They are printing several thousand badges in our office, on account of orders received from different cities, although we do not advertise for the work.
—The Librarian acknowledges the following donations from the Smithsonian Institute: “Annual Report of the Institution for the Year 1877”; “Miscellaneous Collec- '


A
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
399

tions,” Vols. VII, XIII, XIV, XV, and “Contributions to Knowledge,” Vol. IV.
—Hereafter the name of the course in which competitions are to be held the coming week will be announced, in the Scholastic, so that everyone will be prepared to do well, and will prevent blanks appearing in the report of the Director of Studies.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held February 18th. Master HA Niles was elected a member. Masters G. Schnull and E. Murphy read essays; Masters Frank McGrath and J. Brady delivered declamations. _
—We return thanks to Rev. P. W. Condon, President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., for an invitation to attend an Entertainment given by St. Patrick’s Literary Society of that College last evening. We regret our inability to attend it.
—The genial and efficient County Surveyor, Prof. A. J. Stace, started for the St. Joe Farm for the purpose of iuuy. ning a division line, but was forced to turn back because/ of the great snow-storm. Nothing but the most unfavorable weather causes the Surveyor to postpone work.
—It is said that the thought of not knowing his lesson was the cause of a certain young man going to the In- ‘ firmary last week. Some uncharitable person reported/ that he feigned sickness and that he went to the Infirmary to avoid detention. “Alas for the rarity of Christian charity!”
—The Weto York Catholic is the name of a new aspirant to public favor. It is published weekly at the Boys’ Protectory, West Chester. All subscriptions should be sent to New York Catholic, P. 0. Box 1718, N. V. The appearance of the first number is very fair. It will doubtless succeed n taking a high rank in Catholic journalism.
—A few days ago a premium was offered by the Director of the Manual Labor School to the boy having the/ best competition in the Class of Christian Doctrine. On’ examination of the papers, Messrs. Boulger, Buchmier and Spangler were found to be ex cequo, and consequently had to draw for the prize. Mr. Spangler was the happy winner.
—The 6th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on the loth instant. Declamations were delivered by Master C. Crowe, McGrath,,' A. Campau, Brady, Jos. Courtney, Rheinboldt, Garrick,' A. Coghlin, and Snee. Essays ’ were read by Masters Garrick and McGrath. Master P. Fitzgerald was unanimously elected a member of the Association.
—The Entertainment given last night by the Thespian Association was successful in every respect. The address, the oration, the music and the play were well performed} and reflect credit on all who took part. The audience was; large, but then, that is to be expected at all entertainments-given the night before Washington’s Birthday. A full report, of the Entertainment will be given in our next number.
—The Catholic Columbian says: “ ‘This is the fourth year of its publication, and it is likely to see its fifty-fourth.’ That is what the Western Watchman says of Prof. Lyons’ excellent Scholastic Almanac. Now, Professor, tell us candidly, would you not object to living to the good old age of one hundred and eight?” Come, now, friend Clarke, you know very well that the Professor has not yet reached even the forties.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Edward’s Literary Club was held on Wednesday, Feb. 19th. The debate of the evening was, “ Which is the better form of Government, the Limited Monarchy or the Republic?” Those who took part in the debate were: T. Maloney on the affirmative, and J. Ward and H. Deehan on the negative. The question was decided in favor of the arguments on
' the affirmative.
—A friend translates from the Italian, from which we can see that human nature was hundreds of years ago the same as it is now: “ In the kitchen of an old Roman dwelling, lately excavated in Pompeii, a curious Latin inscription was found on the wall, of which the following is a translation: ‘To-day it is the 28,000 times that I have lit his fires, cooked his meals, and swept his room, and still he refuses to take me to the circus.’ Underneath we
read the following, evidently written by another hand: 1 Women are never satisfied.’ ” It is, of course, impossible for us to calculate the age of the woman when she wrote , /the inscription, or the number of years she had worked for the man.
y	Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, R. M. Anderson, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, T. J. Burns, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. F. Bachman, F. Bell, J. Bell, Thos. Barrett, A. B. Congar, G. P. Cassidy, T. F. Conlan, J. M. Carroll, C. B. Cones, Geo. Cochrane, J. H. Delaney, D. Donohue, W. Wilson, J. Downey, L. J. Evers, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, /J. C. Herrmann, T. J. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, P. Hom, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, A. M. Keenan, R. E. Keenan, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien, 8. 8. Perley, L. N. Proctor, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, T, 8. , Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, Jno. Simms, A. Scheiber, P. Shea, C. L. Stuckey, E. Sehifferle. 8. P. Terry, R. D. Stewart, S. T. Summers, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, C. J. Brinkman, F. W. Bloom, J. G. Brady, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, J. V. Cable, G. H. Donnelly, L. D. Dimick, E. F. Fozarty, M. L. Foote, G. C. Foster, J. W. Guthrie, L. H. Grever, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, L. H. Garceau, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, J. B. Inderrieden J. Kurz, L. D. Kitz, G. C. Knight, J. A. Lumley, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. F. Mug, H. C. McDonald, W. A. McDevitt, J. L. Nelson, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. B. Phillips, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A. S. Rock, N. F. Reinhardt, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Schoby, F. C. Scheid, E. G. Sugg, G. A. Schnull, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, K. L. Scanlan, C. Van Mourick, F. E. Weisert, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
, A. M. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, J. J. Gordon, H. W. Bachmann, ' T. McGrath, F. Mattes, G. Tourtillotte, F. Brady, N. P. Nelson, C. M. Crowe, J. S. McGrath, W. Rea, C. S. McGrath, J. A. Crowe, A. Chirhart, P. 8. Fitzerald, A. Hartrath, J. M. Courtney, G. Woodson, E. A. Howard, J. S. Inderrieden, A. Rheinboldt, F. H. Parsons, I. C. Williams, E. S. Chirhart, F. B. Farrelly, W. V. O’Malley, C. J. Welty, H. A. Kitz, P. Campau, J. Chaves, H. C. Snee, F. I. Garrity, J. fl. Garrity, A. F. Schmuckle, L. J. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
P. Horn, R. Anderson, P. H. Vogle, G. Schnull, G. Castanedo, A. Payro, C. Van Mourick, A. Keenan, M. J. Bums, F. Glade, J. Mug, D. Reidy, F. Zeis, J. English, J. Harrison, E. Sehifferle, E. Piekenbrock, J. Kurz, F. Grever, A. Mergentheim, F. Pleins, R. Pleins, J. Kennedy, M. Wolf, F. Gaffney, F. Phillips, J. Morgan, F. Becker, C. Cones, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. Rietz, J. Halle, C. Brinkmann, J. Seeger, E. 8. Walter, A. Manning, F. Scheid, P. Perley, T. Conlan, R. French, W. Reinhardt, J. Gabel, E. Fogarty, H. Fenner, E. Esmer, W. Adams, M. J. McCue, J. Brady, J. B. Berteling, A. Congar, Geo. Sugg, R. Stewart, J. Baker, T. Barrett, J. Gibbons, F. Bloom, W. McGorrisk, K. Scanlan, J. Nelson, R. O’Connor, J. Smith, E. Sugg, E. A. Walters, R. E. Keenan, J. Eberhart, R. O’Brien, R. P. Mayer, J. Arentz, Geo. Cochrane, J. Garrett, J. Spalding, J. Guthrie, H. Niles, A. S. Rock, P. Hagan, W. J. Murphy, 8. Spalding, M. W. Bannon, T. Simms, F. Wall, P. Dougherty, T. J. Byrne, D. Donahoe, J. J. Shugrue.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. Coghlin, W. A.Coghlin, F. Brady, C. McGrath, P. Fitzgerald, G ‘Tourtillotte, A. Hartrath, G. Rhodius, J. Courtney, A. H. Chirhart, J. McGrath, C. M. Crowe, J. A. Crowe, A. Heirb, F. Mattes, J. J. Gordon, G. Woodson, N. P. Nelson, H. C. Snce, H A Kitz, C. M. Long, J. S. Inderrieden, A. Rheinboldt, E. A. Howard, 1. A. Williams, C. J. Welty, J. Chaves, P. Campau
400	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. J. Campau, W. V. O’Malley, J. H. Garrity, A. Van Mourick, T. McGrath.
\	List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Directoe of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL
BRANCHES.	‘
German—J. Kurz, E. Piekenbrock; French—G. Sehnull, A. M. Keenan; Elocution—P. J. Hagan, R. Russell, K. Scanlan, R. P. Mayer, F. McGrath, W. McCarthy, F. Wall, T. Hale, G. O’Donnell, S. Spalding, J. Brady, E. Collins, M. W. Bannon, A. B. Congar; Music—F. Bloom, A Rietz, J. Smith, R. O’Brien, J. Eberhardt J. A rent z, C. Rietz, R. Mayer, J. Becker, F. Grever, A. Rock, G. Sehnull, F. Phillips, J. Manning; Drawing—R. Anderson, R. Pleins.
all that the best medical aid and careful nursing could do were of no avail; she grew worse, and died surrounded by all who had learned to love and esteem her during the few months she had been an inmate of the Academy. The pupils of the Senior Department met on Monday evening in the study-hall to express their sorrow at the death of their beloved schoolmate, and to offer their condolence to	j
her bereaved parents and relatives. It was resolved, 1st, that all should wear a mourning Badge for 30 days; 2d, a committee was appointed to obtain from Chicago floral decorations for the casket, and to assist the Sisters in draping the study-hall in black and also the desk at which their companion sat. The parlor is hung in heavy mourning, looped with white, and amidst the fairest flowers, lie the remains of the beloved child waiting the arrival of her	&
friends from Utah for the funeral.	>
B.oU of Honor.
Barg’s
—The Elementary Thorough-Bass Class was reorganized last week.	’
—Theoretical Music Classes are working for high standing in June.
—The beautiful little deer is being tamed, and will be quite a pet when it can be trusted to roam at large.
—On Wednesday evening of last week, the Chemistry Class gave a very instructive entertainment, comprising the history of chemicals, and some very successful experiments.
—Among the visitors to the Academy during the week were Misses Ida and Alie Hartwick, Chicago; Mr. Butrams, Mr. J. J.Kerwin, New York; Mrs. Hallowell, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. J. Shimp, Terra Coupee, Ind.; Mr. Wm. Farquharson, Janesville, Wis.; Mrs. Esmer, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Hoover, Detroit; Miss Dudley, Ames, Iowa; Rev. Father Oechtering, Mishawaka; Mr. R. Hoodley, Niles; Mr. and Mrs. John Armstrong and son, Chicago; Mr. J. B. Wright-mann, Amsterdam, Va.; Mr. E Pacher, Ashland, Ohio; Mr. T. Cavenor, Chicago; Mr. Mitchell, Davenport, Iowa; Misses Letitia and Adelaide Walsh, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Burke, Decatur, Ill.; Mrs. T. Herbert, Mr. J. Leiter, Mishawaka; Jno. D. Hogan, M. D., Chicago; Mr. Dennis Hogan, Chicago.
—At a meeting held Feb. 16th, by the Senior pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, to express their sorrow at the death of their late compinion, Miss Caroline Hopkins, the following resolutions were passed:
Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to remove from our midst our loved schoolmate, Miss Caroline Hopkins, be it therefore
Resolved, That in her we have lost a loved companion whose amiable disposition and exemplary conduct made her loved and esteemed by her teachers and companions.
Resolved, That we extend to her bereaved parents and relatives our heartfelt sympathy.
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to assist our teachers in draping the Academy front, the parlor and studyhall with emblems of mourning, and in providing floral decorations for the funeral casket of the deceased.
• Resolved, That the Senior pupils each wear a badge of mourning for thirty days as a mark of loving respect for the memory of our departed friend and schoolmate.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to her bereaved parents. ■
Signed by Misses Fisk, McGrath, Birch, Cortright, Ros ing, Shaw, Plattenburg, Cavenor, Galen, Gordon, Barnes Wells, Capelie, and McKerlie, Committee.
Obituary.
The death of Miss Caroline Hopkins on the evening of the 15th has cast a shadow over every heart. As soon as the symptoms of her disease (congestion of the heart) showed itself, her parents were notified by telegram, but
ACADEMIC COURSE.	J
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE	;
1st Sr. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Ellen McGrath, Clara	•
Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Zo6 Papin, Anna Maloney, Sarah	1
Hambleton, Annie Woodin, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Rebecca	i
Neteler.	;
2d Sr. Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Catharine Hackett,	'
Catharine Danaher, Annie Cavenor, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Kirch-	•
ner, Mary Brown, Adella Gordon, Alice Farrell, Emma Shaw,	:
Catharine Lloyd, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Grace Glasser,	i
Angela Ewing, Mary Plattenburg, Mary Sullivan, Elizabeth	j
Schwass.	j
3d Sr. Class—Misses Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Agnes	9
Joyce, Emma Gerrish, Annie Jones, Louisa Neu, Annie McGrath,	j
Anna Cortright, Alicia Donelan, Ellena Thomas, Henrietta Ros-	1
ing, Mary Usselman, Adella Geiser, Ella Mulligan, Mary Mulli-	j
gan, Catharine Claffey.	|
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dal-	1
las, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Ina Capelle, Julia Barnes,	I
Mary Feehan, Minna Loeber, Mary English, Della McKerlie, Ollie
Williams, Anna Hermann, Caroline Gall, Adelaide Bisby.	1
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrents, Laura French, Margaret Clesjhorn, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Johanna Baroiix, Sarah Purdy, Julia Butts, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis, Mary Hake.	<
Junior Prep.—Misses Mary Chirhart, Elise Lavoie, Mary Paquette.
1st Jr.—Misses Julia Cleary, Jessie Pampel, Amelia Morris,
Minnie Fisk, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papiu, Isabella Hack-	,
ett.	• i
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmerman, Isabella	I
Scott.	!
3d Jr.—Miss Alice Esmer.	.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas,
Elise Lavoie, Grace Glasser, Zod Papin, Ellen Mulligan.	j
2d Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Angela Ewing, Mary Casey,	‘
Lucie Chilton, Mary Birch, Mary Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Cavenor, Louisa Nen, Annie Maloney, Mary Brown, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Julia Butts, Laura French.	j
2d Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Oll’e Williams, Annie	•
Ryan, Della McKerlie, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux.	j
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Re-	i
becca Neteler.	,
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselmann, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth
Walsh, Annie Hermann, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Charlotte Van Namee, Katie Claffey, Katie Hackett.
4th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Mary Fitzgerald, Alice Donelan, Agnes Joyce, Katie Ward.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.	:
Graduating Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Clara Silver-thorn.	'
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d. Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide
Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell.	:
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline	j
Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie	s
Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw.	3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
401
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Emma Gerrish, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Zoe Papin, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Della AIcKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Lulu Wells, Rebecca Neteler, Maud Casey,. Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan, Bridget Kelly.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Mary Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinhey.
7th Class—Misses Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts, Alice King.
9th Class—Miss Alice Earner.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, lorantha Semmes.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Clara Silverthorn, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Emma Shaw, Mary Sullivan, Zoe Papin, Mar” McGrath, Annie McGrath, Angela Ewing, Mary Birch.
5th Class—Mis—s Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Annie Jones, Mary Mulligan.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Ellena Thomas, Mary Campbell.
3d Class—Misses Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Anna Cort-right, Elizabeth Schwass, Laura French, Angela Ewing, Catharine Campbell, Sophie Papin, Sarah Purdy, lorantha Semmes, Minna Loeber, Maud Casey.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck, Marie Plattenburg, Hope Russell.
OIL PAINTING.
1st Class—Miss Emma Lange.
3d Class—Miss Sarah Hambleton.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Ollie Williams, Sarah Purdy, Martha Pampel, Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Mary Campbell, Elizabeth Walsh, Henrietta Rosing, Catharine Hackett, Mary Hake, Ella Cavanagh, Lucie Chilton, Annie Jones, Adelaide Bisby, Julia Barnes, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Mary Fitzgerald, Alicia Donelan, Mary English, Caroline Gall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Catharine Campbell, C. Claffey, Sophie Papin, Mary McFadden, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Linda Fox, Mary Lyons, Margaret Cleghorn, Marie McN. Garrity, Elise Dallas, Ada Clarke, Elise Papin, Alary Chirhart, Elizabeth Consa-dine, Jessie Pampell, Juha Cleary, Alartha Zimmerman, Alary Paquette, Elise Lavoie, Alice Earner, Isabella Scott, Isabella Hackett, Sabina Semmes, Rose Killdaire, Lilly Lancaster.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Alisses Annie Herrman, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy, Alice Donelan, Della AIcKerlie, Adelaide Bisby, Elizabeth Schwass, Rebecca Neteler.
,2d Div.—Alisses Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Marie Plattenburg, Alinna Loeber, Ollie Williams, Alary Casey, Agnes Joyce, Annie Cavenor, Grace Glasser.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Aloran, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Alaloney, Alary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Danaher, Teresa Killelea, Zoe Papin, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Alary Brown, Alary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser,
Annie Cavenor, lorantha Semmes, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Adelaide Geiser, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donefan, Anna Cortright, Anna Jones, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Louisa Neu, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Adelaide Bisby, Ollie Williams, Annie Herrman, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Martha Pampel, Mary Hake, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, par excellence.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Alary Feehan, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Johanna Baroux, Ellen Hackett, Lilly Lancaster, Maud Casey, Elise Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Sabina Semmes, Matilda Kildaire, Alary Paquette, Julia Cleary, Amelia Morris,^Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Isabella Hackett, Alice Esmer, Manu-elita Chaves, Isabella Scott, par excellence. Misses Marie Dallas, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Ellen Alulligan, Ada Clarke, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Jane McGrath, Alartha Zimmerman.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mttlt.tns.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
N. IE, Cor. X<aSalle & Alonroe Sts. f22-ly	Henry Styles, Manager.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
UncLer the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross/
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
JgF’ The Alusieal Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
ggF* In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Alusic or in the Art Department.
Gold Aledal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Aledal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Aledal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Aledal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Alodem Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music,1. 0; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
PATRICK SHICKLEY
FKOPKIETOH OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARV’S ’BUS LINE.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Muy's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P.SHICKEY.
402
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM?. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTAdHj R J. STAGE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
rrUBCE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published X weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, or ’70.
THE A. V Jil MABIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-X igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MA l' l' ESO NT HOUSE, Comer ~of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
ED5VABD F. ELY .NTS’, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name ZltJ neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
*	■	Mishawaka, Ind.
Q CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic ZlO At.-makac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN «fc HABVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEEB & MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS R. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of >741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.	_
JOHN F. McIIUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) Attorney at. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE	MJLLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’6S), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIAM J. CU ABBE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Room,, 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES -A. O’REILLY’—of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DA-TTIEIj R- HIB BARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold
Street, Detroit, Michigan. •	sep 14-ly
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.	’
3 35 8. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m; Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
13 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 4 am.
9 13 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4= 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight,__
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte5 50 a m; Chicago
8 20 a m.	-
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.	-
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, GenM Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago RAILWAY. Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.				
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going	South.
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.03 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p.m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ l.l>7 “• 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Abeive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerton, - - -- - - Plymouth, - - - - - - Rochester, - - . - - - - Denver, - - - - - - - Peru, - - - - - - Bunker Hill, - - • - ' - Kokomo Junction, - - - - - - Tipton,- - - - - - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - • - - - -Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - - - Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12.40 p.m 1.17 “ 2.00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8.55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS. Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “ - - -	“	«	12.00 noon. RETURNING Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p.m. “	1119 “	- - -	“	“ 255a.m.				
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES				
Through to Indianapolis!	"
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in. Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
^“Berths §1.25. Chairs 50 and 25 cents,
‘ according- to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis.	Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
C. POLACK,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DEALER IN
Cigars and Tobaccos,
and a full line of smoker’s articles. Sole Agents for the Columbus 5 Ct. Cigars, warranted Handmade and Long Havanna filled. Give them a trial.
. Sign of the Sig Indian.
64 Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
403
Michigan Central Railway
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	{Atlantic Express.	{Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m ■ 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 31 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05. “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 1 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
					
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		{Pacific Express.	{Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 33 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and Sontli Bend Division.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p m. “ N. Dame—8 52 *	6 38 '• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. {Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Hbnby C. Wbntwobth,	H. B. Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elmott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaH.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 PJI.	9.00 a ji.	1.50 PJI.	6.00 aji.
Rnphpstpr			12.53 am.	1012 “	255 “	745 “
Alliance,			3.10 “	1250 p.m.	5.35 “	1L00 “
Orrville,			4.50 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield			7.00 “	440 “	9.20 “	311 “
Crestline,....	. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 «
Crestline,....	.. .Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest.			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,.'.			10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a m	
Ft. Wayne,	;			1.20 pji.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmonth			350 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,.....		7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Dlinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its	.	‘
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	_
’ FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvist Hughitt, •
Qen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. ’ Gen. Manager, Chicago.
GOING EAST.
	No. 4,	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Atlan.Ex.	Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 PAi.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,				2.46 A.M.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,		6 55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,."		8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	-
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6 05 a ji.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rochester,			6.22 “	1.20 A AI.	11.06 “	2.00 p.m.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
-	F. R. MYERS, G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent, 15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent,
oct5-tf LhPorte, Indiana,
404
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
PUBLISHED DURING TERM TIME .	AI
TTOTZEYE TDAISZEH], TTTIDTAlSrA.
Subscription, $1.50 per Annum.
—Exhibits more journalistic industry, taste and skill, than any college publication we are favored with.—Manhattan Monthly.
-We wish some of our professional journalists were half as clever as the Editors of The Notre Dame Scholastic, the beautiful title paper published at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.— Boston Pilot.
—Our brave little college contemporary The Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its Twelfth Volume. We wash it twelve times twelve of usefulness and prosperity; some one else can take up the wish at that time.—Catholic Universe.
—The rare ability of its editorial articles, the tact and good sense shown in its make up, and the admirable, even elegant character of its contributions and selections, have challenged our admiration, and we watch for its visits with much interest.—St. Joseph Valley Register.
—Although The Scholastic is professedly a college journal, yet its columns abound with varied topics of a useful and enjoyable character which, we are sure, will be just as acceptable to ploope jostling ’mid the crowd in the great world, as to those surrounded by classic walls.—Catholic Union (Buffalo).
NOW READY.
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1879
. J’f^ICE 25 CTS.
Table of Contents:
Introduction,
Our Predictions for 1878, Astrological Predictions for
1879,
Names and Titles,
Days of Obligation,
. Days of Abstinence, Eclipses for 1879, Movable Feasts, Rates of Postage, An Astronomical Myth, Calendars,Astronomical and
Ecclesiastical,
Wild Flowers,
The Court of Charlemagne,
At Our Wit’s End, Our Alma Mater, Indirect Egotism,
To Signor Gregori, Good Books, Some Curious Words, The Catechism, Purple Days,
Napoleon on the Divinity of
Christ,	‘
Mutability,
An Evening Picture, The Papacy, The Things of God, Grasshoppers, Shall it Ever be Thus ?
Wolves in the Street,
Hens and Their Poetical Lays,
Berenice’s Hair.
Address,
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.
JAMES BONNEY
THE FHOTOG-RAPHBB,
Comer Michigan and. Washington Sts., SOUTH EENE, IZSTpiATSTA.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
UnionDepo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street. -
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen.Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
University of Notre Dame,
USTDTAISrA-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established : the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
I